4087027|We used electronic activity recorders to measure flight time, dive time, and time on the water of breeding Common Murres (Uria aalge). During both incubation and chick rearing, about 90% of birds' time away from the colony was spent on the water or diving and 10% was spent flying. The proportion of flight time did not vary with trip duration. During chick rearing, 13.6% of time away from the colony was spent diving, and the proportion of time spent diving tended to decrease with trip duration. Potential foraging ranges calculated from flight times during individual foraging trips showed a concave frequency distribution, and median potential ranges were 37.8 km for incubating birds and 5.4 km for chick-rearing birds. The use of electronic recorders to measure time budgets has broad applications for seabird energetics and foraging ecology and for the assessment of prey availability and abundance.
4086119|We examine the predictions, based upon the hypotheses of Coulson (1968), Hamilton (1971), and Vine (1971), that (1) species whose colonies are accessible to predators should form tighter groupings and have fewer isolated nests than those with reduced accessibility to predators, (2) nests at the center should be less subject to predation than those at the edge of a colony, (3) nests both in the center and with reduced accessibility should have the lowest predation pressure of all nests, and (4) individuals that nest in accessible locations should have more vigorous and more sustained antipredator behaviors than those individuals unlikely to come frequently in contact with predators. To test these predictions, we compare intrusions by two predators, the Northwestern Crow (Corvus caurinus) and the Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens), at isolated and grouped nests of the cliff-face nesting Pelagic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pelagicus) and cliff-top nesting Double-crested Cormorant (P. auritus) on Mandarte Island, British Columbia. Both crows and gulls preferred to visit the edge nests of both species, especially those on level ground. The steeper and more central the nest location, the less likely was visitation. Gulls were restricted by topography from entering the Pelagic colony, while crows were able to land in either colony. Predator success was high only in flat, accessible areas. Both cormorant species depend upon the habitat to deter predator access: the Double-crested Cormorant utilizes a defense regime of energetic and aggressive behaviors; the Pelagic Cormorant uses a much less effective defense and depends much more on the habitat as a necessary part of nest defense.
25488690|A previous study reported that climate-mediated increases in the length of the breeding season produced increasingly female-biased fledging sex ratios in Red-winged Blackbirds (
10.2307/4086892|We studied the distribution, population size, and habitat response of the Palila (Loxioides bailleui) during the 1980-1984 nonbreeding seasons to infer factors that limit the population and to develop management strategies. Distribution was fairly constant from year to year. Palila were confined to the subalpine woodland on Mauna Kea on the island of Hawaii, occurred between 2,000 and 2,850 m elevation, and reached highest densities on the southwest slopes. The population showed large annual fluctuations, from 6,400 birds in 1981 to 2,000 in 1984. The width of woodland was the most important variable in determining habitat response. Palila were more common in areas with greater crown cover, taller trees, and a higher proportion of native plants in the understory. Annual variation in Palila density within a habitat reflected variation in levels of their staple food, mamane pods. The main limiting factors of the population appeared to be the availability of good habitat and levels of their staple food. Palila had strongly depressed densities in the Pohakuloa flats area. This low density could not be explained by gross habitat features or food levels. Site tenacity, thermal stress, disturbance, and disease were hypothesized explanations. Our study indicated that the most effective management strategies would be the removal of feral ungulates and certain noxious plants from Palila habitat and the extension of the woodland zone to areas now intensively grazed.
10.1525/auk.2011.11095|In lek mating systems, females visit aggregations of displaying males and appear to have unrestricted opportunity to choose and mate with any male. Behavioral observations of lekking birds indicate that females generally mate once and that only a small percentage of males gain a majority of copulations. However, genetic analyses of paternity have revealed that multiple males sometimes sire young within one brood. We analyzed paternity of 25 broods of Greater Prairie-Chickens (
4087716|I studied migratory flocks of finches (Fringilla coelebs and F. montifringilla) feeding during three autumn and two spring seasons at a stopover site in South Sweden. Raptors attacked flocks repeatedly, and the finches showed obvious adaptations to the risk. A total of 304 attacks were recorded, of which 270 were from European Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus). Attack frequency was significantly higher in autumn (1.9 attacks/h) than in spring (0.3 attacks/h). In autumn, finch flock size varied from 10 to 10,000. Both attack frequency and hunting success increased with flock size. The risk for an individual finch to be killed (successful attacks per hour and individual) showed no correlation with flock size. Thus predation seemed not to be the primary cause for formation of large finch flocks. Instead, patchy distribution of the preferred food presumably causes large numbers of finches to aggregate. Once aggregated at a field, the best antipredator strategy for the finches is probably to crowd into a dense flock with synchronized feeding. I estimated that ca. 10% of the finches were killed by raptors during the autumn migration.
10.2307/4090309| The relationship between health and demography in the Green-rumped Parrotlet (Forpus passerinus) was examined, using hematological measurements as indicators of health. Variation in adult hematology with gender, age, time during nesting cycle, and breeding status were examined. Only gender and time during nesting cycle showed significant effects on hematology. Females had higher white-blood-cell counts and immunoglobulin-G (IgG) levels than males. Hematocrit was lower during egg laying than at other stages for females, whereas white-blood-cell counts and IgG and alpha-2-macroglobulin
4088237|We studied the prevalence of the blood parasite Haemoproteus prognei (Haematoprotozoa) from 1986 to 1990 in a breeding colony of Purple Martins (Progne subis) in Maryland and in overwintering martins in three Brazilian roosts in 1990. Yearling breeders were infected at a significantly lower rate than adults, and no yearlings in wintering roosts were infected. Haemoproteus prognei might be more virulent in immunologically naive birds and cause high mortality in young birds during the stress of their first migration. Many birds became infested over three years and most maintained a chronic infection. Infected birds returned to the colony with the same frequency as uninfected birds. Infected adults tended to arrive at the breeding site ahead of uninfected adults. Clutch size did not differ, but uninfected females had lower breeding success than infected individuals. We discuss the evolutionary implications of high mortality coupled with superior breeding success in chronically infected birds, whose immune system has been "tested" for parasite resistance, and suggest an alternative to the predominant view that parasite resistance means avoiding them altogether.
10.2307/4088946|In 1992 and 1993, 28 Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) broods in north-central New Mexico were used in a supplemental-feeding experiment to determine if there was a causal relationship between food availability and survival of young goshawks. We randomly assigned 28 nests as treatments or controls. Every two days (from hatching [late April] until juvenile dispersal [mid-October]) we visited control nest stands and provided food at treatment nest stands. We measured morphological characteristics and attached tarsal-mounted transmitters with mortality switches to 42 nestling Northern Goshawks when they were 21 days old. In both 1992 and 1993, we relocated birds via telemetry every other day until mid-August. We located birds at least once a week from mid-August until mid-October in 1992, and until late-November 1993. There were no significant differences in nestling size. Treatment birds had a significantly higher survival rate during the nestling period in 1993, but not in 1992. Because most control nestlings died from predation, we attribute higher nestling survival to increased time spent in nest stands by adult females, whose presence probably deterred predators.
4086423|I studied pairing chronology and agonistic displays of Gadwalls (Anas strepera) and spatial associations among Gadwalls and other Anatinae in the coastal marshes of southwestern Louisiana from October 1977 through April 1978. Gadwalls began arriving in Louisiana in late September, but by mid-October 45% of females were paired and by late November 81% were paired. The percentage of paired females increased slowly to 90% in April. Bill threats were the predominant agonistic display of Gadwalls, accounting for 89% of all observations, while chasing (5.8%) and biting (5.2%) accounted for the remainder. Nearly all (91.1%) conflicts involved birds that had been feeding before the dispute. On average, Gadwalls spent 0.4% of their time in agonistic activities. Gadwalls preferred to associate with individuals of similar pair status. Paired Gadwalls were more likely to threaten other paired birds, and unpaired Gadwalls other unpaired birds, than they would individuals of the other pair status. Only 14% of disputes involving Gadwalls were with other Anatinae. Pairs were considered dominant over unpaired birds, as pairs won 81% (P < 0.001) of contests with unpaired birds. This study suggested that paired birds, because of their dominance, probably had greater access to preferred food resources and were more successful in meeting nutrient requirements than were unpaired birds. It also suggested that pairing chronology in Anatinae may be related to food choice and foraging strategies, those species feeding on poorer-quality foods forming pairs earlier, as individuals attempt to optimize their allocation of time for feeding and other activities.
4086523| A color-banded population of Spotted Sandpipers (Actitis macularia) was studied over a 10-yr period on Little Pelican Island, Leech Lake, Minnesota. A total of 75 females and 107 males bred for 144   yr and 200   yr. The observed skew in the population sex ratio was due primarily to behavioral exclusion of inexperienced females. Density appeared to limit population size and productivity. Locally hatched chicks accounted for 31% and 40% of the breeding females in the final 2 yr. Females laid eggs for 1.35-2.06 males per year. Experienced females had significantly more mates, eggs, chicks, and fledglings than did inexperienced females. Locally hatched chicks accounted for 21% and 19% of the breeding males in the final 2 yr. Males mated with 1.0-1.4 females per year. Experienced males had more mates and received more replacement eggs than did inexperienced males; in contrast to females, however, inexperienced males had no less hatching or fledging success than did experienced males. Thirty-eight marked females and 16 marked males tried unsuccessfully to enter the population, and 6 females and no males were observed to be nonbreeders all season long. Of 1,142 eggs, 442 hatched and 256 fledged. Experienced birds returned to breed more often in subsequent years than did inexperienced ones (61% vs. 50%). Return rates of successful birds were consistently higher than those of unsuccessful birds, the difference decreasing with age. Young males appeared to be less site-faithful than were females and older males. Successfully breeding females lived an average of 3.7 yr. Relative to other scolopacids with multipurpose territories, the Spotted Sandpiper is considered a pioneering species that quickly and frequently colonizes new sites, emigrates in response to reproductive failure, breeds first at an early age, lives a relatively short time, lays many eggs per female per year, and has relatively low nest success. 
4089548|Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) are diving seabirds that forage near shore and feed their chicks demersal and schooling fishes. During nine years between 1979 and 1997, we studied chick diet, chick growth rate, and reproductive success of Pigeon Guillemots at Prince William Sound, Alaska, to determine factors limiting breeding populations. We found evidence for prey specialization among breeding pairs and detected differences in reproductive success between specialists and generalists. Pairs that specialized on particular prey types when foraging for their chicks fledged more chicks than those that generalized, apparently because they delivered larger individual prey items. Reproductive performance also varied among guillemot pairs as a function of the proportion of high-lipid schooling fishes fed to the chicks. Pairs that delivered primarily high-lipid fishes (Pacific sand lance [Ammodytes hexapterus] and Pacific herring [Clupea pallasii]) had higher overall reproductive success than pairs that delivered primarily low-lipid demersal fishes (e.g. sculpins, blennies, stichaeids, and pholidids) and gadids. The proportion of high-lipid fishes in the diet was positively related to chick growth, suggesting that piscivorous seabird chicks benefit from eating species with high-energy densities during development. The diet of Pigeon Guillemot chicks showed high annual variation from 1979 to 1997, presumably because of fluctuations in abundance of Pacific sand lance, a high-lipid schooling fish. Regression analyses suggest that the percent occurrence of high-lipid fishes in the diet affected chick growth rate at the population level. We conclude that Pigeon Guillemots benefit by specializing when selecting prey for their chicks, and that high-lipid schooling fishes enhance chick growth and reproductive success.
10.2307/4088722|Brood parasites and nest predators reduce the seasonal fecundity and, hence, the population growth rates of their victims. However, most field studies do not measure directly how parasites and predators decrease seasonal fecundity, but instead measure the impact of these organisms on individual nesting attempts. Because a female may renest after losing a nest to predation, abandoning a parasitized nest, or successfully fledging a brood, knowing how brood parasites and nest predators reduce the number of offspring fledged from individual nesting attempts is not equivalent to knowing their impact on seasonal fecundity. We address this problem by developing a mathematical model that: estimates several parameters describing the natural history of this system, including the brood-parasitism rate, nest-predation rate, and probability of nest abandonment in response to a parasitism event; and extrapolates to seasonal fecundity from these parameters and others describing the length of the breeding season, the timing of events in the nesting cycle, and the productivity of parasitized and unparasitized nests. We also show how different researchers using different observational methodologies to study exactly the same population likely would arrive at noticeably different conclusions regarding the intensity of brood parasitism, and we provide mathematical formulas for comparing among several of these measures of parasitism. Our procedures extend Mayfield's method for calculating nest-success rates from nest-history data in that we simultaneously estimate parameters describing nest predation and brood parasitism, predict seasonal fecundity from these parameters, and provide confidence intervals on all parameter estimates. The model should make the design and interpretation of logistically difficult empirical studies more efficient. It also can be specialized to species affected by nest predators but not brood parasites. We use the model to analyze Prairie Warbler (Dendroica discolor) and Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus) nesting data. We estimate the model's parameters for these species and use the resulting estimates to predict seasonal fecundity. For both species, the predicted seasonal fecundity closely matches the value measured directly.
10.2307/25150212|The importance of the black facial pattern in sexual selection in Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) was evaluated through experimental plumage modification. We lightened the throat patch and eye mask with hair bleach, which essentially created artificial Brewster's Warbler (F1 generation of Golden-winged Warbler  Blue-winged Warbler [V. pinus]) plumage phenotypes. Experimental males lost their original territories and failed to obtain mates. We concluded that there is sexual selection against the Brewster's facial pattern. Sexual selection attributable to the face pattern may explain the apparent greater effect of hybridization on Golden-winged Warblers than on Blue-winged Warblers. /// La importancia del patrn facial en la seleccin sexual de Vermivora chrysoptera fue evaluada mediante un experimento de modificacin del plumaje. El parche gular y el antifaz fueron decolorados con aclarador de pelo, creando as fenotipos artificiales de hbridos F1 V. chrysoptera  V. pinus. Los machos decolorados perdieron sus territorios originales y no consiguieron pareja. Concluimos que existe seleccin en contra de los fenotipos faciales hbridos. La seleccin sexual atribuible al patrn facial puede explicar el aparente mayor efecto de la hibridacin en V. chrysoptera que en V. pinus.
4087385|We examined fish dynamics within the temporal framework of the reproductive cycle of Common Terns from 1982-1985. The hypothesis that the breeding season of terns is timed to overlap with a seasonal increase in food abundance was supported by the data. Prey fish were more available during breeding than postfledging. However, the further hypothesis that the timing of tern breeding is adapted to exploit peak prey availability while feeding growing chicks was not generally supported over the course of the study. Food for terns peaked and began to decline before the period of peak demand of food by chicks.
4087923| I develop a simplified procedure to estimate the effect of wind on avian energy-use rates from published and unpublished studies of 10 passerine and 7 nonpasserine species. Below the lower critical temperature, energy-use rates of passerines resting in the dark can be estimated as that of a bird of the same species in a metabolism chamber set to the standard operative temperature,
10.1525/auk.2010.09273|We used radiotelemetry to evaluate at-sea habitat use by Cassin's Auklets (
4087673|We compared a number of univariate and multivariate measures of body size used commonly in ornithological research, including eight multivariate measures (from principal components analyses), plus skull length, ulna length, tibiotarsus length, wing length, and weight. Analyses are based on 26 measurements on three randomly selected male and three randomly selected female Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) from each of 53 different geographic localities throughout the species' range. Six of the eight principal components analyses provided essentially the same information about body size. Analyses based on the variance-covariance matrix of raw or log-transformed data provided first axes that varied most from the other multivariate estimates of size. Among the univariate measures, ulna length, wing length, and body weight contributed information that diverged from the multivariate measures of overall size. Weight better represents general size (i.e. PC I) than wing length, but because of variation in reproductive condition, weight is a far better measure in males than in females. Wing length is not a representative measure of body size. Inasmuch as each principal components analysis provides information about body size on PC I, we encourage researchers to choose among the various approaches according to analytical objectives rather than methodological simplicity or general utility.
25488600|As a result of changes in climate over the past 100 years, many birds are arriving at points along their migration routes earlier in the spring now than they did in the past. Increasingly, researchers are relying on a variety of data sources, such as naturalist journals and bird-club records, to document migration times. However, it is not clear whether researchers can successfully use different sources of data to compare changes in migration times. We examined 25 years of changes in migration times for 30 species of birds at Mt. Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts, as documented by bird-club members and published in a regional bird journal. We found that, overall, birds arrived earlier in warmer springs in eastern Massachusetts. We compared our findings with those of previous studies in Massachusetts, which included data from a standardized bird-banding station and observations from a naturalist's journal and bird-club records. On a species-by-species basis, changes in migration times were not correlated among the studies. We believe that local changes in population sizes and sampling effort at some of the sites may have contributed to the lack of correlation. For the purpose of comparing changes in migration times across species and locations, standardized bird-banding data are preferable to data collected by volunteer naturalists. However, naturalist data sources are useful and reflect the widely observed trend toward earlier migrations in warm springs.
4086466|Cymbilaimus sanctaemariae (Formicariidae), previously regarded as a poorly known subspecies of C. lineatus, is a distinct species. The two forms overlap broadly in geographical range and are distinct in morphology, plumage, voice, and habitat. We propose the vernacular name Bamboo Antshrike. The species apparently links Cymbilaimus and Thamnophilus. It is a member of the growing list of bamboo-associated birds endemic to southwestern Amazonia.
10.2307/4089807|We provide the first comprehensive description of a bird community from a lowland rainforest site on a major island in the Solomon Islands. During two dry season visits (July 1997, June 1998) to the lower Garanga River valley on the island of Isabel, we recorded 65 resident and 6 migrant species of birds. We document relative abundances, habitat preferences, and foraging guilds for the members of the bird community. The Garanga River site sustains all but 11 of the 76 species of landbirds known from Isabel. Of those 11 species, four are small-island or beach specialists, three are montane, and four are of unknown status. Habitat heterogeneity, maintained largely by river dynamics, is a major contributor to avian diversity at the site. The avifauna is dominated by nonpasserines, especially parrots, pigeons, kingfishers, and hawks. The flightless rail Nesoclopeus woodfordi, previously regarded as rare and threatened with extinction, was common. We recorded Ixobrychus flavicollis, Falco severus, and Eudynamys scolopacea for the first time on Isabel. We also documented occurrence in the lowlands of Micropsitta finschii, Collocalia spodiopygia, Coracina caledonica, and Pachycephala pectoralis, four species previously thought to be confined to upper elevations on Isabel. The depauperate understory avifauna of the Garanga River site may be anthropogenic and could belie what otherwise seems to be an intact avifauna.
10.1525/auk.2009.09057|We compared the use of body stores in breeding Barnacle Geese (
10.1525/auk.2009.09036|Satellite transmitters and geographic-positioning-system devices often add substantial mass to birds to which they are attached. Studies on the effects of such instruments have focused on indirect measures, whereas the direct influence of extra mass on pelagic behavior is poorly known. We used 2.5-g geolocators to investigate the effect of extra mass on the pelagic behavior of Cory's Shearwaters (
10.2307/4088934|Parrots are known for their capacity to reproduce the sounds of human speech, but few studies have investigated their mechanisms for producing such vocalizations. Using three methods of noninvasive video imaging (Super VHS video, infrared, X-ray radiography), we examined correlations between several elements of a Grey Parrot's (Psittacus erithacus) vocal-tract configuration and the bird's production of two vowels, /i/ ("eat") and /a/ ("rock"). This parrot uses mechanisms that both resemble and differ from those used by: (a) humans to produce English speech; and (b) some avian species to produce conspecific vocalizations. This Grey Parrot, for example, uses its vocal apparatus in some but not all of the ways used by humans to produce vowels. Although our Grey Parrot, like some oscines, appears to use beak opening to modify the characteristics of sound, the specific sound-modification properties of beak opening may or may not be similar to those of nonpsittacids. We describe a first-order model that, although simplistic, may aid our understanding of the mechanisms that enable a parrot to reproduce human speech.
10.2307/4088145|A new method of measuring reproductive success is proposed that uses a composite of breeding-behavior observations (for behaviors that reflect different stages in the reproductive cycle) as an index of fitness. This reproductive index does not rely on discovery of nests, but is comprehensive in that it includes information on all monitored territories. The reproductive index was applied to three co-occurring grassland emberizine sparrows, two of which required special care because of their regional rarity. Ranks derived from this reproductive index were used to distinguish territories of birds of known high success (i.e. those that fledged young in at least one brood) from territories of birds with known low success (unpaired males), and were compared with findings for "spot-mapped" territories. Principal-components analyses of habitat measurements for these territory types revealed a similar pattern for all three species: spot-mapped territories overlapped broadly with nonterritory (unoccupied) plots, whereas high-success territories formed a discrete, isolated cluster within the spot-map matrix. Univariate analyses revealed that high-success territories were described by 15 vegetation features that differed (P < 0.01) from nonterritory values, whereas in spot-mapped territories only 8 vegetation measures differed and in low-success territories only 2 differed. The ability to distinguish high-success territories allowed us to identify a greater number of habitat features that were correlated with reproductive success. If we had relied on the spot-mapping method, we would have been unable to identify many of these important habitat features. Yet, the ability to make such discriminations is likely to be critical in the management of threatened species.
4086963|The Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) of South America, Panama, and the West Indies is an obligate brood parasite known to have used 176 species of birds as hosts. This study documents wide variability in the quality of real and potential hosts in terms of response to eggs, nestling diet, and nest survivorship. The eggs of the parasite are either spotted or immaculate in eastern Argentina and neighboring parts of Uruguay and Brazil. Most species accept both morphs of cowbird eggs, two reject both morphs, and one (Chalk-browed Mockinbird, Mimus saturninus) rejects immaculate eggs but accepts spotted ones. No species, via its rejection behavior, protects the Shiny Cowbird from competition with a potential competitor, the sympatric Screaming Cowbird (M. rufoaxillaris). Cross-fostering experiments and natural-history observations indicate that nestling cowbirds require a diet composed of animal protein. Because most passerines provide their nestlings with such food, host selection is little restricted by diet. Species-specific nest survivorship, adjusted to appropriate values of Shiny Cowbird life-history variables, varied by over an order of magnitude. Shiny Cowbirds peck host eggs. This density-dependent source of mortality lowers the survivorship of nests of preferred hosts and creates natural selection for greater generalization. Host quality is sensitive to the natural-history attributes of each host species and to the behavior of cowbirds at nests.
4085756|A total of 678 specimens of Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) from known nesting localities was examined, and 514 were measured. Rump color, classified on a scale of 1-11 by comparison with a series of reference specimens, varied geographically but was found to be a poor character on which to base taxonomic definitions. Significant differences in five size characters indicated that the presently accepted, but rather confusing, taxonomy should be altered: (1) O. l. beali, O. l. willetti, and O. l. chapmani should be merged into O. l. leucorhoa; (2) O. l. socorroensis should refer only to the summer breeding population on Guadalupe Island; and (3) the winter breeding Guadalupe population should be recognized as a "new" subspecies, based on physiological, morphological, and vocal characters, with the proposed name O. l. cheimomnestes. The clinal and continuous size variation in this species is related to oceanographic climate, length of migration, mobility during the nesting season, and distances between nesting islands. Why oceanitids frequenting nearshore waters during nesting are darker rumped than those offshore remains an unanswered question, as does the more basic question of why rump color varies geographically in this species.
auk.2012.11079|Breeding dispersal is often affected by previous reproductive success, age, and sex. Birds with multiple broods within a season can disperse not only between, but also within, years. Little is known about factors that govern dispersal within a season or how strong it is compared with dispersal between years. We studied breeding dispersal of Eurasian Hoopoes (
25488654|Song sharing among neighboring males is a well-known, frequent outcome of song learning in oscine passerines and some other groups, but only limited investigations of the spatial scale of this phenomenon have been pursued. On the basis of recordings of 1,043 individuals, we investigated song sharing in Dickcissels (
4088313|We studied (1983-1987) the provisioning and growth of nestling Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) in a breeding colony on the Lucy Islands and measured growth (1984-1986) in other colonies also on the British Columbia coast (Pine Island and Triangle Island). There were strong differences in the pattern of provisioning among the three years. In 1985 provisioning peaked around the midpoint (30 days) of the nestling period and then declined rapidly. In 1986, provisioning also declined after the midpoint, but more slowly than in 1985. In 1987, provisioning remained approximately constant during the entire breeding season. We found no evidence that late-hatched chicks were consistently fed less than early-hatched chicks, though the statistical power of the tests made to detect this difference was low. There were significant annual differences in chick growth. Growth was fastest in 1985, intermediate in 1984 and 1986, and slowest in 1983 and 1987. The mean growth rate on the three colonies changed in unison from year to year. Hypotheses based on seasonal environmental changes and on systematic changes in the food requirements of growing chicks do not explain the observed patterns. Our data on chick growth and independent data on ocean production suggest that the two varied directly and in unison among years. However, provisioning in the latter part of chick development did not appear to reflect directly the quality of ocean feeding conditions. We conclude that although large-scale fluctuations in ocean production are likely to be the dominant influence upon provisioning, the manner in which parents respond to such variation is poorly understood.
10.1525/auk.2013.12169|Wetland habitats in the Prairie Pothole Region of North America have been greatly reduced since European settlement, but the availability of managed wetlands has increased. The relative efficacy of these two habitats for meeting energetic demands of migrating shorebirds is unknown. To assess the relative suitability of stopover sites, we measured plasma metabolites and creatine kinase in Least Sandpipers (
10.1525/auk.2011.10231|Among scolopacid shorebirds, Bar-tailed Godwits (
10.2307/4090053| Previous reports have stated that Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) lose all of their flight feathers simultaneously (or nearly so) during flight-feather molt and replace them in no apparent order. In contrast, we found that captive second-year (SY) Tufted Puffins (1) typically require 15 and 10 days to lose their primaries and secondaries, respectively, during their first flight-feather molt, and an average of 21 days to lose all of their remiges; and (2) replace their primaries in either of two discrete sequences. In 9 of 13 birds, primary molt began at the innermost primary, P1, and progressed distally to the outermost functional primary, P10. However, in the remaining four birds, primary molt began in the middle of the primaries (P5-P7) and progressed both distally to P10 and proximally toward P1. Before the proximal wave reached P1, a second wave of molt was initiated at P1 and progressed distally, typically replacing P2 and P3 before reaching the proximal wave. Such polymorphism in flight-feather molt sequence is rare in birds, having been reported previously only in a few passerine species. Secondary molt began about 13 days after onset of primary molt and finished at about the same time as primary molt, resulting in a total duration of flight-feather molt of 54 days and a flightless period of 40 days. /// Se ha establecido mediante reportes previos que las aves de la especie Fratercula cirrhata pierden todas sus plumas de vuelo simultneamente (o casi) durante la muda de las plumas de vuelo, y que las reemplazan sin un orden aparente. En contraste, nosotros encontramos que individuos cautivos en su segundo ao (1) requieren tpicamente 15 y 10 das para perder sus plumas primarias y secundarias, respectivamente, durante su primera muda de las plumas del vuelo, y un promedio de 21 das para perder todas sus remeras; y (2) reemplazan sus primarias en cualquiera de dos secuencias discretas. En nueve de 13 aves, la muda de las primarias comenz en la primaria ms interna, P1, y progres de modo distal hacia la primaria funcional ms externa, P10. Sin embargo, en las cuatro aves restantes la muda comenz en las primarias de la mitad (P5-P7) y progres de modo distal hacia P10 y proximal hacia P1. Antes de que la onda proximal llegara a P1, una segunda onda de muda se inici en P1 y progres de modo distal, reemplazando tpicamente a P2 y P3 antes de alcanzar la onda proximal. Este polimorfismo en la secuencia de muda de las plumas del vuelo es raro en las aves, y ha sido reportado previamente slo para unas pocas especies de paserinos. La muda de las secundarias comenz aproximadamente 13 das despus del comienzo de la muda de las primarias y termin casi al mismo tiempo que la muda de las primarias, resultando en una duracin total de la muda de las plumas del vuelo de 54 das y en un perodo de incapacidad de vuelo de 40 das. 
90008550|Population dynamics of migratory birds are influenced by both local weather and larger-scale patterns in climate that can operate at various stages of their annual cycle. We investigated correlations between (1) annual climatic indices and weather during the breeding season and (2) the annual survival of Barn Swallows (
4088471|Flight morphology affects aerodynamic performance and the energetic demand for migration. We investigated the relationship between flight morphology and energetic condition of Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), Veery (Catharus fuscescens), Swainson's Thrush (C. ustulatus), and Gray-cheeked Thrush (C. minimus) during migration and the consequences for stopover behavior following spring trans-Gulf passage. Differences in morphological variables were found among Catharus thrushes, and between Wood Thrush and Catharus thrushes. Species with longer migratory distances have longer, more pointed wings and higher aspect ratios. The relatively larger wing area and lower body mass of Gray-cheeked Thrush and Veery result in lower wing loadings. Whereas wing size increased with increasing lean body mass in all species, the interrelations of wing span and wing area with lean body mass were allometrical (i.e. deviated from expected isometric relationship). Larger individuals in each species have disproportionately large wings. Wing size was negatively related to amount of stored fat, which indicated that larger individuals within each species have smaller fat stores remaining after trans-Gulf migration. Species or individuals with relatively long, pointed wings are more efficient migrants, and their energetic demand per unit distance travelled is lower. The consequences vis-a-vis stopover biology are considered.
10.2307/4088264|We studied restriction-fragment length polymorphisms (RELPs) in mitochondrial DNA for 13 species of African francolins (Francolinus spp.) and the Japanese Quail (Coturnix c. japonica). Phylogenetic analyses of RFLPs for these 14 species and of morphological and behavioral characters for the 41 francolin species and other perdicine taxa do not confirm the monophyly of Francolinus as currently recognized. Analyses of morpho-behavioral characters suggest that Francolinus consists of at least four major assemblages: the five Asiatic species; two groups of African quail-like species; and the African partridge-like species. Within these assemblages, analyses of RFLPs and/or morpho-behavioral characters support the monophyly of six of eight species groups attributed to Francolinus. Assuming the monophyly of currently recognized supraspecific groups of galliform birds, morphometric analyses of galliform skeletons correctly classified 90-99% of specimens to family, subfamily and tribe, as well as 95% of the francolin specimens to genus. Genetic distances derived from RFLP data imply that African francolins diverged from their sister taxa at or before the mid-late Miocene, and that all species studied diverged from their sister-species during the Pliocene or early Pleistocene.
4085754| The three species of the genus Pygoscelis, P. adeliae (Adlie Penguin), P. antarctica (Chinstrap Penguin), and P. papua (Gentoo Penguin) perform an elaborate Nest Relief Ceremony (NRC) upon one mate's return to the nest. The NRC consists of a number of displays, each of which is performed one or several times. The most conspicuous displays during NRC are the Loud Mutual Display (LMD) and Quiet Mutual Display (QMD) in P. adeliae and P. antarctica, and their morphologically different functional equivalents in P. papua, the "donkey call" (LMD) and "bow-gape-hiss" (BGH). The displays whose repetition rate is negatively correlated with the time elapsed between arrival of the mate and actual changeover are the LMD in P. adeliae, "circling" in P. antarctica, and BGH in P. papua. 
10.2307/4089899| John T. Zimmer described Xiphorhynchus necopinus (Zimmer's Woodcreeper) as a sibling species of the more widespread Xiphorhynchus picus (Straight-billed Woodcreeper). Despite his initial suspicion that a preexisting name (kienerii) could be applied to the new species he described, Zimmer discarded that possibility without directly examining the type of X. p. kienerii housed at the Museum National D'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, France. We studied plumage and measured wing chord and tail lengths of the type specimen of X. p. kienerii, comparing it with series of specimens of X. necopinus and X. picus. We show that X. necopinus and the type of X. p. kienerii are morphologically and morphometrically indistinguishable, and thus necopinus is synonymized with kienerii, the name that has priority. Because Zimmer mistakenly applied the name kienerii to a western Amazonian population of X. picus, most specimens in museums identified as X. p. kienerii after Zimmer's review (Zimmer 1934) are likely to refer to X. p. peruvianus. /// John T. Zimmer describi a Xiphorhynchus necopinus como una especie hermana de la ms ampliamente distribuida Xiphorhynchus picus. A pesar de su sospecha inicial que un nombre preexistente (kienerii) podra aplicarse a la nueva especie por l descripta, Zimmer descart esta posibilidad sin examinar directamente el tipo de X. p. kienerii depositado en el Museum National D'Histoire Naturelle en Pars, Francia. Estudiamos el plumaje y medimos la longitud de la cuerda alar y de la cola del espcimen tipo de X. p. kienerii, comparndolo con una serie de especmenes de X. necopinus y X. picus. Aqu mostramos que X. necopinus y el tipo de X. p. kienerii son morfolgica y morfomtricamente indistinguibles. Por lo tanto, necopinus es sinonimizado con kienerii, el nombre que tiene prioridad. Debido a que Zimmer aplic por error el nombre kienerii a una poblacin del oeste amaznico de X. picus, la mayora de los especmenes en museos identificados como X. p. kienerii luego de la revisin de Zimmer (1934) se refieren probablemente a X. p. peruvianus. 
10.2307/4089926| Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) nest at 25 distinct colonies located throughout Prince William Sound that range in size from <20 to >7,000 pairs. Dramatic changes have occurred in the distribution of breeding birds among those colonies during the past few decades (1972-1997). Reproductive success data collected since 1985 confirm that individual colonies are habitat patches of varying quality in space and time. Even with such variation, predictability of habitat quality did occur in short- and long-term (3 year) intervals as indicated by significant (P < 0.05) relationships between current (t) and previous year's (t-1, t-2, etc.) reproductive success. Those circumstances provided suitable conditions for testing hypotheses concerning dispersal and recruitment strategies of a long-lived species. Breeding birds responded to both short- and long-term cues and, in general, recruited to the most successful colonies. An apparently lower dispersal propensity and the importance of long-term cues was in contrast to a similar study of kittiwake colonies in France (Danchin et al. 1998). Differences between these studies may be attributed to primary factors controlling habitat quality in Prince William Sound operating in the long-term versus the short-term and the magnitude of scale. Colonies in our study covered a much larger geographic area and therefore, factors such as foraging-site faithfulness, mate retention, and natal philopatry may also have influenced dispersal decisions. Nonetheless, recruitment of kittiwakes in Prince William Sound supported the performance-based conspecific attraction hypothesis, which, in turn, led to an ideal free distribution of breeding birds. Those shortterm mechanisms for dispersal and recruitment manifested in a long-term redistribution of nesting kittiwakes from poor breeding conditions in southern Prince William Sound to favorable conditions in northern Prince William Sound. Favorable conditions in northern Prince William Sound were apparently supported by stable or increasing populations of juvenile herring. In contrast, reproductive failures and population declines in southern Prince William Sound were concordant with colonies in the Gulf of Alaska where diets were similar, consisting of primarily capelin (Mallotus villosus) and Pacific sand lance (Ammodytes hexapterus). Those trends corresponded with the influence of Gulf of Alaska waters in southern Prince William Sound and may have been associated with a reported decline in the abundance of key forage species related to a late 1970s regime shift in the Gulf of Alaska. 
90008163|Many species of insectivorous birds have contrasting plumage patches that are often displayed during foraging. Although such displays are widely hypothesized to flush potential prey and enhance foraging performance, experimental evidence that they function in this way was previously available only from redstarts (
10.1525/auk.2012.10224|Recruitment is an important aspect of life history that is difficult to estimate without long-term data. We used 28 years of data to create multistate capturemarkrecapture models with maturity status as state to provide estimates of age-dependent probabilistic recruitment (transition from juvenile to breeder state) of Cassin's Auklets (
4085157|This paper describes the hunting tactics of the Tiny Hawk, Accipiter superciliosus fontanieri, in a Costa Rican rain forest, where it appears to be a hummingbird specialist. Three tactics were used by the hawks to hunt hummingbirds: typical Accipiter still-hunting (probably not specifically for hummingbirds), waiting in ambush by a hummingbird's regular territorial perch, and flying rapidly between the perches of several territorial hummingbirds. Relative use of the latter two tactics may reflect the local density of territorial hummingbirds.
25150342|The potential for differences between genetic paternity and paternity inferred from behavioral observation has long been recognized. These differences are associated with the challenge for females of seeking both genetic and material benefits; this challenge is less severe in species with polygynous, non-resource-based mating systems (such as leks) than in those with resource-based systems. We present the first study of paternity patterns in a non-resource-based species that does not form true leks. We compared paternity inferred from observed mating behavior to genetically assigned paternity in the Satin Bowerbird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) using eight microsatellite markers. Mating behavior was observed and recorded via automated video-cameras positioned at all bowers (29-34 bowers each year) in the study site throughout each mating season. We obtained blood samples and identified mothers for 11 chicks in 9 nests. For all chicks, the most likely genetic father had been observed to mate with the mother in the year the chick was sampled. All most likely genetic fathers were assigned with high confidence and all were bower-holding males. These results demonstrate that genetic paternity can be inferred from observed mating behavior with reasonable confidence in Satin Bowerbirds. Observed male mating-success is therefore a reliable predictor of reproductive success, and this suggests that high skew in observed male mating-success translates directly to high skew in reproductive success. /// Las diferencias potenciales entre la paternidad gentica y la paternidad inferida a partir de observaciones de comportamiento han sido reconocidas desde hace mucho tiempo. Estas diferencias estn asociadas con el desafo de las hembras de buscar beneficios genticos y materiales. Este desafo es menos severo en las especies con sistemas de apareamiento polignicos que no estn basados en los recursos (como las asambleas de cortejo) que en aquellas con sistemas basados en los recursos. Presentamos el primer estudio de patrones de paternidad en una especie cuyo apareamiento no est basado en los recursos y que no forma asambleas de cortejo verdaderas. Comparamos la paternidad inferida a partir de observaciones de comportamientos de apareamiento con la paternidad asignada genticamente en Ptilonorhynchus violaceus usando ocho marcadores micro-satelitales. El comportamiento de apareamiento fue observado y registrado por medio de cmaras de video automticas ubicadas en todos los sitios de despliegue (29-34 sitios de despliegue cada ao) en el rea de estudio a lo largo de cada estacin reproductiva. Obtuvimos muestras de sangre e identificamos las madres de 11 pichones en 9 nidos. Para todos los pichones, el padre gentico ms probable fue observado aparendose con la madre en el ao en que el pichn fue muestreado. Todos los padres genticos ms probables fueron determinados con alta seguridad y todos fueron machos que ocuparon un sitio de despliegue. Estos resultados demuestran que la paternidad gentica puede ser inferida a partir de la observacin del comportamiento de apareamiento con una grado razonable de certeza en P. violaceus. Por lo tanto, el xito de apareamiento observado de los machos predice el xito reproductivo de modo confiable, y esto sugiere que los sesgos marcados en el xito de apareamiento observados en los machos se traducen directamente en sesgos marcados en el xito reproductivo.
10.2307/4086895|Using data from the field and the literature on 67 species of birds, we analyzed intraclutch variation in egg size, especially the deviation of the last egg from the clutch mean (D). Values of D are closer to zero in precocial than in altricial species; D is negatively correlated with body size in interspecific comparisons, i.e. large birds, including precocial species, lay small final eggs; and D is higher in open-nesting passerines (on average D = +3.56%, 17 species) than in hole-nesting species (on average D = -0.05%, 13 species). Within populations of birds, a negative relationship exists between D and clutch size, particularly in species that have a generally low value of D. The results support the view that intraclutch variation in egg size has an ultimate, adaptive value. We suggest that birds adopting the "brood-reduction strategy" have a small final egg, particularly those birds with large clutches, whereas birds adopting the "brood-survival strategy" have a relatively large final egg, particularly those birds with large clutches.
4087181| We used allozyme electrophoresis to estimate the degree of genetic differentiation among allopatric and sympatric populations of American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) and Mallards (A. platyrhynchos). Mallards were collected in California, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and Ontario, and Black Ducks were collected in Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and Ontario. The mean genetic distances, D, between Black Duck populations (0.0007), between Mallard populations (0.0010), and between Mallard and Black Duck populations (0.0006) were virtually identical; there was as much genetic differentiation within the two species as there was between them. Such small genetic distances are characteristic of local populations of avian species in other orders, and are consistent with what is known about the lack of reproductive isolation between Black Ducks and Mallards. Although the two taxa are still somewhat split on an east-west basis, our genetic data do not support even subspecific status for the Black Duck. 
10.2307/4088008|We investigated the effects of body mass of incubating female Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) on aspects of their current and future reproduction, and we examined factors that affect length of the incubation period. During three breeding seasons, body mass of female Wood Ducks averaged 578.0 g early and 553.3 g late in the incubation period. Body mass at the start of incubation was not related to either hatching success or length of the incubation period. In one of three years, females that were heavy at the end of incubation survived better to the next breeding season than those that were light. Reduced survival of light females in one year coincided with a greater loss of body mass in that year relative to other years, which indicates that incubation can be an important reproductive cost to female Wood Ducks. There were no relationships between body mass at the end of incubation and date of nesting or clutch size in the next breeding season. Partial correlations between clutch mass and length of incubation that controlled for date of nesting indicated a positive association between clutch mass and incubation length in every year. This relationship was evident only for parasitic nests (i.e. nests in which more than one female was laying eggs). Increased length of the incubation period associated with larger clutch mass represents a potential cost of intraspecific nest parasitism not previously recognized.
10.2307/4089416|To assess natural variation in ejaculate quality of male Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis), as well as to measure any effect of experimental treatment with testosterone (T), we used cloacal massage to collect sperm samples from captive (1993) and free-ranging (1994, 1995) populations. We made three measurements of ejaculate quality in males, approximately half of which had been treated with T: (1) volume, (2) sperm concentration, and (3) total number of sperm per ejaculate (ejaculate size). Ejaculate volume and concentration varied by year, but ejaculate size did not; therefore, we used ejaculate size as our primary measure of ejaculate quality. Control (C-males) and hormone-treated (T-males) males from the captive population did not differ in any measure of ejaculate quality, but in the free-ranging population, C-males produced larger ejaculates than T-males. Independent of treatment, ejaculate size varied significantly with season and stage of reproduction in the free-ranging population. C-males had significantly fewer sperm at the beginning of the breeding season than in midseason and thereafter, but reserves in T-males did not differ significantly with season. For males in both treatments, ejaculates were smallest when their mates were fertile and increased significantly when their mates were incubating and when the pair was feeding nestlings. We then asked whether the observed patterns were more likely attributable to differences in rate of sperm production or rate of sperm utilization (i.e. copulation frequency). The finding that free-ranging T-males had fewer sperm than C-males, whereas captives did not, suggests that treatment with T may have led to differences in utilization (i.e. by copulation). The observation that in both T- and C-males ejaculates were smallest when their mates were fertile also suggests that frequent copulation depletes sperm reserves.
10.1525/auk.2010.09059|The rapid multiclutch mating system of the Mountain Plover (
10.1525/auk.2011.10264|The Hairy Woodpecker (
25488678|Headwater forests serve many ecological functions and may be particularly responsive to changes in climate and land use. Riparian birds can serve as indicators of changes in their associated ecosystems. Little known, however, are combined influences of climate and land use on riparian birds and riparian ecosystems. We examined multiscale associations between these environmental conditions and reproduction of the Louisiana Waterthrush (
4087949|We present design specifications for a self-contained activity recorder, developed for use on plunge-diving seabirds. Compressed integrated circuitry and miniature components allow construction of recorders small enough (28 g) to be mounted on the tails of boobies and other seabirds. The cost is moderate. Field tests of the recorder on Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster) demonstrated its ability to measure foraging behavior at sea that typically cannot be observed directly.
4088361|We recently isolated and cloned a highly repeated retropseudogenelike DNA sequence (RBMI) from the genome of the Red-breasted Merganser (Mergus serrator). This sequence was used to probe Southern blots of restriction-enzyme-digested DNA from members of the waterfowl tribe Anatini in order to infer phylogenetic relationships. The digested DNA of all the species studied contained major and minor RBMI-like components. Some RBMI-like components were common to all the species examined, others were only found in groups of species, and still other were specific to individual species. The Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and the American Black Duck (A. rubripes) could be differentiated on the basis of RBMI-probed Southern blots. Thus, the RBMI sequence can be used to distinguish very closely related species. We suggest that the Anatini consist of three major groups: the mallard-pintail group; the gadwall-wigeon group; and the blue-winged ducks. The Versicolor Teal (A. versicolor) had major elements in common with both the blue-winged ducks and the mallard-pintail group. The Baikal Teal (A. formosa) and the Marbled Teal (Marmaronetta angustirostris) do not appear to be members of any of these three groups.
4086172|Total observed ranges of 24 groups of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) varied from 34 to 225 ha and averaged 86.9 ha. Groups defended portions of these ranges from adjacent groups year-round. Home ranges were derived from total observed ranges by subtracting extraterritorial areas and areas receiving limited use. The percentage of year-round home-range boundaries determined by intergroup conflicts varied from 0% to 54% and averaged 23.6%. Year-round home ranges averaged 70.3 ha and varied from 30 to 195 ha. The portion of year-round home ranges used in all sampling periods varied from 15% to 65% and averaged 30.5%. The amount of potential foraging habitat per group for all groups within 2,000 m of a study group's colony, a measure of population density relative to available habitat, accounted for 70% of the variation in size of year-round home ranges (P <0.0001). Various measures of group size and habitat quality were weakly related to size of year-round home ranges. Measures of group size and population density together accounted for 80% of the variation in size of year-round home ranges.
90008069|The Mountain Black-eye (
10.2307/4090109|I studied the characteristics of foraging territoriality in the Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) and effects of body size and sex on territoriality. Sixty-eight birds were captured and sexed, and foraging behavior (usage of area, defense rate, and foraging efficiency) of 26 birds identified by color bands was observed in detail for 3 years. I categorized territoriality within the foraging area into three types according to the birds' exclusiveness and attachment to the area: high exclusiveness and strong attachment to the same area for a long period, moderate exclusiveness and attachment, and minimal exclusiveness and attachment. Body size was largest and feeding efficiency was highest in the first type. I propose a model that predicts a relationship between body size and defense rate to explain the behavior of egrets. /// Estudi caractersticas de la territorialidad de forrajeo y los efectos del tamao corporal y el sexo sobre la territorialidad en la garza Egretta garzetta. Se captur y se determin el sexo de un total de 68 garzas, y se estudi el comportamiento de forrajeo (uso del rea, tasa de defensa y eficiencia de forrajeo) observando detalladamente 26 individuos identificados con anillos de colores durante tres aos. La territorialidad dentro del rea de forrajeo se categoriz en tres tipos de acuerdo a la exclusividad y apego al rea por parte de las aves: (1) alta exclusividad y fuerte apego a la misma rea por un perodo prolongado, (2) exclusividad y apego moderados, y (3) poca exclusividad y apego. El tamao corporal y la eficiencia de forrajeo fueron mximos en aves del primer tipo. Propongo un modelo que predice la relacin entre el tamao corporal y la tasa de defensa para explicar el comportamiento de E. garzetta.
10.2307/4088592|In order to test hypotheses explaining intraspecific differences in migration patterns of birds, a four-year field study of migrant raptors in southernmost Sweden was undertaken. The age and sex ratios among autumn migrants departing from the province of Scania at Falsterbo were compared to the corresponding ratios among birds of the same species that stayed in Scania the following winter. In most species (Red Kite [Milvus milvus], White-tailed Eagle [Haliaeetus albicilla], Northern Harrier [Circus cyaneus], Goshawk [Accipiter gentilis], Sparrowhawk [A. nisus], Common Buzzard [Buteo buteo] and Eurasian Kestrel [Falco tinnunculus]), the proportion of adults was distinctly higher among wintering birds than among the migrants. A marked exception was the Rough-legged Hawk (B. lagopus), which had significantly more juveniles among the wintering birds. In most species where the sexes could be separated more females were found among the wintering birds than among the migrants (Northern Harrier, Goshawk, Sparrowhawk and Rough-legged Hawk). The Eurasian Kestrel, however, showed the reverse pattern with a higher proportion of males among wintering birds. The results support the social-dominance hypothesis, where the dominant adults and the larger sex (in raptors the female) generally winter furthest north. That juveniles are driven away from the breeding territories is suggested by a significantly higher proportion of juvenile Common Buzzards wintering in marginal coastal regions as compared to the inland portion of Scania. The results are also in general agreement with Bergmann's rule. The higher proportion of male Eurasian Kestrels among wintering birds is most likely explained by the importance of early arrival at the breeding territory.
10.1525/auk.2012.11217|In many avian species, females do not nest the first year they attain sexual maturity. I examined the benefits and costs of delayed nesting in a nonmigratory population of Canada Geese (
10.2307/4090063| Like most other penguin species, Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) are large-bodied birds that incubate their eggs for a prolonged period on hard substrates with little nesting material-all circumstances that could lead to high rates of egg breakage. However, Magellanic Penguin eggs at Punta Tombo, Argentina are seldom broken. From 1984 to 2001, only 2.6% of 10,023 eggs in our study areas broke or cracked. Most of those were broken in unusual or catastrophic events, mainly penguin fights and rainstorms. Low breakage rates appear to be attributable to thick eggshells. Shells of Magellanic Penguin eggs averaged 0.81 mm without the egg membranes-at least 56% thicker than expected for bird eggs of similar mass. The calcium required for those thick eggshells cannot be supplied by normal food intake because females lay eggs during a fasting period. It is also unlikely that sufficient skeletal calcium can be mobilized. An alternative potential calcium source is mollusk shells. To determine whether female penguins were selectively ingesting calcium to form thick eggshells, we examined stomach contents of birds during the egg period (settlement, egg laying, and early incubation) and the post-egg period (late incubation and chick rearing). Both females and males were more likely to have mollusk shells in their stomachs during the egg period than during the post-egg period. However, females were much more likely than males to have shells in their stomachs during the egg period, whereas the proportions of males and females with mollusk shells did not differ in the post-egg period. Selective ingestion of mollusk shells by Magellanic Penguins, resulting in thick eggshells, appears to be an adaptive response that reduces egg breakage. /// Como la mayora de las dems especies de pinginos, Spheniscus magellanicus es un ave de tamao corporal grande que incuba sus huevos por un perodo prolongado sobre sustratos duros y utiliza poco material de nido. Todas estas circunstancias podran conducir a altas tasas de ruptura de huevos. Sin embargo, es raro que los huevos de S. magellanicus en Punta Tombo (Argentina) se rompan: entre 1984 y 2001, slo el 2.6% de 10,023 huevos en nuestras reas de estudio se rompieron o se rajaron. La mayora de los huevos se rompieron en eventos poco usuales o catastrficos, principalmente peleas entre los pinginos y tormentas de lluvia. Las bajas tasas de ruptura parecen ser debidas a los cascarones gruesos de los huevos. El grosor promedio del cascarn en S. magellanicus, sin incluir las membranas del huevo, fue de 0.81 mm, lo que es al menos un 56% ms grueso de lo que se esperara para huevos de aves de masa similar. El calcio necesario para formar estos cascarones gruesos no puede ser provisto por la tasa normal de ingestin de alimento porque las hembras ponen los huevos durante un perodo de ayuno. Tambin es poco probable que sea posible movilizar suficiente calcio esqueltico. Una fuente alternativa de calcio potencial son las conchas de moluscos. Para determinar si las hembras estaban ingiriendo calcio selectivamente para formar cascarones gruesos, examinamos los contenidos estomacales de aves durante el perodo de postura de huevos (establecimiento, postura e incubacin temprana) y el perodo posterior a la postura (incubacin tarda y crianza de los pichones). Fue ms probable que los machos y las hembras tuvieran conchas de moluscos en el estmago en el perodo de postura que en el perodo posterior. Sin embargo, la probabilidad de tener conchas en el estmago fue mucho mayor en las hembras que en los machos durante el perodo de postura, mientras que las proporciones de hembras y machos con conchas en el estmago fueron similares en el perodo posterior a la postura. El cascarn grueso de los huevos de S. magellanicus, junto con la ingestin selectiva de conchas de moluscos, parece ser una respuesta adaptativa que reduce la ruptura de huevos. 
10.2307/4090027| Neonate, gosling, and adult Canada Geese (Branta canadensis interior) and Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) were collected to evaluate if growth rates and developmental patterns differed interspecifically and to determine if such differences were better explained by physiology of the growth process or by ecological conditions historically experienced by those two species. Patterns of growth and development of Canada and Lesser Snow goose goslings were similar to those reported for other Arctic geese, but differences in relative growth rates and developmental patterns of external structures, digestive organs, and skeletal muscles were observed between these two species. As compared to Canada Geese, body parts associated with locomotion and acquisition or processing of food generally increased at relatively faster rates and were more developed relative to adult size in Lesser Snow Geese. Relative rates of increase for carcass protein and body mass in these two species did not support a physiological constraint on growth. Rates and patterns of growth and development were better explained as adaptations to ecological factors, such as growing season and nesting or brood rearing conditions, historically experienced by these two species. /// Colectamos neonatos, polluelos y adultos de Branta canadensis interior (Ganso Canadiense) y Chen caerulescens caerulescens (Ganso de la Nieve Menor) para evaluar si las tasas de crecimiento y los patrones de desarrollo difieren entre especies, y para determinar si tales diferencias eran mejor explicadas por la fisiologa del proceso de crecimiento o por las condiciones ecolgicas experimentadas histricamente por estas dos especies. Los patrones de crecimiento y desarrollo de B. c. interior y Ch. c. caerulescens fueron similares a aquellos informados para otros gansos del rtico, pero se observation diferencias entre estas dos especies en las tasas relativas de crecimiento y patrones de desarrollo de estructuras externas, rganos digestivos y msculos esquelticos. Comparado con B. c. interior, las partes del cuerpo asociadas con locomocin y con adquisicin y procesamiento de alimento generalmente incrementaron a tasas relativamente ms rapidas y se encontraron ms desarrolladas en relacin al tamao del adulto en Ch. c. caerulescens. Las tasas relativas de incremento de protenas de la carcaza y masa corporal en estas dos especies no apoyaron la nocin de una limitante fisiolgica en el crecimiento. Las tasas y los patrones de crecimiento y desarrollo fueron mejor explicados como adaptaciones a factores ecolgicos experimentados histricamente por estas dos especies, tales como la estacin de crecimiento y las condiciones de anidamiento y cra de los pichones. 
10.2307/4088821| Change in body mass is an important measurement in many studies addressing changes in energy stores or condition. Usually, change in body mass is measured in birds caught twice, but this has a number of drawbacks (e.g. low number of retraps, retraps not representative of all first captures, adverse effects of first capture on body-mass development). Therefore, we investigated whether plasma metabolites correlate with body-mass change, and which metabolites could be used to predict body-mass change in birds caught once. In an experiment, 20 Garden Warblers (Sylvia borin) were given different amounts of food to induce stable, increasing, and decreasing body masses. Most of the eight plasma metabolites we examined were significantly correlated with the change in body mass between early morning and midday, the time of blood sampling, but not with body mass or various measures of activity. Metabolites that are known to characterize resorption were elevated in birds gaining body mass and metabolites characteristic of fasting were elevated in birds losing body mass. Triglycerides and -hydroxy-butyrate together explained 61% of the variation in body-mass change (triglycerides alone 44% and -hydroxy-butyrate alone 51%). These metabolites may be used to predict body-mass change in birds caught once, provided that the reliability and sensitivity of this method are checked in field tests. 
4085548|Evidence is presented supporting a seasonal segregation by sex and age of the Red-billed Quelea (Quelea quelea) in and associated with the Awash River Basin of Ethiopia. Sexual segregation is most pronounced in the late dry season/early rains period (March-June), which precedes breeding (July-September). At this time the males appear to be more concentrated in the middle Awash Valley, in the general area where breeding will occur, while the females remain more dispersed. A balanced sex ratio is found from July to September. Following breeding there is a general dispersal with many queleas moving out to the cereal growing areas that border the Awash Valley. This process of dispersal results in a separation of adults from juveniles and, to a lesser degree, males from females.
10.2307/4088157|Phylogenetic patterns can be used to generate detailed historical hypotheses about the evolution of character systems, including parental-care behavior. Phylogenetic analysis of 60 taxa using parental-care data (15 characters) in combination with anatomical data (69 characters) shows that biparental care is primitive for birds, and that biparental incubation arose from an ancestral condition in which neither parent incubated. Components of parental care may be decoupled, such that incubation and feeding of nestlings is biparental, but postfledging care is uniparental; the pattern of decoupling varies across taxa. Behavioral plasticity, environmentally induced variation, and quantitative variation in characters that are coded qualitatively are some of the problems inherent in such an analysis. Nevertheless, historical analysis offers a good vehicle for obtaining rigorous hypotheses about the coevolution of avian character systems.
4085969|I investigated variation in the songs of Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli) breeding in the northwestern Great Basin over a 3-yr period. Individuals sang a single song type, which did not change during the day, through the breeding season, or between years. Although different individuals and populations differed in song parameters such as duration, delivery rate, and notes and note types per song, these variations exhibited no overall patterns with respect to geography or habitat. Similarity matrices based upon the sequential arrangement of note types in songs were used to draw comparisons within and between populations. Within-population vocal similarity of individuals varied considerably, from populations in which most neighboring individuals sang similar or identical songs to situations in which most individuals sang quite different songs; in one population, song variation was arrayed in "neighborhoods" of 3-5 individuals sharing similar songs, which differed markedly from those of adjacent clusters of individuals. Song variation between populations was significantly greater than that within populations. Some populations located close to one another shared many song elements and patterns, but other nearby populations were totally different and showed greater similarity with populations located some distance away. The degree of song similarity between populations was neither a simple function of the physical distance between the populations, nor was it related to the distribution of topographic barriers in this region. Populations with greater between-individual dissimilarity in song patterns were also more variable from one year to the next and occurred in habitats of lower vegetation stature and greater patchiness. Generally, however, the patterns of vocal variation within and between populations were unrelated to features of habitat structure, to the densities of Sage Sparrows or of other coexisting species, or to avian community attributes. I suggest that Sage Sparrows may have a simple, single-song repertoire because the song serves simple functions, and selection favoring a more elaborate song may be absent. The variety of patterns of within- and between-population vocal similarity may be associated with differences in population turnover rates, song ontogeny, dominance relationships, and dispersal, all of which require documentation to establish the foundations of vocal variation in this system (and others). The variety of population patterns, however, argues against a simplistic categorization of this species as dialectal or nondialectal. Much of the variation that is expressed may be a consequence of chance events and represents "epiphenomena" that are random with respect to natural selection.
10.1525/auk.2012.11169|Knowledge of the relative contributions of predator species to overall rates of nest predation can improve our understanding of why predation risk varies, but the identity of predators is seldom known. We used video technology to identify nest predators of the tree-nesting Acadian Flycatcher (
4087329|We studied cooperative-breeding Pygmy Nuthatches (Sitta pygmaea) for 4 yr in northern Arizona. Breeding units contained 2-5 birds. Helpers were found at about 30% of all nests. All helpers that later bred on the study area were male. Helpers were mostly yearlings, and offspring or siblings of the birds that they aided, but often aided at least one unrelated breeder. Breeding units with helpers produced significantly more young than those without helpers. Breeding units in habitats with the greatest floral diversity and structural maturity fledged significantly more young than those in other habitats. Habitat did not influence the effect of helpers. Year effects increased the strength of the relationship between helpers and annual reproductive output. Previous breeding experience and pair-bond duration were not related to reproductive success. Total brood loss, although rare, was responsible for the difference in reproductive output among pairs with and without helpers and between habitats. Breeding birds with helpers benefit by an increase in direct fitness. The advantage to the helpers is not clear but may be an increase in indirect fitness associated with aiding relatives. Helpers may benefit directly, however, by sharing roosting cavities on a group territory thereby enhancing overwinter survival.
10.2307/4089385|We conducted an experimental study of nest-site selection and breeding success of Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) in artificial forest edges. The nest-site selection experiment revealed a clear pattern in the order of occupancy of nest boxes by males: boxes situated at the edge between the forest stand and the clearcut were consistently avoided by the earliest-arriving males, which preferentially selected boxes 50 to 100 m from the edge. We also wanted to assess the possible fitness consequences associated with the observed nest location by moving randomly selected breeding pairs to a new location with respect to distance from the edge. The body mass of offspring was lower in nests moved to the edge than in nests moved into the interior of the forest stand. Body mass may be correlated with the lower feeding rate observed at edge nests compared with interior nests. We present evidence that pairs nesting at the extreme edge were forced to use suboptimal foraging areas (i.e. a semicircle of habitat), whereas interior pairs had a complete circle of suitable habitat in which to forage. Pied Flycatchers did not use clearcuts for foraging. Birds may try to compensate for suboptimal foraging area by increasing their food-search efficiency, or they may try to enlarge their foraging area by increasing its radius. Both strategies may increase the energy consumption of adults and the time spent searching for food, which may, in turn, decrease feeding frequency. However, we found no support for increased energy consumption. Nest-predation rate, food availability, and survival of parents were not associated with the distance of the nest from the edge. Our results indicate a harmful edge effect from forest fragmentation for Pied Flycatchers because offspring mass is related to fitness through brood survival to the next breeding season.
10.2307/4090186| Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) have been previously shown to undergo seasonal changes in the fatty acid composition of their fat stores, even though they do not show the marked seasonal variation in diet common to many migratory passerines. We investigated the effect of dietary fatty acid composition on the fatty acid composition of adipose tissue in captive Western Sandpipers by feeding birds experimental diets with different fatty acid composition. In addition, we determined the effect of total percentage of fat content of the diet (5 vs. 10%) on fatty acid composition of depot fat. Birds maintained normal body mass (24-27 g) throughout all experimental treatments. Most adipose fatty acids were sensitive to dietary manipulation to some extent. Changes in fatty acid composition of the diet had the largest effect on adipose tissue composition for the essential polyunsaturated fatty acid linoleate (18:2), whereas it had the least effect for the monounsaturated fatty acid oleate (18:1). The saturated fatty acid palmitate (16:0) demonstrated an intermediate capacity to alter fatty acid composition of adipose tissue. Total amount of fat in the diet did not influence the effect of diet on fatty acid deposition. Results of dietary manipulations in this study suggest that diet does explain some of the variation in fatty acid composition observed during migration in Western Sandpipers, but that certain fatty acids can be modulated independently of diet (probably through de novo synthesis, postabsorption modification, or both). /// Se ha demostrado que individuos de la especie Calidris mauri sufren cambios estacionales en la composicin de cidos grasos de sus reservas grasas, a pesar de que no muestran la marcada variacin estacional en la dieta que exhiben muchas aves paserinas migratorias. Investigamos el efecto de la composicin dietaria de cidos grasos sobre la composicin de stos en el tejido adiposo en C. mauri, alimentando aves en cautiverio con dietas experimentales con diferente composicin de cidos grasos. Adicionalmente, determinamos el efecto del porcentaje total del contenido de grasa en la dieta (5 vs. 10%) sobre la composicin de cidos grasos en las reservas adiposas. Las aves mantuvieron un peso corporal normal (24-27 g) a lo largo de todos los tratamientos experimentales. La mayora de los cidos grasos adiposos fueron sensibles a la manipulacin de la dieta en alguna medida. Los cambios en la composicin de cidos grasos de la dieta tuvieron el efecto ms marcado sobre la composicin del tejido adiposo para el linoleato (18:2), un cido graso poli-insaturado esencial, y el efecto menos marcado para el oleato (18:1), un cido graso monoinsaturado. El palmitato (16:0), un cido graso saturado, mostr una capacidad intermedia de alterar la composicin de cidos grasos del tejido adiposo. La cantidad total de grasa en la dieta no tuvo influencia sobre el efecto de la dieta en la deposicin de cidos grasos. Los resultados de las manipulaciones de la dieta de este estudio sugieren que sta s explica parte de la variacin en la composicin de cidos grasos observada durante la migracin en C. mauri, pero que ciertos cidos grasos pueden ser modulados independientemente de la dieta (probablemente mediante sntesis de novo y/o modificacin post-absorcin). 
10.2307/4089981| Pitman and Jehl (1998) recently argued that Masked Boobies (formerly Sula dactylatra granti) breeding on the Nazca Plate in the eastern Pacific Ocean are morphologically and ecologically distinct from other Masked Boobies and may represent a full species. The American Ornithologists' Union subsequently elevated that subspecies to a full species: the Nazca Booby (S. granti). To evaluate that change in classification, we compared sequence variation in the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene among 75 Nazca Boobies and 37 Masked Boobies representing three subspecies from the central and eastern Pacific and Atlantic oceans. Results indicated strong differentiation of cytochrome-b variation among taxa. Sequences constituted three distinct groups: Nazca Boobies, Masked Boobies from the central and eastern Pacific (S. d. personata and S. d. californica), and Masked Boobies (S. d. dactylatra) from the Caribbean and Atlantic. Those three groups probably diverged within a very short period, 400,000-500,000 years ago. Our results support the proposal that S. granti represents a distinct species. /// Pitman et Jehl (1998) ont rcemment soutenu que les Fous masqus (anciennement Sula dactylatra granti) nichant sur la plaque de Nazca dans l'est de l'Ocan Pacifique sont morphologiquement et cologiquement distincts des autres Fous masqus et pourraient reprsenter une espce  part entire. Par consquent, l'Union des Ornithologistes Amricains a lev cette sous-espce au statut d'espce: le Fou de Nazca (S. granti). Pour valuer ce changement dans la classification, nous avons compar la variation de squences dans le gne mitochondrial cytochrome-b parmi 75 Fous de Nazca et 37 Fous masqus reprsentant trois sous-espces du centre et de l'est des Ocans Pacifique et Atlantique. Les rsultats indiquaient une forte diffrenciation de variation du cytochrome-b parmi les taxa. Les squences constituaient trois groupes distincts: les Fou de Nazca, les Fous masqus du centre et de l'est du Pacifique (S. d. personata et S. d. californica), et les Fous masqus (S. d. dactylatra) des Carabes et de l'Atlantique. Ces trois groupes ont probablement diverg au cours d'une courte priode (i.e. il y a 400,000-500,000 ans). Nos rsultats supportent la proposition que S. granti reprsente une espce distincte. 
4087130|We assessed geographic variation in 13 locality samples of Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa), 12 from the Pacific coast and 1 from the Atlantic coast of North America. Nine phenetic characters were used with canonical variates analysis to determine similarity among samples. Regression of phenetic distance on geographic distance measured the relation between similarity and interisland distance. We found a clinal pattern of population similarity from the Aleutian Islands in the north to the Farallon Islands in the south. Populations from Los Coronados and San Benitos islands make up a distinct subset when rump color and wing and tail shape indices are included in the analysis, but these populations were part of a dominant clinal trend when only five size characters were used. On Guadalupe Island separate populations breed in summer and winter; these are strongly differentiated from the others and from each other. The North Atlantic sample was aligned closely with that from the Aleutians. The degree of geographic variation was roughly similar to that in certain migratory land birds on the North American continent, but is less than what is found for certain nonmigratory land birds on islands. Our results suggest recognizing four subspecies of Leach's Storm-Petrel in the study area, including two on Guadalupe Island isolated by time of breeding.
4085093|In a breeding study of a marked goldfinch population, 22 nests (9.4%) were parasitized by the cowbird. Although 4 cowbird eggs hatched from the 26 laid, no cowbirds fledged from a goldfinch nest. The clutch size of parasitized goldfinches was significantly smaller than those of unparasitized birds, and the mean number of nestlings hatched and fledged was also smaller. By contrast the percentage of goldfinch eggs that hatched and fledged was higher in parasitized nests. Some 55% of the parasitized nests produced fledglings while 36% were lost to predation. Eleven of the parasitized nests belonged to adult female goldfinches, and it is suggested that adult birds are most likely to be affected by cowbird parasitism. The implications of cowbird parasitism on the goldfinch are discussed. Although the cowbird gained little advantage from the association its parasitism largely offset the advantages of early nesting by the adult goldfinches. The goldfinch has not developed any apparent defense against cowbird parasitism, but those individuals that nested in man-made habitats were largely free from its influence.
10.2307/4088106|We studied territoriality and sociality in a population of Harris' Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) in Arizona during breeding and nonbreeding periods from 1984 to 1986. Our study area contained 22 to 26 breeding groups and density of nests averaged 1/2.0 km
4086704|Up to 10% of the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) and 6% of the California Gull (L. californicus) nests in some Washington colonies contained pebbles or other round foreign objects. These foreign objects, or pseudo-eggs, were more similar in size and shape to gull eggs than were randomly selected pebbles. Nests containing pseudo-eggs were most common in colonies where pebbles littered the ground. Pseudo-eggs were also more common in 1- and 2-egg clutches than in 3-egg clutches. In many respects, the gulls treated the pseudo-eggs as they did their own eggs. If pseudo-eggs were placed outside a nest, the adults rolled them back. If all eggs were removed from the nest, Ring-billed Gulls continued to incubate nests containing pseudo-eggs but not empty nests. These results provide more support for the hypothesis that these objects occur in nests because birds mistake them for eggs than for the hypothesis that these objects benefit the birds by acting as incubation stimuli.
4090439| We assessed the effects of range disjunction, migratory habit, coloniality, and habitat structure on the genetic differentiation of North American Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) populations. Burrowing Owls in North America comprise two forms or subspecies: A. c. floridana in Florida, separated by 1,500 km from the western form, A. c. hypugaea, which ranges from Texas to California and north to southern Canada. Burrowing Owls tend to be loosely colonial, and both the Florida populations and southerly populations of A. c. hypugaea from California to Texas are nonmigratory. To assess genetic structure, we examined 201 individuals from nine western and six Florida populations at seven highly variable microsatellite DNA loci. Mean gene diversity (
90008554|Offspring sex ratio in birds is adjusted according to the relative fitness payoff of producing sons and daughters, which is known to depend on parental quality. Therefore, spatial patterns in offspring sex ratio should be consistent with the distribution of pair quality within avian colonies. In many colonial birds, central parts of colonies provide greater safety against predators and thus are occupied by high-quality pairs, who relegate conspecifics of poorer quality to the peripheral zones of colonies. For this reason, we expected that offspring sex ratio was likely to follow similar central periphery gradients. This hypothesis was tested in a colony of tree-nesting Great Cormorants (
10.1525/auk.2009.09062|Survey methods that account for detection probability often require repeated detections of individual birds or repeated visits to a site to conduct counts or collect presenceabsence data. Initial encounters with individual species or individuals of a species could influence detection probabilities for subsequent encounters. For example, observers may be more likely to redetect a species or individual once they are aware of the presence of that species or individual at a particular site. Not accounting for these effects could result in biased estimators of detection probability, abundance, and occupancy. We tested for effects of prior detections in three data sets that differed dramatically by species, geographic location, and method of counting birds. We found strong support (AIC weights from 83% to 100%) for models that allowed for the effects of prior detections. These models produced estimates of detection probability, abundance, and occupancy that differed substantially from those produced by models that ignored the effects of prior detections. We discuss the consequences of the effects of prior detections on estimation for several sampling methods and provide recommendations for avoiding these effects through survey design or by modeling them when they cannot be avoided.
25150251|The evolutionary relationship between the New World quail (Odontophoridae) and other groups of Galliformes has been an area of debate. In particular, the relationship between the New World quail and guineafowl (Numidinae) has been difficult to resolve. We analyzed >8 kb of DNA sequence data from 16 taxa that represent all major lineages of Galliformes to resolve the phylogenetic position of New World quail. A combined data set of eight nuclear loci and three mitochondrial regions analyzed with maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods provide congruent and strong support for New World quail being basal members of a phasianid clade that excludes guineafowl. By contrast, the three mitochondrial regions exhibit modest incongruence with each other. This is reflected in the combined mitochondrial analyses that weakly support the Sibley-Ahlquist topology that placed the New World quail basal in relation to guineafowl and led to the placement of New World quail in its own family, sister to the Phasianidae. However, simulation-based topology tests using the mitochondrial data were unable to reject the topology suggested by our combined (mitochondrial and nuclear) data set. By contrast, similar tests using our most likely topology and our combined nuclear and mitochondrial data allow us to strongly reject the Sibley-Ahlquist topology and a topology based on morphological data that unites Old and New World quail. /// La relacin evolutiva entre las codornices del Nuevo Mundo (Odontophoridae) y otros grupos de Galliformes ha sido un rea de debate. En particular, la relacin entre Odontophoridae y Numidinae ha resultado difcil de resolver. Analizamos >8 kb de datos de secuencias de ADN de 16 taxa que representan todos los linajes principales de Galliformes para resolver la posicin filogentica de Odontophoridae. Un conjunto de datos combinado de ocho loci nucleares y tres regiones mitocondriales analizado con mtodos de mxima parsimonia, de mxima verosimilitud y Bayesianos apoya fuertemente la posicin basal de Odontophoridae en un clado de fasinidos que no incluye a los Numidinae. En contraste, las tres regiones mitocondriales presentan incongruencias modestas entre s. Esto se refleja en los anlisis de datos mitocondriales combinados, los cuales apoyan dbilmente la topologa de Sibley y Ahlquist, en la que Odontophoridae ocupaba una posicin basal con respecto a Numidinae y llev a la decisin de reconocer a Odontophoridae como una familia aparte, hermana de Phasianidae. Sin embargo, pruebas de topologa basadas en simulaciones hechas empleando los datos mitocondriales no pudieron rechazar la topologa sugerida por nuestro conjunto de datos mitocondriales y nucleares combinados. En cambio, pruebas similares hechas utilizando nuestra topologa ms verosmil y nuestros datos nucleares y mitocondriales combinados nos permitieron rechazar fuertemente la topologa de Sibley y Ahlquist y una topologa basada en datos morfolgicos que agrupa a las codornices del Viejo y del Nuevo Mundo.
4087660|Eurasian Nuthatches (Sitta europaea) are territorial in pairs throughout the year. Juvenile birds can settle in summer by taking up vacant territories in pairs, by pairing with unpaired adults, or by becoming nonterritorial residents. During five consecutive years, I studied settling behavior of juveniles and their recruitment in a breeding population. Three types of nonterritorial settlement are included: satellite birds with a territorial pair, and solitary or paired birds with home ranges that overlapped several territories. All nonterritorial residents either disappeared or became territory owners before spring. Settling behavior was not correlated with body size, but transient juvenile females weighed less in summer than resident juvenile females. Compared with territorial juveniles, nonterritorial residents that became territorial after summer survived equally well, were in an equally good winter condition, and subsequently bred in relatively high-quality territories. Despite this apparent equal success, the number of individuals in both categories in relation to density implies a preference for territorial settlement. The importance of summer territoriality for surviving the first months of life and the risk of not finding either a territory or a mate for breeding may explain these patterns.
4087186|Sibling aggression occurs in a wide variety of asynchronously hatching bird species. In some, fights among siblings lead inevitably to death, in which case the benefits of winning are clear. In species where sibling aggression is common but usually not fatal, the benefits gained by winning and the methods used to achieve them are less obvious. In a Texas colony of Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis), sibling aggression was frequent but siblicide rare. Parents rarely interfered with fights. Last-hatched chicks lost more fights and received less food than their elder siblings. Fighting limited the losers' immediate access to food and contributed to the senior sib's ability to monopolize boluses. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that monopolizable food can act as both a proximate and ultimate cause of sibling aggression. The main effect of sibling aggression lay in depressing food supplies to last-hatched chicks. First- and second-hatched sibs accrued roughly equal feeding advantages.
10.2307/4090399| Theoretical questions and conservation concerns have prompted numerous, intensive studies of songbird nesting ecology. Such studies use several techniques (flushing, capture, and blood sampling) that have the potential to negatively affect reproduction, survival, and site fidelity. Although studies have examined the effects of those techniques on avian reproduction and survival, the effect on the return rate of breeding songbirds has not been researched. We used data from a 28-year demographic study to investigate the possible effect of those three common research practices on the return rate of female Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina). We also tested reproductive success and age as predictors of return because they have been shown to influence site fidelity. Number of successful nests in a breeding season was the variable that best predicted return the following year. None of the research practices negatively affected return rate. That pattern held even among yearlings with zero production, a group that should be the most easily disturbed. We also show that using all years of return for site-faithful birds as observations (i.e. repeated sampling) inflates the estimated return rate. /// Una serie de preguntas tericas y preocupaciones conservacionistas han promovido numerosos e intensos estudios de la ecologa de nidificacin de las aves canoras. Estos estudios usan diversas tcnicas (espantar a las aves de los nidos, capturarlas, tomar muestras de sangre) que tienen el potencial de afectar negativamente la reproduccin, la supervivencia y la fidelidad al sitio. A pesar de que algunos estudios han examinado los efectos de estas tcnicas sobre la reproduccin y la supervivencia de las aves, el efecto sobre la tasa de retorno de aves canoras reproductivas no ha sido investigado. Usamos datos de un estudio demogrfico de 28 aos para investigar el posible efecto de las tres prcticas comunes de investigacin mencionadas sobre la tasa de retorno de hembras de Hylocichla mustelina. Tambin evaluamos el xito reproductivo y la edad como factores que predicen el retorno porque se ha sealado que stos influencian la fidelidad al sitio. El nmero de nidos exitosos en una estacin reproductiva fue la variable que mejor predijo el retorno al ao prximo. Ninguna de las prcticas de investigacin afect negativamente la tasa de retorno. Este patrn se mantuvo incluso entre individuos aales con produccin cero, un grupo que debera ser el ms fcilmente afectado. Tambin mostramos que usar todos los aos de retorno de las aves fieles a sus sitios como observaciones (i.e. muestreo repetido) exagera la tasa estimada de retorno. 
25488574|Food resources available to diving ducks wintering on the Great Lakes have changed dramatically since the introduction of dreissenid mussels (
4088305|We used patterns of variation among mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction fragments to infer phylogenetic relationships among Red (Phalaropus fulicaria), Red-necked (P. lobatus), and Wilson's (P. tricolor) phalaropes, and seven other shorebird species. Digestion of mtDNA with 18 restriction endonucleases yielded 393 fragments. Differentiation was considerable and nucleotide divergence estimates ranged from 5.46% to 20.02%. Previous allozyme analysis (Dittmann et al. 1989) suggested that Red and Red-necked phalaropes were sister taxa, and Wilson's was the basal member of the group; mtDNA data from this study supported this grouping. No mtDNA fragments united the phalaropes as a monophyletic group, but most phylogenetic and phenetic analyses depicted them as such. We suggest that Wilson's Phalarope evolved shortly after the phalarope lineage itself arose. Although we were unable to resolve with certainty the relationships of phalaropes and other shorebirds in related genera, our data were reasonably consistent with the ordering of tribal level taxa in the 1983 American Ornithologists' Union Check-list (AOU 1983). In general, the higher level taxa surveyed were at the limits of resolution of mtDNA restriction endonuclease analysis.
4086964|Host selection by brood parasitic Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) was studied at two sites in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. The eggs of the parasite are either spotted or immaculate, so host selection was studied with respect to egg type as well as to site. Immaculate eggs were rare at both sites. Cowbirds in this region prefer to parasitize nests of birds larger than themselves. This preference contrasts with that of almost all other brood parasites, and even that of Shiny Cowbirds in other parts of the species' range. One large species, the Chlk-browed Mockingbird (Mimus saturninus) was used frequently and consistently at both sites. At least two other large species (thrushes) were used at Site I, but neither was present at Site II. Cowbirds were more specialized on large hosts at Site I: only 9% of the spotted eggs were laid in nests of small birds at Site I, whereas 35% were laid in such nests at Site II. Small species, such as the Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis), were used to a greater extent at Site II than Site I (where some of the same species were not used at all). The shift to smaller hosts is probably a response to a change in the structure of the community; large host species are relatively less abundant at Site II. Rejecter species are large, and all were parasitized while many smaller accepter species were unmolested. Surprisingly, more immaculate eggs were laid in nests where they had little chance of successful incubation, rather than in nests of accepters. No evidence suggests that host races ("gentes") are formed. To the contrary, female cowbirds laying different egg types apparently select hosts in the same manner.
4085351|A previously developed model of heat transfer in incubating birds is applied to data describing the microclimate and nest/clutch/parent complex of the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) and the Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii) in southeastern Washington. Over an average 24-h cycle, the resting energy expenditure of an incubating female in both species averages 16-18% below that of a female perching on top of the vegetative canopy near the nest. This reduced energy requirement for incubating birds results from both the insulation of the nest and microclimatic amelioration associated with the nest's location. Accounting for the heat required to raise egg temperatures after parental inattentive periods lessens, but does not eliminate, this reduction in resting energy expenditure in incubating compared to nonincubating adults.
10.2307/4089367|We studied the genetic structure of a hybrid zone between Red-legged (Alectoris rufa) and Rock (A. graeca) partridges in the southern French Alps using six allozyme loci. Allele frequencies showed sharp clinal variation across the hybrid zone, shifting by 60% over a distance of about 60 km, on average. Single-locus clines were coincident, but only partially concordant, with intermediate allele frequencies in the hybrid population. Percent polymorphic loci, heterozygosity, and linkage disequilibria were higher in the hybrids and in some populations near the hybrid zone than in allopatric populations. Nonrandom associations favored parental allele combinations. The hybrids and most of the allopatric populations were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, but six populations near the hybrid zone showed a significant deficit of heterozygotes. The partridges in the hybrid zone included F
10.1525/auk.2013.13107|Molecular markers and stable isotopes have provided important insights into the migratory connectivity of small landbirds. Research integrating these two methods has primarily focused on linking breeding and wintering sites, rather than focusing on timing of migratory movement of different breeding populations. We used mitochondrial DNA and isotopic markers to infer the timing of various breeding populations of migrating Wilson's Warblers (
10.2307/4088509|A phylogeny of 42 species representing the 13 genera of woodcreepers (Furnariidae: Dendrocolaptinae) was constructed by means of a numerical-cladistic analysis of morphological characters from the hindlimb muscles, bill, nostrils, feet, and tail. A tree stable at the generic level was produced, but the characters used did not effectively delineate relationships between species in the large genera Lepidocolaptes and Xiphorhynchus. Monophyly of the Dendrocolaptinae was supported. Drymornis bridgesii was hypothesized to be the sister species of the other woodcreepers, followed by Nasica longirostris. Beyond these forms, the genera Dendrocincla, Deconychura, Sittasomus, and Glyphorhynchus lie basal to the remaining genera. This is consistent with their recognition as "intermediate forms," although the basal position of Drymornis and Nasica does not agree with that hypothesis. Among polytypic genera, the monophyly of Dendrocincla, Campylorhamphus, Xiphocolaptes, and Dendrocolaptes was supported, whereas Deconychura appears to be paraphyletic. Monophyly of Hylexetastes, Xiphorhynchus, and Lepidocolaptes remains uncertain.
10.1525/auk.2013.13022|Abundance estimators that account for imperfect detection, such as
25488613|Distributing eggs among multiple nests may have a selective advantage over laying eggs in one nest when stochastic events, such as predation, affect individuals of the same phenotype differently. However, an earlier analysis revealed that the mean fitness of such an egg-spreading strategy is equal to putting all eggs in one nest when predation destroys entire clutches. However, if predation typically results in partial clutch loss, distributing eggs among multiple nests may provide a selective advantage. We investigated the possibility that partial clutch loss could favor egg-spreading strategies by modeling mean fitness under a variety of egg-distribution strategies with partial nest predation. We found that higher fitness resulted from distributing eggs among multiple nests that contained at least as many eggs as a single nest containing the eggs of one female. The highest fitness resulted when eggs were in large clutches, because of predator-dilution effects. The fitness differences among egg-distribution strategies increased as predation rates, frequency of partial clutch loss, and the number of eggs destroyed in each partial predation event increased. We also examined the invasibility of pure and mixed parasitic and nesting strategies. Nest parasites may increase their fitness by spreading eggs among multiple nests that contain more eggs than would be present if they were nesting alone, but only a pure parasitic strategy can invade a population of nonparasites when the number of eggs laid is constrained.
10.2307/4088912|Allometry, the study of the consequences of body size on form and function, has been a powerful investigative tool in avian biology. Comparison of phenotypic data with allometric reference equations permits the identification of possible adaptations and the formulation of hypotheses for testing. The standard allometric equation that relates total evaporative water loss (TEWL) to body mass in birds, published more than two decades ago, was based on a relatively small sample size, and was constructed using procedures which may have biased parameter estimation. In this report, I have analyzed data for TEWL for 102 species of birds ranging in size from hummingbirds to Ostriches (Struthio camelus) using both least-squares regression and phylogenetically independent contrasts. Both approaches suggest that: (1) the slope of the relationship between TEWL and body mass is higher than the value originally proposed; (2) birds from arid environments have a statistically lower TEWL than do birds from more mesic environments; and (3) small birds have similar ratios of TEWL to oxygen consumed compared to larger species. The latter finding negates the idea that small desert birds replenish proportionately less of their TEWL with metabolic water than do larger species.
4086710| Spring migration of Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus) through south Texas was studied using vertical, fixed-beam, and surveillance radars with simultaneous visual observations. Five years of records from Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge and 33 years of reports from American Birds also were employed. The peak of migration occurred during the last week in March through the second week in April, with the migration of adults commencing two weeks earlier than immatures. Almost all migrants (>99%) passed east of 9910W. Winds during the migration season in south Texas were from the southeast at the surface, and from south-southeast to south at the altitude of migration, minimizing the potential for lateral drift. Only 4% of the 85,000 migrants counted in 1982 flew on days with opposing winds. Net tracks of hawks soaring in thermals were nearly downwind toward 312. Tracks of glides were toward 6 and did not vary with wind direction, probably because of the extreme predictability of wind direction. Daily flight time averaged 8.7 h and was greater on days with good thermal lift (low percent cloud cover) and favorable winds. Altitude of migration increased from early morning to midday, averaging 652 m at midday, and varied inversely with the amount of cloud cover. Hawks often flew too high to be seen without binoculars, so direct visual counts were strongly dependent on radar detection. Ninety-two percent of the hawks flew in flocks of >100 birds after 1100, and approximately 90% landed in flocks of >40 individuals. Flocking was hypothesized to facilitate the random encounter of thermals during interthermal glides, saving time and energy. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10129|Discriminant function analysis (DFA) based on morphological measurements is a quick, inexpensive, and efficient method for sex determination in field studies on cryptically monomorphic bird species. However, behind the apparent standardization and relative simplicity of DFA lie subtle differences and pitfalls that have been neglected in some studies. Most of these concerns directly affect assessment of the discriminant performance, a parameter of crucial importance in practice because it provides a measure of the quality of an equation that may be used in later field studies. Using results from 141 published studies and simulations based on a large data set collected on adult Zenaida Doves (
10.1525/auk.2013.13044|Fluctuating asymmetry has been suggested to be a phenotypic marker of developmental stability and is often seen as an indicator of overall quality. However, its role in sexual selection has been debated. To determine the potential role of black wingtip asymmetry in sexual selection in Black-legged Kittiwakes (
10.2307/4090148| The recent decline of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) correlates with the loss of suitable nesting habitat, range expansion by Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus), and eastward expansion of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Multivariate statistics were used to examine effects of those factors on Golden-winged Warbler reproduction in north central New York. Herb and shrub cover were positively correlated with clutch size. Blue-winged Warbler proximity was negatively correlated with Golden-winged Warbler clutch size. Tree cover and perhaps herb cover, after adjusting for brood size, correlated with a reduced number of Golden-winged Warbler fledglings. Herbaceous cover correlated with a greater number of cowbird eggs in Golden-winged Warbler nests. Cowbird parasitism correlated with a reduction in the number of Golden-winged Warbler eggs incubated and proportion of incubated eggs that hatched. However, cowbird parasitism, after adjusting for brood size, did not significantly affect nestling success rate. Cowbirds parasitized 30% of Golden-winged Warbler nests, which reduced the number of Golden-winged Warblers fledged by 17%. Average herb and tree cover values were 69 and 22 in Golden-winged Warbler territories and 60 and 23 in Blue-winged Warbler territories, respectively, with herb cover significantly greater for Golden-winged Warblers. Territories in the earliest stages of succession used by Golden-winged Warblers supported larger clutches and a reduction in the strong, negative effect of Blue-winged Warbler proximity and an increase in the negative effect correlated with cowbirds, if cowbirds were locally abundant. /// La reciente disminucin de las poblaciones de Vermivora chrysoptera se correlaciona con la prdida de hbitat de nidificacin apropiado, con la expansin del rango de V. pinus y con la expansin hacia el este de Molothrus ater. Utilizamos anlisis multivariados para evaluar los efectos de estos factores sobre la reproduccin de V. chrysoptera en el centronorte de Nueva York. La cobertura de hierbas y arbustos se correlacion positivamente con el tamao de la nidada. La proximidad de V. pinus se correlacion negativamente con el tamao de la nidada de V. chrysoptera. Luego de controlar por el tamao de la nidada, la cobertura de rboles (y quizs la cobertura de hierbas) se correlacion con un nmero reducido de pichones emplumados de V. chrysoptera. La cobertura herbcea se correlacion con un mayor nmero de huevos de M. ater en los nidos de V. chrysoptera. El parasitismo por M. ater se correlacion con una reduccin en el nmero de huevos de V. chrysoptera incubados y con la proporcin de huevos incubados que eclosionaron. Sin embargo, el parasitismo de M. ater no afect significativamente la tasa de xito de nidificacin tras controlar por el tamao de la nidada. M. ater parasit el 30% de los nidos de V. chrysoptera, lo que redujo el nmero de pichones emplumados en 17%. Los valores medios de la cobertura de hierbas y cobertura de rboles fueron 69 y 22 en los territorios de V. chrysoptera y 60 y 23 en los de V. pinus, respectivamente, con una cobertura de hierbas significativamente mayor en los territorios de V. chrysoptera. Los territorios de V. chrysoptera localizados en las fases sucesionales ms tempranas presentaron nidadas ms grandes y una reduccin en el fuerte efecto negativo de la proximidad de V. pinus y un aumento del efecto negativo correlacionado con M. ater, si esta especie era localmente abundante. 
10.2307/4089925|We examined the influence of female age, male age, and pair-bond duration on start of egg-laying, clutch size, and number of young fledged in the Lesser Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocopos minor). We also attempted to disentangle the relative influence of individual age and pair-bond duration on reproduction, because the effect of those factors may be confounded. Breeding performance improved with age in that old females started egg-laying earlier and old males raised more young than yearlings, and old pairs both started egg-laying earlier and raised more young than new pairs. Clutch size was not affected by age, but showed a strong negative relation with laying date. Late-laying yearling females experienced a lower survival, and the survival of yearling males showed a positive relation with fledgling production. That differential survival was a likely mechanism explaining the differences in reproductive performance between yearling and old birds. Several analyses suggested that pair-bond duration had independent positive effects on reproduction. Benefit of long-term pair-bonds appeared to depend upon repeated breeding with a particular partner. The mechanisms behind the benefit of remating with a particular partner remain unclear, however. We postulate that much of the patterns of age effects on reproduction in the Lesser Spotted Woodpecker may be caused by constraints posed by the territorial system and effects of territory quality, although effects of individual quality can not be excluded.
4084894|The causes of intratropical migration in the Yellow-green Vireo and Piratic Flycatcher are discussed. Data on migration arrival and departure, breeding seasons, and food are presented and used to support the hypothesis that migration has been selected because of seasonal changes in fruit abundance rather than insect abundance. A removal experiment showed that floating populations exist on the breeding grounds in both species.
4089558| Accurate estimation of survival probabilities is an important component of population demographics, and it permits a test of the life-history prediction that densities influence population dynamics via suppression of survival rates. As part of a long-term study of urban-nesting Merlins (Falco columbarius), we estimated survival rates and tested for the effects of density dependence based on capture histories from 1,354 individuals (43 males and 110 females caught for the first time as adult breeding birds, and 597 males and 604 females caught for the first time as locally produced nestlings). Overall capture probabilities were 0.55  SD of 0.039 per year for adults, 0.10  0.075 per year for juvenile males, and 0.58  0.23 per year for juvenile females. Mean survival rate of adults was 0.62  0.11 per year and did not differ significantly between males and females. Overall juvenile survival rates were 0.23  0.032 for males and 0.055  0.012 for females. Band returns suggest that the discrepancy in survival rates between juvenile males and females resulted from higher natal dispersal of females rather than from lower survival. Survival of adults (but not juveniles) was negatively density dependent, suggesting that density-dependent declines in survival exerted a regulatory effect on population size. 
40406714|Limited stopover habitat along migration routes is a possible contributor to population declines in migratory landbirds. In highly fragmented agricultural landscapes, potential stopover sites are often limited to riparian corridor forests and small forest patches, but there are little quantitative data on stopover habitat selection in these areas, especially with regard to how migrants use isolated versus connected, and riparian versus upland, habitat patches. We examined the use of upland forest woodlots in the forestagricultural landscape of northwest Indiana as stopover habitat, to determine whether migrants selected stopover sites on the basis of proximity to riparian corridor forest. In two spring and two fall seasons, we conducted 384 surveys in 12 small woodlots at three levels of isolation from a riparian forest corridor, detecting 3,695 en-route migrants of 76 species. We detected no difference in migrant abundance or species richness among distance classes in either season, and a principal-component variable comprising several woodlot isolation metrics was not a significant contributor to migrant abundance in linear regression models. Fall migrant abundance was positively associated with early-successional forests containing fruiting trees and shrubs, whereas spring abundance was not associated with any vegetation characteristics. The lack of patterns of habitat occupancy at the landscape level suggests that migrants select stopover sites on the basis of local habitat characteristics such as food resources, regardless of the landscape context. Small, isolated woodlots composed largely of forest edge with high fruit and insect abundance may, therefore, be important conservation targets in highly fragmented landscapes where forest cover is limited.
10.2307/4089589|We evaluated the influence of environmental and density-dependent factors (intraspecific and interspecific) on clutch size, brood size, and nesting success of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) in the Camargue of southern France. We recorded these reproductive parameters in most years from 1970 to 1998. We used a generalized linear modeling approach (model selection based on AIC) to examine the environmental effects of spring rainfall, winter temperature, and wind on these parameters. We also examined density dependence of these parameters based on the total number of Little Egrets and the total number of tree-nesting herons nesting in these mixed-species colonies. Clutch size was positively associated with rainfall and negatively associated with the number of Little Egret nests in the Camargue. Brood size was negatively associated with the number of Little Egret nests, although rainfall was only significant as an interaction effect with these two effects. Nesting success was negatively associated with the number of tree-nesting herons, the proportion of each colony consisting of Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis), wind speed, and several interactions among these variables. Virtually all of the reproductive parameters that we evaluated were negatively associated with the number of Little Egret nests or the number of tree-nesting herons. Anecdotal evidence suggests that Cattle Egrets displace Little Egrets at some centrally located nest sites. Such sites are better protected from strong winds, which are a common cause of nesting failure.
10.1525/auk.2009.09108|We compared the pronounced geographic pattern in the recolonization of Britain by the Eurasian Sparrowhawk (
10.2307/4090069| Habitat composition around nesting sites is one of the important factors that drive the colonial dynamics of waterbirds. Using a Monte Carlo procedure, we compared the changes that occurred over a period of 25 years (1975-1999) in (1) the distribution and composition of tree-nesting heron colonies and (2) the distribution and amount of rice cultivated in the Camargue region of southern France. During the period of 1967-1999, 25 sites in the Camargue were each occupied for at least one breeding season by colonies of tree-nesting herons. Total number of nests, number of nests per colony, and number of colonies varied among the four species considered. During the same period, the proportion of the study area planted with rice fluctuated widely. Overall, nests of all species tended to be located at sites surrounded by a large area of rice fields. However, examination of the results revealed a difference among species in selection of nest colony sites: Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Squacco Heron (Ardeola ralloides), and Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) seemed more inclined to nest on sites surrounded by rice fields; whereas Little Egrets' (Egretta garzetta) nest choice was not consistently related to availability of rice fields. That pattern was especially noticeable at a small scale (i.e. <5-km radius around the colony). Our spatial analysis supports previous findings on the effects of rice farming on the colony dynamics of tree-nesting herons. We conclude that different landscape scales are an important consideration for understanding colony site selection and need to be taken into account in the planning and design of agri-environmental development schemes. /// La composition de l'habitat est un des facteurs importants qui influence la dynamique coloniale des oiseaux aquatiques. Nous avons utilis une analyse de Monte Carlo pour comparer les changements observs sur une priode de 25 ans dans la distribution et la composition des colonies de quatre espces de hrons coloniaux arboricoles, et dans la distribution et l'tendue de riz cultiv en Camargue, France. De 1967  1999, 25 sites diffrents ont t occups au moins une fois par les hrons pendant la saison de reproduction. Le nombre total de nids, le nombre de nids par colonie et le nombre de colonies ont vari diffremment selon les espces considres. Pendant la mme priode, la superficie en riz cultive en Camargue a normment fluctu. Globalement, les nids de toutes les espces taient localiss sur des sites entours d'une large proportion de rizires. Cependant, un examen dtaill montre une hirarchie parmi les 4 espces de hrons en relation avec leur slection de colonies de reproduction base sur la distribution des rizires. Bubulcus ibis, Ardeolla ralloides et Nyctycorax nyctycorax semblent plus nicher dans des sites entours de rizires, alors que le choix du site par Egretta garzetta n'est pas forcement reli  la disponibilit des rizires autour du site. Cette diffrence est particulirement remarquable  petite chelle (i.e. < 5 km de rayon autour de la colonie). Nos analyses spatiales confirment les rsultats d'tudes prcdentes des effets de la riziculture sur la dynamique coloniale des hrons arboricoles en Camargue. Cette tude soulve la ncessit de considrer diffrentes chelles paysagres pour comprendre la slection des sites de colonies qui doit tre particulirement prise en compte dans la mise en place de mesures agri-environnementales. 
4085924|Sixteen male Swamp Sparrows trained with recorded songs in infancy were recorded on a weekly basis throughout the process of song development. Analyses of the 15,000 songs recorded from them provided the basis for a seven-stage classification of the steps in song ontogeny, with the four major divisions of subsong, subplastic song, plastic song, and full song. The individually isolated males all followed a basically similar developmental progression through the seven stages of song development. Accounts of other species suggest that the pattern seen in the Swamp Sparrow is a rather general one, when one allows for species differences in song structure. The abrupt reduction of song duration and its variability was a marker for the crystallization of plastic song into full song. At this time there was also a reduction in the number of syllable types used and the number of parts per song. Swamp Sparrows produced considerably more syllable types in plastic song than necessary to generate the normal, species-specific song.
10.1525/auk.2009.09015|Models for estimating survival probability of nests and young have changed dramatically since the development of the Mayfield method. Improvements in software and a steady increase in computing power have allowed more complexity and realism in these models, allowing researchers to provide better estimates of survival and to relate survival rates to relevant covariates. However, many current analysis methods utilize fixed-effects models with the implicit assumption that the covariates explain all of the variation in the data, other than random variation within a specified family of distributions. This is generally a strong assumption, and, in the presence of heterogeneity and lack of independence, these estimates have been shown to be negatively biased. Others have begun to explore random-effects models for these situations, but a readily applicable Bayesian approach has been lacking. We present a general Bayesian modeling framework appropriate for survival of both nests and young that simultaneously allows for the inclusion of individual covariates and random effects and provides a measure of goodness-of-fit. We used previously published data on survival of Common Goldeneye (
4088320|We identified predators of Spotted Sandpiper (Actitis macularia) nests before and after the establishment of a Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony on an island in north-central Minnesota. Migratory Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres) became major nest predators of the sandpipers after establishment of the tern colony. Turnstones feeding on tern eggs destroyed significantly more sandpiper nests near the colony than far from it. When mink (Mustela vison) were present they were the major nest predators of both sandpipers and terns. However, when the tern colony was present, mink predation of sandpiper nests was reduced significantly. Close proximity of sandpiper nests to those of the terns resulted in both increased and decreased predation, depending on time of year, type of predator, and chance arrivals of occasional predators.
4088306|We examined the influence of food accessibility on the reproductive behavior of the Amazon Kingfisher (Chloroceryle amazona) in Panama. Both sexes invested equally in nest building, but females incubated the eggs more often than males. Foraging performance (time elapsed between successful dives) differed between mates because they often used different foraging patches within the breeding territory. Male foraging performance was significantly correlated to fish biomass sampled from preferred foraging patches. Furthermore, the level of a male's foraging determined the number of fish he fed to his mate: more successful foragers courtship-fed their mates more fish than less successful males. In turn, the rate of courtship feeding influenced whether a female would lay eggs and the date of laying. Pre-laying foraging performance of both sexes was a predictor of the number of fish fed to nestlings. We conclude that disparities in the amount of food delivered to ovulating females by males, and to nestlings by both parents, are determined by the distribution of food within the territory.
10.2307/25150226|Habitat and landscape features that influence the rate of interpatch movement and colonization may determine the likelihood that a species will persist in fragmented landscapes. We simulated patch extinction by removing Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) from woodland fragments in an Ohio agricultural landscape in January 2002. We then monitored the woodlands to determine their dates of reoccupation and subsequent use for breeding by the birds. All woodlots were eventually reoccupied, regardless of size or degree of isolation, but woodlots in less-forested landscapes connected to other woodland by habitat corridors were reoccupied sooner than unconnected woodlots. Reoccupation was more likely to occur during periods of mild wind chill. Following reoccupation, individual Carolina Chickadees were more often temporarily absent from smaller woodlots, which suggests that they may have used woodlots that insufficiently met foraging or breeding requirements. Carolina Chickadees were more likely to remain to breed in larger woodlots. Results indicate that habitat connectivity may affect the tendency of this species to move through a fragmented landscape. Habitat corridors may be important management tools for maintaining movement of animals between patches. /// Las caractersticas del hbitat y del paisaje que influencian la tasa de movimiento y colonizacin entre parches puede determinar la probabilidad de que una especie determinada persista en pasajes fragmentados. Simulamos la extincin en parches mediante la remocin de individuos de Poecile carolinensis en fragmentos de bosque en un paisaje agrcola en Ohio en enero del 2002. Posteriormente monitoreamos los fragmentos para determinar las fechas de reocupacin y el uso posterior para reproduccin por parte de las aves. Todos los fragmentos fueron reocupados eventualmente, independientemente de su tamao o grado de aislamiento, pero los fragmentos que se encontraban en paisajes con menor cobertura de bosque pero conectados por corredores a otros fragmentos fueron reocupados antes que los fragmentos no conectados. La reocupacin fue ms probable durante periodos con vientos moderados fros. Posterior a la reocupacin, en fragmentos pequeos los individuos de P. carolinensis presentaron ms ausencias temporales, lo que sugiere que stos usaron fragmentos que no cumplan los requerimientos mnimos para el forrajeo o la reproduccin. Los individuos de P. carolinensis tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de continuar reproducindose en los fragmentos de mayor tamao. Los resultados de este estudio indican que la conectividad del hbitat puede afectar la tendencia de esta especie a moverse a travs de un paisaje fragmentado. Los corredores de hbitat pueden ser herramientas de manejo importantes para mantener el movimiento de animales entre parches.
10.2307/4086020|The hindlimbs of two species of mousebirds (Colius striatus and C. leucocephalus) were dissected in order to provide myological descriptions, to elucidate the mechanism of digit rotation and other characteristic locomotor habits, and possibly to yield clues to the systematic position of the order Coliiformes. Among the myological peculiarities, the unusually large M. iliofemoralis externus, the accessory belly of M. pubo-ischio-femoralis, and the extensive femoral insertion of M. flexor cruris lateralis and origin of M. flexor hallucis longus are features related to the hanging postures of the Coliiformes. Digit rotation is accomplished primarily by enlargement and slight changes in the insertions of four intrinsic foot muscles. Two small intrinsic foot muscles, not previously described in birds, also appear to be associated with digit rotation. In the species dissected, the extensor digitorum longus tendon sends a branch to the hallux as well as to the three forward digits. This condition has previously been described only in the Psittaciformes, and may possibly suggest a common ancestry for the two orders.
10.2307/4088277|DNA-DNA hybrids were formed among 2 outgroups and 12 taxa of titmice and chickadees to estimate the genealogical relationships of the main Parus lineages. A complete matrix of reciprocal comparisons among seven parids and the Verdin (Auriparus flaviceps) indicated that the Blue Tit (P. caeruleus) and Great Tit (P. major) together form the sister group of the rest of the genus, and that the Bridled Titmouse (P. wollweberi) is more closely related to North American titmice than to the Old World crested tits. The DNA-hybridization data complement information from allozyme and mtDNA studies of closely related parids and provide historical insight into patterns of tit behavior.
10.2307/4089420|We studied body condition and feather growth rate in Great Tits (Parus major) in relation to dominance in two localities during late autumn and early winter. The two localities differed in elevation, ambient temperature, and arthropod availability. We supplemented the two study areas with food (husked peanuts) throughout the study period. The percentage of time tits spent at feeders was higher at El Ventorrillo (the locality that was colder and had lower natural food availability) and was associated with dominance only at this locality. The number of aggressive displacements per hour experienced by each individual was 150 times higher in the area with lower arthropod availability and lower temperatures. Protein reserves (measured as pectoralis muscle thickness) were higher at El Ventorrillo and were positively and consistently related to dominance at both localities. Growth rate of induced feathers was slower at El Ventorrillo but was not directly related to dominance in either locality. Only dominant adult males at El Ventorrillo compensated for the environmental harshness at this locality by attaining a higher feather growth rate than the other sex/age classes. Feather-mass asymmetry of induced feathers during autumn was not associated with body condition, did not change between localities, and was inversely and consistently related to dominance at both localities. The covariation among variables describing bird size, access to supplemental food, body condition, feather growth rate, and asymmetry was different at the two localities. Larger, dominant Great Tits spent more time foraging at feeders, had a thicker pectoralis muscle (i.e. body condition), and grew induced feathers at a higher rate only at the locality with colder temperatures and lower food availability.
10.2307/4086780|Body weight, fat, and protein levels of arctic-nesting Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) were measured at several locations during spring migration and on the breeding grounds. Body weights of adult males and females increased by about 34% (1,129 g) and 30% (953 g) from early March at the Platte River to late April at Last Mountain Lake, Saskatchewan; average fat content increased from about 250 to 990 g. Rates of weight gain and fat deposition among males and females averaged 25-18 and 16-13 g/day. Body weights and fat content of cranes staging along the North Platte River followed similar patterns and usually were higher than along the Platte River during comparable periods. Fat reserves of paired cranes collected after their arrival at a major breeding ground on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in western Alaska averaged about 530 g, or about 46% less than peak fat content in Saskatchewan. Patterns of weight increase and fat deposition in cranes during migration were similar to those previously described for northern-nesting geese, except that nutrient storage is not sex specific in cranes. Body protein of adult female cranes did not change significantly during spring migration (P = 0.28). Female cranes allocate less nutrients to clutch formation in proportion to body size than do northern-nesting geese.
10.2307/4090180| The Great Lakes and nearby agricultural midwestern United States together represent a geographical challenge to migratory land birds during flight and stopover. We explored large-scale migratory responses of land birds encountering the Great Lakes as revealed by weather surveillance radars (WSR-88D) and two smaller specialized radars. Those responses reveal comprehensive landscape- or regional-scale migratory patterns that would otherwise have been difficult to infer. Analysis of radar echoes showed birds crossed the Great Lakes in large numbers, although we also found evidence of birds avoiding lake crossing in some locations. Around dawn, birds over water in numerous locations frequently exhibited an increase in migratory height (dawn ascent) and often an accompanying reorientation toward nearest land if they were within 28 km of shore. Those behavioral responses to the Great Lakes influence the resulting distribution of birds stopping over in the intervening terrestrial landscapes. /// Los Grandes Lagos y las reas agrcolas cercanas del medio oeste de los Estados Unidos representan un desafo geogrfico para las aves migratorias terrestres durante el vuelo y las escalas de migracin. Exploramos las respuestas migratorias a gran escala de aves que se encuentran con los Grandes Lagos mediante radares de vigilancia climticos (WSR-88D) y dos radares especializados ms pequeos. Dichas respuestas nos permitieron observar patrones generales a la escala de paisaje o regin que de otra manera hubieran sido difciles de inferir. Anlisis de los ecos de radar mostraron que grandes nmeros de aves cruzaron los Grandes Lagos, aunque tambin encontramos evidencia de aves que evitaron cruzarlos en algunas localidades. Alrededor del amanecer, en numerosas localidades las aves frecuentemente exhibieron un aumento en la altura de migracin (ascenso del alba) a menudo acompaando por una reorientacin hacia la tierra ms cercana si se encontraban a menos de 28 km de la costa. Estas respuestas conductuales ante los Grandes Lagos influencian la distribucin de las aves que realizan escalas migratorias en los paisajes terrestres que se encuentran entre ellos. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11090|Many birds lay eggs speckled with black or reddish-brown spots of protoporphyrin pigment, but the function of these spots is debated. Two recent hypotheses have received considerable attention. Under the signaling-function hypothesis, speckling reflects female quality and influences allocation of male parental care; under the structural-function hypothesis, the speckles strengthen the eggshell when calcium is scarce. The evidence for each is taxonomically uneven. For instance, evidence for the signaling-function hypothesis comes from cavity-nesting and uniparentally incubating species in which the viewing conditions and possibilities for males to assess the speckling are limited, and male response to speckling is indirect (i.e., female-feeding) or postponed (i.e., chick-feeding). We tested the predictions of both hypotheses in a biparentally incubating ground-nesting shorebird, the Northern Lapwing (
4087020|During July-December 1978-1984, Bonaparte's Gulls (Larus philadelphia) on annual migration through the Quoddy region off New Brunswick, Canada, fed on fish, euphausiids, insects, and other marine invertebrates (mainly polychaetes and amphipods) in varying proportions as the summer and autumn progressed. The seasonal variation in the diet was related directly to food availability, which, in turn, was dictated by natural cycles of prey in the region. The frequency with which plastic particles were found in the stomachs also had a statistically significant seasonal trend. Fish provided the largest energy contribution (75-91%) to the diet at all times in the region. There was no significant difference between diets of juvenile and adult birds.
4087377|We studied the breeding biology of the Sharp-shinned Hawk (Accipiter striatus venator) in Maricao forest of western Puerto Rico from 1978 to 1985. Sharp-shinned Hawks are year-round residents and establish nesting territories only during the breeding season, which coincides with the dry and beginning of the wet seasons. Nesting sites were occupied in December and January every year and reoccupancy rates were 50% or higher. Prolonged and intense territorial conflicts between mated and unmated males were common. The onset of egg-laying was in late March or early April approximately 3-4 months after occupancy of nesting sites. Laying of first clutches peaked in early April and spanned 38 days (n = 19 clutches). Laying of second clutches occurred irregularly and spanned 55 days (n = 8 clutches). Females renested only after the initial clutch or brood was lost. The incubation period was 32 days (n = 13 clutches), similar to the duration reported in temperate North America. Nestling females attained larger asymptotic mass than males, but the latter grew faster; although the slopes of the regression lines were statistically homogeneous. Males fledged at an average age of 28.2 days and females at 32.1 days. Young were slightly heavier than adults at fledging, but the wing chord and tail lengths were approximately 50% shorter than those of adults. Fledging occurred at the peak of prey abundance. The breeding cycle in Puerto Rico was approximately 2 months longer than that recorded in Oregon and Utah. The time that elapsed from occupancy of nesting sites to egg laying accounted for the differences. Juveniles departed from nesting sites when prey was still abundant but delivery rates had declined considerably. A total of 105 eggs was laid in 40 nests (average clutch size 2.6), of which 63% hatched and 47% of the nestlings fledged. A total of 0.8 young fledged per breeding attempt. Overall nest success was 29%, 36% (n = 33 nests) in first nesting attempts and 0% in second nesting attempts (n = 9 nests). Most reproductive losses in 28 nests resulted from nestling mortality from Philornis sp. (Diptera, Muscidae) (n = 9) and desertion of clutches (n = 11). Fecundity and reproductive success was lower in Puerto Rico than in Oregon, Utah, and Wyoming. Despite low reproductive success in Maricao forest, the breeding population did not decline during our study.
10.2307/4089417|Predators that aggregate in "hot spots" of high prey density have been hypothesized to synchronize population cycles of small mammals. During a peak and decline in a snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) cycle, we created artificial hot spots of increased hare abundance by adding food and excluding mammalian predators on three
4090370| Over a seven-year period, we used mark-recapture in a population of Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) in the Zuni Mountains, New Mexico, to estimate adult breeding-site fidelity, mate fidelity, natal philopatry, and dispersal distances. We also used DNA fingerprinting to examine the genetic population structure of Flammulated Owls among four mountain ranges in New Mexico and one range in Utah. Mark-recapture revealed that adults are site-faithful and tend to maintain pair bonds between years, whereas juveniles show little natal philopatry. DNA fingerprinting revealed very low differentiation among populations, even between the New Mexico and Utah ranges, with population subdivision (F
40406066|Philopatry has long been assumed to structure populations of waterfowl and other species of birds genetically, especially via maternally transmitted mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), yet other migratory behaviors and nesting ecology (use of ground vs. cavity sites) may also contribute to population genetic structure. We investigated the effects of migration and nesting ecology on the population genetic structure of two Holarctic waterfowl, the Red-breasted Merganser (
10.2307/4086024|The breeding ecology of eastern Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus) was studied over a 3-yr period in a salt marsh on the Atlantic coast of Virginia. During the study, 171 adults were color-marked. Willets are strictly monogamous and show strong site and mate fidelity from year to year. Normally a pair bond dissolves only after one member dies or fails to return in the spring. With an estimated annual adult mortality of 15%, the average life of a pair bond is 3 yr. The sexes share in most aspects of breeding, including brood-rearing, but females abandon both mate and brood about 2 weeks after the chicks hatch. Males apparently incubate at night and sometimes relieve the female at the nest during the middle of the day. In this area Willets defend separate nesting and feeding territories, though nest-site defense decreases through the incubation period. When mates are lost, males retain their original nesting and feeding territories, while females pair with available mates near their original nesting territory. Females compete for mates, and males select the most aggressive females. Nesting was particularly synchronous in lowland marsh sites, where the onset of egg laying was slightly earlier than in upland sites. Nest density was the highest reported for any scolopacid, and the highest densities were in sites closest to the marsh. Nest spacing is achieved through agonistic behavior, but there is evidence of a counter-tendency leading to nest clumping. Several features of the Willet social system resemble characteristics typical of colonial species of birds. These are discussed along with other aspects of social organization and the selective forces operating on it.
10.1525/auk.2012.11241|We examined baseline and stress-induced changes in plasma corticosterone in relation to body condition and seasonal environmental conditions in three species of cardueline finches wintering in northeastern Oklahoma. Two of these, the Pine Siskin (
4086072|The prey dropped by Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) on soft sediment substrates in northwest Florida were examined between January and April 1979. Bivalves were the dominant prey, with the scallop (Argopecten irradians) accounting for over half of the prey dropped. Only the largest available prey were dropped. Gastropods were abundant but were not dropped due to greater resistence to breakage than bivalves.
10.2307/4087238| Genetic distances derived by hybridizing single-copy DNAs of 31 heron species (or subspecies) and 1 ibis species are summarized as Tm values. From these distances, a phylogeny is estimated and distributional properties of DNA hybridization data are computed. I found that the distinction between night and day herons is primarily adaptive, not genealogical; Syrigma is closely related to Egretta; Bubulcus and Casmerodius are closely related to Ardea, but Egretta is not; bitterns are the sister taxon of the day and night herons; Cochlearius and Tigrisoma are each others' closest relatives and together form the sister group of the rest of the ardeids; and the rate of single-copy DNA evolution differs in different heron lineages. 
4086274|House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) near Calgary, Alberta begin breeding in early spring and continue through to late summer. High productivity from previous broods is negatively correlated with fledgling production from second and third broods. Although fat reserves may limit the ability of females to raise young, there is no concomitant drop in clutch size or in the probability of renesting. Pairs that fledge many young in a year space fledgling production evenly over the breeding season but are most productive in midseason. The interval between fledging and the initiation of the next clutch increases with the number fledged. This delay, an indication of the physiological strain involved in rearing young, is greater for later broods and for females nesting in trees. Measures of reproductive effort (clutch size, number fledged, length of the nestling period) vary seasonally but give no indication of peaking for last broods. Thus, reproductive effort is not adjusted to parallel changes in the probability of surviving to the next breeding attempt.
4090445| We studied fat stores in passerine migrants at a high-latitude site in Fairbanks, Alaska (6450N, 14750W). We examined fat-deposition strategies during the final (spring) and initial (autumn) stages of long-distance migration, 1992-1998, to (1) improve understanding of geographic fat-deposition patterns by adding a high-latitude perspective; (2) determine whether there are age-related differences in fat-deposition strategies in autumn; and (3) test the "spring fatter" hypothesis of seasonal fat-deposition, which suggests that migrants should carry more fat in spring when they near their breeding areas than in autumn when they depart. Our analyses examined factors affecting daily fat scores during migration and compared between-season differences in fat stores among a total of 18,685 individuals of 16 migrant species. In autumn, adults had higher visible subcutaneous fat scores than immatures in 11 of 16 species. However, in all but two species, those differences were attributable to the effects of overnight low temperature, day length, and time of day, rather than age, probably because of later departures by adults. Fat scores were higher in autumn than in spring in 6 of 16 species, and body-condition indices were higher in autumn in 5 of 16 species. Only one species showed higher fat scores in spring, but that difference was not reflected in a seasonal comparison of body-condition indices. No species arrived with high fat loads in spring, and generally low fat levels in autumn suggest that high-latitude passerine migrants in North America are paying most of the energetic costs of long-distance migration with resources obtained en route to their wintering grounds. Among passerine migrants near these high-latitude breeding grounds, seasonal fat-deposition strategies appear to be responding to energetic needs at the level of daily maintenance, rather than to hypothesized insurance needs in spring or to the forthcoming needs of a long-distance migration in autumn. /// Nous avons tudi les rserves de graisse chez des passereaux migrateurs sur un site situ  une haute latitude  Fairbanks, Alaska (6450N, 14750W). Nous avons tudi les stratgies de constitution de rserves de graisse lors des haltes finales (printemps) et initiales (automne) survenant au cours de longues migrations entre 1992 et 1998. Les objectifs de cette tude tait (1) d'amliorer la comprhension des patrons gographiques pour la constitution de rserves de graisse en considrant la perspective d'une tude  haute latitude; (2) de dterminer s'il y a des diffrences dans les stratgies de constitution de rserves de graisse en fonction de l'ge au cours de l'automne; et (3) de tester l'hypothse "spring fatter" ("plus gras au printemps") de constitution de rserves de graisse saisonnires. Cette hypothse suggre que les migrateurs devraient possder plus de graisse au printemps, quand ils sont proches de leurs aires de reproduction, que pendant l'automne quand ils partent. Nos analyses ont examin les facteurs qui affectent les rserves journalires en graisse au cours de la migration et compar les diffrences inter-saisonnires en rserves de graisse parmi un total de 18 685 individus appartenant  16 espces migratrices.  l'automne, les adultes avaient des rserves apparentes de graisse plus importantes que les immatures chez 11 des 16 espces tudies. Nanmoins, pour toutes les autres espces (sauf deux), ces diffrences taient attribuables aux effets de la basse temprature au cours de la nuit, de la longueur du jour, et le moment de la journe, plutt que l'ge, probablement en raison du dpart plus tardif des adultes. Les dpts de graisse taient plus importants  l'automne pour 5 des 16 espces. Seule une espce a montr des dpts de graisse plus importants au printemps, mais cette diffrence n'a pas t retrouve dans une comparaison saisonnire des indices de conditions corporelles. Aucune espce n'est arrive avec des rserves de graisse leves au printemps. Gnralement, les faibles niveaux de graisse  l'automne suggrent que les passereaux migrants  de hautes latitudes en Amrique du Nord assument la plupart des cots nergtiques encourus au cours des longues migrations grce  des ressources obtenues lors de leur voyage vers les aires d'hivernage. Parmi les passereaux migrants vers les aires de nidification situes  ces hautes latitudes, les stratgies saisonnires de constitution de rserves de graisse semblent rpondre aux besoins nergtiques requis par la demande journalire, plutt qu'aux besoins complmentaires et hypothtiques au printemps et lors de la longue migration automnale. 
10.2307/4087544|I studied the timing and frequency of copulation in mated pairs and the occurrence of extra-pair copulation (EPC) among Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) for 2 yr. Copulation peaked 24 days before laying, a few days before females departed on a prelaying exodus of about 3 weeks. I estimated that females were inseminated at least 34 times each season. A total of 44 EPC attempts was seen, 9 (20%) of which apparently resulted in insemination. Five successful EPCs were solicitated by females visiting neighboring males. Multiple copulations during a single mounting were rare within pairs but occurred in nearly half of the successful EPCs. Both sexes visited neighbors during the prelaying period, and males employed a special behavioral display to gain acceptance by unattended females. Males invested time in nest-site attendance during the prelaying period to guard their mates and pursue EPC. However, the occurrence of EPC in fulmars was largely a matter of female choice.
10.2307/4089843|Interspecific kleptoparasitism (food stealing) occurs in many seabird species and can sometimes significantly affect host individuals and populations. We investigated effects of kleptoparasitism by Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) on a population of Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) in which almost all chicks die before fledging in some years. Rates of kleptoparasitism were estimated during two seasons and compared with several spatial and temporal factors that have been predicted to influence kleptoparasitism rates both within and among seasons. Kleptoparasitism rates increased from 2% in the first year to 19% in the second, whereas puffin fledging success declined precipitously from 81% in the first year to 11% in the second. Within years, kleptoparasitism rates increased with number of puffins returning with fish, decreased during fair weather, and were unaffected by tidal height. Spatially, those rates increased with puffin burrow density and declined with angle of the nesting slope. Gull kleptoparasitism success increased during foul weather and at higher puffin nesting elevations. Despite those associations, survival of puffin chicks was not influenced by kleptoparasitism activity near their nests although it increased with a combination of low elevation and high slope at the nesting burrow. Neither kleptoparasitism nor predation by gulls were exceptional relative to other seabird colonies and they were unlikely to cause reproductive failures that characterize puffins at that site. Other factors, particularly food shortages at sea, merit further attention in explaining those failures.
25150398| We report seasonal residency and local annual survival rates of migratory Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) at the Cabo Rojo salt flats, Puerto Rico. Residency rate (daily probability of remaining on the flats) was 0.991  0.001 (x  SE), yielding a mean length of stay of 110 days. This finding supports the inclusion of the Caribbean as part of the species' winter range. Average estimated percentage of fat was low but increased throughout the season, which suggests that birds replenish some spent fat reserves and strive for energetic maintenance. Local annual survival rate was 0.62  0.04, within the range of values reported for breeding populations at Manitoba and Alaska (0.53-0.76). The similarity was not unexpected because estimates were obtained annually but at opposite sites of their annual migratory movements. Birds captured at the salt flats appeared to be a mix of birds from various parts of the breeding range, judging from morphology (culmen's coefficient of variation = 9.1, n = 106). This suggested that origin (breeding area) of birds and their proportion in the data should be ascertained and accounted for in analyses to glean the full conservation implications of winter-based annual survival estimates. Those data are needed to unravel the possibility that individuals of distinct populations are affected by differential mortality factors across different migratory routes. Mean length of stay strongly suggested that habitat quality at the salt flats was high. Rainfall and tidal flow combine to increase food availability during fall. The salt flats dry up gradually toward late January, at the onset of the dry season. Semipalmated Sandpipers may move west to other Greater Antilles or south to sites such as coastal Surinam until the onset of spring migration. They are not an oversummering species at the salt flats. Conservation efforts in the Caribbean region require understanding the dynamics of this species throughout winter to protect essential habitat. /// Reportamos la tasa estacional de residencia y de supervivencia anual local para los playeros migratorios Calidris pusilla en las Salinas de Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico. Las tasas de residencia (probabilidad diaria de permanecer en las salinas) fueron de 0.991  0.001 (x  EE), resultando en una estada promedio de 110 das. Los hallazgos apoyan la inclusin del Caribe como parte del mbito geogrfico invernal de la especie. El promedio porcentual estimado de grasa fue bajo pero aument a travs de la temporada, sugiriendo que los playeros reabastecen parte de sus reservas de grasa y tratan de mantenerse energticamente. La tasa de supervivencia anual local fue de 0.62  0.04, la cual est dentro del rango de valores reportados para poblaciones reproductivas en Manitoba y Alaska (0.53-0.76). La semejanza no fue sorpresiva porque los estimados fueron obtenidos anualmente, pero en reas opuestas durante sus movimientos migratorios anuales. Con base en la morfologa, los playeros capturados en las salinas fueron una mezcla de aves de varias partes del mbito geogrfico reproductivo (coeficiente de variacin del culmen = 9.1, n = 106). Esto sugiere que el origen (rea reproductiva) de los playeros y sus respectivas proporciones en los datos deben ser determinados y tomados en cuenta en los anlisis, para as establecer a cabalidad las implicaciones para la conservacin de los estimados invernales anuales de supervivencia. Estos datos son necesarios para elucidar la posibilidad de que individuos de distintas poblaciones sean afectados por distintos factores de mortandad a lo largo de sus rutas migratorias. La estada promedio sugiri que la calidad del hbitat en las salinas era alta. La precipitacin y el flujo intermareal se combinan para aumentar la disponibilidad de alimento durante el otoo. Las salinas se secan gradualmente hacia finales de enero, el comienzo de la poca de sequa. Es posible que estos playeros puedan desplazarce hacia el oeste a las Antillas Mayores o hacia el sur a lugares como la costa de Surinam para invernar hasta que comience la migracin de primavera. Los playeros no pasan el verano en las salinas. Los esfuerzos de conservacin en el Caribe precisan de un entendimiento sobre la dinmica de esta especie durante el invierno para proteger el hbitat esencial. 
4088316|I used models to test the effectiveness of female-like plumage in protecting second-year male American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) from attacks by other males. Territorial males attacked both second-year and after-second-year male models placed in their territories when these models were accompanied by recorded male song. There was no significant difference in the response time nor in the intensity of the attack toward either model. I suggest that the plumage alone of second-year male redstarts does not guarantee reduced aggression from other males as predicted by the Female Mimicry, Juvenile Mimicry, and Status Signaling hypotheses of delayed plumage maturation.
25488558|In many waterfowl species, females in better body condition have greater reproductive success than those in poor condition; thus, large-scale changes in body condition could influence species' population dynamics. Indices of annual productivity have decreased in Lesser Scaup (
10.2307/4090113|It has proven difficult to support the classic prediction of aerodynamic theory that highly migratory birds should have more pointed wings than less migratory birds. This study extends the search by testing for correlations between wing shape of Calidris sandpipers and a traditional migratory variable (total migration distance) as well as a novel variable (relative fuel load). Using phylogentically independent contrasts, it was determined that relative fuel load is a better predictor of wing shape than total migration distance. /// Hasta ahora ha sido difcil apoyar la prediccin clsica de la teora aerodinmica de que las aves altamente migratorias deberan tener alas ms puntiagudas que las menos migratorias. Este estudio ampla la bsqueda mediante la puesta a prueba de la existencia de correlaciones entre la forma de las alas de playeros del gnero Calidris y una variable migratoria tradicional (distancia total de migracin) y una variable nueva (carga relativa de combustible). Usando contrastes filogenticamente independientes, se determin que la carga relativa de combustible predice mejor la forma de las alas que la distancia total de migracin.
4085655|Previous demonstrations of neighbor vs. non-neighbor discrimination in territorial male passerines have not permitted separation of habituation from associative learning as the basis of the response differences. A few male Rufous-sided Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) sing unusual songs resembling those of Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus), yet are able to defend territories. Tape recordings of the unusual songs were played back to the neighbors of an imitator and to non-neighboring birds. The neighbors responded strongly and the non-neighbors responded very weakly. This stronger response by neighbors to an unusual song demonstrates the importance of associative learning in individual recognition.
10.2307/4089928| Lipids are the dominant fuel source during migratory flight, but the factors controlling the relative importance of lipid, protein, and carbohydrate to flight metabolism remain unclear. I tested the nonexclusive hypotheses that diet, migration distance, or endogenous lipid reserves mediate variation in the fuels birds catabolize during migration. Blood plasma metabolite concentrations were significantly different among species, and indicated clear differences in protein and lipid utilization among three turdid chat and five sylviid warbler species caught during spring migration in the Negev Desert, Israel. Fruiteating species (omnivores) catabolized less protein and more lipid during migration than insectivores. Metabolite concentrations of omnivorous Blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla), Garden Warblers (S. borin), and Lesser Whitethroats (S. curruca) were consistent with low rates of proteolysis (low uric acid), and high rates of lipolysis (high free-fatty acid and -hydroxybutyrate). On the other hand, metabolite concentrations of insectivorous Redstarts (Phoenicurus phoenicurus), Nightingales (Luscinia megarhynchos), Thrush Nightingales (L. luscinia), Barred Warblers (S. nisoria), and Orphean Warblers (S. hortensis) indicated increased proteolysis and decreased lipolysis. Blood metabolite concentrations, however, were not correlated with migration distance, and the results do not support the hypothesis that long-distance migrants use fuel differently than short-distance migrants. Triacylglycerol mobilization was positively correlated with the amount of visible subcutaneous fat, but blood metabolite composition was more strongly affected by diet. Omnivores and insectivores exhibit different fuel-use strategies to overcome the physiological challenges of migration. 
10.2307/4088822|Rates of ingestion and digestion for wintering Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) feeding on blue mussels (Mytilus edulis) were estimated using information on average meal size, feeding- and resting-bout durations, and transit time. Rate of ingestion of mussel shells is two times higher than defecation rate; as a consequence, shells accumulate in the gut as ingestion progresses. On average, eiders shot when flying (n = 92) had 1.1% of their body mass as prey compared with 3.7 and 6.4% for eiders foraging in small and large flocks (n = 77), respectively, suggesting that eiders tend to minimize the transportation of surplus mass when flying. Wing loading of the Common Eider averages
4090596| Study skins of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (L. marinus) collected over a period of 150 years in the northeastern United States were used to test the hypothesis that potential exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) has an effect on age-related plumage coloration. We found no changes in the average age class (as determined by plumage) of gulls collected before and after 1930 (date PCBs began to be used) and no differences in average age class in birds collected near PCB-contaminated sites versus those collected far from such sites. We found significant skews in the age distributions of birds in our sample because of an under-representation of birds of intermediate age classes, but those skews were similar in pre- and post-1930 data sets and thus likely represent sampling errors and not the effects of PCBs. There was no difference in the age distribution of gulls collected near or far from contaminated sites. Our study, albeit indirectly, shows no evidence that PCB exposure affects plumage maturation rate in piscivorous gulls. /// Des spcimens de dmonstration de Larus argentatus et L. marinus collects au cours d'une priode d'environ 150 ans dans le nord-est des Etats-Unis ont t utiliss pour tester l'hypothse que l'exposition potentielle aux polychlorobiphnyles (PCB) pourrait avoir un effect sur la coloration du plumage en considrant l'ge. Nous n'avons trouv aucun changement dans la classe d'ge moyen (tel que dtermin par le plumage) des larids prlevs avant et aprs 1930 (date  laquelle les PCB ont commenc  tre utiliss) et aucune diffrence pour la classe d'ge moyen des oiseaux collects prs de sites contamins aux PCB versus ceux prlevs plus loin de ces sites. Nous avons trouv un biais significatif dans la distribution de l'ge des oiseaux de notre chantillon en raison d'une sousreprsentation des classes d'ge intermdiaire. Par contre, ces spcimens taient similaires dans les jeux de donnes d'avant et aprs 1930, ce qui traduirait des erreurs d'chantillonnage et non les effets des PCB. Il n'y avait pas de diffrence dans la distribution de l'ge des larids prlevs proche ou loin des sites contamins. Notre tude montre indirectement qu'il n'y a pas de preuve que l'exposition aux PCB affecte le taux de maturation du plumage chez les larids piscivores. 
10.2307/4089339|We constructed a phylogeny for the dabbling ducks (tribe Anatini) based on cytochrome-b and ND2 mitochondrial gene DNA sequences. This phylogeny differed in several important respects from a morphological phylogeny developed by Livezey (1991), including the distinctiveness of the blue-winged ducks from other dabbling ducks, the inclusion of the genus Tachyeres and exclusion of Callonetta from the subtribe Anateae, and the lack of support for Mareca as a genus separate from Anas. Characters from three other data sets showed greater consistency with the molecular topology than with the morphological topology. The molecular phylogeny divides the dabbling ducks into four distinct groups: (1) four South American genera, including Amazonetta, Lophonetta, Speculanas, and Tachyeres; (2) the Baikal Teal (Anas formosa); (3) the blue-winged ducks and allies; and (4) a large clade including wigeons, pintails, mallards, and several teal lineages. An examination of the distributions of species in light of the phylogeny indicates relatively little biogeographic structure. Geographic origin for most internal branches is ambiguous using several reconstruction methods. We suggest that the high dispersal ability of birds (especially dabbling ducks) has important implications for recovery of branches using molecular systematics.
4087325|Geographic ranges of widespread Andean forest bird species are linear, averaging over 300 times longer than they are wide. Among congeneric species, geographic variation in plumage was negatively correlated to the width (W) of their elevational distributions, presumably because narrower distributions are more easily fragmented by barriers to gene flow. The amplitude of a species' elevational distribution may be limited by zonation of resources and by genetic factors that prevent populations from adapting to local environments. Minimum amplitudes may be dictated by demographic consequences.
25488676|Patterns of relatedness among males attending leks can provide insights into how this reproductive behavior has evolved. Past research on birds has found that lekking males show either elevated levels of relatedness, supporting a mechanism based on kin selection, or a lack of relatedness, supporting a direct-benefits mechanism. We show that males attending Blue Manakin (
10.2307/4090119|Extrapair paternity and its correlates with breeding synchrony were examined in Gadwall (Anas strepera) using microsatellite DNA fingerprinting. Eleven of 261 ducklings (4.2%) within 8 of 29 broods (27.6%) had genotypes consistent with extrapair fertilizations, a comparable frequency to other species of waterfowl for which extrapair paternity has been documented. We found no evidence of intraspecific brood parasitism. The frequency of extrapair paternity was not significantly correlated with breeding synchrony. We suggest that female absences during egg-laying may have provided males with opportunities to pursue extrapair copulation when breeding was synchronous. /// Se examin la paternidad extrapareja y su correlacin con la sincrona reproductiva en Anas strepera utilizando huellas dactilares genticas de ADN microsatelital. Once de 261 pichones (4.2%) en 8 de 29 nidadas (27.6%) tenan genotipos consistentes con fertilizaciones extrapareja, una frecuencia comparable a la de otras especies de aves acuticas en las que se ha documentado paternidad extrapareja. No encontramos evidencia de parasitismo de cra intraespecfico. La frecuencia de paternidad extrapareja no se correlacion significativamente con la sincrona reproductiva. Sugerimos que las ausencias de las hembras durante el perodo de postura podran haber dado oportunidades a los machos para buscar cpulas con otras hembras cuando la reproduccin era sincrnica.
10.2307/4086031|Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) were studied to document patterns of feeding and brooding nestlings and to relate these to nestling age, brood size, time of day, time of season, and weather. Major factors affecting feeding were nestling age and brood size. The average number of food deliveries
4087805|I studied the pattern of territory occupation and ownership changes in Eurasian Nuthatches (Sitta europaea) in a 38-ha woodland over five years. Approximately 50% of the pair territories in summer were also used for breeding each year. Breeding score (i.e. the number of years a territory was used for breeding) was correlated with order of settlement by juveniles in summer and by female immigrants in spring. Birds that shifted territories generally moved to territories with a higher breeding score. Breeding score is therefore considered an indicator of territory quality. Owners of high-quality territories lost less body mass in winter and survived better than owners of low-quality territories. High-quality territories tended to be larger and to contain gardens and oaks but not conifers. Low-quality territories functioned as population reserves by allowing juveniles to settle in summer and wait for a breeding vacancy in a high-quality territory.
40406064|The Rufous-naped Wren (
10.2307/4090019| The demographic consequences of migration have important implications for both evolutionary ecology and conservation biology. We investigated local survival rates for six populations of sparrows at a wintering site. Recent developments in mark-recapture statistics were applied to a 13 year dataset with large numbers of marked individuals (n = 1,632 to 4,394). The study taxa were closely related, and included one resident species (Song Sparrow [Melospiza melodia gouldii]), one short-distance migrant ("Puget Sound" White-crowned Sparrow [Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis]), two moderate-distance migrants (Lincoln's [Melospiza lincolnii] and Fox [Passerella iliaca] sparrow), and two long-distance migrants ("Gambel's" White-crowned [Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii] and Golden-crowned [Zonotrichia atricapilla] sparrow). A literature review demonstrated a cline in fecundity among these sparrows: resident and short-distance migrants laid multiple clutches of few eggs, whereas long-distance migrants tended to produce one large clutch. Annual rates of local survival were low in the interval after first capture (<0.35), possibly because of variation in true survival, site-fidelity, presence of transients and heterogeneity of capture. Estimates of local survival among birds that returned at least once were more more robust and were comparable among Song (0.558  0.054 SE), Puget Sound White-crowned (0.461  0.026), Lincoln's (0.456  0.066), Fox (0.352  0.0), Golden-crowned (0.422  0.023) and Gambel's White-crowned (0.432  0.0) sparrows. Estimates of survivorship for Lincoln's and Fox sparrows are among the first values available for those species. Local survival was not higher among resident than migratory taxa, nor did it covary with migration distance among migratory species. These results did not support the time-allocation hypothesis of Greenberg (1980), but are consistent with aspects of bet-hedging theory. While these analyses have potential implications for conservation of migratory birds, further work is required to establish whether these patterns are applicable to Neotropical migrants. /// Las consecuencias demogrficas de la migracin tienen importantes implicaciones tanto en ecologa evolutiva como en biologa de la conservacin. En un sitio de invernada investigamos las tasas de supervivencia en seis poblaciones de gorriones. Se aplicaron estadsticos recientemente desarrollados para el anlisis de datos de marca y recaptura a una base de datos de 13 aos en la que se marc gran nmero de individuos (n = 1,632 a 4,394). Los taxa estudiados se encontraban altamente emparentados e incluyeron una especie residente (Melospiza melodia), una especie migratoria de corta distancia (Zonotrichia leucophrys de Puget Sound), dos especies migratorias de distancia moderada (Melospiza lincolnii y Passerella iliaca) y dos especies migratorias de larga distancia (Zonotrichia atricapilla y Zonotrichia leucophrys de Gambel). Los resultados de una revisin bibliogrfica demostraron un gradiente en la fecundidad de estos gorriones: las especies residentes y migratorias de corta distancia presentaron nidadas mltiples de pocos huevos, mientras que las especies migratorias de larga distancia presentaron una tendencia a producir una sola nidada grande. Las tasas anuales de supervivencia local fueron bajas durante el intervalo posterior a la primera captura (<0.35), posiblemente debido a variacin en la supervivencia verdadera, fidelidad de sitio, presencia de individuos transentes y a la heterogeneidad de las capturas. Las estimaciones de supervivencia local entre las aves que retornaron por lo menos una vez fueron ms robustas y fueron comparables entre M. melodia (0.558  0.054 ES), Z. leucophrys de Puget Sound (0.461  0.026), M. lincolnii (0.456  0.066), P. iliaca (0.352  0.0), Z. atricapilla (0.422  0.023) y Z. leucophrys de Gambel (0.432  0.0). Las estimaciones de la supervivencia de individuos de M. lincolnii y P. iliaca representan uno de los primeros valores disponibles para estas especies. La supervivencia local no fue mayor en los taxa residentes que en los migratorios, ni covari con la distancia de migracin entre las especies migratorias. Estos resultados no apoyaron la hiptesis de Greenberg (1980) sobre la asignacin de tiempo, pero fueron consistentes con aspectos de la teora de "bet-hedging". Aunque estos anlisis tienen potenciales implicaciones para la conservacin de aves migratorias, se requieren estudios adicionales para establecer si estos patrones son aplicables a las aves migratorias neotropicales. 
25488517|Many flowers associated with hummingbirds (Trochilidae) produce nectar rich in sucrose, a characteristic that reflects innate preferences or the metabolic capacities of their putative pollinators or both. However, studies on nectar sugar selectivity by hummingbirds in the field are lacking. Under natural field conditions, we studied the sugar preferences of the Green-backed Firecrown Hummingbird (
10.2307/4090056| In geese, growth regulates survival in the first year. We examined whether early growth, which is primarily governed by environmental conditions, also affects the probability that individuals that survive their first year enter the breeding population. We used logistic regression on a sample of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) that were weighed at a known age in their first summer and observed during winter (indicating that they had survived the principal mortality period in their first year) to study whether early growth influenced the probability that those individuals would be recruited into the breeding population. We also examined the effects of cohort (1986-1996), sex, age when measured, and area where individuals were reared. The model with the lowest Akaike's Information Criterion score contained body mass, age (days) at measurement, cohort, sex, and brood-rearing area. Models that included variable mass had 85% of the cumulative model weight of the models we considered, indicating that gosling mass had a substantial effect on probability of them entering the breeding population. Females were more likely to be detected breeding than males, which is consistent with the differential fidelity of the sexes. Of individuals that survived the first year, larger goslings were more likely to become breeders. More recent cohorts were less likely to have been detected as breeders. Our findings indicate that environment during the growth period affects the ability of individuals to enter the breeding population, even after accounting for the effects of growth on survival. /// En los gansos, el crecimiento regula la supervivencia durante el primer ao. Nosotros examinamos si el crecimiento temprano, el cual est gobernado principalmente por condiciones ambientales, afecta tambin la probabilidad de que los individuos que sobreviven tras el primer ao se incorporen a la poblacin reproductiva. Usamos regresin logstica en una muestra de individuos de la subespecie Branta bernicla nigricans que fueron pesados a una edad conocida en su primer verano y observados durante el invierno (indicando que sobrevivieron el principal perodo de mortalidad durante su primer ao) para estudiar si el crecimiento temprano influye la probabilidad de ser reclutados en la poblacin reproductiva. Examinamos adems los efectos de cohorte (1986-1996), del sexo, de la edad al momento de ser medidos y del rea donde los individuos fueron criados. El modelo con el menor puntaje del Criterio de Informacin de Akaike contuvo masa corporal, edad (das) en el momento de la medicin, cohorte, sexo y rea de cra. Los modelos que incluyeron variacin de la masa presentaron 85% del peso acumulativo del modelo de los modelos considerados, indicando que la masa de los polluelos tuvo un efecto substancial en la probabilidad de incorporarse a la poblacin reproductiva. Las hembras presentaron mayor probabilidad de ser detectadas reproducindose que los machos, lo cual es consistente con la fidelidad diferencial de los sexos. De los individuos que sobrevivieron tras el primer ao, los polluelos ms grandes presentaron mayores probabilidades de convertirse en individuos reproductivos. Los miembros de cohortes ms recientes tuvieron una probabilidad menor de ser detectados como individuos reproductivos. Nuestros hallazgos indican que el ambiente durante el perodo de crecimiento afecta la capacidad de los individuos de incorporarse a la poblacin reproductiva, incluso luego de dar cuenta de los efectos del crecimiento en la supervivencia. 
90008579|Brood enlargement experiments have been conducted in several species of birds to investigate how parents of both sexes adjust their investment in the current breeding attempt. We studied parental feeding effort in the Northern Flicker (
90008583|The alternative prey hypothesis (APH) suggests that the functional and numerical response of predators to fluctuating rodent populations may drive annual variation in predation pressure on other available prey such as bird eggs. Most studies that have provided evidence supporting the APH in arctic bird populations have been conducted in the eastern hemisphere, and considerably less evidence for APH has emerged from western hemisphere populations. We tested the hypothesis that predation pressure on shorebird nests would increase as lemming abundance decreases due to apparent competition between lemmings and shorebirds via their shared predators in the eastern Canadian High Arctic. Over a period of 5 years on Bylot Island, Nunavut, Canada, we found that lemming abundance had a significant negative effect on predation risk as measured by artificial nests. Survival probabilities of artificial nests were also negatively related to fox abundance but positively associated with the abundance of breeding avian predators, likely due to predator exclusion around avian predator nests. Models of daily nest survival for real nests also indicated that interannual variation in nest survival was best explained by lemming abundance. Combined results from both artificial and real nests indicate that fluctuations in lemming populations likely have an indirect effect on predation pressure on shorebird eggs in the Canadian High Arctic, although mechanisms explaining the observed relationship require further investigation.
10.2307/4090115|New World orioles (Icterus) include several closely related species and subspecies pairs that provide excellent opportunities for studying recent speciation. We examined a subspecies pair in the Orchard Oriole group: Orchard Oriole (I. spurius spurius), a long-distance migrant that breeds in eastern North America, and Fuertes's Oriole (I. s. fuertesi), a short-distance migrant that breeds in a restricted range in Veracruz, Mexico. We sequenced parts of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene (925 base pairs) and control region (344 base pairs) from 23 Orchard Orioles and 7 Fuertes's Orioles. Subspecies are not reciprocally monophyletic. Instead, our data suggest that at least one taxon is paraphyletic or polyphyletic. We found little support for any further phylogenetic structure, including whether one subspecies might be derived from the other. However, haplotype frequency analysis suggests that there is little or no current gene flow between the taxa. The phylogenetic relationship between Orchard and Fuertes's orioles is likely a result of recent divergence and incomplete lineage sorting. That interpretation is consistent with theoretical models of speciation, which predict patterns of nonmonophyly at early stages of taxon divergence. Our findings suggest that Orchard and Fuertes's orioles are separate species and provide a case study for evaluating the importance of monophyly in defining species limits. /// Las calandrias del Nuevo Mundo (Icterus) incluyen un conjunto de especies cercanamente relacionadas y pares de subespecies que ofrecen oportunidades excelentes para el estudio de eventos recientes de especiacin. Nosotros examinamos un par de subespecies en el grupo de los bolseros cafs: el bolsero castao (I. spurius spurius), que es un migrante de grandes distancias que se reproduce en el este de Norteamrica, y el bolsero de Fuertes (I. s. fuertesi), un migrante de corta distancia que se reproduce en un rea restringida en Veracruz, Mxico. Secuenciamos partes del gen mitocondrial del citocromo-b (925 pares de bases) y la regin control (344 pares de bases) de 23 I. s. spurius y 7 I. s. fuertesi. Las subespecies no son recprocamente monofilticas. Por el contrario, los datos sugieren que al menos un taxn es parafiltico o polifiltico. Encontramos muy poco apoyo a cualquier otra estructura filogentica, incluyendo si alguna subespecie pudo derivarse de la otra. Sin embargo, el anlisis de frecuencia de haplotipos sugiere que hay muy poco flujo gentico actual entre los taxa. La relacin filogentica entre los bolseros castao y de Fuertes es ms bien resultado de una divergencia reciente y una divisin incompleta de los linajes. Esta interpretacin es consistente con los modelos tericos de especiacin reciente, los cuales predicen patrones de no-monofilia en etapas tempranas de la especiacin. Nuestros resultados presentan un estudio de caso para evaluar la importancia de la monofilia en la definicin de lmites de especies.
4085605|We examined 11 of 24 ecosystem attributes that Odum (1969) proposed would change during succession in avian communities in meadow, aspen, fir, and spruce forests in northern Utah and southern Idaho. A total of 71 bird species was observed during the 30-month study, of which 43 were known to breed. Yearly energetic relationships were calculated for the breeding bird populations using an avian community energetics model. In the different avian communities, the ratios of annual secondary production/community respiration, secondary production/biomass present, and secondary production/consumption all tended to decrease with increasing plant succession; biomass present/"unit energy flow" tended to increase. All of these trends are consistent with those postulated by Odum for the entire ecosystem. These energetics ratios differed in 1977 from those in 1976 and 1978 due to a severe drought. They also fluctuated greatly during the course of a year. Avian species diversity was highest in the preclimax fir forest during the breeding season and fluctuated widely in the nonbreeding season. Species equitability tended to be relatively high in all avian communities, although it was slightly lower during the nonbreeding season. No trends were found in male body sizes, mean clutch size, and mean length of incubation period (a crude measure of parental investment). Thus, for the bird communities, we reject the postulated trends of increased species diversity, equitability, and organism size in the climax, quantity to quality production, and r- to K-selection. During the drought of 1977 the spruce avifauna appeared more stable, so we cannot reject Odum's hypothesized trend of increased stability in the climax. We conclude that the vegetational characteristics of a given sere will in most cases determine the avian population response along that sere; this in turn will influence the correspondence of the avian communities to Odum's postulates. Incorporating these avian results with other studies within our subalpine sere, some of Odum's hypothesized trends are supported while others are not, suggesting that successional relationships are more complicated than would follow from Odum's relatively simple model.
10.2307/4089669| We describe a striking new species of Grallaria antpitta from wet, upper subtropical forest in the upper Ro Chinchipe drainage, provincia Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador. Notes on its natural history and molecular systematics are presented along with spectrograms of its voice. The species is readily diagnosed by its large size, unique white facial markings, and voice. Initial results from DNA sequence analyses place the new species in a well-supported clade that includes Grallaria nuchalis (which is syntopic with the new species), G. hypoleuca, G. watkinsi, and G. ruficapilla. /// Una sorprendente nueva especie del gnero Grallaria (Aves: Formicariidae) es descrita de un bosque hmedo de la zona subtropical alta del drenaje del Ro Chinchipe, provincia Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador. Se presentan notas acerca de su historia natural y sistemtica molecular, en conjunto con espectrogramas de sus vocalizaciones. La nueva especie se diferencia claramente por su gran tamao, sus marcas faciales blancas, y su peculiar voz. Anlisis iniciales de sequencias del ADN colocan a la nueva especie en un clado que incluye a Grallaria nuchalis (que es sintpica con la nueva especie), G. hypoleuca, G. watkinsi, y G. ruficapilla. 
40406078|In altricial birds with biparental care, the pattern of food distribution within a brood is a consequence of conflicts between family members. To optimize their investment, parents may feed nestlings according to at least two different types of cues: begging behavior of nestlings and nestling characteristics such as size or sex. We investigated the begging displays of nestlings and the feeding response of parents in 12 broods of the Green-backed Tit (
10.2307/4090194| Greater Rheas (Rhea americana) are precocial birds that show uniparental male care. We evaluated the extent of nest attention by males and estimated its effect on viability and survival of eggs. We assessed whether male absences during incubation were constrained to avoid embryos reaching lethal temperatures or to minimize risk of egg predation. We estimated (1) effect of nest attention on viability of eggs by comparing egg temperature in nests with and without male attention; and (2) effect of male care on egg predation, by comparing survival of eggs in nests with and without male care. Rhea males attended the eggs for 42 days, but effective incubation started 5-7 days after laying of the first egg. The proportion of time that males spent at the nest increased from 64% during egg laying (days 1-10) up to 97.5% during mid and late incubation (days 20-40). Male absences occurred at the warmest hours of the day and their lengths were positively correlated with the temperature of the environment. Male nest attention reduced the rate of egg losses and kept eggs above lower lethal temperatures for embryos during the night. We also estimated relative cost of parental care after hatching by comparing the time allocated to feeding and vigilance by males with chicks, males in nonreproductive groups, and nonreproductive solitary males. Males took care of the chicks for 4-6 months. They allocated less time to feeding and more time to vigilance than males in groups of adults or solitary males. Investment in vigilance decreased as chicks aged. Our results indicate that Greater Rhea males would require high levels of energetic reserves to start a breeding attempt. That high demand could explain why less than only 20% of the males attempt to nest during a breeding season. /// Rhea americana es un ave precocial que presenta cuidado uniparental por parte del macho. Evaluamos el grado de atencin de los machos sobre el nido y estimamos su efecto sobre la viabilidad y sobrevivencia de los huevos. Tambin evaluamos si las ausencias del macho durante la incubacin estuvieron restringidas para evitar que los embriones alcanzaran temperaturas letales o para minimizar el riesgo de depredacin de los huevos. Para ello estimamos: (1) El efecto de la atencin del nido sobre la viabilidad de los huevos, comparando la temperatura de stos en nidos con y sin atencin del macho; y (2) el efecto del cuidado del macho sobre la depredacin de los huevos, comparando la sobrevivencia de stos en nidos con y sin cuidado parental. Los machos de Rhea atendieron los huevos durante 42 das, pero la incubacin efectiva comenz 5-7 das despus de la puesta del primer huevo. La proporcin del tiempo que los machos permanecieron en el nido aument del 64% durante la puesta de huevos (das 1-10) al 97.5% durante la incubacin avanzada (das 20-40). Las ausencias del macho ocurrieron durante las horas ms clidas del da y la longitud de las ausencias se correlacion positivamente con la temperatura ambiental. La atencin del nido por parte del macho redujo la tasa de prdida de huevos y mantuvo la temperatura de los huevos por encima de los valores letales para los embriones durante la noche. Tambin estimamos el costo relativo del cuidado parental luego de la eclosin de los polluelos, comparando el tiempo que machos con polluelos, machos en grupos no reproductivos y machos solitarios no reproductivos, dedicaron a la alimentacin y vigilancia. Los machos cuidaron de los polluelos durante 4-6 meses y stos dedicaron un menor tiempo a la alimentacin y un mayor tiempo a la vigilancia que los machos en grupos de adultos o solitarios. La inversin en vigilancia disminuy con la edad de los polluelos. Nuestros resultados indican que los machos de Rhea necesitaran grandes reservas energticas para poder iniciar un intento reproductivo. Esa alta demanda energtica podra explicar por qu menos del 20% de los machos intentan nidificar durante una estacin reproductiva. 
25150300|As brood parasites, nestling Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) may exhibit characters that improve their fledging success when reared alongside host young. The coloration of mouthparts of nestlings can influence adult care and, thus, the polymorphism of yellow or white rictal flanges among nestling Brown-headed Cowbirds may reflect differential success with different hosts on the basis of flange color. Moreover, because Brown-headed Cowbirds in the southern United States co-occur with Bronzed Cowbirds (M. aeneus), whose young have white flanges, cowbird nestlings' flange colors may reflect a means for reducing interspecific competition through partitioning of host species on the basis of nestling flange color. To determine whether flange color influences cowbird fledging success with hosts of either color, we recorded the flange colors of cowbirds and their hosts at a site in Texas. We also tested whether flange color was influenced by nestling sex. Most hosts of Brown-headed Cowbirds had young with yellow flanges (81%, n = 16 spp.), yet Brown-headed Cowbirds with white flanges were more common (61%, n = 107). Bronzed Cowbirds parasitized primarily species whose young had white flanges (86%, n = 348 eggs). Despite the differential use of hosts with regard to flange color, the frequencies of each were similar among nestling and juvenile Brown-headed Cowbirds. Likewise, the frequencies of each color did not differ significantly between the sexes. Therefore, we suggest that a flange color matching that of nestmates is not strongly selected for by hosts. /// Como un ave parsita de nido, Molothrus ater puede exhibir caracteres que aumentan su xito de emplumamiento cuando sus polluelos son criados junto a los de su hospedero. La coloracin de la boca de los polluelos puede influenciar el cuidado por parte de los padres, por lo que el polimorfismo de la coloracin blanca o amarilla de la parte lateral de la boca de los polluelos de M. ater podra conducir a diferencias en el xito al ser criados por especies hospederas. Adems, debido a que M. ater coexiste con M. aeneus, cuyos polluelos tienen la parte lateral de la boca de color blanco, la coloracin de esta parte en los polluelos de Molotrus podra reflejar un medio por el cual se reduce la competencia interespecfica a travs de la particin de las especies hospederas. Para determinar si la coloracin de la parte lateral de la boca influencia el xito de emplumamiento de los polluelos con hospederos de distintos colores, registramos esta coloracin de los polluelos de Molothrus y de sus hospederos en una localidad en Texas. Tambin probamos si esta coloracin estaba influenciada por el sexo de los polluelos. La mayora de las especies hospederas de M. ater tuvieron polluelos con la parte lateral de la boca de color amarillo (81%, n = 16 spp.), pero los polluelos de M. ater tuvieron una mayor frecuencia de coloracin blanca (61%, n = 107). Molothrus aeneus parasit principalmente a especies cuyos polluelos tenan la parte lateral de la boca de color blanco (86%, n = 348 huevos). A pesar del uso diferencial de hospederos con respecto a la coloracin de la boca, las frecuencias de cada color fueron similares entre polluelos y juveniles de M. ater. De modo similar, las frecuencias de cada color no fueron diferentes entre sexos. Sugerimos que un color de la boca igual al de los polluelos compaeros en el nido no es un rasgo que se encuentra bajo una presin selectiva fuerte por parte de los hospederos.
10.2307/4087607|We captured, banded (n = 4,129), and weighed (n = 809) Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) during wing molt in western Poland. The condition of remex development was assessed (n = 3,421). We recaptured and remeasured 248 birds. The rate of remex growth in males (calculated by two methods) was 6.7 and 5.5 mm/day (P < 0.02). Males regained flight capability in 22-29 days, when remiges had reached 75-83% of final length. During the flightless period, males and females lost 12% of body mass. Birds whose flightless period was extended to replace only a few damaged quills continued to decline in body mass, which indicates that rate of mass loss was unrelated to costs of feather synthesis. We conclude that decrease of body mass is related to constraints on foraging time. We think this is a response to high exposure to predation during foraging. Reduction of flightlessness seems to be realized by a high growth rate of remiges, which was almost constant and independent of body mass.
10.2307/4085491|Field Sparrow reproductive success and nesting ecology were studied in central Illinois on a tract composed of grassland, shrub-grassland, and shrub-woodland. Egg and nest successes were 11.2% and 10.2% respectively. Major causes of nest failure included: predation, primarily by snakes (76% of all active nests), nest desertion following brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird (7%), and nest desertion from unknown causes (7%). Eleven percent of the nests were parasitized; most (63%) were deserted as a result. Nests with young received heavier predation than nests with eggs. Early nests were placed predominantly in standing grass litter, but as the breeding season advanced forbs, trees, and shrubs became the most frequently used nesting substrates. Mean nest height increased as the season advanced. The frequency of desertion (from unknown causes), cowbird parasitism, snake predation, and successful fledging was not significantly different among nests placed in the major vegetation types, although mammalian predation did differ significantly. Nest height did not influence nesting outcome significantly. Nest vulnerability to snake predation was independent of relative nest concealment. Desertion (nonparasitized nests) and snake predation were distributed uniformly among nests throughout the study area, but nests preyed upon by mammals were somewhat clumped, and cowbirds parasitized nests within or near the shrub-woodland. The occurrence of snake predation was proportional to the number of nests. Predation intensity was not related to brood size. Nesting success increased slightly as the season advanced. The incidence of snake predation was negatively correlated with maximum daily relative humidity, but unrelated to other weather measurements.
10.2307/4089903| Differential migrants are species in which one population class migrates farther than another. White-throated sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis), which migrate into the southern United States each autumn in large numbers, have been proposed as a candidate differential migrant (Cristol et al. 1999). Using Bird Banding Lab data, we tested for latitudinal variation in the sex ratio of White-throated Sparrows in the Atlantic and central flyways. We found that the proportion of females increases with decreasing latitude in at least the Atlantic flyway, strongly suggesting that females migrate farther than males. Sex ratios calculated from those banding data were compared to those of museum specimens collected at the same latitudes, as well as single-season population samples at three latitudes in the heart of the winter range. Broad agreement was found using the three independent methods of sampling the sex ratio, so we conclude that White-throated Sparrows are differential migrants. /// Se denomina migrante diferencial a una especie en la cual una clase de la poblacin migra ms lejos que la otra. Zonotrichia albicollis, especie que migra cada otoo en grandes nmeros hasta el sur de los Estados Unidos, ha sido propuesta para ser considerada como migrante diferencial (Cristol et al. 1999). Empleando datos del Bird Banding Lab, analizamos la variacin latitudinal en el cociente de sexos de Z. albicollis en los corredores de vuelo atlntico y central. Encontramos que la proporcin de hembras incrementa con una disminucin en la latitud, al menos en el corredor de vuelo atlntico, sugiriendo de modo contundente que las hembras migran ms lejos que los machos. Los cocientes de sexos calculados a partir de los datos de anillado fueron comparados con aquellos de especmenes de museo colectados en las mismas latitudes, y con muestras de poblaciones tomadas durante una nica estacin en tres latitudes en el centro de las reas de invernada. Encontramos resultados similares con los tres mtodos independientes que usamos para muestrear el cociente de sexos, por lo que concluimos que Z. albicollis es un migrante diferencial. 
4087910|We examined patterns and levels of genetic, morphometric, and plumage variation in Myrmotherula antwrens and related antbirds (Formicariidae). We derived matrices of distances independently for proteins, qualitative plumage traits, and measurements of study skins. Our goals were to assess concordance between the morphological (morphometric and plumage) and genetic patterns, to estimate phylogenetic relationships, and to test monophyly of Myrmotherula. Myrmotherula is not monophyletic. Analysis of allozymes shows that although the "gray" and "streaked" plumage types are closely related, the "checker-throated" Myrmotherula species are not closely related to the gray/streaked clade. Plumage divergence exceeds divergence in protein genes, whereas change in external morphology has been relatively conservative. Antwren speciation has been accompanied by differentiation of plumage types rather than by entry of species into new regions of morphometric space. Relatively large genetic distances among and within Myrmotherula species imply that these tropical taxa are older and more geographically subdivided than are most North American species. Neither plumage nor morphometrics alone correctly predicted the genetic relatedness among the taxa. We urge that taxonomic revisions be accompanied by molecular data, especially in species-rich tropical families.
4086372|We monitored headings, flight speeds, and time of flight of nine transmittertagged giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) during 10 different autumn migration flights during which data on wind directions and speeds were also available. Destination of these individuals was known because of previous observations of the same birds. This enabled us to evaluate their headings with respect to wind drift. As the magnitude of the following component of the wind increased, air speeds of migrating geese declined while ground speeds were not significantly changed. Therefore, the cost of transport over the ground, and probably metabolic rate, were minimized. Headings of migrant geese varied systematically and significantly with wind direction, but track directions did not deviate significantly from the goal direction. Thus, the geese compensated for wind drift. Visual reference to landmarks may have been the cue used to correct for drift, as weather conditions were such that geese could see the ground.
10.1525/auk.2009.09077|We studied geographic as well as individual variation of songs in five Czech populations of the Tree Pipit (Motacillidae:
4087089|I analyzed vocal signals of marked adult Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus) throughout their nesting season in the Dry Tortugas, Florida from 1979 to 1982. The basic unit of the adult repertoire is a wide-band click, less than 4 msec duration, ranging in frequency from 200 to 3,300 Hz. I identified nine temporal arrangements of these clicks, which form the notes of the calls. These calls differ little in frequency range, but they differ in the mean frequency of the most intense sound energy band, in note duration, in the number of clicks per note, and in internote interval. These calls are used in different contexts, which sometimes overlap. Frequency, note duration, and internote interval do not differ between sexes. Mean frequency and note length varied among individuals for some calls. No tonal elements characteristic of calls of Brown Noddy nestlings remain in the adult repertoire.
4085311|Five wild-caught Screech Owls (Otus asio) were tested for preference of prey by size. Testing was done in flight cages where owls were allowed to select from three alternate regimens of white laboratory mice (Mus musculus). These regimens contained either 4 or 8 mice in 4 weight categories (10-19 g, 20-29 g, 30-39 g, 40-49 g). The owls were tested 10 times on each regimen, both when they had eaten as much as they desired the day before and when they were fasted 36 h before testing. Smaller mice were taken in numbers greater than larger ones in all regimens on both hunger levels. Larger mice were taken at higher frequencies by fasted than by fed owls when choice was less, but when greater numbers of mice were available even fasted owls took significantly more smaller mice. Selectivity indices show that the smallest mice were taken above their availability and the largest mice below their availability in every regimen. No significant differences were found between mean individual weights of mice taken by fed or fasted owls but fasted owls did consume a significantly greater total weight of mice per day. Very little variation was found among the owls with respect to size of prey captured, nor was much variation apparent within each owl over all tests.
4088054|The maximum lift-to-drag ratio of a Harris' Hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus) gliding in a wind tunnel at 10.5 m/s dropped from 10.5 before the onset of molting to a low of 7.2 when missing primary wing feathers left gaps in the wing tips (36 days after onset). It then rose to 10.5 again when the new feathers were complete (172 days after onset). The decrease in wing span and area due to the missing primaries can theoretically account for only 39% of this drop. The changed shape of the wing-tip slots could account for the remainder by increasing induced drag and profile drag. Loss of feathers other than the primaries did not have a major effect on the hawk's wing and body shape.
10.2307/4088894|This study reports on food selection by Nearctic migrants, especially thrushes (Catharus), wood-warblers (Oporornis, Seiurus, Wilsonia), and tyrant flycatchers (Empidonax) in a humid forest of central Panama. We attempt to determine how these migrants integrate into the resident bird community based on local food abundance and diet comparison between resident and migrant species. At our study site, migrants are most numerous during migration periods, especially in October when abundance of arthropods is low and fruits are plentiful. Migrants feed equally on fruits during both migrations, but overall depend more on an invertebrate diet. Actually, migrants feed extensively on a few invertebrate taxa that are mostly of two types: (1) small hard-bodied foliage-dwelling insects such as beetles and ants, which are of low nutritional value; and (2) invertebrates well known for producing distasteful or toxic chemicals, such as nonflying termites, millipedes, and centipedes. In contrast, the resident species feed more extensively on invertebrates of higher nutritional value (spiders, insect pupae, alate ants) and on large prey that are plentiful at tropical latitudes (orthopterans, lizards). Dietary relationships among species show that diet of migrants overlap little with that of resident species, even those with which they share a similar foraging substrate. However, unlike residents, migrants belonging to the same foraging guild have a highly similar diet. These results suggest that past competitive interactions between migrants and residents were more important than the ones among migratory species in determining food selection by migrants. Whether the resulting high potential for competition among migrants is related to the short stay of most species at our study site or is a characteristic of several migrant populations at tropical latitudes needs further investigation.
4088546|We collected 474 specimens of male Rufous-collared Sparrows (Zonotrichia capensis) from 24 sites in northwestern Argentina. Four samples were obtained from each of six habitats: lowland chaco thornscrub, transition forest, montane woodland, montane grassland, Monte desert scrub, and puna high-altitude scrub. Puna birds (Z. c. pulacayensis) were differentiated both genetically and morphologically from all other birds in the sample (Z. c. hypoleuca). However, the steepness and location of the clines for these two character types were substantially different. An abrupt cline in PGM-1 allozyme frequencies was apparent in the extreme northwest of our study area, while clines in morphological features (primarily body size) were gradual and extended much further southward. Among nonpuna samples (20 sites; Z. c. hypoleuca), patterns of intersite differentiation in morphological and allozyme characters were unrelated. Partial Mantel's tests showed that, among these samples, both degree of difference in habitat structure and linear geographic distance are important correlates of among-site morphological differentiation. Similar tests demonstrated that neither of these two environmental factors is related statistically to genetic differentiation among populations.
4085551|J. C. Coulson and other investigators have made an intensive study of the fecundity and mortality patterns of a kittiwake colony at North Shields, England, particularly with reference to differences between birds nesting at the center and at the edge of the colony. We have used the completeness of this data base to compute the intrinsic rates of increase (r) for center and edge birds, both during the colony's growth phase and after it has stabilized, and have used these values to quantify the roles of breeding and mortality in accounting for demographic change. With center advantage defined as the difference between the r's of center and edge populations, 67% of center advantage in the growth phase was due to high survivorship of center males. Likewise, transition to the lower growth rates of the stable phase was almost entirely due to increased mortality. During the stable phase, however, center advantage persisted and was entirely due to higher fledging rates among center birds. Although male survivorship was the reason for center advantage in the growth phase, in simulated stable-phase populations, where both sexes experienced female mortality rates, center advantage was twice as great as it was in populations with sex-specific mortality. Although it is impossible to attribute center advantage exclusively to either sex or to breeding vs. mortality, analysis of variance disclosed that overall mortality had a significantly greater effect than breeding on the demographic patterns in the North Shields colony.
10.2307/4088901|In Manitoba, Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) rejected eggs of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) from 1 naturally parasitized nest and 16 experimentally parasitized nests studied in 1992 and 1993. Vireos rejected single, real cowbird eggs in 16 cases by ejection and 1 by desertion. Observations at nests during the first hour after parasitism showed that: (1) females carried out four ejections, whereas two of three unsuccessful ejection attempts were by males; and (2) the four observed egg removals were by puncture-ejection (entire cowbird egg removed or pieces of shell removed after egg contents consumed). These are the first observations of puncture-ejection by the Warbling Vireo, which is now the smallest species (15 g) known to eject cowbird eggs in this manner. Two competing hypotheses, evolutionary lag and evolutionary equilibrium, have been advanced to explain acceptance of brood parasitism by hosts parastized with nonmimetic eggs. One prediction of the equilibrium hypothesis, that small hosts incur greater costs than large hosts when ejecting eggs, was examined by comparing the costs of rejection at experimentally parasitized nests of Warbling Vireos and larger Northern Orioles (Icterus galbula, 33 g). Warbling Vireos lost or damaged 5 of their own eggs while rejecting the 17 cowbird eggs, or 0.29 vireo eggs for every cowbird egg rejected. The cost to Northern Orioles of this behavior was 0.38 oriole eggs per cowbird egg ejected, which was not significantly different from the cost incurred by Warbling Vireos. My results by default support the evolutionary-lag hypothesis because the smaller species did not incur greater costs during puncture-ejection than the larger species. Warbling Vireos in and east of the Great Plains, V. g. gilvus, reject cowbird eggs, whereas individuals in a population west of the Great Plains, V. g. swainsonii (12 g), apparently accept the eggs. The different responses to cowbird eggs possibly reflect differences between two sibling species that have been in contact with cowbirds for different lengths of time, assuming that individuals in the western population are not below the minimum value for size of an ejecter.
10.2307/4087499|Colony-site use by individually marked Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) was studied at four breeding colonies in northeastern Lake Michigan during 1976-1979. I examined two related aspects of colony-site use: (1) colony-site preference in experienced breeders and (2) the relationship between reproductive success and colony-site tenacity. Terns showed a significant preference for the colony of previous breeding unless their preceding reproductive effort was unsuccessful. Caspian Terns tended to use the same colony site if young were produced but moved to a new location if reproductive success had been terminated or threatened at the traditional site.
4086424|Red-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon rubricauda) nest under shrubs in loosely associated groups on Christmas Island, Central Pacific Ocean. Aggressive interactions among adults at nest sites are high; yet, large areas of superficially similar habitat contain no tropicbird nests at all. We compared physiognomic features of nest sites with those of two sets of randomly generated "nest sites" by discriminant function analysis. Of those variables measured, the number of stems within a nest space and the amount of peripheral cover influenced the tropicbirds' choice of nest sites. Differences among localities existed. Areas where tropicbirds nested had shrubs with few stems and more peripheral cover. Preferred nest sites were rare in areas other than those in which tropicbirds were nesting already. This study demonstrates the utility of the discriminant function technique in quantifying nest-site selection and nest-site availability when the appropriate null data sets are used.
10.2307/4089247|Stable-isotope analyses (carbon
4085220|Histological examination of thyroid glands from White-tailed Ptarmigan collected at various times of the year showed that thyroid cell height and percentage of epithelium and stroma are significantly higher in adult than in subadult males, as well as females of both age classes. Changes in these two measurements as well as gland weight indicated a moderate increase of gland activity during the coldest months of the year and a more marked increase at the time of the summer molt. The level of thyroid function was also high at the time of the prenuptial and fall molts but this might in the first case reflect an increase of general activity in connection with reproduction and in the second a response to the onset of cold weather. Relative thyroid gland weight in White-tailed and Willow Ptarmigan was not high compared to other gallinaceous birds but comparison of histophysiological measurements for the first-named species with such data for other birds from the literature suggests a high overall level of thyroid function in the ptarmigan.
10.2307/4088719|Possible convergence between the unique aerial-feeding American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) and the tyrannid flycatchers was considered using skeleton, external morphology, substrate use, and locomotory feeding movements. The redstart is a typical paruline in the broader functional units of forelimb, hindlimb, and body axis, as well as in proportionate lengths of the main axial elements of both the forelimb and hindlimb. It retains and utilizes the advantageous features of the wood-warblers, including the capacity to hop rapidly through the vegetation. To this it has added the long and broad bill, and long rictal bristes (adaptations for aerial feeding) of the tyrannids. The wing shape remains wood-warblerlike, but it is convergent with the flycatchers in its low wing loading. The tail is long, as in the flycatchers, for better aerial control, but is spread and, apparently, used to flush insects from vegetation, as in the specialized Australo-Papuan fantails (Rhipidura). The redstart is a unique adaptive and ecomorphological type among north American passerines.
10.2307/4090278| Effects of variable energy intake on chick growth, organ development, and gut-passage time in seabirds were investigated by raising Elegant Tern (Sterna elegans) chicks in the laboratory on three diets involving a major prey species, northern anchovy (Engraulis mordax), and a minor prey species, topsmelt (Atherinops affinis). Anchovies are 25% higher in energy content than topsmelt and represent a more abundant but highly fluctuating prey resource. Chicks were raised from age 15 to age 35 days posthatch on one of three diets (n = 8): (1) high-energy anchovy at the average daily intake rate, (2) low-energy topsmelt at the same intake rate, and (3) high-energy topsmelt (i.e. at a biomass equal in energy content to the anchovy diet). Chicks raised on the high-energy anchovy diet had a significantly faster gain of body mass and wing length. All three groups, however, had attained a statistically similar wing length at 35 days posthatch and did not differ in lean dry mass or pectoral muscle mass, indicating that energy was allocated preferentially toward wing development and flight capacity. Most digestive organs were heavier and gut-passage rates faster for chicks fed topsmelt. Bill dimensions and tarsus length showed little difference among chicks on the three diets. Lipid content of chicks that were fed anchovy was twice that of those fed low-energy topsmelt and one-third higher than that of chicks on the high-energy topsmelt diet. Our results indicate that Elegant Terns have evolved certain capacities for growth and digestion in response to variable prey quality that may increase the probability of chick survival. Nevertheless, if Elegant Tern chicks were switched to a lower quality, primarily topsmelt diet, they would be underweight at fledging with heavier digestive organs, lower lipid reserves, and faster gut-passage times, which would place added provisioning demands on the parents. Under that scenario, the prospects for survival and long-term reproductive success might diminish for such an Elegant Tern colony. /// Se estudiaron los efectos de la ingestin variable de energa sobre el crecimiento de los pichones, el desarrollo de los rganos y los tiempos de paso por el tracto digestivo de aves marinas a travs de la cra de pichones de Sterna elegans en condiciones de laboratorio. Se utilizaron tres dietas incluyendo una especie de presa principal, la anchoa Engraulis mordax, y una especie de menor importancia, el pejerrey Atherinops affinis. Las anchoas tienen un contenido de energa 25% mayor que los pejerreyes y representan un recurso alimenticio ms abundante, pero altamente fluctuante. Los pichones fueron criados desde el da 15 hasta el da 35 despus de la eclosin con una de tres dietas: (1) anchoas de alta energa, a la tasa promedio de ingestin diaria, (2) pejerreyes de baja energa a la misma tasa de ingestin y (3) pejerreyes de alta energa (i.e. a una biomasa igual en contenido energtico a la dieta de anchoas). Los pichones criados con la dieta de anchoas de alta energa aumentaron su masa corporal y la longitud del ala de forma significativamente ms rpida. Sin embargo, los tres grupos haban alcanzado una longitud del ala estadsticamente similar en el da 35 post-eclosin y no difirieron en la masa magra seca o en la masa del msculo pectoral, indicando que la energa fue asignada preferentemente al desarrollo de las alas y al de la capacidad de volar. La mayora de los rganos digestivos fueron ms pesados y las tasas de paso por el tracto digestivo ms rpidas en pichones alimentados con pejerreyes. Las dimensiones del pico y la longitud del tarso exhibieron pocas diferencias entre los pichones alimentados con las tres dietas. El contenido de lpidos de los polluelos alimentados con anchoas fue el doble del de los alimentados con pejerreyes de baja energa y un tercio mayor que el de los alimentados con la dieta de pejerreyes de alta energa. Nuestros resultados indican que S. elegans ha desarrollado evolutivamente ciertas capacidades para el crecimiento y la digestin como respuesta a la calidad variable de las presas, que podran aumentar la probabilidad de supervivencia de los pichones. Sin embargo, si los pichones de S. elegans se cambiaran a una dieta de menor calidad compuesta principalmente por pejerreyes, tendran un peso insuficiente al emplumar y rganos digestivos ms pesados, reservas lipdicas menores y tiempos de paso por el tracto digestivo ms cortos, lo que pondra demandas adicionales sobre los padres en cuanto al aprovisionamiento. Bajo este escenario, las perspectivas para la supervivencia y xito reproductivo a largo plazo podran ser menores para la colonia de S. elegans. 
10.2307/4090326| The continental scaup population (Lesser [Aythya affinis] and Greater [A. marila] combined) has declined markedly since 1978. One hypothesis for the population decline states that reproductive success has decreased because female scaup are arriving on breeding areas in poorer body condition than they did historically (i.e. spring condition hypothesis). We tested one aspect of that hypothesis by comparing body mass and nutrient reserves (lipid, protein, and mineral) of Lesser Scaup at four locations (Louisiana, Illinois, Minnesota, and Manitoba) between the 1980s and 2000s. We found that mean body mass and lipid and mineral reserves of females were 80.0, 52.5, and 3.0 g higher, respectively, in the 2000s than in the 1980s in Louisiana; similarly, body mass and lipid and mineral reserves of males were 108.8, 72.5, and 2.5 g higher, respectively. In Illinois, mean body mass and lipid reserves of females were 88.6 and 56.5 g higher, respectively, in the 2000s than in the 1980s; similarly, body mass and lipid and mineral reserves of males were 80.6, 76.0, and 2.7 g higher, respectively. Mean body mass of females were 58.5 and 58.9 g lower in the 2000s than in the 1980s in Minnesota and Manitoba, respectively; mean body mass of males, similarly, were 40.7 g lower in Minnesota. Mean lipid reserves of females in the 2000s were 28.8 and 27.8 g lower than those in the 1980s in Minnesota and Manitoba, respectively. Mean mineral reserves of females in the 2000s were 3.2 g lower than those in the 1980s in Manitoba. Consequently, females arriving to breed in Manitoba in the 2000s had accumulated lipid reserves for 4.1 fewer eggs and mineral reserves for 0.8 fewer eggs than those arriving to breed there in the 1980s. Accordingly, our results are consistent with the spring condition hypothesis and suggest that female body condition has declined, as reflected by decreases in body mass, lipids, and mineral reserves that could cause reductions in reproductive success and ultimately a population decline. /// La poblacin continental de patos del gnero Aythya (A. affinis y A. marila) ha disminuido marcadamente desde 1978; una hiptesis plantea que el xito reproductivo ha disminuido porque las hembras de Aythya estn llegando a las reas reproductivas en peores condiciones corporales que histricamente (i.e. hiptesis de la condicin de primavera). Evaluamos un aspecto de esta hiptesis comparando el peso corporal y las reservas de nutrientes (lpidos, protenas y minerales) de A. affinis en cuatro localidades (Louisiana, Illinois, Minnesota y Manitoba) en las dcadas de los aos 1980 y 2000. Encontramos que el peso corporal promedio y las reservas de lpidos y minerales de las hembras fueron 80.0, 52.5 y 3.0 g mayores, respectivamente, en la dcada del 2000 que en la de 1980 en Louisiana; de modo similar, el peso corporal y las reservas de lpidos y minerales de los machos fueron 108.8, 72.5 y 2.5 g mayores, respectivamente. En Illinois el peso corporal promedio y las reservas de lpidos de las hembras fueron 88.6 y 56.5 g mayores, respectivamente, en la dcada del 2000 que en la de 1980; de modo similar, el peso corporal y las reservas de lpidos y minerales de los machos fueron 80.6, 76.0 y 2.7 g mayores, respectivamente. Los pesos corporales promedio de las hembras fueron 58.5 y 58.9 g menores en la dcada del 2000 que en la de 1980 en Minnesota y Manitoba, respectivamente; similarmente, el peso corporal promedio de los machos fue 40.7 g menor en Minnesota. Las reservas de lpidos promedio de las hembras en la dcada del 2000 fueron 28.8 y 27.8 g menores que aquellas en la dcada de 1980 en Minnesota y Manitoba, respectivamente. La reserva de minerales promedio de las hembras en la dcada del 2000 fue 3.2 g menor que aquella de la dcada de 1980 en Manitoba. Consecuentemente, las hembras que llegaron a criar a Manitoba en la dcada del 2000 haban acumulado reservas lipdicas para 4.1 huevos menos y reservas minerales para 0.8 huevos menos que aquellas que llegaron a criar all en la dcada de 1980. Nuestros resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis de la condicin de primavera y sugieren que la condicin corporal de las hembras ha empeorado, como lo muestran las reducciones en el peso corporal y en las reservas de lpidos y minerales. Esto puede ocasionar reducciones en el xito reproductivo y en ltima instancia un descenso de las poblaciones. 
10.2307/4088415|The extensive variation in breeding traits of Mediterranean Blue Tits (Parus caeruleus) is hypothesized to result from large differences in the timing and abundance of food resources, depending on whether the dominant tree species of the habitat is deciduous (Quercus pubescens) or evergreen (Q. ilex). Data were collected on tree phenology, food abundance (caterpillars), and breeding traits of tits in one mainland deciduous habitat, two mainland evergreen habitats, and one evergreen habitat on the island of Corsica. In the mainland deciduous habitat, an early breeding time and a large clutch size were associated with an early and abundant food supply. In the evergreen habitats (both on mainland and on Corsica), the leafing process occurred three weeks later and the abundance of caterpillars was much lower. On Corsica, tits started to lay three weeks later than in the deciduous mainland habitat and laid about 30% fewer eggs. As in the deciduous mainland habitat, the breeding process seemed to be adjusted to the patterns of food availability. In the two mainland evergreen habitats, tits started to breed earlier and laid more eggs than expected from the patterns of food availability so that they mismatched the best period to raise their young. The apparent maladaptation of tits in these evergreen mainland habitats is hypothesized to result from an asymmetric gene flow between rich deciduous habitats (source), where well-adapted birds produce many fledglings, and poor evergreen habitats (sink), where the density is maintained through immigration from rich habitats.
10.2307/4090284| Modulation of the adrenocortical stress response with respect to the degree of parental activity was investigated in three Arctic-breeding species of songbirds faced with limited opportunities to breed. The hypothesis that the strength of the response can be lowered when reproductive effort or investment is greatest was tested by measuring the adrenocortical response to handling stress during two breeding stages that represented different levels of reproductive effort (i.e. before young were present [preparental] and while feeding nestlings [parental]). Comparisons of the corticosterone stress response (baseline at capture and subsequent samples 5, 10, 30, and 60 min after capture) were made within and between both sexes of American Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea), White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), and Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) breeding above the Arctic Circle at Toolik Lake, Alaska. In general, body mass and baseline corticosterone did not differ between sexes within each of the three species, nor did they change during the two stages of breeding (tree and White-crowned sparrows only). In all three species, males had stronger adrenocortical responses than females during the preparental period, a time when males may expend less in reproductive effort than females. However, during the parental stage (tree and White-crowned sparrows only), the stress response of males declined and became similar to that of females because both sexes fed young. Females of both species (having considerable reproductive effort throughout both stages via egg laying or incubation and feeding young) showed no change in stress response with breeding stage. These results support the hypothesis that individuals with limited opportunities to breed can modulate the adrenocortical stress response when reproductive effort or investment is greatest as a way to maximize breeding success. /// Se investig la modulacin de la respuesta adrenocrtica al estrs con respecto al grado de actividad parental en tres especies de aves canoras que se reproducen en el rtico y que cuentan con oportunidades limitadas para reproducirse. Se puso a prueba la hiptesis de que la magnitud de la respuesta puede disminuirse cuando el esfuerzo o la inversin reproductiva son mximos, midiendo la respuesta adrenocrtica al estrs de manipulacin durante dos etapas que representaban diferentes niveles de esfuerzo reproductivo (i.e. antes de que las cras estuvieran presentes [preparental] y mientras se estaba alimentando a los pichones [parental]). Las comparaciones de la respuesta al estrs en corticosterona (basales al momento de captura y muestras subsecuentes 5, 10, 30 y 60 min tras la captura) se hicieron para un mismo sexo y entre sexos en individuos de Spizella arborea, Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii y Passerculus sandwichensis que estaban reproducindose arriba del Crculo rtico en Toolik Lake, Alaska. En general, la masa corporal y la corticosterona basal no difirieron entre sexos al interior de cada especie, ni cambiaron durante las dos etapas reproductivas (slo en S. arborea y Z. leucophrys). En las tres especies, los machos presentaron respuestas adrenocrticas ms fuertes que las hembras durante el perodo preparental, cuando los machos podran gastar menos en esfuerzo reproductivo que las hembras. Sin embargo, durante la etapa parental la respuesta al estrs de los machos declin y se hizo similar a la de las hembras cuando los dos sexos alimentaban a los pichones (slo en S. arborea y Z. leucophrys). Las hembras de ambas especies (que tuvieron un esfuerzo considerable a travs de ambas etapas por la postura o incubacin de los huevos y la alimentacin de los pichones) no exhibieron cambios en la respuesta al estrs entre las etapas reproductivas. Estos resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que los individuos con oportunidades limitadas para reproducirse pueden modular su respuesta adrenocrtica al estrs cuando el esfuerzo o la inversin reproductiva son mximos como una manera de maximizar su xito reproductivo. 
4089544|Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus varius) obtain phloem sap from clusters of holes that they peck in living trees. I examined trees that sapsuckers used for sap extraction in northern Michigan and tested several hypotheses to explain why they choose specific trees for attack and why they cluster their holes in one place on the bole of each of these focal trees. Sapsuckers preferentially attacked individuals of paper birch (Betula papyrifera), red maple (Acer rubrum), juneberry (Amelanchier sp.) and bigtooth aspen (Populus grandidentata). They made clusters of sap holes an average of 7.13 m from the ground and within 1 m of a live branch; most clusters were located above old holes or other wounds from previous years. Each new sap incision through the bark to the phloem stream was made above a previous one and was enlarged for an average of 3.1 days before being abandoned for a new, higher hole. The resulting long vertical chains of holes were made alongside others to form tight clusters of holes at a single spot on the tree. Sapsuckers did not select trees for sap extraction based on location relative to nesting sites or on microclimate conditions of water availability and tree density. Individual trees used for sap extraction did not have thinner bark, more moisture in bark samples, or larger crowns, but they did score lower in an index of overall tree health. Experimental evidence suggested that sapsuckers cluster their holes to induce the accumulation of sap in bark that they will attack for future sap extraction. Thus, sapsuckers appear to overcome some of the difficulties in obtaining phloem sap by choosing specific species and individuals, clustering sap holes above previous wounds, and possibly by farming their resource throughout the season by girdling the tree's phloem stream with each successive sap incision. I attempted to duplicate the wounding techniques and patterns of wounding of sapsuckers but was unable to induce sap flow from the same or similar trees in the area.
4088314|During February in 1987 and January and February in 1988, I conducted 167 unlimited-distance point counts in central Texas to assess how count duration, daily period (time of day), and site type (woodland perimeter, woodland interior) were associated with winter richness estimates. Annual and seasonal influences on richness were controlled for statistically. Based on comparisons of means, levels of count duration and daily period may be useful in various combinations to obtain estimates with comparable magnitude and precision throughout the day. Such combinations might be used in sampling schedules to increase point-count sample size. Point counts in woodland interiors produced higher estimates than those at adjacent woodland perimeters. When estimates from before and after mid-February were compared, I observed declines in richness at woodland perimeters but not at woodland interiors. The standard error of richness increased exponentially during the day; this increase was most evident for 10- and 15-min counts. To avoid declines in precision, one should sample earlier in the day, perhaps from 0700 to 1345. With some preliminary data, investigators also can apply standard formulas to allocate counts to different daily periods, count durations, or both, to obtain minimum-variance estimates of richness for an area. Through statistical power effects, increases in the number and precision of unlimited-distance point counts should improve the accuracy of ecological inferences.
25150379| We measured the energy requirements during postnatal development of six hand-reared Common Loon (Gavia immer) chicks using continuous feeding trials and doubly labeled water. At fledging, the mean ( SE) body mass of chicks was 3,246  51 g. They reached asymptotic body mass in 66 days and had a mean growth rate constant of 0.089  0.002 day, which was greater than growth rate constants of other, similar-sized precocial birds. Between hatch and day 66, chicks allocated 16.5% of their metabolizable energy to new tissue, lower than the average for other bird species (20%), which might be expected considering their precocial mode of development. There was a developmental change in the assimilation efficiency of food (metabolizable energy coefficient), with a mean of 0.64  0.03 in chicks aged 21 days, rising to 0.83  0.07 in chicks aged 35 days. /// Nous avons mesur les besoins en nergie durant le dveloppement postnatal chez six jeunes Gavia immer par l'entremise d'expriences d'alimentation et d'eau doublement marque.  l'envol, la masse corporelle moyenne des oiseaux tait de 3,246  51 g. Pendant leur croissance, les jeunes Gavia immer ont atteint une masse corporelle asymptotique en approximativement 66 jours et avaient une constante de taux de croissance moyen de 0.089  0.002 jour, ce qui reprsente une valeur plus leve que d'autres oiseaux prcoces de taille similaire. Entre l'closion et le jour 66 postnatal, les oisillons ont allous 16.5% de leur nergie mtabolisable  la formation de nouveaux tissus, une valeur plus faible que la moyenne retrouve pour d'autres espces d'oiseaux (20%), mais la valeur pour le Gavia immer pourrait seulement tre relie au fait qu'ils ont un mode de dveloppement prcoce. Nous avons not un changement de croissance dans l'efficacit d'assimilation de la nourriture (coefficient d'nergie mtabolisable), avec une moyenne de 0.64  0.03 chez les jeunes gs de 21 jours et de 0.83  0.07 chez les oiseaux de 35 jours. 
10.2307/4089064|Negative effects of late breeding on chick growth and creching and fledging ages of chicks have been reported for Chinstrap Penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica). In a Chinstrap Penguin rookery on Deception Island, we experimentally tested two hypotheses to explain these effects of hatching date: (1) late breeding pairs are formed by low-quality breeders that are not able to feed their chicks efficiently and are forced to leave them unguarded at younger ages; and (2) late breeding pairs experience a conflict between properly caring for their chicks and commencing the period of premolt reserve storage. By exchanging chicks among nests hatched six days apart, we separated the effects of quality of adults (as expressed by their breeding dates) from the hatching date of chicks. We measured bill and flipper length and weighed chicks at 17 and 44 days of age, and noted the age at which chicks were left unguarded by parents. Late-hatched chicks attained smaller sizes and masses and were left unguarded at earlier ages than early-hatched chicks independent of the breeding date of the adults raising them. Also, chicks hatched on the same date but raised by adults with different breeding dates reached the same sizes and masses and were left unguarded at similar ages. Thus, seasonal changes in chick growth and creching age are related to hatching date, not to differences in parental quality.
10.2307/4090144| Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) is a grassland bird that has suffered drastic population declines for over 30 years. Declining populations can be largely attributed to loss of breeding habitat, but loss of wintering habitat associated with longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) communities, especially pitcher plant (Sarracenia spp.) bogs, along the Gulf Coast also may be a contributing factor. Fire is critical for restoration and conservation of remaining longleaf pine communities, but the influence of fire on wintering Henslow's Sparrows has not been evaluated. We examined the influence of season and frequency (time since burning) of fire on use of pitcher plant bogs by Henslow's Sparrows wintering in the Conecuh National Forest, Alabama, and Blackwater River State Forest, Florida, during winters of 1999-2000 and 2000-2001. Density of Henslow's Sparrows was greatest on bogs the first winter after burning. Although significant effects for season of burning were not found, bogs burned during winter typically hosted Henslow's Sparrows for only one winter, whereas bogs burned during the growing season hosted sparrows for at least three winters. Growing-season fires may be more beneficial than dormant-season fires and will prevent forced abandonment of bogs burned during winter. Frequency of seed stalks of grasses and density of forbs were the most influential vegetation parameters affecting occurrence of Henslow's Sparrows at pitcher plant bogs. Henslow's Sparrows were found on bogs as small as 0.06 ha, but were found on bogs >0.25 ha more frequently than on smaller bogs. We conclude that burning pitcher plant bogs on an annual or biennial basis during the growing season will maximize the benefits to both wintering Henslow's Sparrows and the host of other organisms associated with those unique communities. /// Ammodramus henslowii es una especie de ave de pastizal que ha sufrido drsticas disminuciones poblacionales a lo largo de los ltimos 30 aos. La disminucin de las poblaciones se puede atribuir a la prdida del hbitat reproductivo, pero la prdida del hbitat de invernada asociado a comunidades del pino Pinus palustris (especialmente a las plantas del gnero Sarracenia en pantanos a lo largo de la costa del golfo) tambin puede ser un factor contribuyente. El fuego es crtico para la restauracin y conservacin de las comunidades de P. palustris que an quedan, pero la influencia del fuego sobre las poblaciones invernantes de A. henslowii no ha sido evaluada. Examinamos la influencia de la estacionalidad y frecuencia (tiempo desde la quema) del fuego sobre el uso de pantanos de Sarracenia spp. por individuos de A. henslowii que se encontraban invernando en Conecuh National Forest, Alabama, y Blackwater River State Forest, Florida, durante los inviernos de 1999-2000 y 2000-2001. La densidad de A. henslowii fue mayor en los pantanos durante el primer invierno luego de la quema. A pesar de que no se encontraron efectos significativos de la estacin de la quema, los pantanos quemados durante el invierno tpicamente albergaron poblaciones de A. henslowii slo durante un invierno, mientras que los pantanos quemados durante la poca de crecimiento albergaron a estas aves por lo menos durante tres inviernos. Los fuegos durante la poca de crecimiento pueden ser ms beneficiosos que los fuegos durante la poca de dormancia y adems previenen el abandono forzado de los pantanos quemados durante el invierno. La frecuencia de tallos de pastos y la densidad de hierbas fueron los parmetros de vegetacin con la influencia ms importante sobre la ocurrencia de A. henslowii en los pantanos de Sarracenia spp. Individuos de A. henslowii fueron encontrados en pantanos tan pequeos como de 0.06 ha, pero ocurrieron con mayor frecuencia en pantanos de ms de 0.25 ha. Concluimos que la quema anual o bianual de los pantanos de Sarracenia spp. durante la poca de crecimiento maximizar los beneficios tanto para las poblaciones de A. henslowii que se encuentran invernando, como para una variedad de otros organismos asociados a estas comunidades nicas. 
10.2307/4089949|A novel nuclear marker, the avian ovomucoid intron G (OVOG) was sequenced from 19 galliform taxa. Results of the phylogenetic analyses using OVOG were compared to those obtained using the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cytb) gene to determine the phylogenetic utility of OVOG. OVOG appeared to have strong phylogenetic signal for reconstructing relationships among genera and families, and the only difference between OVOG and cytb was in the placement of the New World quail (Odontophoridae). Genetic distances estimated using OVOG are approximately half of those estimated using cytb, although that relationship was not linear. OVOG exhibited patterns of nucleotide substitution very different from cytb, with OVOG having little base compositional bias, a relatively low transition-transversion ratio, and little among-site rate heterogeneity.
4090676| The nests of some birds are built exclusively by males and then displayed to females. In such species, one expects females to choose those nests that provide maximum safety to themselves and their offspring. What attributes of a nest should females use in making these choices? Here, I examine the correlates of nesting success in the Baya Weaver (Ploceus philippinus), a species in which males provide nests and little else. In particular, I examine which of two suites of nest attributes best predicts nesting success: nest location (which reflects male competitive ability) or nest architecture (which reflects male building skill). Because whether a nest has successfully fledged young is sometimes uncertain, I supplement generalized linear model analyses with survival analyses, which can incorporate ambiguity in nest fate. Together, these analyses reveal that nests built in thorny trees and woven with fine fiber have high success. Nesting success also increases with nest height and with thickness of the supporting branch. Overall, nest location is a slightly better predictor of success than nest architecture; this is consistent with previous findings that female choice of nests is influenced more by location than by architecture. /// Los nidos de algunas aves son construidos exclusivamente por los machos y luego exhibidos ante las hembras en despliegues. En las especies con este comportamiento, se espera que las hembras escojan los nidos que proveen mayor seguridad para ellas y sus cras. Qu caractersticas de los nidos deberan tener en cuenta las hembras para realizar su escogencia? En este estudio, examino los factores que se correlacionan con el xito reproductivo en Ploceus philippinus, una especie en la que los nidos representan prcticamente la nica contribucin que los machos hacen a las hembras. En particular, examino cul caracterstica predice mejor el xito de nidificacin, si la ubicacin de los nidos (un reflejo de las habilidades competitivas de los machos) o su arquitectura (un reflejo de las habilidades de construccin de los machos). Debido a que en algunos casos es incierto si los pichones de un nido lo abandonaron exitosamente, complement anlisis basados en modelos lineales generalizados con anlisis de supervivencia, los cuales pueden incorporar la incertidumbre respecto al resultado de los eventos de nidificacin. En combinacin, estos anlisis revelan que los nidos construidos en rboles espinosos y tejidos con fibras finas son ms exitosos. El xito reproductivo tambin se incrementa con la altura de los nidos y con el grosor de la rama que les sirve como soporte. En general, la ubicacin de los nidos predice ligeramente mejor el xito de los nidos que su arquitectura. Este patrn concuerda con hallazgos previos que indican que la escogencia de los nidos por parte de las hembras es influenciada ms por su ubicacin que por su arquitectura. 
25150391|We tested the monophyly and determined the phylogenetic relationships of the seven genera (Laniisoma, Laniocera, Iodopleura, Pachyramphus, Schiffornis, Tityra, and Xenopsaris) and 27 of the 31 recognized species of the subfamily Tityrinae using complete gene sequence data from the mitochondrial gene NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2. Monophyly of all seven genera was recovered using both weighted parsimony and Bayesian methods. Intergeneric relationships were nearly identical between the two methods and are largely in concordance with previous studies. Both analyses recovered two basal clades within the Tityrinae: one clade contained Schiffornis, Laniocera, and Laniisoma; the other clade consisted of Iodopleura, Tityra, Xenopsaris, and Pachyramphus. All genera in the Tityrinae that contained multiple species were monophyletic and are concordant with current taxonomy. We present the first phylogeny for Pachyramphus and suggest that Platypsaris is not valid. Character mapping of morphological, nest-construction, and breeding-system data on our phylogeny suggest conservative evolution of most characters. We recommend elevating the Tityrinae to family level. /// Pusimos a prueba la monofilia y establecimos las relaciones filogenticas de los siete gneros (Laniisoma, Laniocera, Iodopleura, Pachyramphus, Schiffornis, Tityra y Xenopsaris) y de 27 de las 31 especies reconocidas de la subfamilia Tityrinae, utilizando secuencias completas del gen mitocondrial de la subunidad 2 de la NADH deshidrogenasa. La monofilia de los siete gneros se recobr utilizando mtodos de parsimonia con pesaje y de inferencia Bayesiana. Las relaciones intergenricas observadas fueron casi idnticas entre los mtodos y concuerdan en gran medida con estudios previos. Ambos anlisis recobraron dos clados basales dentro de los Tityrinae: uno de ellos incluye a Schiffornis, Laniocera y Laniisoma, y el otro a Iodopleura, Tityra, Xenopsaris y Pachyramphus. Todos los gneros de Tityrinae para los que se incluyeron mltiples especies resultaron ser monofilticos y concordantes con la taxonoma actual. Presentamos la primera filogenia para Pachyramphus y sugerimos que Platypsaris no es un gnero vlido. El mapeo de caracteres morflogicos, de construccin de nidos y de sistemas reproductivos sobre nuestra filogenia, sugiere que la mayora de los rasgos evolucionan conservadoramente. Recomendamos que el taxn Tityrinae sea reconocido con el rango de familia.
10.2307/4090285| Capture-mark-recapture studies provide a useful mechanism for estimating the components of the population dynamics of birds, especially survival. In such studies, it is important that the population being captured matches the population of interest. In many studies, transients are captured along with the population of interest (e.g. resident breeders). Ignoring that phenomenon produces negatively biased survival estimates, because transients do not return. Although transients cannot be distinguished from residents in the hand, previous methods have adjusted for transience by relying on those captured in more than one year to provide direct estimates of survival rate for residents. Here, we extend that approach by supplementing that cohort of known residents with those previously unmarked birds captured twice or more, at least d days apart, within a season. We provide an ad hoc approach to that extension in detail and outline two more formal approaches. That extension increases the precision of survival estimates. /// Los estudios de captura, marcado y recaptura representan un mecanismo til para estimar los componentes de la dinmica poblacional de las aves, especialmente la supervivencia. En ese tipo de estudios, es importante que la poblacin que est siendo capturada coincida con la poblacin de inters. En muchos estudios, se capturan individuos transentes junto con los individuos pertenecientes a la poblacion de inters (e.g. residentes reproductivos). Ignorar este fenmeno genera un sesgo negativo en la estimacin de la supervivencia, debido a que los individuos transentes por definicin son aquellos que no regresan. A pesar de que los individuos transentes no pueden ser diferenciados de los residentes cuando son capturados, ciertos mtodos permiten determinar la presencia de transentes considerando slo aquellos individuos capturados en ms de un ao, lo que permite obtener estimaciones directas de la tasa de supervivencia de los residentes. En este trabajo, extendemos este mtodo suplementando la cohorte de residentes conocidos con aquellas aves no marcadas previamente pero capturadas dos o ms veces durante una estacin, con por lo menos d das de separacin. Brindamos un enfoque ad hoc detallado de dicha extensin y describimos dos enfoques formales ms. Esta extensin aumenta la precisin de las estimaciones de supervivencia. 
4088365| Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica) may face periods of complete food deprivation during incubation in the High Arctic. We studied the ability of these birds to withstand a prolonged fast. We measured rate of mass loss, patterns of carbohydrate, lipid and protein utilization, and changes in resting metabolic rate in 11 captive geese subjected to complete food deprivation. Geese lost 44% of their initial body mass during fasting periods that ranged from 19 to 42 days (mean 34 days). The rate of mass loss reflected the three phases commonly associated with the changing rates of lipid and protein catabolism in homeotherms. Phase I (11 days) was characterized by a decreasing rate of body-mass loss and a rapid increase in plasma -hydroxybutyrate level, indicating body-lipid mobilization. During phase II (22 days), the rate of body-mass loss stabilized at a low level. Plasma concentration of -hydroxybutyrate peaked in the first half of phase II and then decreased. Plasma uric-acid level, an index of protein catabolism, increased during the second half. Resting metabolic rate of fasting geese was reduced by 38% below the pre-fast value, more than predicted from body-mass decrease alone. Phase III (3 to 4 days) was characterized by an increase in the daily rate of mass loss. Plasma concentration of uric acid increased markedly, while -hydroxybutyrate values remained low and stable. Glycemia and total plasma protein level also started to fall. Greater Snow Geese did not tolerate fasting as long as larger birds, like penguins, probably because they were less efficient in sparing their protein reserves during phase II. Greater Snow Geese endurance of fasting may be limited by their use of flight, which ultimately limits their capacity to carry the large fat reserves required for prolonged fasting. 
25150354| I report on the lifetime reproductive success (LRS) of female Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) in central New York. I investigated the major correlates of LRS and specifically tested the hypothesis that small body size yields reproductive benefits. Lifetime reproductive success varied widely: 15-20% of females failed to fledge young over their life, whereas 50% of young were fledged by 20% of females. Female lifespan varied between one and eight years, and females that died after one breeding season tended to be smaller-bodied than long-lived females (2 seasons). I therefore conducted analyses of LRS for the entire sample and for longer-lived females separately. As in other species, lifespan was the strongest predictor of LRS, followed by the proportion of eggs laid that resulted in fledged young (P). Lifetime reproductive success varied positively with clutch size and, as predicted, inversely with body size (i.e., tarsus length) of females. However, variance partitioning indicated that most variation in LRS was attributable to the effects of lifespan and P, but that a substantial negative covariance existed between lifespan and P. The latter result was consistent with experimental evidence of a cost of reproduction in Eastern Kingbirds. Analysis of the correlates of lifespan, P, and clutch size showed that over a female's lifetime, (1) the longest-lived birds fledged an intermediate proportion of the eggs that they laid, (2) the most productive birds were of intermediate wing length, and (3) females with small tarsi produced the largest clutches and lost the fewest nests to predators. Hence, although lifespan was the dominant influence on LRS, negative effects of large female size appeared to be expressed through the influence of body size on other demographic parameters that contribute to LRS. /// En este estudio brindo informacin sobre el xito reproductivo completo de vida (ERC) de hembras de Tyrannus tyrannus en el centro de Nueva York. Investigu los principales correlatos del ERC y prob especficamente la hiptesis de que un tamao corporal pequeo proporciona beneficios. El xito reproductivo total vari mucho: el 15-20% de las hembras no emplumaron polluelos durante su vida, mientras que el 50% de los polluelos fueron emplumados por el 20% de las hembras. Las hembras vivieron entre uno y ocho aos; las hembras que murieron despus de una poca reproductiva tendieron a ser ms pequeas que las que vivieron ms tiempo (2 pocas reproductivas). Por lo tanto, los anlisis de ERC para toda la muestra y para las hembras que vivieron ms tiempo fueron realizados por separado. Como se encontr para otras especies, la duracin de la vida fue la variable que mejor predijo el ERC, seguida por la proporcin de huevos puestos que resultaron en polluelos emplumados (P). El xito reproductivo completo vari positivamente con el tamao de la puesta, y como predicho, de manera inversa con el tamao corporal (i.e., largo del tarso) de las hembras. Sin embargo, la particin de la varianza indic que la mayor parte de la variacin en el ERC estuvo dada por los efectos de la duracin de la vida y P, pero que existi una covarianza negativa substancial entre la duracin de la vida y P. Este ltimo resultado fue consistente con evidencia experimental del costo reproductivo en T. tyrannus. Los anlisis de los correlatos de la duracin de la vida, P y el tamao de la puesta mostraron que a lo largo de la vida de una hembra, (1) las aves que vivieron ms tiempo emplumaron una proporcin intermedia de los huevos puestos, (2) las aves ms productivas tuvieron alas de largo intermedio y (3) las hembras con tarsos cortos produjeron las puestas ms grandes y perdieron el menor nmero de nidos por depredacin. Por lo tanto, a pesar de que la duracin de la vida influenci fuertemente el ERC, los efectos negativos de hembras de gran tamao parecen expresarse a travs de la influencia del tamao corporal sobre otros parmetros demogrficos que contribuyen al ERC. 
4087084|We compared reproductive performance of five species of seabirds at two colonies, St. George Island (2.5 million birds) and St. Paul Island (250,000 birds), in the southeastern Bering Sea. All species had lower chick growth rates at the larger colony, and the differences were statistically significant in four species. Fledge weights of Common Murres (Uria aalge) on St. George Island were 84-88% of those on St. Paul. Average fledge weights of Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) on St. George were only 74% of those for chicks from St. Paul. We found no significant differences in clutch size or breeding success between populations breeding at the two colonies. For three species, Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla), Common Murres, and Thick-billed Murres, we extended our analysis to include published data from other colonies. We examined breeding performance as a function of colony size, population size (suggestive of intraspecific competition), and "effective colony size," the sum of the populations of species with considerable dietary overlap (suggestive of interspecific competition for food). We found consistently negative relationships between population size and several measures of breeding performance (clutch size, growth rate, fledge weight, and breeding success). In addition to the lower breeding success at colonies that support large populations, chicks from these colonies may be subject to higher postfledging mortality because of fledging at lower weights.
4086065|We quantitatively describe the nest-site habitat selected by Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus), Red-shouldered Hawks (B. lineatus), Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis), and Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii), emphasizing differences among species and between each species and the surrounding forest habitat. We subjected 53 nest sites and 100 randomly selected sites to an intensive habitat analysis based upon the James and Shugart (1970) techniques. White oak (Quercus alba) was the most common nest tree. Distance to water, percentage nest height, distance to the nearest forest opening, basal area, and dbh of the nest tree were important discriminating variables between the hawk species. Compared with the random sample of the available forest area, Broad-winged Hawks nested closer to water and to forest openings. Red-shouldered Hawks consistently nested near water and in large trees in stands of mature forests. Red-tailed Hawks nested higher in trees than did the other species, on or near the top of ridges, and far from water and forest openings. Cooper's Hawks nested proportionally higher in trees than did Broad-winged and Red-shouldered hawks and were associated with mature forest with a well-developed understory and ground cover layer. A discriminant function analysis revealed that each species appears to select rather specific nesting areas, as characterized by the proximity of the site to various physiographic features and the structure of the nest tree.
25488616|The level of site fidelity in birds is often characterized as "high" on the basis of rates of return or homing from markrecapture data. For species that exhibit site fidelity, subsequent biological assumptions have included population structure, demographic independence, and that the extirpation of a site-faithful group might be irreversible because of low immigration. Yet several genetic studies have observed patterns of population differentiation that are incongruous with strong site fidelity, which suggests recent isolation, gene flow, or both. Using a 13-year live-recapture and dead-recovery data set, as well as nuclear and mitochondrial DNA collected across the range of the Hooded Merganser (
4087028|Foraging behavior in the closely related Hairy (Picoides villosus) and White-headed (P. albolarvatus) woodpeckers was examined in an area of sympatry to evaluate interseasonal and intersexual resource use. Similar foraging heights were observed for each species-sex sample during summer, but significant differences were evident during winter. Male and female White-heads maintained similar relative foraging heights between seasons, whereas male and female Hairies foraged relatively higher during winter. Use of tree species differed significantly for each class between seasons, except for male Hairies. Differences in foraging substrates and tree health also were noted interseasonally. All foraged at similar times of day during summer, but negative relationships occurred between times of foraging during winter; foraging times were significantly different between male Hairies and White-heads. A general trend toward decreased overlap in foraging behaviors during winter was a reflection of concentration of foraging activities on live incense cedar (Calocedrus decurrens), especially by female White-heads. This change apparently was due to the presence of an abundant and accessible prey (incense cedar scale, Xylococculus macrocarpae) on cedar. Behavioral shifts in foraging activities may be related to the differential ability to extract prey as a function of bill morphology; such an idea can be extended to intersexual as well as interseasonal considerations. Thus, segregation of foraging activities in these two woodpecker species may be attributed to morphological differences and habitat complexity rather than to competitive interactions dictated by resource limititions.
25150400|Four thrush species are sympatric in the central Appalachians: Veery (Catharus fuscescens), Hermit Thrush (C. guttatus), Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), and American Robin (Turdus migratorius). The four species often nest near one another, which suggests that habitat partitioning may have developed to minimize past interspecific competition. Our objectives were to determine which specific characteristics of nesting habitat were partitioned among the species and to evaluate the relationship of these characteristics to nest survival. We monitored nests and sampled habitat variables at three spatial scales: nest substrate, nest site, and territory. A multivariate analysis of variance indicated a difference (P < 0.01) in the nest sites of all species and in each pairwise species contrast. An analysis of variance and Fisher's exact tests detected differences (P < 0.05) among species in 21 of 36 variables measured. Classification tree analysis correctly classified nests by species at a rate better than would be expected at random. Habitat partitioning among the four thrush species occurred at all three scales sampled, with the most important partitioning variables being nest height, distance-to-edge, sapling density, and elevation. Mayfield logistic regression found a positive relationship (P < 0.05) between decreasing nest height and American Robin nest survival. Overall, nest survival was similar among the four thrush species examined, and most of the variables that we measured were unrelated to survival. /// Quatre espces de grives sont sympatriques dans le centre des Appalaches: Catharus fuscescens, C. guttatus, Hylocichla mustelina et Turdus migratorius. Les quatre espces nichent souvent prs l'une de l'autre, ce qui suggre que la partition de l'habitat ait pu se dvelopper afin de minimiser la comptition interspcifique. Nos objectifs taient de dterminer quelles caractristiques spcifiques de l'habitat de nidification ont t partitionnes entre les espces et d'valuer la relation entre ces caractristiques et la survie du nid. Nous avons suivi des nids et chantillonn des variables de l'habitat  trois chelles spatiales: le substrat du nid, le site de nidification et le territoire. Une analyse de variance multivarie a indiqu une diffrence (P < 0.01) entre les sites de nidification de toutes les espces et dans chaque contraste par paire d'espce. Une analyse de variance et des tests de Fisher ont permis de dtecter des diffrences (P < 0.05) entre les espces pour 21 des 36 variables mesures. Une analyse de groupement a correctement class les nids par espce  un meilleur taux que prdit par le hasard. La partition de l'habitat parmi les quatre espces de grive s'est produite aux trois chelles chantillonnes. Les variables de partition les plus importantes taient la hauteur du nid, la distance  la lisire de la fort, la densit de jeunes tiges et l'altitude. Une rgression logistique de Mayfield a mis en vidence une relation positive (P < 0.05) entre la diminution de la hauteur du nid et la survie du nid de T. migratorius. En gnral, la survie du nid tait similaire entre les quatre espces de grives tudies et la plupart des variables que nous avons mesur n'taient pas relies  la survie.
auk.2012.11242|The North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) is an annual transect point-count survey of >500 species and >3,500 survey routes (transects). Observers drive and record birds seen and heard within a radius of 400 m of 50 survey points (stops ) evenly spaced along a 39.4-km survey route. Thus, the land area along both sides of a route composes a linear or curvilinear landscape. Although BBS data have been used in many studies and conservation plans, there have been few attempts to determine how well the landscapes along BBS routes represent landscapes at larger spatial extents, particularly with regard to land-cover composition. Using data from the 2001 National Land Cover Database, we conducted a study of representativeness of 3,230 routes by comparing the differences in percent cover of 15 land-cover types in BBS landscapes (buffer width of 0.4 km surrounding a route) to larger local landscapes (10 km buffer width) and regions. At the local level, BBS landscapes were representative for most of the cover types except open water, which was underrepresented, and lightly developed open space, which was overrepresented. At the regional level, the collective composition of BBS landscapes was very similar to the composition within entire Bird Conservation Regions. Overall, these results should encourage the continued use of BBS data in ornithological and ecological research and in conservation planning.
25488557|During incubation, ground-breeding sandpipers such as Red Knots (
25150383|Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds") is an important factor contributing to the endangered status of the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher "(Empidonax traillii extimus, hereafter "flycatcher"). We report on factors that influence brood parasitism on the flycatcher using seven seasons of nest data (n = 491 nests) collected in riparian patches comprising cottonwood (Populus fremontii), willow (Salix spp.), and boxelder (Acer negundo) along the Gila River in southwest New Mexico. We quantified habitat and landscape characteristics that might be associated with higher levels of parasitism and assessed the correlation between those and the observed incidence of nest parasitism. Given that cowbirds associate with cattle, we were particularly interested to determine whether the distance to active summer grazing would influence the frequency of brood parasitism. We found an apparent negative trend between the distance to grazing and brood parasitism, but this trend was not statistically significant. Rather, brood parasitism was more strongly correlated with characteristics of the habitat. Specifically, nests in larger patches, and nests built near the patch edge adjacent to the river, were more susceptible to parasitism, which suggests that these areas are preferred nesting habitat for cowbirds because of a potentially greater abundance of hosts. Parasitism was significantly lower within the core of large patches, but the insulating effect was not evident in small and medium-sized patches. Higher nest height was strongly correlated with lower probability of parasitism, most notably for nests in boxelders. Nests in boxelders were less susceptible to parasitism, whereas nests in willows were more susceptible to parasitism. We discuss the results in the context of other studies. We recommend that management efforts to recover the flycatcher should focus on increasing quality habitat, and we suggest that cattle management should focus on eliminating the adverse effects of grazing on riparian health as a more feasible option than removing cattle far enough from riparian corridors so as to preclude parasitism. /// El parasitismo de la nidada por parte de Molothrus ater es un factor importante que contribuye al estatus de especie en peligro de Empidonax traillii extimus. Presentamos informacin sobre los factores que influyen sobre el parasitismo de la nidada de E. t. extimus usando datos de nidos de siete estaciones (n = 491 nidos), colectados en parches ribereos de Populus fremontii, Salix spp. y Acer negundo, a lo largo del Ro Gila en el sudoeste de Nuevo Mxico. Cuantificamos las caractersticas del hbitat y del paisaje que podran estar asociadas con niveles ms alto de parasitismo y evaluamos la correlacin entre stos y la incidencia observada de parasitismo de nidos. Dado que M. ater se asocia con el ganado, estbamos particularmente interesados en determinar si la distancia a los sitios activos de pastoreo de verano influyen sobre la frecuencia de parasitismo de la nidada. Encontramos una tendencia aparentemente negativa entre la distancia a los sitios de pastoreo y el parasitismo de la nidada, pero esta tendencia no fue estadsticamente significativa. En lugar de esto, el parasitismo de nidada estuvo ms fuertemente correlacionado con las caractersticas del hbitat. Especficamente, los nidos en los parches ms grandes, y los nidos construidos cerca del borde de los parches adyacentes al ro, fueron los ms susceptibles al parasitismo. Esto sugiere que esas reas podran ser los ambientes preferidos de nidificacin para M. ater, debido a una abundancia de hospederos potencialmente mayor. El parasitismo fue significativamente ms bajo en el ncleo de los parches grandes, pero el efecto de asilamiento no fue evidente en los parches pequeos y medianos. La posicin de los nidos a una altura mayor estuvo fuertemente correlacionada con una menor probabilidad de parasitismo, particularmente para los nidos en A. negundo. Los nidos en A. negundo fueron menos susceptibles al parasitismo, mientras que los nidos en las especies de Salix fueron ms susceptibles al parasitismo. Discutimos nuestros resultados en el contexto de otros estudios. Recomendamos que los esfuerzos de manejo para la recuperacin de E. t. extimus deberan enfocarse en incrementar la calidad del hbitat. Tambin sugerimos que el manejo del ganado debera enfocarse en la eliminacin de los efectos adversos del pastoreo sobre la condicin de los ambientes ribereos, como una opcin ms realista que la remocin del ganado en las cercanas de los corredores ribereos como para evitar el parasitismo.
10.2307/4089931|For various reasons, migrating birds may not refuel and gain mass immediately after they have arrived at a stopover site. That led to the concept of a search-settling time after arrival with a low or negative initial refueling rate, but its existence has not been clearly demonstrated in field studies. Body-mass changes resulting from capture-recapture data can be misleading if used for the estimation of a natural low initial refueling rate because (1) it is usually unknown whether the day of first capture is also the first day of stopover, and (2) handling at first capture may have an adverse effect on subsequent body-mass development. To circumvent those problems we increased probability of catching birds shortly after arrival by inducing landfall by tape-luring, and we estimated body-mass change without previous handling effects from concentration of two metabolites in blood plasma. In the Eurasian Reed-Warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus) studied at a stopover site in Switzerland, there was no difference in plasma-metabolite concentrations between a group of mostly newly arrived individuals and a group with few newly arrived birds. Similarly, there was no difference in those parameters between birds that had been handled before and birds at first capture. However, the analysis of capture-recapture data from two other Swiss stopover sites with longer handling times indicated that mean body mass of Eurasian Reed-Warblers and European Robins (Erithacus rubecula) dropped after capture and reached initial values only after one to several days. We concluded that mass loss after capture depended mainly on lost foraging time and that natural low initial refueling rate after arrival at a stopover site is not detectable under the conditions of this study.
4086469|During 1979 and 1980, we studied the incubation behavior and body-weight dynamics of captive Canada Geese (Branta canadensis moffitti) with known breeding histories. Females were attentive to their nests for 97.5% of the incubation period and lost 27% of their initial body weight. Heavier females were more attentive to their nests and lost more weight during incubation than did lighter females. Variation in body weight among females was greatest at the onset of incubation and least at hatch, which suggests that females invested maximum reserves in incubation. Recess frequency and duration increased throughout incubation, resulting in more foraging time for the female. Once a lower critical weight of about 3,200 g was reached, the amount of recess time taken increased dramatically, probably because lipid reserves were depleted. Females nesting for the first time began incubation at a lighter body weight and were less attentive than experienced females. All inexperienced females were either 4 or 5 yr old, but their egg production (4 eggs) was that of 2- or 3-yr-old wild females. This indicated that experience rather than age was the important variable affecting acquisition of reserves. Inattentiveness to a nest by a female prolongs the duration of incubation and exposes the nest to a greater risk of predation. The inability of inexperienced females to gain enough reserves to provide for both maximum clutch size and attentiveness during incubation may be a major explanation for the lower hatching success of geese nesting for the first time.
4085755|There are conflicting ideas on the factors that affect color-phase polymorphism in Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus). O'Donald and Davis (1975) believe that the polymorphism is transient. Arnason (1978) believes that the polymorphism is balanced and maintained by apostatic selection, in which the rare form is at a selective advantage because its prey do not have a chance to form a "search image" of it. At one colony in Iceland he found that the pale birds were significantly more successful than the dark. Data we collected at Iceland and Shetland show no significant difference in success between the two phases. We conclude that it is unlikely that apostatic selection maintains a balanced polymorphism. We feel it is more likely that a combination of sexual selection and assortative mating (O'Donald and Davis 1975) are the major factors affecting this polymorphism.
4090585| Most tropical passerines feed on insects, fruit, or a combination of the two. The sugary pulps of fruit have lower amounts of protein than insects. We used stable-nitrogen isotope analysis (
4087807|Nasal glands in Pelecaniformes are situated within the orbit in closely fitting depressions. Generally, the depressions are bilobed and small, but in Phalacrocoracidae they are more diverse in shape and size. Cormorants (Phalacrocoracinae) have small depressions typical of the order; shags (Leucocarboninae) have large, single-lobed depressions that extend almost the entire length of the frontal. In all Phalacrocoracidae I examined, shape of the nasal gland depression did not vary between freshwater and marine populations. A general linear model detected strongly significant effects of species identity and gender on size of the gland depression. The effect of habitat on size was complex and was detected only as a higher-order effect. Age had no effect on size or shape of the nasal gland depression. I believe that habitat and diet are proximate effects. The ultimate factor that determines size and shape of the nasal gland within Phalacrocoracidae is phylogenetic history.
10.1525/auk.2011.10280|We used light-level archival geolocators to track five Veeries (
4086473|Live-trapped, adult American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) were tested in a series of laboratory experiments designed to evaluate the role of soil as a proximal cue for selecting feeding sites and to investigate foraging strategies for capturing earthworms (Lumbricidae). Foraging trials were conducted in a circular arena and showed that color, which tends to be correlated with the soil types and moisture regimes preferred by earthworms, was an important proximal cue for selecting feeding sites. Woodcock captured earthworms most efficiently in areas of relatively high prey density, because they used a nonrandom search pattern following an initial capture.
10.2307/4086913|The timing of egg laying, clutch size, and egg size of the American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) were studied over six consecutive breeding seasons in Virginia. Synchrony of laying dates occurred in each of five localities of the study area in at least one year. Mean clutch size was 2.8 eggs (mode = 3) in first clutches and 2.4 eggs (mode = 2) in replacement clutches. Individual females laid replacement clutches of the same size and laid eggs of similar average volume in all years. A change in mate had little effect on the date on which females initiated their first clutches in successive years. The average egg size in a clutch was correlated with the size of the laying female. Egg-size ordering occurred within clutches, the first-laid egg being smaller than the second egg and about equal in volume to the third. We propose that the second egg is largest because it has the highest probability of hatching, and the resulting sibling hierarchy reduces the frequency of sibling competition.
10.2307/4090033| We assessed nutritional constraints on clutch size in Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) by observing incidence and consequences of continuous laying-the sequential production of eggs in two or more nest bowls. Continuous laying behavior was detected in 278 of 3,064 radiotracked Mallards (9.1%). Continuous laying females produced an average of 12.12 total eggs (SD = 2.70, range 5-18, n = 69), versus 8.90 eggs for normal nesting females (SD = 1.67, range 4-14, n = 587). On average, continuous laying females were 25 g heavier than noncontinuous laying females, and body mass was positively correlated with egg production among continuous laying females. Nest success was not affected by continuous laying, but continuous laying females that abandoned their nests were more likely to be young or to have laid a greater number of eggs. A large component of the breeding Mallard population can lay more eggs than they typically do, and there appear to be minimal consequences of that behavior. These observations appear inconsistent with the egg-formation hypothesis. /// Determinamos las limitantes nutricionales sobre el tamao de la nidada en individuos de Anas platyrhynchos a travs de la observacin de la incidencia y consecuencias de puestas continuas (produccin sucesiva de huevos en dos o ms nidos). El comportamiento de puesta continua se detect en 278 de 3,064 aves monitoreadas con rediotelemetra (9.1%). Las hembras que presentaron puestas continuas produjeron en promedio 12.12 huevos (DE = 2.70, rango 5-18, n = 69), mientras que las hembras con nidadas normales produjeron 8.90 huevos (DE = 1.67, rango 4-14, n = 587). En promedio, las hembras que presentaron puestas continuas fueron 25 g ms pesadas que las hembras que no presentaron puestas continuas, y el tamao corporal se correlacion positivamente con la produccin de huevos entre las hembras con puestas continuas. El xito de los nidos no fue afectado por las puestas continuas, pero las hembras con puestas continuas que abandonaron sus nidos fueron en general hembras jvenes o aquellas que pusieron un mayor nmero de huevos. Una alta proporcin de individuos reproductivos de la poblacin de A. platyrhynchos puede poner ms huevos de los que tpicamente pone, comportamiento que parece tener mnimas consecuencias. Estas observaciones parecen ser inconsistentes con la hiptesis sobre la formacin de huevos. 
10.2307/4086893|Recent investigations of the plasma profiles of testosterone (T) in free-living birds suggest that circulating levels of T during the reproductive cycle remain elevated longer in males of polygynous species than in males of monogamous species. When the hormonal profile of polygynous males is mimicked by the administration of subcutaneous implants of T to males of monogamous species, thus maintaining plasma levels of this androgen at high vernal levels, frequencies of territorial aggression and courtship behavior remain elevated, resulting in a marked increase in the size of the territory. A substantial number of T-implanted males also become polygynous, attracting two and sometimes three females to settle on their enlarged territories. These data suggest strongly that the nature of avian mating systems is regulated proximately by temporal patterns of hormone secretion.
40406704|We describe a new species of spinetail,
10.2307/4088631| In 1990 and 1991, we determined the proportion of Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) territorial males that were paired in a 25-ha plot in an extensive forest (>350 km
4087669|We compared naturally occurring intraspecific and interspecific encounters between Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) and Mountain Chickadees (P. gambeli) during the breeding season in a region of sympatry in southwestern Alberta. We observed chasing or supplanting, or countersinging by males, in all intraspecific encounters, whereas heterospecific individuals were ignored in 73% of interspecific encounters. In playback experiments conducted at nest sites, both species responded strongly to conspecific song but showed much weaker responses to heterospecific songs. These results support our previous conclusion, based on measurements of territory overlap, that these two species do not exhibit interspecific territoriality.
10.2307/4089898| In double-brooded species, the sex that contributes less to breeding success may desert offspring before the end of the rearing period to start a new breeding attempt with another partner. I evaluated that prediction in the Barn Owl (Tyto alba), a species in which the male feeds the brood on average twice as often as the female. Among birds that produced a second brood, 46% of females and 4% of males deserted their offspring before completion of parental duties to remate with another partner at a distance of 1 to 10 km. Offspring desertion did not appear to incur a reproductive cost to the deserter, because deserting females at the first nest produced a similar number of offspring as nondeserting ones. In most cases, the new mate of deserting females had not been previously captured in the study area, and hence had probably not previously bred that season. Although the second clutch of deserting females was larger and produced two weeks earlier than that of nondeserting females, their nesting success did not differ. /// En especies en que la nidada es cuidada por ambos miembros de la pareja, el sexo que contribuye menos al xito reproductivo puede desertar el nido antes del final del perodo de cra para comenzar un nuevo intento de nidificacin con otra pareja. Evalu esta prediccin en Tyto alba, una especie en la que el macho alimenta a los pichones, en promedio, el doble de veces que la hembra. Entre las aves que produjeron una segunda nidada, el 46% de las hembras y el 4% de los machos abandonaron a sus pichones antes de completar el cuidado parental para aparearse con una nueva pareja a una distancia de 1 a 10 km. El abandono de los pichones no pareci generarle un costo reproductivo al desertor, ya que las hembras que desertaron la primera nidada produjeron un nmero similar de pichones que las que no desertaron. En la mayora de los casos, la nueva pareja de las hembras desertoras no haba sido capturada previamente en el rea de estudio, por lo que probablemente no haba criado esa estacin. Aunque la segunda nidada de las parejas desertoras fue ms grande y se produjo dos semanas antes que la de hembras no desertoras, el xito de nidificacin no vari entre las hembras. 
10.2307/4090328| Population surveys indicate a trend of declining abundance of scoters (Melanitta spp.) in North America. Little is known about changes in life-history traits that may be responsible for the recent population decline of White-winged Scoters (Melanitta fusca deglandi). Therefore, we studied nesting ecology of White-winged Scoters at Redberry Lake, Saskatchewan, during the summers of 2000-2001. We found 198 nests and examined nest-site selection by comparing habitat features of successful nests, depredated nests, and random sites. Discriminant function analysis differentiated habitat features-measured at hatch-of successful nests, depredated nests, and random sites; lateral (r = 0.66) and overhead (r = 0.35) concealment were microhabitat variables most correlated with canonical discriminant functions. We also modeled daily survival rate of nests as a function of year, linear and quadratic trends with nest age, nest initiation date, and seven microhabitat variables. Nest survival from a time-constant model (i.e. Mayfield nest-success estimate) was 0.35 (95% CL: 0.27, 0.43). Estimates of nest success were lower than those measured at Redberry Lake in the 1970s and 1980s. Nest survival increased throughout the laying period and stabilized during incubation, and showed positive relationships with nest concealment and distance to water and a negative relationship with distance to edge. Considering those factors, a model-averaged estimate of nest survival was 0.24 (95% CL: 0.09, 0.42). We concluded that White-winged Scoters selected nesting habitat adaptively, because (1) successful sites were more concealed than depredated sites; (2) nest sites (both successful and depredated) had higher concealment than random sites; and (3) nest sites were on islands, where success is greater than on the mainland. /// Los censos poblacionales de Melanitta spp. indican una tendencia decreciente de su abundancia en Norte Amrica. Actualmente se sabe muy poco sobre los cambios en los rasgos de historia de vida que pueden ser responsables de esta reciente disminucin poblacional en Melanitta fusca deglandi. Por esta razn estudiamos la ecologa de nidificacin de M. fusca deglandi en el Lago Redberry, Saskatchewan, durante los veranos de 2000 y 2001. Encontramos 198 nidos y examinamos la seleccin de sitio de nidificacin, comparando las caractersticas de los hbitats de nidos exitosos, nidos depredados y sitios distribuidos al azar. Un anlisis de funcin discriminante diferenci las caractersticas de hbitat-medidas en el momento de eclosin-de nidos exitosos, nidos depredados y sitios al azar. Las coberturas lateral (r = 0.66) y superior (r = 0.35) de los nidos fueron las variables de microhbitat ms correlacionadas con las funciones cannicas discriminantes. Tambin modelamos la tasa de supervivencia diaria de los nidos en funcin del ao, las tendencias lineales y cuadrticas de la edad del nido, la fecha de inicio del nido y siete variables de microhbitat. La supervivencia de nidos, estimada con un modelo de tiempo constante (i.e. estimacin del xito de nidificacin de Mayfield) fue 0.35 (95% LC: 0.27, 0.43). Las estimaciones del xito de nidificacin fueron menores que aquellas medidas en el Lago Redberry durante los aos setenta y ochenta. La supervivencia de nidos fue aumentando durante perodo de puesta y se estabiliz durante la incubacin, y mostr una relacin positiva con la cobertura del nido y la distancia al agua, y una relacin negativa con la distancia al borde. Considerando estos factores, una estimacin de la supervivencia de los nidos basada en un promedio de los modelos fue de 0.24 (95% LC: 0.09, 0.42). Concluimos que M. fusca deglandi seleccion los sitios de nidificacin de una manera adaptativa debido a que (1) los sitios exitosos estaban ms ocultos que los sitios depredados; (2) los sitios de nidificacin (i.e. exitosos y depredados) estuvieron ms ocultos que los sitios al azar; y (3) los nidos se encontraron en islas donde el xito fue mayor que en el continente. 
4088548|We studied a cooperative-breeding population of Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) in Oaxaca, Mexico. The jays occupied territories 1.5 ha in average size located in a wide range of habitats and were found in temporally stable groups of two to six adult individuals. No yearling was observed breeding. The jays nested at least from early April to late July. Clutch size was three, with subsequent brood reduction to two fledglings typical. Only breeding females incubated eggs. Breeding males fed nestlings more frequently than did breeding females. Ectoparasites were uncommon on adults, but nestlings commonly carried botfly larvae. Extra individuals commonly "helped" in predator defense, territorial defense, and feeding fledglings. Helpers attempted to assist in feeding nestlings, but usually were driven away by breeding adults. Singular breeding seems to be the rule, but plural breeding also may occur. Certain factors associated with the maintenance of cooperative breeding in the Florida Scrub Jay do not appear important in this Oaxacan population: usable habitats do not appear to be saturated with territories, and other jay species do not present an aggressive barrier to Scrub Jay habitat use.
25488677|Many migratory birds use staging sites to gain essential resources to fuel their ongoing migration. Understanding staging strategies reveals much about migration systems and is essential if one is concerned with monitoring population trends and mass gains, two of the principal methods for assessing the "health" of a migratory population. In spring 2004, we investigated the staging behavior in Delaware Bay of Red Knot (
10.2307/4089720|To address whether foraging strategies affect habitat-use patterns of non-breeding warblers, I quantified foraging behavior, bill dimensions, and diet (based on regurgitation samples) of Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) and Swainson's Warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii) wintering in three habitats in Jamaica. Ovenbirds primarily gleaned prey from the surface of the leaf litter (95% of foraging maneuvers), resulting in a diet comprised predominantly of ants (62% of all prey items), seeds (18%), and beetles (9%). Swainson's Warblers foraged by lifting leaves (80% of foraging maneuvers), resulting in a significantly different diet dominated by beetles (39%), spiders (22%), and ants (19%). More than 60% of the regurgitation samples from Swainson's Warblers contained orthopterans and/or gecko (Sphaerodactylus goniorhynchus) bones. Averaged across all habitat types, Ovenbirds consumed ants in direct proportion to their abundance based on visual counts of arthropods. Swainson's Warblers consumed beetles more than expected based on the abundance of beetles in visual counts and Berlese funnels. The use of a diversity of habitats by Ovenbirds may be related to their ability to feed opportunistically on ants, which are a widespread, abundant, and reliable resource. In contrast, based on their foraging behavior and diet, Swainson's Warblers may be restricted to habitats with a well-developed canopy and an abundant sub-surface leaf-litter fauna.
10.1525/auk.2012.12041|Responses of organisms to environments or to conspecifics may abruptly change once the organism has changed its state. For example, the expression of sexually selected signals often depends on the pairing status of the sender. A likely change in signaling routines at the point of pair formation should thus be taken into account when investigating a sexually selected trait like birdsong. However, female breeding behavior is elusive in many species, and the date of pair formation may be unknown. We developed a change-point model in a Bayesian context to analyze the seasonally changing singing activity in male Nightingales (
10.2307/4090058| I analyzed the species composition, structure, and trophic organization of bird assemblages in the forest canopy around Manaus, Brazil. Using three canopy towers located in primary terra firme forests, I conducted 117 censuses over a 13 month period, recording 160 bird species. The three study sites had similar species richness (between 126 and 128 species), sharing 95 species in common, which accounted for >90% of all individual records. Most species recorded in the canopy (110) belonged to the core canopy avifauna. The other 50 species included migrants (13), species that feed overhead (8), species from lower strata (15), night birds (3), and vagrants or visitors from open areas and second-growth forests (11). Most of those species, however, appeared in very low numbers in the forest canopy, except understory frugivores, which regularly fed on canopy fruits. Among the migratory species were some Nearctic (6), Austral (3), and species probably holding both migratory and resident populations in the area (4). Additionally, I found evidence that two species of parrots perform seasonal movements, leaving the forest canopy around Manaus during the dry season. Frugivores dominated the canopy avifauna in abundance, but contradicting results reported from other Neotropical forest canopies, insectivores and frugivores had equal species richness. The canopy avifauna was highly homogeneous among sites in terms of species richness, distribution among abundance classes, and number of species in each feeding guild, habitat, and microhabitat. As in Costa Rica, the canopy avifauna of Manaus was mostly composed by typical canopy bird species, and not by edge-living species as reported from Panama. I suggest that habitat fragmentation may affect the bird community composition in the forest canopy, allowing a higher influx of opportunistic species. /// Neste trabalho eu analisei a composio, estrutura, e organizao trfica da assemblia de aves que habitam o dossel da floresta na regio de Manaus, Brasil. Utilizando trs torres meteorolgicas localizadas em florestas primrias de terra firme, realizei 117 censos de aves, ao longo de 13 meses consecutivos, nos quais registrei 160 espcies de aves. As trs reas de estudo apresentaram um nmero semelhante de espcies de aves (entre 126 e 128), 95 das quais ocorreram nos trs locais, e representaram mais de 90% de todos os indivduos registrados. A maior parte das espcies registradas no dossel (110 espcies) pertencem ao que eu considero a avifauna tpica desse estrato. As outras 50 espcies incluem migrantes (13 spp.), espcies que utilizam o espao areo para se alimentar (8), espcies dos estratos inferiores (15), aves noturnas (3), e vagantes e visitantes de reas abertas e florestas secundrias (11). No entanto, a maior parte destas espcies ocorreu em nmeros muito baixos no dossel da floresta, exceto as aves frugvoras do sub-bosque, que foram observadas se alimentando regularmente de frutos no dossel. Dentre as espcies migratrias, achei migrantes Nercticas (6 spp.), Austrais (3 spp.), e espcies que provavelmente possuem tanto populaes migratrias, quanto residentes na rea de estudo (4 spp.). Alm do mais, encontrei evidncias de que duas espcies de psitacdeos realizam movimentos sazonais, abandonando o dossel das reas de estudo na poca seca. Os frugvoros dominaram a avifauna de dossel em termos de abundncia, mas contradizendo resultados obtidos no dossel de outras florestas Neotropicais, insetvoros e frugvoros apresentaram o mesmo nmero de espcies. A avifauna de dossel mostrou-se altamente homognea entre os stios de estudo em termos de riqueza especfica, distribuio nas diferentes classes de abundncia, e no nmero de espcies pertencentes a cada guilda alimentar, a cada habitat, e microhabitat. Da mesma forma que na Costa Rica, a avifauna de dossel da regio de Manaus estava composta por espcies tpicas do dossel, e no por espcies de borda, como encontrado no Panam. Eu sugiro que a fragmentao do habitat possa afetar a composio da comunidade de aves no dossel da floresta, permitindo um maior influxo de espcies de aves oportunistas. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09052|The Araripe Manakin (Passeriformes: Pipridae:
25150267| By nesting near aggressive birds, timid species can reap the benefits of aggressive nest defense while avoiding the costs. Red Phalaropes (Phalaropus fulicarius; hereafter "phalaropes") typically nest in grass-sedge marshes, but nests have also been noted in rocky coastal habitats. We studied the reproductive ecology of phalaropes at East Bay, Southampton Island, Nunavut, to determine whether their use of coastal nest areas reflected a protective nesting association with an aggressive larid, the Sabine's Gull (Xema sabini; hereafter "gull"). From 2000 to 2002, we found and monitored 29 phalarope nests with gull nests nearby (150 m away) and 26 without gulls nearby. Coastal phalarope nests were nearer to gull nests than expected by chance. No habitat differences were detected between coastal areas with and without gull nests, but only three phalarope nests were found in coastal areas without gull nests. Thermistor probes inserted in phalarope nests revealed that incubators with gulls nearby behaved less cryptically, taking more frequent and longer incubation recesses. In human-approach experiments, phalaropes with gulls nearby flushed earlier than those without gulls. In 2000 and 2001, hatch success was 17-20% higher for phalaropes with gulls nearby, but these nests had lower success rates than those without nearby gulls in 2002. These gulls are able to defend their nests from avian predators only; in 2002, arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) were abundant, and their primary prey, collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx torquatus), were scarce. We suggest that phalaropes select coastal areas near gulls, but that this association is beneficial to phalaropes only in years when egg predation by arctic foxes is low. /// En nichant prs d'oiseaux agressifs, les espces plus timides peuvent tirer des bnfices d'une dfense agressive du nid sans en assumer les cots. Les Phalaropes  bec large (Phalaropus fulicarius; ci-aprs " phalaropes ") nichent typiquement dans des marais, mais des nids ont dj t trouvs dans des habitats ctiers rocheux. Nous avons tudi l'cologie de reproduction des phalaropes  East Bay, sur l'le Southampton au Nunavut, afin de dterminer si leur utilisation des aires de nidification ctires refltent une association protectrice pour nicher avec un larid agressif, la Mouette de Sabine (Xema sabini; ci-aprs " mouette "). De 2000  2002, nous avons trouv et fait un suivi de 29 nids de phalarope  proximit de nids de mouette ( 150 m de distance) et 26 sans nid de mouette  proximit. Les nids de phalarope ctiers tait plus prs des nids de mouette qu' la normale. Aucune diffrence d'habitat n'a t dtecte entre les rgions ctires avec et sans nids de mouette mais seulement trois nids de phalaropes ont t trouvs dans les rgions ctires sans nids de mouette. Des sondes  thermistance insres dans des nids de phalaropes ont rvl que les individus incubant prs des mouettes se comportaient de faon moins cryptique et prenaient des pauses d'incubation plus frquentes et plus longues. Dans les expriences  approche humaine, les phalaropes nichant prs des mouettes fuyaient le nid plus rapidement que ceux sans mouette  proximit. En 2000 et 2001, le succs d'closion tait 17-20% plus lev pour les phalaropes nichant prs des mouettes mais ces nids avaient un succs plus faible que ceux sans mouette  proximit en 2002. Ces mouettes sont capables de dfendre leur nid contre les prdateurs aviens seulement; en 2002, les renards (Alopex lagopus) taient abondants et leur proie principale, le lemming Dicrostonyx torquatus, tait rare. Nous suggrons que les phalaropes slectionnent les rgions ctires  proximit des mouettes mais que cette association est bnfique aux phalaropes seulement lors des annes o la prdation sur les ufs par les Renards arctiques est faible. 
10.2307/4089943|In this study, Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) deserted 46% of nests, parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and only 1% of unparasitized nests suggesting that desertion functions primarily as an antiparasite defense. Sparrows did not desert nests following various clutch manipulations that are often associated with parasitism, indicating that desertion was not in response to the presence of cowbird eggs. Sparrows often deserted nests following encounters with real or mounted cowbirds, suggesting that nest desertion is a response to adult cowbirds. Sparrows deserted nests only in stages most vulnerable to the effects of parasitism. That finding is consistent with the possibility that desertion is a parasite-specific response. Sparrows arrived at nests earlier in the day at our Illinois site, where parasitism was greater, than in Missouri. Our findings confirm that host vigilance can prevent successful parasitism, and we provide the first direct evidence that encounters with cowbirds may cause hosts to desert nests. Our findings may help explain why cowbirds parasitize nests extremely early in the morning and lay rapidly. We suggest that consideration be given to host response following interactions with adult brood parasites because those interactions may have implications for both the ecology and evolution of both the parasite and host.
25150345|Bot flies (Diptera: Muscidae: Philornis spp.) are a group of flies comprising mostly species with a Neotropical distribution. Their larvae parasitize several species of birds, living subcutaneously on altricial chicks. We investigated the effect of parasitism by bot flies (P. seguyi) on the reproductive success of Chalk-browed Mockingbirds (Mimus saturninus) in temperate grasslands near the southern limit of bot fly distributions. We analyzed seasonal variation of bot fly prevalence during three consecutive years and how the timing and intensity of bot fly infestation affected growth and survival of Chalk-browed Mockingbird nestlings. Bot fly prevalence was 58.3%, 30.7%, and 45.5% each year, and in all years, it increased with time of breeding. Most of the infested nests fledged no chicks. In these nests, chicks had a lower tarsus growth rate than in noninfested nests and died 3-4 days after parasitism. The average time from hatching of the first chick until infestation was 4.4 days. The age of the chicks at the time of infestation was associated positively with nesting success and negatively with intensity of parasitism. Bot fly parasitism also reduced the survival of Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) chicks present in Chalk-browed Mockingbird nests, but the presence of Shiny Cowbird chicks did not affect timing of infestation or fledging success of Chalk-browed Mockingbird chicks. Our results show that an intermediate prevalence of bot fly parasitism produces an important decrease in the reproductive success of Chalk-browed Mockingbirds and suggest that bot flies may play an important role as selective agents in the evolution of host life-history strategies. /// Philornis es un complejo grupo de moscas que incluye principalmente especies con una distribucin Neotropical. Sus larvas parasitan varias especies de aves, desarrollndose en forma subcutnea en pichones nidcolas. Pocos estudios han analizado el impacto del parasitismo de Philornis sobre el xito reproductivo del hospedador. Estos estudios han diferido en sus resultados, y en la mayora de los casos fueron realizados en regiones tropicales o subtropicales. Investigamos el impacto del parasitismo de Philornis seguyi sobre el xito reproductivo de Mimus saturninus en pastizales templados cerca del limite sur de la distribucin de Philornis. Analizamos la variacin estacional de la frecuencia de parasitismo en tres aos consecutivos (1999-2001), y cmo el momento y la intensidad de la infestacin de Philornis afect el crecimiento y la supervivencia de los pichones de M. saturninus. La frecuencia de parasitismo fue 58.3%, 30.7% y 45.5% cada ao y en los tres aos aument durante el transcurso de la temporada reproductiva. En la mayora de los nidos infestados no sobrevivi ningn pichn. En estos nidos, los pichones tuvieron una menor tasa de crecimiento del tarso y murieron 3-4 das despus de ser parasitados. El tiempo transcurrido desde la eclosin del primer pichn hasta que el nido fue infestado fue en promedio de 4.4 das. Observamos una asociacin positiva entre el xito del nido y la edad de los pichones al momento de la infestacin, y una asociacin negativa entre la intensidad de parasitismo y la edad de los pichones al momento de la infestacin. El parasitismo de Philornis tambin redujo la supervivencia de los pichones de Molothrus bonariensis presentes en nidos de M. saturninus, pero la presencia de pichones parsitos no afect la edad a la que los pichones de M. saturninus fueron infestados o su supervivencia. Nuestros resultados muestran que una frecuencia intermedia de parasitismo de Philornis produce una reduccin significativa del xito reproductivo de M. saturninus, similar a la producida por la depredacin de nidos o el parasitismo de cra, y sugieren que Philornis podra jugar un importante rol como agente de seleccin en la evolucin de las estrategias de historia de vida de sus hospedadores.
4085394|Female-female pairs of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) were recorded attending supernormal clutches (5-8 eggs) on Granite Island, northern Lake Superior in 1978. Female-female pairs complete their clutches usually before the peak of egg-laying in the colony. Supernormal clutches completed after the peak are thought to result from egg-dumping by several unpaired females. Compared to normal 3-egg clutches, laid early in the season, the average hatching success of supernormal clutches was lower (8-20% vs 80-90%) and over 50% of the embryos showed depressed growth and development. Although the phenomenon of homosexual pairing is likely not recent in Ring-billed Gulls, as compared to the situation in Western Gulls, the adaptive significance of such pairs is currently unknown.
25488722|Comparing the patterns of population differentiation among genetic markers with different modes of inheritance can provide insights into patterns of sex-biased dispersal and gene flow. The Blue-and-yellow Macaw (
4086116|The rate at which "Ipswich Sparrows" (Passerculus sandwichensis princeps) returned to their place of birth on Sable Island, Nova Scotia was determined by extensive banding and recapturing during 1976-1979. Low first-year survival rates of 2-4% (from the egg) coincided with a large decline in the size of the breeding population. Survival was statistically independent of brood size, the habitat and month when nestlings were raised, and the age or longevity of parents. Nestling survival was also unrelated to indices of nutritional well-being: weight, tarsus length, maximum growth rate, and the rate at which early growth decelerated. There was weak evidence that surviving juveniles had slightly longer tarsi than average. Natural selection for attributes expected to be important for overwinter survival seems to have been in abeyance or to have been obscured by the high rates of mortality.
4087274|I monitored food consumption by hand-reared Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus) nestlings to test the hypothesis that males and females consume similar amounts of food but males direct more of their energy into characters that result in greater mass increase. Growth patterns of hand-reared nestlings reflected those of naturally reared nestlings: males were heavier and had longer tarsi, and females had longer 9th primaries on days 6-12 post-hatching. Males, on average, consumed 15.8% more food than females throughout this period; the amount of food consumed per unit mass increase was similar for both sexes. The results suggest there may be substantial cost differences to parents in rearing offspring of different sex. The nestling sex ratio for this and other sexually size-dimorphic species is generally close to one, and Fisher's (1930) theory that differential investment in sons and daughters should result in a skewed sex ratio at the end of parental care is not supported.
4090454| Understanding nest survival is critical to bird conservation and to studies of avian life history. Nest survival likely varies with nest age and date, but until recently researchers had only limited tools to efficiently address those sources of variability. Beginning with Mayfield (1961), many researchers have averaged survival rates within time-specific categories (e.g. egg and nestling stages; early and late nesting dates). However, Mayfield's estimator assumes constant survival within categories, and violations of that assumption can lead to biased estimates. We used the logistic-exposure method to examine nest survival as a function of nest age and date in Clay-colored Sparrows (Spizella pallida) and Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) breeding in north-central North Dakota. Daily survival rates increased during egg laying, decreased during incubation to a low shortly after hatch, and then increased during brood rearing in both species. Variation in survival with nest age suggests that traditional categorical averaging using Mayfield's or similar methods would have been inappropriate for this study; similar variation may bias results of other studies. Nest survival also varied with date. For both species, survival was high during the peak of nest initiations in late May and early June and declined throughout the remainder of the nesting season. On the basis of our results, we encourage researchers to consider models of nest survival that involve continuous time-specific explanatory variables (e.g. nest age or date). We also encourage researchers to document nest age as precisely as possible (e.g. by candling eggs) to facilitate age-specific analyses. Models of nest survival that incorporate time-specific information may provide insights that are unavailable from averaged data. Determining time-specific patterns in nest survival may improve our understanding of predator-prey interactions, evolution of avian life histories, and aspects of population dynamics that are critical to bird conservation. /// La survie des niches constitue un lment important en termes de conservation et de traits d'histoire de vie chez les oiseaux. La survie des niches varie probablement en fonction de l'ge et de la date de la niche, mais jusqu' rcemment les chercheurs ne bnficiaient que d'outils limits afin d'valuer efficacement ces sources de variabilit.  commencer par Mayfield (1961), de nombreux chercheurs ont effectu la moyenne des taux de survie en fonction de priodes temporelles (e.g. tapes de ponte et de nidification, dates prcoces et tardives de nidification). Nanmoins, l'estimateur de Mayfield prsume que la survie reste constante  l'intrieur de ces priodes et la violation de cette prmisse peut conduire  des estimations biaises. Nous avons utilis la mthode "logistic-exposure" ("exposition logistique") pour examiner la survie des niches en fonction de la date et de l'ge de la niche chez Spizella pallida et Pooecetes gramineus qui nichent dans la partie centrale nord du Nord Dakota. Le taux de survie journalier augmentait au cours de la couvaison, diminuait durant l'incubation et ce, jusqu'au taux le plus bas, et augmentait  nouveau lors de l'levage des couves pour les deux espces. Les variations de survie en fonction de l'ge de la niche suggre que la mthode de Mayfield ou des mthodes similaires auraient t inappropries dans le cadre de cette tude. La survie des niches variait galement avec la date. Pour les deux espces, la survie tait leve lors du pic d'initiation des nids  la fin mai et dbut juin et dclinait, par la suite, tout au long de la saison de nidification. Sur la base de nos rsultats, nous encourageons les chercheurs  considrer des modles de survie des niches qui intgrent des variables voluant de manire continue dans le temps (e.g. ge et date de la niche). Nous encourageons galement les chercheurs  documenter l'ge des niches aussi prcisment que possible (e.g. en mirant les ufs) afin de faciliter les analyses bases sur l'ge. Les modles de survie des niches qui intgrent un aspect temporel pourraient fournir des informations qui ne sont pas disponibles  partir de donnes moyennes. En dterminant les patrons temporels de la survie des niches, il serait possible d'amliorer notre comprhension des interactions prdateurs-proies, l'volution des traits d'histoires de vie chez les oiseaux, et certains aspects de la dynamique des populations qui sont d'importance en termes de conservation. 
10.2307/4088817| Little is known of the life history of vultures. The reintroduction program of Griffon Vultures (Gyps fulvus fulvus) in the Causses (south of the Massif Central, France) and extensive monitoring by capture-mark-resighting of the released birds allowed us to obtain the first estimates of their survival. Adult survival rates are high (x = 0.987  SE of 0.006). A release effect on adult survival was detected (only 0.743  0.006 survival during the first year after release). Young born in the wild (less than three years old) had an annual survival rate of 0.858  0.039. Mortality causes and erratic behavior of immature birds are considered in order to assess the effectiveness of this reintroduction program. Our results indicate that reintroductions of vultures and similar species should use adults that have bred in captivity within the target area rather than juveniles or immatures. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11235|Manakins are small suboscine passerines renowned for elaborate courtship displays and pronounced sexual dichromatism. We extracted and identified the carotenoid pigments found in the bright yellow to red feathers of 15 Neotropical manakin species. Rhodoxanthin (4,5-didehydro-4,5-retro-,-carotene-3,3-dione) of a deep red hue was widely found in the plumages of these birds. The 4-keto-carotenoids typically found in red plumages (-doradexanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, etc.) were found in only the Flame-crested Manakin (
25150265|Males of the polyandrous Australian Brush-turkey (Alectura lathami) build mounds of leaf litter, in which incubation heat is produced by microbial decomposition. Females lay eggs singly, at intervals of several days, over many months. For each egg, they select an incubation mound in which to lay, and they then typically copulate with the male mound-owner; mound choice is, thus, usually equal to mate choice. Freed from incubation and maternal care, these females can invest considerable time and energy in assessing and choosing their potential mates. Low or high incubation temperatures inside the mounds have negative effects on embryos and chicks, and temperatures vary considerably both between and within mounds. Here, I show that mounds with mean incubation temperatures ranging from approximately 32C to 35C received more eggs than cooler or warmer mounds. Similarly, when the size of each egg was compared with its temperature when found in the mound, larger eggs were deposited mainly in mound material at temperatures between approximately 32C and 35C, whereas smaller eggs were laid at temperatures above and below this range. Egg size was included as a factor describing female mate choice, because egg size in relation to body size is exceptionally large, which indicates considerable female investment. Overall, these results suggest that the temperature in the males' incubation mounds considerably affects female mate choice. /// Los machos del ave polindrica Alectura lathami construyen montculos de hojarasca, donde el calor de incubacin se produce por descomposicin microbitica. Las hembras ponen los huevos de a uno, a intervalos de varios das, durante muchos meses. Para cada huevo, las hembras seleccionan un montculo de incubacin para ponerlo, y luego tpicamente copulan con el macho dueo del montculo; la seleccin del montculo es, por lo tanto, equiparable con la seleccin de pareja. Al estar libres de la incubacin y del cuidado materno, estas hembras pueden invertir un tiempo y energa considerable en evaluar y elegir sus parejas potenciales. Las temperaturas de incubacin bajas o altas adentro de los montculos tienen efectos negativos en los embriones y los pichones, y las temperaturas varan considerablemente tanto entre como dentro de los montculos. En este trabajo muestro que los montculos con temperaturas de incubacin media entre 32C y 35C aproximadamente, reciben ms huevos que montculos ms fros o ms calientes. De modo similar, cuando compar el tamao de cada huevo con su temperatura al ser encontrado en el montculo, los huevos ms grandes fueron depositados principalmente en montculos con temperaturas entre 32C y 35C aproximadamente, mientras que los huevos ms pequeos fueron depositados a temperaturas por debajo y por arriba de este rango. El tamao de los huevos fue considerado como un factor que describe la seleccin de pareja por parte de las hembras, debido a que el tamao de los huevos en relacin con el tamao del cuerpo es excepcionalmente grande, lo que indica una inversin considerable de la hembra. En trminos generales, estos resultados sugieren que la temperatura en los montculos de incubacin de los machos afecta considerablemente la seleccin de pareja por parte de las hembras.
4090361| Biologically important acoustic signals must be transmitted from a signaler to a receiver. Over distance, however, sounds may undergo modification through attenuation, degradation, and masking. Recent anthropogenic habitat modification occurring in many places-in urban habitats, in particular-has rapidly changed local topography and atmospheric conditions and generated new patterns of noise that are likely to interfere with communicative signals. As part of a study of microgeographic song dialects in an urban population of Orange-tufted Sunbirds (Nectarinia osea) in Israel, we examined the environmental influences on song transmission and reception in a rapidly developing human-altered environment. We examined the physical properties of the two dialect song types, which exhibit a large difference of 2-3 kHz in the maximum frequency of the trill, using sound transmission measurements to test how both song types propagate through a highly obstructed habitat of buildings and vegetation. Additionally, we examined how ambient noise-in particular, low-frequency noise arising mainly from automobile traffic-affects the transmission of both dialect songs. Finally, using song playback, we investigated the consequences of sound degradation on dialect recognition and discrimination by sunbirds. The dialect containing higher frequencies in the trill was found to undergo severe frequency-dependent attenuation, in which the maximum frequency of the trill notes drops by >2 kHz over a distance of 70-100 m (less than two territories away). Also, the possibility that the use of higher frequencies in that dialect group's song is intended to overcome masking by urban ambient noise, which is concentrated mainly in lower frequencies, was not supported by our findings. Males singing the high dialect responded differently to playbacks of an intact and an attenuated form of their dialect song. Taken together, our results suggest that the dialect containing higher frequencies in the trill may be unsuitable for effective long-range transmission through this particular sunbird habitat. /// Las seales acsticas biolgicamente importantes deben ser transmitidas desde un emisor a un receptor. Sin embargo, con la distancia los sonidos pueden sufrir modificaciones a travs de la atenuacin, la degradacin y el enmascaramiento. Las modificaciones ambientales antropognicas recientes que se presentan en muchos lugares, particularmente en ambientes urbanos, han cambiando rpidamente la topografa local y las condiciones atmosfricas y han generado nuevos patrones de ruido que probablemente interfieren con las seales de comunicacin. Como parte de un estudio de los dialectos microgeogrficos de los cantos en una poblacin urbana de Nectarinia osea en Israel, examinamos las influencias ambientales sobre la transmisin y recepcin de los cantos en un ambiente que est siendo rpidamente alterado por actividades humanas. Examinamos las propiedades fsicas de los dos tipos de dialectos (que exhiben una gran diferencia de 2-3 kHz en la frecuencia mxima del trino) usando medidas de la transmisin del sonido para evaluar cmo ambos tipos de dialectos se propagan a travs de un ambiente con gran cantidad de obstculos como edificios y vegetacin. Adicionalmente, examinamos cmo el ruido ambiental, en particular el de baja frecuencia proveniente principalmente del trfico automotor, afecta la transmisin de ambos dialectos. Finalmente, reproduciendo los cantos con un grabador, investigamos las consecuencias de la degradacin del sonido en cuanto al reconocimiento y la discriminacin del dialecto por parte de N. osea. Encontramos que el dialecto con frecuencias ms altas en el trino sufri una atenuacin severa que dependi de la frecuencia, de modo que la mxima frecuencia de las notas del trino se redujo en >2 kHz a una distancia de 70-100 m (a menos de dos territorios de distancia). Nuestros resultados no avalan la posibilidad de que el uso de frecuencias ms altas en los dialectos tiene como objetivo sobrepasar el enmascaramiento generado por el ruido ambiental urbano, el cual se concentra principalmente en las frecuencias ms bajas. Los machos que cantan el dialecto alto respondieron diferencialmente a las reproducciones de una forma intacta y atenuada de su dialecto. Considerados en conjunto, estos resultados sugieren que el dialecto que contiene las frecuencias ms altas en el trino podra ser inadecuado para transmisiones efectivas de largo alcance a travs de este ambiente particular. 
4087375|Individually marked Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) were studied from 1981-1987 in Manitoba and Minnesota relative to dispersal patterns of age and sex classes. Unlike monogamous passerines, males returned to former breeding sites only slightly more often than females. Dispersal distances did not differ between the sexes. Across North America, 24-69% of adults exhibited breeding-site fidelity, a variability equivalent to that among species of migratory shorebirds. Distribution of Piping Plover habitat across the species range accounts for some of this variability: birds used local sites if they were available, rather than disperse long distances. Similar to most migratory shorebirds, few (1.6-23%) Piping Plover chicks returned to natal sites to breed. No difference was found in return patterns between first-year males and females, nor in distances either sex dispersed from natal sites. First-year birds were found in the vicinity of their natal sites when habitat was available. During winter, birds from the Northern Great Plains and Great Lakes were seen primarily in mixed population flocks on the Gulf of Mexico. Piping Plovers from Atlantic coast breeding areas wintered further south on the Atlantic.
4085804|An energy budget is presented for free-living nestling Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), an altricial species, and is compared to those from four other studies performed under natural conditions, for another altricial species, two semi-precocial, and a precocial species. Total energy intake, standardized for body size, appears variable, and there are several important differences among the budgets, including differences between budgets for the same developmental mode. Although limited in extent, these data and other evidence support the hypothesis that nestling energy budgets are molded by natural selection, correlate to adult reproductive strategy, and can reflect adaptation to selective pressures on a species.
4086219|Daily energy expenditure (DEE) during breeding was studied in Pacific Swallows (Hirundo tahitica) and Blue-throated Bee-eaters (Merops viridis) in Malaysia. DEE was measured directly by the doubly labelled water (
10.2307/4088767|We investigated the cost of first-time breeding in a population of Lesser Snow Geese (Anser caerulescens caerulescens) nesting at La Perouse Bay, Manitoba, Canada. We estimated local survival and capture probabilities of female geese by capture-recapture analysis. We first found that birds were less likely to be recaptured one year after their first successful breeding than on later occasions. Since only successfully nesting birds are captured, this suggests that first-time breeding affects the ability of nesting the next year. We then show that this effect of first breeding is much more severe for birds nesting at age 2 (the youngest age at which Lesser Snow Geese can breed) than for birds starting to breed at an older age. Finally, we compare the mean expected lifetime reproductive success for birds breeding for the first time as two-year-olds or as three-year-olds, conditionally on their survival until age 4. On average, birds first nesting as two-year-olds produce similar numbers of offspring in a lifetime as birds starting at age 3.
4087183|I conducted a behavioral study of sympatrically nesting South Polar (Catharacta maccormicki) and Brown skuas (C. lonnbergi) near Palmer Station, Antarctica. A total of 4,058 bird-hours of observations was made on eight South Polar, three Brown, and one mixed-species pair during the 1979-1980 and 1980-1981 austral summers. I used subsets of these data to analyze various aspects of skua activity patterns. South Polar Skuas exhibited maximum resting and minimum foraging activity during the twilight period around 2400. Brown Skuas appeared to rest and forage more randomly. Members of the mixed pair exhibited patterns similar to those of their respective species. Several hypotheses are suggested to account for species differences in activity patterns; most of these relate dietary differences and differential foraging abilities at low light levels. In both species, agonistic and preening activities occurred at all hours. South Polar Skuas, however, were most often observed bathing in early afternoon and preening in afternoon and twilight. Pairing activity showed no discernible relationship with time. Foraging bouts averaged 13 min for Brown Skuas with feeding territories and about 1 h for those without. South Polar Skuas averaged feeding trips of 2-3 h when the sea was open and over 7 h during heavy ice cover. The timing of an individual's activity was correlated negatively with that of its mate during incubation, brooding, and postbrooding. A nonbreeding pair and breeders that had suffered nest failure showed more positive correlations. Thus, individual activity patterns were shaped by reproductive priorities as well as by feeding ecology and light levels.
10.2307/4088828|Grasshopper populations on the Delta Agricultural Project area in interior Alaska exhibit a strong biennial periodicity. This phenomenon allowed us to study dietary, reproductive, and numerical responses of nesting Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) to fluctuations in prey abundance. Grasshopper densities exceeded
4090663| We measured fresh body mass, total body fat, and fat-free dry mass (FFDM) of three species of Arctic-nesting calidrid sandpipers (Baird's Sandpiper [Calidris bairdii], hereafter "BASA"; Semipalmated Sandpiper [C. pusilla], hereafter "SESA"; and White-rumped Sandpiper [C. fuscicollis], hereafter "WRSA") during spring stopovers in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) of North Dakota, and evaluated the contribution of stored fat to (1) energy requirements for migration to their Arctic-breeding grounds and (2) nutrient needs for reproduction. All spring migrant WRSA (n = 124) and BASA (n = 111), and all but 2 of 99 SESA we collected were 2 years old. Male and female BASA migrated through North Dakota concurrently, male SESA averaged earlier than females, and WRSA males preceded females. Fat indices (ratio of fat to FFDM) of male and female SESA and WRSA averaged approximately twice those of male and female BASA. Total body fat of male and female BASA increased with date in spring 1980, but not in 1981; slopes were similar for both sexes each year. Male and female SESA arrived lean in 1980 and 1981, and total body fat increased with date in both years, with similar slopes for all combinations of sex and year. Male and female WRSA arrived lean in 1980-1981 and 1981, respectively, and total body fat increased with date, whereas females arrived with fat reserves already acquired in 1980. Interspecific and sex differences in migration schedules probably contributed to variation in fat storage patterns by affecting maintenance energy costs and food availability. Estimated flight ranges of BASA suggest that few could have met their energy needs for migration to the breeding grounds exclusively from fat stored by the time of departure from North Dakota. Estimated flight ranges of SESA and WRSA, along with fresh body masses of both species when live-trapped on or near their breeding grounds in northern Canada, suggest that major parts of both populations stored adequate fat by departure from temperate mid-continental North America to meet their energy requirements for migration and part of their nutrient needs for reproduction. /// Medimos la masa corporal fresca, la grasa corporal total y la masa seca sin grasa (MSSG) de tres especies de chorlos del gnero Calidris (Calidris bairdii, C. pusilla y C. fuscicollis) que nidifican en el rtico durante escalas migratorias en la regin de la Pradera Pothole de Dakota del Norte. Adems, evaluamos la contribucin de la grasa almacenada a los requerimientos energticos para la migracin a los sitios reproductivos en el rtico, y a las necesidades de nutrientes para la reproduccin. Todas las aves migratorias de primavera de C. fuscicollis (n = 124) y C. bairdii (n = 111), y todas excepto 2 de las 99 aves de C. pusilla que colectamos fueron de dos aos de edad. Los machos y las hembras de C. bairdii migraron conjuntamente a travs de Dakota del Norte, los machos de C. pusilla migraron en promedio ms temprano que las hembras y los machos de C. fuscicollis precedieron a las hembras. Los ndices de la grasa (cociente entre grasa y MSSG) promedio de los machos y hembras de C. pusilla y C. fuscicollis fueron aproximadamente el doble que los de los machos y hembras de C. bairdii. La grasa corporal total de los machos y las hembras de C. bairdii incrementaron con la fecha en la primavera de 1980, pero no en 1981; las pendientes fueron similares para ambos sexos en cada ao. Los machos y las hembras de C. pusilla llegaron magros en 1980 y 1981, y la grasa corporal total increment con la fecha en ambos aos, con pendientes similares para todas las combinaciones de sexo y ao. Los machos y las hembras de C. fuscicollis llegaron magros en 1980-1981 y 1981, respectivamente, y la grasa corporal total increment con la fecha, mientras que las hembras llegaron con reservas de grasa que ya haban adquirido en 1980. Diferencias intra-especficas y entre los sexos en los esquemas de migracin probablemente contribuyeron a la variacin en los patrones de almacenamiento de grasa mediante la afectacin de los costos energticos de mantenimiento y la disponibilidad de alimentos. Los rangos de vuelo estimados de C. bairdii sugieren que pocos individuos podran haber satisfecho sus requerimientos energticos para la migracin a sus sitios reproductivos exclusivamente a partir de la grasa almacenada hasta el momento de partida desde Dakota del Norte. Los rangos estimados de vuelo de C. pusilla y C. fuscicollis, junto con las masas corporales frescas de ambas especies cuando fueron atrapadas en o cerca de los sitios reproductivos en el norte de Canad, sugieren que la mayor parte de ambas poblaciones almacenaron una cantidad adecuada de grasa hacia el tiempo de partida de las reas templadas del rea continental central de Amrica del Norte, como para satisfacer sus requerimientos energticos para la migracin y para parte de sus necesidades de nutrientes para la reproduccin. 
4090366| We describe a new species of Aratinga-A. pintoi (Sulfur-breasted Parakeet)-from open areas on the northern bank of the lower Amazon River in the state of Par, Brazil. It was for a long time misidentified as a juvenile of A. solstitialis or a hybrid between that species and A. jandaya. It can be distinguished from other Aratinga species by the combination of the following characters: mantle and wing coverts green, suffused with pale yellow; underparts pale yellow, with pale orange restricted to belly and flanks; and feathers on the underparts with a dark rachis. On the basis of color characters and general morphology, we suggest that this new species should be a member of a group composed of A. solstitialis, A. jandaya, A. auricapillus, and, possibly, Nandayus nenday. A review of taxonomy and distribution of the group is also presented. /// Uma nova espcie do gnero Aratinga-A. pintoi (cacau)- descrita das reas abertas da margem norte do baixo rio Amazonas, no Estado do Par, Brasil. Esta nova espcie foi por muito tempo erroneamente identificada como um jovem de A. solstitialis ou um hbrido entre esta espcie e A. jandaya. Aratinga pintoi pode ser distinguida das outras espcies de Aratinga pela combinao dos seguintes caracters: penas do dorso e as coberteiras superiores das asas verdes com invaso de amarelo-claro; laranja-claro restrito apenas  regio ventral e aos flancos; e pela presena de raque negra nas penas da regio peitoral. Com base em caracteres de colorao da plumagem e na morfologia, sugerimos que esta nova espcie pertena a um grupo de espcies composto por A. solstitialis, A. jandaya, A. auricapillus e, possivelmente, Nandayus nenday.  apresentada tambm uma reviso da taxonomia e da distribuio dos membros deste grupo. 
10.2307/4090098|We compared trends in the number of Hawaiian Petrels (Pterodroma sandwichensis; formerly Dark-rumped Petrels [P. phaeopygia sandwichensis]) and Newell's Shearwaters (Puffinus auricularis newelli) seen visiting Kauai, Hawaii, on ornithological radar in June 1993 and 1999-2001 and summarized and evaluated trends in the number of young Newell's Shearwaters recovered in the "Save Our Shearwaters" (SOS) Program on Kauai, 1979-2001. After pairing sampling dates at each site to remove temporal effects, radar data indicated that the number of Newell's Shearwaters visiting Kauai declined significantly between 1993 and 1999-2001. The mean change from 1993 numbers of radar targets across 13 sites was -59.8  7.2% (SE) in 1999, -62.1  5.5% in 2000, and -61.5  5.4% in 2001, with all sites except one showing decreases of 38-93% in 1999 and all sites showing decreases of 31-96% in 2000 and 37-92% in 2001. Our data suggest that the decline is concentrated in Newell's Shearwaters, whereas the Hawaiian Petrel population actually appears to have increased. The SOS fallout data exhibited a consistent 72% overall decline in Newell's Shearwater recoveries from 1993 to 2001. Although we believe that the SOS data only generally reflect population size and productivity of shearwaters on Kauai, we conclude from the radar data that there has been a significant decrease in the number of Newell's Shearwaters visiting Kauai since 1993. /// Comparamos con radares ornitolgicos las tendencias en los nmeros de Pterodroma sandwichensis (antes P. phaeopygia sandwichensis) y de Puffinus auricularis newelli que visitaron la isla Kauai, en Hawai, entre junio de 1993 y el periodo entre 1999 y 2001. Tambin resumimos y evaluamos las tendencias en los nmeros de juveniles de Puffinus auricularis newelli recuperados por el programa "Save Our Shearwaters" (SOS) en Kauai entre 1979 y 2001. Luego de parear las fechas de colecta en cada sitio para remover los efectos temporales, los datos obtenidos mediante radar indicaron que el nmero de Puffinus auricularis newelli que visitan Kauai ha disminuido significativamente entre 1993 y el periodo entre 1999 y 2001. El cambio promedio en los nmero registrados por el radar a travs de los 13 sitios desde 1993 fue del -59.8  7.2% (EE) en 1999, -62.1  5.5% en 2000 y -61.5  5.4% en 2001. Todos los sitios, excepto uno, mostraron disminuciones de un 38% a un 93% en 1999, y todos los sitios mostraron disminuciones de un 31% a un 96% en 2000 y en un 37% a un 92% en 2001. Nuestros datos sugieren que la disminucin se observa principalmente en las poblaciones de Puffinus auricularis newelli, mientras que las poblaciones de Pterodroma sandwichensis parecen haber aumentado. El programa SOS argumenta que los datos muestran una disminucin general y consistente del 72% en las recuperaciones de Puffinus auricularis newelli entre 1993 y 2001. Si bien creemos que los datos de SOS slo reflejan en general tamaos poblacionales y productividad de Puffinus auricularis newelli en Kauai, concluimos con base en los datos provenientes de radares que ha ocurrido una disminucin significativa en el nmero de Puffinus auricularis newelli que visitan la isla Kauai desde 1993.
4085967|Friarbirds and orioles show striking but parallel geographic variation in plumage on islands of the Australian region, such that their populations on the same island are often closely similar in plumage. This parallelism involves mimicry of friarbirds by orioles, which are in turn mimicked by a smaller honeyeater. The larger the friarbird compared to the oriole, the more perfect is the mimicry. Friarbirds and orioles are convergently similar in ecology and morphology and belong to a guild of birds that feed together in fruiting and flowering trees and that display much aggression toward each other. Within this guild, mimics are spared from attack by larger models, which attack other smaller species. Other possibly similar cases exist among tropical birds.
4086652|The anatomical inventories of Wood et al. (1982a, b) indicated that nearly one-third of the world's bird species are not represented by skeletal specimens or spirit specimens. Additionally, long series of anatomical specimens, necessary for many kinds of studies, exist for only a very few species. To encourage collectors to fill in gaps in anatomical holdings, we divided the world into 60 geographic areas, developed avifaunal lists for these, and indicated what species in each area are most critically needed as anatomical specimens. The details are given by Wood and Jenkinson (1984). Various analyses indicate that collecting efforts are most needed in the following areas: Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia-Peru-Ecuador, Brazil-Paraguay-Uruguay, Africa (except north Africa), the Indian subcontinent, Burma, New Guinea, Madagascar, Seychelles, and the islands north of Australia (except Borneo). Although collecting efforts are especially important in those areas, specimens are needed from all sites to provide series from throughout each species' range. Curators and collectors should make new or renewed efforts to increase anatomical holdings through a variety of approaches to specimen acquisition and preparation.
10.2307/4089276|Sexual differences in body size usually are considered to be a product of either sexual selection or ecological divergence between the sexes. I tested the predictions of these hypotheses to explain extreme sexual dimorphism in size in a Neotropical blackbird, the Montezuma Oropendola (Psarocolius montezuma). Sexual dimorphism was more pronounced in wing length and relative mass, traits that appear to be important in courtship and competition for mates, than in bill length or tarsus length. Male dominance rank, which is an indicator of mating success, was positively associated with body size (i.e. high-ranking males were larger than low- ranking males). These results suggest that sexual selection acts to increase male body size, and hence contributes to sexual size dimorphism in this species. Differences in foraging behavior and diet also existed between the sexes and were related to sexual size differences. The small size of females allowed them to forage on food resources that were difficult for the larger males to reach (e.g. insects in rolled leaves at the ends of branches). Females, though, did not appear to be restricted from those resources exploited by males (primarily epiphytal bromeliads). Although it was not possible to reject the ecological-divergence hypothesis, my results suggest that sexual foraging differences are a consequence rather than a cause of sexual dimorphism in size in this species.
4085305|Fluctuations in weight, lipid, and protein content of the body, breast muscles, and liver and changes in the size of leg muscles, gizzard, and intestines of adult Cackling Geese (Branta canadensis minima) were determined for specimens collected during autumn migration, winter, spring migration, arrival at nesting areas, egg laying, incubation, and molting time periods. Both sexes lost most of their lipid stores in winter. Larger-sized races of Canada Geese maintain a store of fat during winter even though they lose as much or more weight as Cackling Geese. Differences in amounts of fat storage in relation to body size, climate severity, and the frequency with which food shortages may occur may limit the northern boundaries of the winter range in this and other species that conform to Bergmann's Rule. At the time of their arrival on nesting grounds, body weights of males and females had increased 25.8% and 45.9%, respectively, over their weights in April. Females gained 1.8 times more weight, 2.4 times more fat, and 1.4 times more protein than did males. By the onset of incubation, 17 days after their arrival on nesting grounds, both sexes had lost weight nearly equivalent to amounts gained prior to their arrival. Lipid reserves of males were used by the onset of incubation, but were sufficient in females to maintain them until the end of their 26-day incubation period. Total protein in males was nearly maintained from the time of their arrival to the end of incubation, whereas it declined 22.7% in females between the time of arrival and the onset of incubation. At the time of hatching of their eggs, females had lost 42.1% of their peak spring weight, and they were emaciated. The reserves stored by geese during spring migration allow them to initiate nesting before food supplies become abundant and are critical in controlling clutch size. The proximate mechanism causing cessation of egg laying appears to be depletion of some essential material(s) stored during the spring weight gain, probably protein. Gizzard, intestines, and liver are probably major sources of labile protein for egg production, and decline in weight of these organs lowers the metabolic cost of their maintenance while they are little used because of fasting during the period of reproduction. Leg muscles of males hypertrophied throughout the spring and summer and were 92.6% heavier during the molt than during winter. Total protein of males during the molt, however, was not significantly different than during winter because of atrophy of breast muscles. Leg muscles of females hypertrophied only after hatching of their eggs. Breast muscles of females atrophied 18.6% during incubation and a further 14.3% during the molt, but total body weight, lipid, and protein levels of females were greater than at the end of incubation. Males nearly maintained their weight during the incubation period, while females were fasting. After hatching, females are obligated to feed nearly continuously because of their emaciated condition, while males can spend more time on the alert because of their better body condition maintained during the incubation period.
10.1525/auk.2010.09120|Temporal and energetic constraints associated with migration may compromise plumage quality and, ultimately, flight ability in migratory birds. As a consequence, migrants may invest more resources in parts of the plumage that are essential for long, sustained flight (such as the primary wing feathers) than in less important feather tracts. We used migratory and sedentary Blackcaps (
10.2307/4087237|I monitored 24-29 breeding groups of Harris' Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) in southeastern New Mexico during a 40-month period. Each year 29-70% of these groups made a second breeding attempt in either late summer or autumn, often following successful spring breeding. The interbrood period was positively correlated with the size of the first brood. Clutches were initiated between 17 February and 1 November. The mean number of hawks fledged from autumn nests was less (0.94) than that produced from spring (1.30) and summer (1.36) nests. The composition of prey remains found at nests in different seasons was similar. The number of second nests initiated was correlated with the number of lagomorphs but not with precipitation. Harris' Hawks did not time nesting to coincide with peak population levels of their principal prey; rather, this species has a flexible and prolonged breeding season that may have evolved in part to minimize the impact of stochastic climatic conditions that increase the probability of nest failure.
10.2307/4088735|We used multilocus minisatellite DNA fingerprinting to estimate the frequency of extrapair fertilizations in a population of Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) on Kent Island, New Brunswick, Canada. Leach's Storm-Petrel is a member of Procellariiformes, an order of long-lived pelagic birds characterized by long-term pairbonds, single-egg clutches, and extended periods of parental care. We found no evidence of extrapair fertilizations in 48 families (42 full families and 6 partial families consisting of the putative father and the single offspring). Thus, our results indicate that the breeding system (genetic monogamy) matches the mating system (social monogamy) in our study population, a condition that no longer can be assumed in socially monogamous bird species. Genetic monogamy in Leach's Storm-Petrels may be maintained by last-sperm precedence and frequent copulation by mates during the female's fertile period. Such tactics employed by a male may yield a high probability of fertilizing the single egg laid by his mate.
10.2307/4090230| We describe timing and location of the prebasic molt in Western Tanagers (Piranga ludoviciana), focusing on age class differences in premolt movements. Most adults migrate south to the American Southwest where they stop to molt before moving on to their wintering grounds. Molting adults are found in southern mountain regions (Sierra Madres and southern Rockies) and in the Mexican monsoon region, where late summer rains cause a substantial increase in productivity. In contrast, juvenile Western Tanagers move to nearby montane habitats to molt before migrating, a previously undocumented strategy in western passerines that show molt-related movements. By molting in nearby montane habitats, juveniles avoid the aerodynamic cost of migrating in their "fluffy", aerodynamically inefficient juvenal plumage. Western Tanagers are the fifth species known to use the Mexican monsoon region during the prebasic molt, further affirming the importance of that area to the conservation of Neotropical migrants that breed in western North America. /// Describimos el tiempo y localizacin de la muda prebsica en individuos de la especie Piranga ludoviciana, enfocndonos en las diferencias entre clases de edad de los movimientos anteriores a la muda. La mayora de los adultos emigran al sur hacia el Sudoeste de Norte Amrica donde se detienen para mudar antes de seguir a las tierras de invernada. Adultos que se encuentran mudando se han encontrado en las regiones montaosas del sur (Sierra Madre y Rocallosas del Sur) y en la regin del monzn mexicano dnde las lluvias de fines del verano causan un aumento sustancial en la productividad. Por el contrario, los juveniles de Piranga ludoviciana se desplazan a los hbitats montanos cercanos para mudar antes de emigrar, una estrategia previamente no documentada para aves paserinas occidentales que presentan movimientos relacionados a las mudas. Al mudar en los hbitats montanos cercanos, los juveniles evitan el costo aerodinmico de emigrar con su plumaje juvenil, "cubierto de pelusa" y aerodinmicamente ineficaz. Piranga ludoviciana es la quinta especie conocida en usar la regin del monzn mexicano durante la muda prebsica, reafirmando la importancia de esta regin para la conservacin de las aves migratorias del Neotrpico que se reproducen en Amrica del Norte occidental. 
4087675|We examined the composition of stomach oils and the gastrointestinal adaptations responsible for their formation in chicks of Leach's Strom-Petrel, Oceanodroma leucorhoa. We used tritium-labeled glycerol triether (a nonabsorbable lipid-phase marker) and carbon-14 labeled polyethylene glycol (a nonabsorbable aqueous-phase marker) to follow the gastrointestinal transit of a homogenized meal fed to chicks. Dietary lipids remained in the gastrointestinal tract significantly longer (126 h mean retention time) than aqueous components (12 h) due largely to different rates of gastric emptying. Mean gastric retention times were 0.35 h for aqueous solutions and 70 h for neutral lipids. Stomach oils from Leach's Storm-Petrel chicks and adults consist largely (>90%) of neutral lipids (triglycerides, wax esters, and glycerol ethers). The composition is dynamic, and components are partitioned between an oil phase and aqueous phase based largely on water-lipid solubilities. The paucity of fatty acids and phospholipids in stomach oils derives from limited solubility in neutral lipids and rapid gastric emptying of polar lipid constituents. Proventricular lipolysis of neutral lipids is low (<3%) and we found no evidence of proventricular lipid secretion. During the week or two before fledging, Leach's Storm-Petrel chicks regulate the amount of stomach oil by restricting the rate of gastric lipid emptying.
4089553|Artificial nests are commonly used to investigate relative rates of nest predation in birds, but several methodological considerations need to be addressed before results from natural and artificial nests can be compared. Using field and laboratory experiments, we examined responses of predators to visual and olfactory cues that were associated with wicker nests and their contents. Avian predators did not discriminate between wicker nests dipped in mud and those covered by a camouflage fabric, whereas mammalian predators showed a weak tendency to depredate camouflaged nests. Nests containing plasticine eggs were depredated more often than nests containing only quail eggs and finch eggs, although no response to number of plasticine eggs in nests was found. The higher predation of nests with plasticine eggs may have resulted because small mammals, relying on olfactory cues, comprised a large portion of the predator assemblage. Field results were supported in tests where captive deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were attracted to assortments of egg types that included plasticine. Time required by captive deer mice to penetrate quail eggs and finch eggs versus plasticine eggs varied as a function of egg size and shell thickness and strength. Overall, domestic finch eggs provided a better alternative to quail eggs because they were small enough to allow detection of predation events by small mammals and did not have an unnatural odor like plasticine. Potential problems with nest concealment, egg visibility, egg odors, and other factors must be resolved to enhance the design and reliability of artificial nest experiments.
25150348|Vocal admixture often occurs where differentiated populations or species of birds meet. This may entail song sympatry, bilingually singing birds, and songs with intermediate or atypical characteristics. Different levels of vocal admixture at the range interface between Black-capped Chickadees "(Poecile atricapillus)" and Carolina Chickadees (P. carolinensis) have been interpreted as indicating that hybridization is frequent at some locations but not others. However, song ontogeny in these birds has a strong nongenetic component, so that inferences regarding hybridization based on vocal admixture require confirmation. We used diagnostic genetic markers and quantitative analyses of song to characterize population samples along two transects of the chickadee contact zone in the Appalachian Mountains. More than 50% of individuals at the range interface were of hybrid ancestry, yet only 20% were observed to be bilingual or to sing atypical songs. Principal component analysis revealed minimal song intermediacy. This result contrasts with an earlier analysis of the hybrid zone in Missouri that found considerable song intermediacy. Re-analysis of the Missouri data confirmed this difference. Correlation between an individual's genetic composition and its song type was weak in Appalachian hybrid populations, and genetic introgression in both forms extended far beyond the limits of vocal admixture. Therefore, song is not a reliable indicator of levels of hybridization or genetic introgression at this contact zone. Varying ecological factors may play a role in producing variable levels of song admixture in different regions of the range interface. /// La mixtura vocal ocurre usualmente donde poblaciones diferenciadas o especies de aves se encuentran. Esto puede implicar simpatra en los cantos, aves bilinges en sus cantos y cantos con caractersticas intermedias o atpicas. Los diferentes niveles de mixtura vocal en la interfase de los rangos de Poecile atricapillus y P. carolinensis han sido interpretados como indicadores de que la hibridacin es frecuente en algunas localidades, pero no en otras. Sin embargo, la ontogenia del canto en estas aves presenta un fuerte componente no gentico, por lo que las inferencias sobre la hibridacin basadas en la mixtura de vocalizaciones requieren ser confirmadas. Usamos marcadores genticos diagnsticos y anlisis cuantitativos de los cantos para caracterizar las muestras poblacionales a lo largo de dos transectas de la zona de contacto entre las especies de estudio en las Montaas Apalaches. Ms del 50% de los individuos de la interfase de los rangos fueron de origen hbrido, aunque se observ que slo el 20% de los individuos fueron bilinges o cantaron canciones atpicas. Anlisis de componentes principales revelaron que los cantos intermedios fueron mnimos. Estos resultados contrastan con un anlisis anterior de la zona hbrida de Missouri que encontr niveles considerables de cantos intermedios. El re-anlisis de los datos de Missouri confirma esta diferencia. La correlacin entre la composicin gentica de los individuos y su tipo de canto fue dbil en las poblaciones hbridas de los Apalaches, y la introgresin gentica en ambas formas se extendi considerablemente ms all de los lmites de la mixtura de voces. Por lo tanto, los cantos no son un indicador confiable de los niveles de hibridacin o de introgresin gentica en esta zona de contacto. Los factores ecolgicos cambiantes podran jugar un papel en producir niveles variables de mixtura de cantos en diferentes regiones de la interfase de los rangos.
4088561|Carcass reserves (fat and protein) were estimated for American Wigeons (Anas americana) collected in the Southern High Plains of Texas during 1 October 1988 to 15 March 1989. Wigeons also were surveyed electrophoretically for genetic variation at 25 biochemical loci. Our objective was to determine if nutrient reserves were correlated with multilocus genetic heterozygosity (H). Differences were detected in mean fat, protein and condition values of wigeons with different multilocus genetic characteristics. These differences were confounded by interactions of H, sex, age class, and/or collection period (autumn, early winter, midwinter, late winter, and early spring). The number of American Wigeons in different heterozygosity classes was not independent of sex, season or collection site on the study area. An important implication is that as the genetic structure of wigeon populations changes in time or space relative fitness of those populations may be directly affected.
10.2307/4086770|A rain-forest population of the Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus) suffered heavy ectoparasitism from the larvae of a tropical fly recently identified as Philornis deceptivus. The impact of parasitic attack was of less consequence to adult thrashers than to nestlings. Nestling mortality was high and was caused mostly by philornid ectoparasitism, other factors being negligible (3%). The extent of larval infestations fluctuated seasonally and was related to monthly rainfall. Infestation did not have to be heavy to cause debilitation and death. Larval infestation sites varied with the nestling's ontogeny, expecially pterylae development. Overall 4-yr fledging success was 53.3%, fairly high for a tropical passerine. However, observations of heavily parasitized nestlings that died during fledging attempts and the deaths of postfledging juvenile thrashers suggest that first-year mortality may be as high as 80% in nestlings that suffered heavy larval infestations (357 of 448 nestlings). Juveniles face keen intraspecific competition after leaving the nest. A combination of high nestling and juvenile mortality and little opportunity for juveniles to enter the breeding population could greatly reduce this host's numbers. There are signs, however, that the Pearly-eyed Thrasher is adjusting to heavy philornid ectoparasitism by lengthening the breeding season and reproducing while fly populations are seasonally low (December-March) and, thus, may remain in abundance in the rain forest.
10.2307/4088730|Kleptoparasitism of American Coots (Fulica americana) by Gadwalls (Anas strepera) was recorded from October 1991-February 1992. We used these data to test whether frequency and rate of kleptoparasitism were related to variation in food abundance and dominance status of Gadwalls. Overall, 30% (n = 423) of Gadwalls observed were kleptoparasitic; the relative frequency and rate of kleptoparasitism varied monthly. The proportion of individuals engaged in food stealing and the rate of kleptoparasitism were greatest for subordinate sex/pair status classes of Gadwalls. When comparing diurnal time-activity budgets, kleptoparasitic Gadwalls spent less time feeding (56 vs. 68%) and more time searching for food (37 vs. 24%) than did individuals not participating in kleptoparasitism. Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum) was the primary food of Gadwalls and American Coots. As this aquatic macrophyte declined in abundance over the winter as a result of the effects of herbivory and natural senescence, so did numbers of coots and Gadwalls. When coot and Gadwall numbers were held constant statistically, the rate of kleptoparasitism was inversely related to milfoil cover. Food-stealing behavior of Gadwalls was influenced by social dominance and food abundance; it was mediated by host/parasite numbers. Results suggest that kleptoparasitism is an alternative foraging strategy used by subordinate Gadwalls that do not have access to good feeding areas.
4085751|We present a deterministic model for predicting daily energy expenditure of two raptors-female American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) and White-tailed Kites (Elanus leucurus)-wintering in coastal northwestern California. Inputs to the model include body mass, air temperature, photoperiod, energy expenditure of flight, and relative portions of the daytime spent in flight and nonflight activities. A simplified version of the model applicable to birds spending less than 20% of the day in flight and inflating daily energy expenditure by 6% or less is also presented. Inputs to the simplified version include body mass, air temperature, energy expenditure of flight, and relative portions of the 24-h day spent in flight and nonflight activities. Input data were estimated directly and indirectly. The validity of the model was tested by comparing predicted energy expenditure with energy expenditure estimated by observed food consumption of wild birds. The model predicted that individual female kestrels would expend 42.0-61.0 kcal (2.04 to 2.96 W) daily and that individual kites would expend 105.6-118.3 kcal (5.12 to 5.74 W) daily. Daily energy expenditure estimated by food consumption averaged 42.9 and 113.1 kcal (2.08 and 5.49 W) per individual kestrel and kite, respectively. The degree of correspondence between model prediction and field estimation of energy expenditure of kites was considered adequate for model validation. Even though the model predictions bracketed the field estimation of energy expenditure of kestrels, however, the model predictions were considered to be too high because of an erroneous temperature input, and the field estimation was considered to be too low because of an erroneous estimate of the biomass of an important group of prey. Correcting these errors indicated that the daily energy expenditure of kestrels should average 48.7 kcal (2.36 W) per individual. Using the corrected energy expenditure as a standard for female kestrels and the field estimate of energy expenditure as a standard for kites, the predictive accuracy of the versions of the model was evaluated relative to the predictive accuracy of 11 other models. Three of these models, including the two versions presented here, produced estimates that were within 5% of the mean standard value. Eight of the models under-approximated the mean standard value by 10.3-49.5%; the other two over-approximated the mean standard value by 14.8 and 36.9%.
10.2307/4087549|I documented predator attacks and antipredator behavior at four display sites of Guianan Cock-of-the-Rock (Rupicola rupicola) in Suriname from 1980 to 1985. Most observations were made at a large lek that averaged 55 territorial males, with supplemental data on display groups of 1, 2, and 6 males. Males at the main lek were attacked by 6 species of raptors, 1 mammal species, and 1 snake species. A total of 56 attacks and 2 kills by raptors were observed (0.22 attacks/day). Two kills of displaying males by the snake Boa constrictor were also observed. Male Cock-of-the-Rock were very wary. I observed 832 spooks (complete or partial flushes) at the Main Lek, more than 90% of which were apparently false alarms. Males at the smaller display sites were much less likely to spook. The raptor attack rate was inversely correlated with group size, supporting the hypothesis that social antipredator behavior reduces risk for displaying males. There was no evidence that peripheral or young males were especially vulnerable to predators. Snake predation represents a previously unrecognized cost of lek display for tropical birds. The Cock-of-the-Rock failed to exhibit any effective antipredator behavior against snakes and may rely for protection on the infrequency with which snakes locate leks.
4090558| Analysis of stable hydrogen isotope ratios in feathers
4085549|Allopreening occurs in at least 10 owl species, but its functions are poorly understood. Observations on the Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis) in western Oregon between 1970 and 1978 indicated that allopreening was common between paired individuals during spring and summer (the breeding season) but was uncommon between sibling owlets or between adults and their young. A captive Spotted Owl that was imprinted on the senior author frequently solicited or initiated allopreening during spring and summer, directing such activity toward the senior author. Although Harrison (1965) proposed that the principal function of allopreening was to reduce or redirect agonistic tendencies, the relationship between aggression and allopreening in owls is not clear; outwardly, it looks like a peaceful interaction without aggressive overtones. A possible explanation for the lack of aggressive overtones associated with allopreening in owls is that selection has resulted in a display that is so ritualized that it no longer resembles the aggressive behavior from which it evolved. We do not believe allopreening is important as a means of sexual or individual recognition in owls, as was suggested by Fitzpatrick (1975) and Harrison (1965).
10.1525/auk.2012.11250|We describe a new species of barbet in the genus
10.1525/auk.2012.11256|In northern marine habitats, the presence or absence of sea ice results in variability in the distribution of many species and the quality and availability of pelagic winter habitat. To understand the effects of ice on intra- and inter-annual winter site fidelity and movements in a northern sea-duck species, we marked 25 adult Pacific Common Eiders (
10.1525/auk.2012.12095|Many avian species exhibit a transition from biparental to uniparental care, but the reasons for this pattern are largely unknown. We examined the transition from biparental to paternal-only care in a small Arctic seabird, the Dovekie (
10.2307/4088625|I examined the hypotheses that Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) began breeding in spring shortly after acquiring enough food to make eggs, or so that chicks were in nests when food was most plentiful. Egg laying began about nine days after a female's daily food intake crossed an estimated energy threshold of 1,715 kJ/day. In contrast, the peak in availability of food energy to adults occurred at least 26 days before the peak food demands of their chicks. The estimated food energy intake by adults increased gradually in March and April with increasing duration of low tides and the inshore movement of fishes. Adult food energy intake reached a peak in May when shiner seaperch (Cymatogaster agreggata) were most abundant, and diminished through June and July.
10.2307/4089887| The waterfowl family Anatidae is one of very few avian taxa that possesses an intromittent organ. This paper examines the adaptive significance of the intromittent organ in waterfowl by determining the relationships between intromittent organ morphology and the intensity of sperm competition (as reflected by frequency of forced extrapair copulations [FEPCs]). Intromittent organ morphological characteristics, including length and circumference (adjusted for body size), number of ridges and knobs (per unit area), ridge or knob height, ridge or knob span, and area covered by ridges and knobs, were measured from scaled drawings of museum specimens of 54 waterfowl species (33 genera), 27 of which were ranked by frequency of FEPC (1 = monogamous, 2 = rare FEPC, 3 = frequent FEPC, and 4 = polygynous or promiscuous). Testes sizes were also investigated in relation to FEPCs, where testes mass (adjusted for body size) from 44 species (24 genera) were obtained (29 species with mating strategies). The size of the testes, the length of the intromittent organ, the height of the intromittent organ ridges and knobs, and the area covered by ridges and knobs increased significantly with the frequency of FEPC, and those relationships exist after correcting for common ancestry constraints. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that waterfowl intromittent organs are involved in sperm competition. Further research into the actual mechanism by which the intromittent organ is involved would be worthwhile. /// La familia de aves acuticas Anatidae es uno de los pocos taxa de aves que posee un rgano intromitente. Este trabajo examina el valor adaptativo del rgano intromitente en aves acuticas mediante la determinacin de la relacin entre la morfologa del rgano y la intensidad de la competencia espermtica (reflejada en la frecuencia de cpulas forzadas extra-pareja [CFEP]). Se estudiaron las siguientes caractersticas morfolgicas del rgano intromitente: longitud y circunferencia (ajustada por tamao corporal), nmero de crestas y protuberancias (por unidad de rea), altura y longitud de las crestas y protuberancias y rea cubierta por crestas y protuberancias. Estas caractersticas fueron medidas en dibujos a escala de especmenes de museo de 54 especies de aves acuticas (33 gneros), 27 de las cuales fueron ordenadas por la frecuencia de CFEP (1 = mongama, 2 = CFEP rara, 3 = CFEP frecuente y 4 = polgama o promiscua). El tamao de los testculos tambin fue investigado en relacin a las CFEP, para lo cual se obtuvo la masa de los testculos (ajustada por tamao corporal) de 44 especies (24 gneros), 29 de las cuales pesentaron estrategias de apareamiento. El tamao de los testculos, la longitud del rgano intromitente, la altura de las crestas y protuberancias del rgano intromitente y el rea cubierta por crestas y protuberancias aumentaron significativamente con la frecuencia de CFEP, y estas relaciones se mantuvieron luego de corregir por restricciones de ascendencia comn. Estos resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis que el rgano intromitente de las aves acuticas se relaciona con la competencia espermtica. Valdra la pena realizar estudios adicionales sobre el mecanismo especfico que relaciona el rgano intromitente con la competencia espermtica. 
10.2307/4090404| We used radiotelemetry to study behavior of White-throated Robins (Turdus assimilis) during the postfledging dependent period. The study was conducted in a mixed agricultural and forested landscape in southern Costa Rica from March through August of 2001 and 2002. A transmitter was attached to one fledgling per brood (n = 53). Each bird was located daily prior to dispersal. We compared survivorship, habitat use, and movements of fledglings from (1) nests in coffee plantations and (2) nests in cattle pastures. The probability of surviving the first three weeks out of the nest was 0.67  0.07 (SE) for fledglings from nests in all habitats, 0.58  0.10 for fledglings from nests in coffee, and 0.74  0.26 for fledglings from nests in pasture. Fledglings from nests in pasture left their nesting habitat at younger ages than did those from nests in coffee, and most birds from both habitats moved into forest when they left their nesting habitat. Pasture was rarely used during the postfledging period, whereas coffee plantations were used extensively. Fledglings that remained in agricultural habitats (coffee or pasture) were less likely to survive until dispersal than were those that moved into forested areas. Average daily distances from the nest gradually increased until fledglings dispersed away from the natal area, always into forest, and were not different for birds from pasture or coffee. White-throated Robins can nest successfully in agricultural habitats, but use of forest positively influenced survivorship of young during the postfledging dependent period. /// Usamos radiotelemetra para estudiar el comportamiento de Turdus assimilis durante el perodo de dependencia post abandono del nido. El estudio se llev a cabo en un paisaje mixto de bosques y reas agrcolas en el sur de Costa Rica, de marzo a agosto de 2001 y 2002. Se le coloc un trasmisor a un volantn por nidada (n = 53). Antes de dispersarse, cada ave fue localizada diariamente. Comparamos supervivencia, uso de hbitat y los desplazamientos de los volantones de nidos en cafetales y pastizales. La probabilidad de sobrevivir las primeras tres semanas fuera del nido fue de 0.67  0.07 (error estndar) para todos los volantones en los diferentes hbitats, 0.58  0.10 para los volantones de nidos en cafetales, y 0.74  0.26 para volantones de nidos en pastizales. Los volantones de nidos en pastizales abandonaron el hbitat de nidificacin a edades ms tempranas que los de nidos en cafetales y la mayora de las aves de ambos hbitats se mudaron al bosque cuando dejaron el hbitat de nidificacin. Los pastizales raramente fueron usados durante el perodo post abandono del nido mientras que los cafetales fueron usados comnmente. Los volantones que permanecieron en hbitats agrcolas (cafetales o pastizales) tuvieron una menor probabilidad de sobrevivir hasta que se dispersaron que los que se trasladaron a reas boscosas. El promedio diario de las distancias que se alejaron del nido increment gradualmente hasta que los volantones se dispersaron fuera del rea natal, siempre hacia el bosque, y fue igual para las aves de pastizales y cafetales. Turdus assimilis puede anidar exitosamente en hbitats agrcolas pero el uso del bosque influye positivamente sobre la supervivencia de los jvenes durante el perodo de dependencia post abandono del nido. 
10.2307/4089279| Correlations among habitat characteristics and fitness components of California Gnatcatchers (Polioptila californica californica) were examined using within-territory vegetation and life-history data for 41 pairs of gnatcatchers at four sites from 1993 through 1995. Gnatcatchers nested earlier, had more successful nests, produced more fledglings, had a longer nesting period, and had lower fledgling costs when their territories were associated with increased grass and forb cover, increased perennial structure, increased horizontal perennial homogeneity, decreased vertical perennial homogeneity, and decreased perennial diversity. Within-territory vegetation variables, derived from the correlation of vegetation and life-history variables, were able to discriminate among gnatcatcher pairs grouped by site. Survival of adult gnatcatchers was significantly higher in the gnatcatcher group that had average within-territory vegetation characteristics associated with maximization of other life-history variables and was significantly lower in the gnatcatcher group that had average within-territory vegetation characteristics associated with minimization of other life-history variables. Survival of juveniles was not associated with within-territory vegetation. The finite rate of population increase () was >1 for the gnatcatcher group where within-territory vegetation and life-history variables were maximized, approximately equal to 1 for gnatcatcher groups where within-territory vegetation and life-history variables were moderate, and <1 for the gnatcatcher group where within-territory vegetation and life-history variables were minimal. Our study suggests that within-territory vegetation characteristics are associated with adult survival and , but site characteristics independent of vegetation also could have contributed to such an association. 
10.2307/4089162|The incubation limit hypothesis (Davies and Brooke 1988) states that female brood parasites remove host eggs to reduce the parasitized clutch volume to a size that the host can incubate effectively, thereby ensuring that the parasite's eggs will hatch. We tested this hypothesis by adding freshly laid Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs to Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) clutches and comparing hatching success in clutches from which one or no host eggs were removed (Treatments 1 and 2, respectively). Hatching success of cowbird eggs differed significantly between Treatments 1 and 2 in one of the three years of study. Warbler hatching success tended to be higher in control and in Treatment 1 clutches than in Treatment 2 clutches. Climatic conditions varied between years but did not influence cowbird hatching success. Cowbird eggs tended to hatch before warbler eggs whether or not a host egg was removed. Neither incubation period, hatching spread, nor hatching order was significantly influenced by egg removal. These results indicate that removal of a host egg is not necessary for successful hatching of cowbird eggs in Yellow Warbler clutches in all years, although it may increase hatching success in some years.
4087374|The interrelationships of 13 of the 14 species currently recognized in the Australo-Papuan oscinine scrubwrens, Sericornis, were assessed by protein electrophoresis, screening 44 presumptive loci. Consensus among analyses indicated that Sericornis comprises two primary lineages of hitherto unassociated species: S. beccarii with S. magnirostris, S. nouhuysi and the S. perspicillatus group; and S. papuensis and S. keri with S. spilodera and the S. frontalis group. Both lineages are shared by Australia and New Guinea. Patterns of latitudinal and altitudinal allopatry and sequences of introgressive intergradation are concordant with these groupings, but many features of external morphology are not. Apparent homologies in face, wing and tail markings, used formerly as the principal criteria for grouping species, are particularly at variance and are interpreted either as coinherited ancestral traits or homoplasies. Distribution patterns suggest that both primary lineages were first split vicariantly between Australia and New Guinea, and then radiated independently on each land mass under the influence of paleoclimatic change. Dispersal between Australia and New Guinea is indicated only in the magnirostris sublineage and is either very recent or just broken.
4090443| The need for fresh water may affect growth and survival of young waterfowl, including ducklings of sea ducks that are routinely raised in coastal marine habitats. We studied the influence of water salinity on growth and survival of Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) ducklings collected from nests on Southampton Island, Nunavut, Canada, in July 2001 and 2002. In 2001, 50 ducklings were partitioned into five groups (n = 10) and assigned a water salinity treatment for 6.5 days. Treatments included fresh water (<1 ppt NaCl), brackish water (11 ppt or 21 ppt), seawater (33 ppt), and a mixed regime (<1 ppt for 12 h, followed by 33 ppt for six days). In 2002, the experiment was replicated twice with different ducklings. Overall, growth rates were negatively correlated, and mortality rates positively correlated, with water salinity: 3%, 17%, and 60% of ducklings died in the <1-ppt, 11-ppt, and 21-ppt treatment groups, respectively; and 100% died in the 33-ppt and mixed-regime groups. The results confirm that fresh water is required for growth and survival of Common Eider ducklings immediately after hatch, which suggests that sources of fresh water in brood-rearing areas are an important requirement for successful reproduction. /// Le besoin en eau douce pourrait affecter la croissance et la survie des jeunes chez la sauvagine, incluant les canetons des canards de mer qui sont gnralement levs dans des habitats ctiers marins. Nous avons tudi l'influence de la salinit de l'eau sur la croissance et la survie de canetons de Somateria mollissima prlevs dans des nids sur Southampton Island, Nunavut, Canada, en juillet 2001 et 2002. En 2001, 50 canetons ont t spars en cinq groupes (n = 10) et assigns  un traitement de salinit de l'eau pendant 6,5 jours. Les traitements incluaient de l'eau douce (<1 ppt NaCl), de l'eau saumtre (11 ppt ou 21 ppt), de l'eau de mer (33 ppt), et un rgime mixte (<1 ppt pour 12h, suivi de 33 ppt pour 6 jours). En 2002, l'exprience a t rplique deux fois avec diffrents canetons. En gnral, le taux de croissance tait ngativement corrl et le taux de mortalit positivement corrl, avec la salinit de l'eau: 3%, 17% et 60% des canetons appartenant aux groupes avec les traitements <1-ppt, 11-ppt et 21-ppt, respectivement, sont morts alors que 100% sont morts pour les groupes avec les traitements 33-ppt et rgime mixte. Les rsultats confirment que de l'eau douce est requise pour la croissance et la survie des canetons de Somateria mollissima juste aprs l'closion. Ceci suggre que les sources d'eau douce dans les aires d'levage des couves constituent des lments essentiels  une reproduction fructueuse. 
10.2307/4088768|Using DNA fingerprinting we studied Henderson Reed-Warblers (Acrocephalus vaughani taiti), which are confined to Henderson Island in the central South Pacific. During the single study season, the birds had a well-defined nesting period from late August to early January. About one-third of nesting groups comprised three, not two adults. The members of trios, which could include two males and one female, or one male and two females, were unrelated. However, all members of trios contributed to incubation and/or feeding the young, whether or not they were parents of the chicks. The output of young per adult was slightly but not significantly higher in pairs than trios. We suggest a compensating advantage for members of trios: in the stable island habitat, young birds may be more readily able to secure a nesting territory when belonging to a trio than when in a pair.
10.2307/4090243| In December 1999, an exceptional windstorm traveled across northern France (Cte d'Or). The severity of the stand damages ranged from <1 to >80%, and over 10% of the overall surface of several homogeneous woodlands (from 1,000 to 8,000 ha) was affected by the windstorm. Data were available on Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) density, productivity, and nesting stand preferences in that area before the disturbance. The species showed tolerance to the natural disturbance induced by the windstorm: we found no difference in density, nesting stand choice, or productivity between the six breeding seasons before the windthrow and in the one immediately after. Breeding pairs moved away (50-200 m) from their traditional nest stand only when its original structure was altered by >30% in the 50 m surrounding the nest tree. We hypothesize that the Northern Goshawk tolerance to windstorm damage may be the result of an adaptive response, which they have developed under both climate- and human-originated stresses. /// En dcembre 1999, une tempte de vent exceptionnelle a travers le nord de la France (Cte d'Or). La svrit des dommages ports aux arbres variait de <1  80%, et plus de 10% de la surface totale de plusieurs boiss homognes (de 1,000  8,000 ha) ont t affects par la tempte. Des donnes concernant la densit, la productivit et les prfrences du site nidification de l'Autour des palombes taient disponibles (Accipiter gentilis) dans cette rgion avant la tempte. L'espce s'est montre tolrante aux drangements de type naturel causs par la tempte: nous n'avons trouv aucune diffrence dans la densit, le choix du site de nidification ou la productivit entre les six saisons de nidification avant la tempte et celle immdiatement aprs. Les couples nicheurs ont quitt (50-200 m) leur lieu traditionnel de nidification seulement dans le cas o la structure d'origine tait altre de >30% dans les 50 m autour du nid. Nous avons mis l'hypothse que la tolrance de l'Autour des palombes aux dommages de la tempte pourrait tre le rsultat d'une rponse adaptative qu'ils auraient dveloppe suite  des stress d'origine climatique et humaine. 
40406065|Determining the sex of a bird on the basis of its morphological characteristics is difficult in >50% of avian species; in nestlings, this rate is even higher. Given that male birds have two identical sex chromosomes (ZZ), whereas females are heterogametic (ZW), the development of a DNA-based sexing method has been widely investigated in several species.
10.1525/auk.2013.12151|Painted Buntings (
4086376|Rijke (1967, 1968) proposed that the water repellency of feathers and the presence or absence of spread-wing postures in water birds could be explained by structural mechanism first described for textiles. The textile model predicts that the tendency of water droplets to bead up on grid-like surfaces is a mathematical function in which the primary independent variable is an index, (r + d)/r, where r is the radius of and d is one-half the distance between cylinders in the grid. Larger indices indicate more water-repellent surfaces. Rijke found larger indices in the feathers of ducks than in the feathers of cormorants and anhingas; hence, he concluded that the latter birds must spread-wing to dry their wettable feathers. However, there were mathematical inconsistencies, undefined variables and concepts, and inadequate data in Rijke's papers. Despite these flaws, Rijke's hypothesis has been frequently cited in the ornithological literature. I report here my evaluation of the applicability of the textile model to feathers and my test of Rijke's prediction that species that assume spread-wing postures when wet have smaller (r + d)/r values for their ramus and barbule structure than species that do not. I used scanning electron microscopy to measure the feather structure of 14 species of water birds in 6 different categories (breast, back, and four regions of a remex). I found that the textile-feather analogy is not realistic, because feather structure is considerably more complex and variable than the geometric model that is fundamental to the textile equations. My (r + d)/r values show considerable overlap among three behaviorally distinct groups of water birds: those that predictably, occasionally, or never assume spread-wing postures. Statistically, the (r + d)/r values of the rami in some feather categories of the group of species that shows spread-wing behavior were smaller than those of the other two groups of birds (which did not differ). Index values of the barbule structure, which constitutes most of the feather surface, however, do not differ significantly among the three groups of birds. I also measured the shape of water droplets (by contact angles) on the breast and remex feathers of a Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and a Reed Cormorant (Phalacrocorax africanus) and compared these values between the two species as well as with those mathematically predicted by the textile model. In general, the observed water droplets have a shape more like that predicted by the (r + d)/r values of barbules than of rami. Droplets on the feathers of the Reed Cormorant were more bead-shaped than those on Mallard feathers, although the reverse should be true if the textile model holds for feathers. I conclude that Rijke's hypothesis is invalid for two reasons: the textile model cannot be applied reliably to feathers, and it does not account for the spread-wing behavioral differences among water birds.
4087275|I studied morphometric variation in 13 linear measurements from 228 American Coots (Fulica americana) collected in southern Manitoba. Univariate and multivariate techniques revealed differences in size and shape among adult coots that were 1, 2, and >2 yr old. In addition to the obvious differences in size between males and females, the morphometry of older birds differed from that of younger birds in two ways. First, older coots were of larger body size than younger coots of the same sex. Second, older coots had proportionately larger feet and claws relative to the size of their tarsi, and proportionately wider bills and heads relative to other head measurements, than did younger birds. Multivariate dispersion matrices within age/sex cohorts were less variable for older coots. In an analysis of 1-yr-old males, breeders did not differ from nonbreeders in overall body size, but breeders had relatively longer claws and wings than nonbreeders. Age-related differences in morphology may have relevance to the social structure of nesting coots, which involves highly aggressive territorial behavior. Part of the age-related variation in nesting phenology that has been documented elsewhere for coots may be a consequence of covariation in body size and shape.
10.2307/4088819|Comparative growth patterns of selected cranial and postcranial skeletal characters are used to test hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships between the major groups within the family Laridae. The development of the bill in skimmers and terns is characterized by highly nonlinear size-dependent allometries in contrast to the relatively constant, linear allometric relationship found in gulls. These comparative ontogenetic trajectories thus support the hypothesis that skimmers and terns are more closely related to one another than either is to the gulls. The linear size-dependent allometry found throughout development in gulls is similar to that found early in the ontogeny of all larids. In contrast, the highly nonlinear allometry which characterizes the later stages of development in terns and skimmers suggests additional complexity in the genetic control of bill development. The more parsimonious phylogenetic hypothesis is that the shape of the bill in gulls and skuas is the more primitive character state. The bill shape in skimmers relative to terns may reflect the heterochronic extension of the ontogenetic trajectory characteristic of the later stages of development in terns. Ontogenetic transformations found among postcranial characters are consistent with the hypothesis of relationships based on bill ontogenies. However, because of similar nonlinear characteristics in both gull and tern growth trajectories, phylogenetic inferences drawn from the relative ontogenies of postcranial dimensions are considered less compelling.
10.2307/4090317| We summarized records of hybridization between Barred Owls (Strix varia) and Northern Spotted Owls (S. occidentalis caurina) in Washington and Oregon through 1999. A total of 47 hybrids were observed, including 17 F1s that were first detected as adults, 4 F1s that were banded as juveniles and subsequently recaptured as adults, 10 F1 juveniles, and 16 F2 juveniles. All confirmed cases of hybridization between Barred and Spotted owls involved male Spotted Owls paired with female Barred Owls. Ten F1 hybrids that backcrossed with Barred Owls produced a total of 15 young; 6 F1 hybrids that backcrossed with Spotted Owls produced only 1 young. Those differences may indicate that some combinations of sex and species are more compatible or more fertile than others, but more documentation is needed. Because F2 hybrids and subsequent generations are difficult to distinguish in the field from Barred or Spotted owls, genetic comparisons of blood or tissue samples may be needed to identify hybrids beyond the first generation. The small number of F1 hybrids detected during many years of extensive banding studies of Spotted Owls suggests that the isolating mechanisms that separate Barred and Spotted owls are normally sufficient to avoid hybridization between them. Direct competition between the two species for food and space is probably a much more serious threat to the Spotted Owl than hybridization. /// Resumimos los datos de hibridizacin entre Strix varia y S. occidentalis caurina en los estados de Washington y Oregon hasta 1999. Se observaron un total de 47 hbridos, incluyendo 17 F1 que se detectaron siendo ya adultos, 4 F1 que fueron anillados de jvenes y recapturados posteriormente como adultos, y 10 F1 juveniles y 16 F2 juveniles. Todos los casos de hibridizacin confirmados entre S. varia y S. occidentalis caurina implicaban S. occidentalis machos emparejados con S. varia hembras. Diez hbridos F1 que retrocruzaron con S. varia produjeron un total de 15 cras; seis hbridos F1 que retrocruzaron con S. occidentalis slo produjeron una cra. Estas diferencias pueden indicar que algunas combinaciones de sexo y especie son ms compatibles o ms frtiles que otras, pero se necesita ms documentacin. Puesto que los hbridos F2 y sus generaciones posteriores son difciles de distinguir de S. varia y S. occidentalis en el campo, comparaciones genticas de muestras de sangre o tejido pueden ser necesarias para identificar los hbridos ms all de la primera generacin. E1 reducido nmero de hbridos F1 detectados durante muchos aos de estudios extensivos de anillaje de S. occidentalis sugiere que los mecanismos de aislamiento que separan S. varia y occidentalis normalmente resultan ser suficientes para evitar la hibridizacin entre ellos. La competencia directa entre las dos especies por alimentacin y hbitat es, probablemente, una amenaza mucho ms seria para S. occidentalis que la hibridizacin. 
4085550|Previously published data pooled over entire winters showed clinal variation in the winter sex ratio of Junco h. hyemalis. Females were less numerous than males in the north and progressively more numerous southward. In this study, regression coefficients calculated from the published data, with latitude and certain climatic measures as independent variables, accurately predicted the winter sex ratio of locations not previously sampled. Annual variation in sex ratio was nonsignificant. The pattern of distribution was established by the end of fall migration, before differential mortality could have accounted for it. Temperature rather than latitude, snowfall, or probable distance from the nearest breeding grounds correlated best with percentage of females in winter populations. It is suggested that climate has acted primarily indirectly to produce the sex-associated difference in winter distribution. Under this hypothesis, as climate becomes harsher, the impact of male dominance over females becomes more severe, resulting in increasing withdrawal by females from locations settled by males and thus in clinal variation in sex ratio.
4087389|I analyzed formations of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) with a single, direct method of testing predictions from multiple hypotheses. The results support both energetic (aerodynamic) advantage and orientation communication through visual contact as functions of this complex behavior. Comparison of observed positioning patterns with criteria for optimal function suggests priority may be given to the maximization of energy savings within limits imposed by environmental and other constraints.
4085697|We observed color-banded individuals of the Grey-capped Social Weaver (Pseudonigrita arnaudi, Ploceidae) in Kenya during breeding and nonbreeding periods. In each colony, one to several groups centered about different families slept in their nests the year round in the same acacia tree (considered a colony). Nest territories were generally not defended against members of other groups in the same tree. Birds from other colonies, however, were usually attacked whenever they landed in the colony tree. The birds foraged on the ground in communal feeding areas and were organized into dominance hierarchies but did not defend feeding territories. Members of different groups from the same colony tolerated each other when feeding on the ground more than they did birds from other colonies. Aggression was rare or absent between members of the same group. The roofed nests had two entrance or exit holes opening below, one of which was closed in a brood nest before eggs were laid and opened again just before or after the young left the nest. Both members of a pair incubated. Other birds in adult plumage and immature birds from previous broods often helped the pair build nests and feed nestlings. The behavior of P. arnaudi is compared with that of the related Plocepasser mahali and Philetairus socius and resembles the latter most closely.
10.2307/4089520| I studied variation in laying date, clutch size, and number of fledglings in Great Tits (Parus major) in relation to habitat, elevation, and latitude using data from 137 breeding areas. Laying date was not affected by habitat type but increased with elevation and showed a significant quadratic relationship with latitude. Food availability, ambient temperature, and photoperiod together can explain why laying date increases with latitude. However, more information is needed to understand why birds in northern Africa start laying later than in nearby southwestern Europe. Variation in clutch size and number of fledglings was significantly affected by habitat type, with lower values in coniferous forests. Mean clutch size decreased with elevation. Mean clutch size and mean number of fledglings of first and second broods showed a significant quadratic relationship with latitude, with the highest values at about 55 to 60N. The results suggest that latitudinal variation in life-history parameters is related to variation across marginal and central parts of the species' distribution and is influenced by factors such as daylength, temperature, and / or seasonality of food resources. Birds at southern latitudes are probably under time constraints, whereas birds at northern latitudes are probably under energy constraints. Alternatively, Great Tits at northern latitudes might be less well adapted to these habitats because they invaded northerly latitudes during the last decades. The proportion of pairs laying a second clutch decreased with latitude. The observed pattern of a late start of laying, lower variability in laying date, and lower frequency of second clutches in northern populations likely was due to the late and short growing season for the Great Tit's main prey, caterpillars. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12093|Tradeoffs among life-history traits have long provided material for evolutionary studies of life-history strategies but can also have practical implications for assessments of habitat and territory quality in species of conservation concern. Here, we characterize tradeoffs between parental reproductive output and offspring fitness in a closed population of California Spotted Owls (
4090550| In birds, relative growth rates of morphological characters change in response to restricted food intake during development. Differential allocation of limited resources is hypothesized to reflect functional priorities for developing chicks. Body mass, wing, and flight feathers have been identified as potential priorities for seabird chicks. We used allometry to examine allocation in captive Common Murre chicks fed within a range of natural provisioning. During days 10-45 post-hatch, chicks were fed one of four diets that varied in biomass, energy content, and composition. Energy intake had a more profound effect on growth and development than diet composition; it significantly reduced absolute growth of body mass, manus, and tarsus. Between day 15 and day 20, allocation changed in all treatments: growth of manus was maintained at the expense of body mass. Chicks in more restricted treatments shifted allocation to manus at a lower body mass than those in less restricted groups, but subsequently allocated similarly. Wing loading was higher for chicks than for adult alcids, but scaled similarly. Growth of primary feathers was the most sensitive to small differences in diet composition. Our data also suggest that some changes in allocation may be ontogenetically determined rather than part of an adaptive response to reduced food intake. /// Chez les oiseaux, le taux de croissance relatif aux traits morphologiques change en rponse  une consommation de nourriture limite au cours du dveloppement. L'hypothse d'une allocation diffrentielle des ressources, lorsqu'elles sont limites, est avance afin de reflter les priorits fonctionnelles des oisillons en dveloppement. La masse corporelle, les ailes et les plumes de vol ont t identifies comme des priorits potentielles chez les oisillons d'oiseaux marins. Nous avons utilis l'allomtrie pour examiner l'allocation chez des Uria aalge captifs nourris avec une gamme d'aliments naturels. Au cours des jours 10-45 suite  l'closion, les oisillons ont t nourris avec une des quatre dites qui variaient en termes de biomasse, de contenu nergtique et de composition. La consommation nergtique a eu un effet plus important sur la croissance et le dveloppement que la composition dittique, ce qui a significativement rduit la croissance absolue de la masse corporelle, de l'aile et du tarse. Entre le jour 15 et le jour 20, l'allocation a chang dans tous les traitements: la croissance de l'aile a t maintenue au dpend de la masse corporelle. Les oisillons soumis a des traitements plus restrictifs ont modifi l'allocation destine  l'aile lorsque leur masse corporelle devenait plus faible que celles des oisillons dans les groupes moins restreints. L'allocation devenait similaire par la suite. La charge de l'aile tait plus grande pour les oisillons que pour les adultes, mais dans un mme ordre de grandeur. La croissance des plumes primaires tait la plus sensible aux petites diffrences dans la composition dittique. Nos donnes suggrent que certains changements dans l'allocation pourraient tre dtermins de manire onthogntique plutt que d'tre induits par une rponse adaptative  une consommation de nourriture rduite. 
4085398|Dispersal of young was studied in a non-migratory population of the Black-capped Chickadee (Parus atricapillus) in southeastern Wisconsin. Eighty-eight chickadees were color-banded as nestlings. After fledging, the birds remained with their parents on or near the parental territory for about 3 weeks. In late June or early July family breakup occurred suddenly, with the young moving rapidly away. Most of the birds disappeared completely from the area; 6 were later discovered in the breeding population at distances of 0.4 to ca. 11 km, with a median dispersal distance of 1.1 km. This movement appeared to be an innate dispersal mechanism. In contrast, among 103 chickadees first trapped in July and early August as independent juveniles and later found on their breeding territories, the median distance from point where banded to territory was 204 m (maximum = 1,160 m). As distances up to 2.4 km could have been detected in our study area, we conclude that by late July and August chickadees have virtually finished dispersing and are developing site tenacity in the places where they will subsequently breed. Whether dispersal also occurs in spring was investigated using the monthly patterns of arrivals and disappearances from winter feeders. Adults and summer-banded juveniles inhabiting the parts of the study area nearest the feeders arrived for the first time at the feeders in November and December, but birds from more remote areas continued to arrive through the winter and spring. In previously unbanded juveniles there was an increase in arrivals in March and April. On the basis of an analysis of loss rates by sex and age, we conclude that only about 5% of yearling males and 9% of yearling females undertake some dispersal or spacing movements in spring. Thus, in the Black-capped Chickadee the main dispersal mechanism is an innate, rapid, fairly long-distance movement of the juvenile, taking place in summer just after family breakup. A small fraction of the yearling population undertakes some dispersal movement in the winter or spring.
4085922| The daily energetics of a very small passerine, the Common Bushtit (Psaltriparus minimus), were examined by measuring 24-h existence metabolism, activity, and nocturnal metabolic rate. Bushtits consumed 80% of their body mass (5.5 g) in mealworms per day at 20C. A lower energy intake than this resulted in marked weight loss (0.5-0.8 g), slight hypothermia upon exposure to 10C for 4 h (T
10.2307/4088820|A model-based analysis was done to test several hypotheses concerning the rates of loss of butt-ended color bands placed on adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) in the western North Atlantic. These birds were captured and color banded from 1987-1991 at four colony sites, and recaptured from 1989-1992 as part of a study of the population dynamics of this species. Two types of color bands, Darvic and celluloid, were used, but only one band type was used for each individual bird. Each bird was given three color bands. The estimated probability that a bird with all color bands present during one breeding season still had all color bands during the next breeding season was 0.87. The analysis provided no evidence that colony site, cohort, calendar year of banding, age of color band, or whether or not the bands were heat-sealed closed, were important sources of variation in band-retention probabilities.
4085092|The heretofore undescribed cryptic white occipital spot is shown to be a conservative familial trait of the accipitrid Falconiformes. Excluding the "naked-headed" vultures and the pale-headed forms, only two genera of the 55 accipitrids surveyed (Pithecophaga and Harpyopsis) were found to lack the triangular occipital spot. Differential spot trends occur in the New and Old World Accipitridae and variation in the spot is detailed. The spot while functioning as an appeasement signal also serves to inhibit an adversary behaviorally during agonistic encounters. An additional deflective function is suggested to constitute an antipredatory mechanism. Taxonomic and systematic aspects pertaining to the occipital spot are discussed.
10.2307/4089511|Based on more than 300 individually marked American Robins (Turdus migratorisu) and Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum), I tested three hypotheses to explain low return rates of birds whose nesting attempts are unsuccessful: (1) birds with low reproductive success are low-quality individuals that are more likely to suffer mortality between breeding seasons; (2) nesting failure increases reproductive effort by causing birds to renest, and this energetic stress increases the probability of mortality; and (3) birds use a "decision rule" based on prior experience to select nesting sites, such that individuals that experience low reproductive success are more likely to move to an alternate breeding site, whereas birds that nest successfully are more likely to breed in the same site again. Birds subjected to experimental nesting failure returned at a significantly lower rate (robins 18%, thrashers 12%) than birds that nested successfully (robins 44%, thrashers 29%). Birds that nested more than once in a season returned at rates (robins 43%, thrashers 21%) indistinguishable from birds that nested only once in a season (robins 36%, thrashers 23%). These results, as well as supplementary data, were inconsistent with hypotheses 1 and 2 and consistent with hypothesis 3. This study provides strong evidence that low return rates result from dispersal in response to nesting failure.
4087435|We present a classification of the living birds of the world based on the results of DNA-DNA hybridization studies. Several family-group names are presented formally for the first time; some of these names have appeared earlier in various publications.
25488655|Many bird species migrate long distances without any food intake and must optimize storage of energy with respect to minimization of aerodynamic drag. To contribute to the understanding of this issue, we investigated, by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), spatial distributions of body fat during the accumulation process before migration. We collected data from 12 Lesser Whitethroats (
10.1525/auk.2013.13064|Within the Neotropical genus
10.2307/4089798| The vocal signatures of the primary song form ("fitz-bew") of the endangered Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus) and its northern counterpart, E. t. adastus, are distinctive. Songs of the extimus subspecies are longer (total song, note, internote) and frequencies at maximum amplitude are lower than those of adastus. I used vocal evidence to clarify the distributional limits of the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher and that of the geographically adjacent subspecies, E. t. adastus. Unweighted pair-group method using averaging (UPGMA) cluster analysis and canonical discriminant analysis revealed that (1) low elevation, southerly desert populations (Arizona, New Mexico, and southern Utah) have a unique vocal identity corresponding to populations in the range of E. t. extimus; (2) northerly song groups (Oregon, Colorado, and northern Utah) share a different song type corresponding to populations in the range of E. t. adastus; and (3) a departure from vocal and morphological congruence occurs for a population of high-elevation Arizona birds that, although in the currently accepted range of E. t. extimus, sings songs acoustically similar to more northern populations (E. t. adastus). Multiple regression of song distance on latitude and elevation, and a comparison of a matrix of song distances with a matrix of latitude and elevation dissimilarities, demonstrated that song populations sort out by both latitude and elevation: birds with the vocal identity of extimus occur as far north as 37N if at low elevation, and those acoustically similar to adastus occur as far south as 33.7N if at high elevation. The vocal background of northern New Mexico birds appears to be intermediate between that of extimus and adastus, suggesting that northern New Mexico is a zone of intermixing and intergradation between the subspecies. Pure forms of E. t. extimus apparently do not occur in Colorado because even the southernmost populations are acoustically similar to more northerly populations of adastus. A low-elevation population in western Colorado, however, stands apart from other adastus populations, suggesting moderate introgression of extimus genes into the adastus gene pool. 
4087021|The sugar-tasting abilities of four species of tanagers and two species of manakins were tested. Three tanager species were able to detect differences in diets containing 8%, 10%, and 12% sugar. In pairwise choice trials, they preferred the diet highest in sugar. Neither species of manakin discriminated among the three diets. This apparent difference in tasting abilities of tanagers and manakins may be a result of their fruit-handling techniques. Tanagers crush fruits in their bills, thereby releasing juices onto their tongues. Manakins swallow fruits whole; their tongues rarely encounter fruit juice. Hence, manakins' fruit-handling technique is poorly suited for sensing the taste cues in fruit juices. Variation in fruit sugar concentration is common within and among plant species and is great enough to be detected by birds. Birds probably have selected for sweeter fruits.
10.2307/4089841|Like males of many bird species, male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) have patches of feathers with ornamental coloration that are due to carotenoid pigments. Within populations, male House Finches vary in expression of ornamental coloration from pale yellow to bright red, which previous research suggested was the result of variation in types and amounts of carotenoid pigments deposited in feathers. Here we used improved analytical techniques to describe types and amounts of carotenoid pigments present in that plumage. We then used those data to make comparisons of carotenoid composition of feathers of male House Finches at three levels: among individual males with different plumage hue and saturation, between age groups of males from the same population, and between males from two subspecies that differ in extent of ventral carotenoid pigmentation (patch size): large-patched C. m. frontalis from coastal California and small-patched C. m. griscomi from Guerrero, Mexico. In all age groups and populations, the ornamental plumage coloration of male House Finches resulted from the same 13 carotenoid pigments, with 3-hydroxy echinenone and lutein being the most abundant carotenoid pigments. The composition of carotenoids in feathers suggested that House Finches are capable of metabolic transformation of dietary forms of carotenoids. The hue of male plumage depended on component carotenoids, their relative concentrations, and total concentration of all carotenoids. Most 4-keto (red) carotenoids were positively correlated with plumage redness, and most yellow carotenoid pigments were negatively associated with plumage redness, although the strength of the relationship for specific carotenoid pigments varied among age groups and subspecies. Using age and subspecies as factors and concentration of each component carotenoid as dependent variables in a MANOVA, we found a distinctive pigment profile for each age group within each subspecies. Among frontalis males, hatch-year birds did not differ from adults in mean plumage hue, but they had a significantly lower proportion of red pigments in their plumage, and significantly lower levels of the red piments adonirubin and astaxanthin, but significantly higher levels of the yellow pigment zeaxanthin, than adult males. Among griscomi males, hatch-year birds differed from adults in plumage hue but not significantly in pigment composition, though in general their feathers had lower concentrations of red pigments and higher concentrations of yellow pigments than adult males. Both adult and hatch-year frontalis males differed from griscomi males in having significantly higher levels of most yellow carotenoid pigments and significantly lower levels of most red carotenoid pigments. Variation in pigment profiles of subspecies and age classes may reflect differences among the groups in carotenoid metabolism, in dietary access to carotenoids, or in exposure to environmental factors, such as parasites, that may affect pigmentation.
10.2307/4089630|We investigated the effects of clearcut stand size on species richness, reproductive effort, and relative abundance of scrub-successional birds and the entire bird assemblage at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina. We used standardized mist-net grids to mark and recapture birds in clearcuts replanted with longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) in stands of 2 to 57 ha that were two to six years old. Species richness for the entire bird assemblage was not explained by stand size (P = 0.67), stand age (P = 0.95), or the interaction of these two variables (P = 0.90). Similarly, species richness of scrub-successional birds was not explained by stand size (P = 0.63), stand age (P = 0.55), or the interaction of stand size and stand age (P = 0.35). Regressing species richness on clearcut stand size, we found a significant negative relationship between these variables for the entire bird assemblage (P = 0.01) and for scrub-successional birds (P = 0.02). The ratio of juveniles to adults in mist-net samples varied by year (P = 0.04), but neither clearcut size (P = 0.23) nor the interaction of clearcut size and year (P = 0.25) was related to the ratio of juveniles to adults in the sample. We found no relationship between the frequency of capture of any category of birds and stand size (scrub-successional, P = 0.52; woodland, P = 0.77; combined sample, P = 0.55). Neither bird-species richness, reproductive effort, nor relative abundance differed across clearcut stand sizes. Clearcut stand size does not appear to be an important management variable if variation in species richness, reproductive effort, or relative abundance are objectives. We suggest that even-aged forestry is a useful tool for managing birds in the southeastern United States.
4087320|I used data from two breeding populations of Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus) in central New Mexico to test alternative hypotheses regarding the function of delayed plumage maturation in male passerines. Yearling male grosbeaks displayed a wide range of subadult plumage types, but most individuals were intermediate in appearance between adult males and females. Subadult male grosbeaks arrived on the study sites about 2 weeks after adult males, with no tendency for individuals with brighter or duller plumage to arrive first. Only a few of the most brightly plumaged subadult males defended territories and attracted females; most were nonterritorial floaters. All territories of subadult males were positioned outside clusters of adult male territories with few total neighbors. When I removed adult males from their territories, the territories remained empty. These results are not consistent with predictions of the female-mimicry hypothesis, but they are in accord with those of the cryptic hypothesis.
10.1525/auk.2012.12081|Closely related species or subspecies can exhibit metabolic differences that reflect site-specific environmental conditions. Whether such differences represent fixed traits or flexible adjustments to local conditions, however, is difficult to predict across taxa. The nominate race of Rock Sandpiper (
4086175|Marked asynchronous hatching was observed in Tree Swallows (Iridoprocne bicolor), apparently because incubation started before the full clutch was laid. Asynchronous hatching resulted in pronounced size differences of nestlings. Immediately after hatching, the first-hatched nestling was, on average, 94% heavier than the last-hatched. Clearly, a weight hierarchy was established, with small late-hatched young at a disadvantage. Egg weight increased with laying order, and last-laid eggs tended to hatch last. Thus, egg-size differences did not enhance the weight hierarchy due to hatching asynchrony. Early hatchlings had longer nestling times than late hatchlings. The former also had a higher observed asymptotic weight and longer primaries at fledging than the latter. Late-hatched young were less likely to fledge than early hatchlings. The number of young fledged increased with hatching asynchrony but so did brood size. Tree Swallows appear to use brood reduction to maximize reproductive output, but alternative hypotheses cannot be ruled out.
90008590|Northern South America is a geographic bottleneck that may be limiting the survival of NearcticNeotropic migrants. However, very little is known about the migration ecology of transcontinental migrants wintering in South America. We studied the fall migratory strategies of three species of thrush (
10.1525/auk.2009.09147|The exotic Smooth Cordgrass (
4090551| Point counts are the method most commonly used to estimate abundance of birds, but they often fail to account properly for incomplete and variable detection probabilities. We developed a technique that combines distance and double-observer sampling to estimate detection probabilities and effective area surveyed. We applied this paired-observer, variable circular-plot (POVCP) technique to point-count surveys (n = 753) conducted in closed-canopy forests of southeast Alaska. Distance data were analyzed for each species to model a detection probability for each observer and calculate an estimate of density. We then multiplied each observer's density estimates by a correction factor to adjust for detection probabilities <1 at plot center. We compared analytical results from four survey methods: single-observer fixed-radius (50-m) plot; single-observer, variable circular-plot (SOVCP); double-observer fixed-radius (50-m) plot; and POVCP. We examined differences in detection probabilities at plot center, effective area surveyed, and densities for five bird species: Pacific-slope Flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis), Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa), Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus), and Townsend's Warbler (Dendroica townsendi). Average detection probabilities for paired observers increased 8% (SE = 2.9) for all species once estimates were corrected for birds missed at plot center. Density estimators of fixed-radius survey methods were likely negatively biased, because the key assumption of perfect detection was not met. Density estimates generated using SOVCP and POVCP were similar, but standard errors were much lower for the POVCP survey method. We recommend using POVCP when study objectives require precise estimates of density. Failure to account for differences in detection probabilities and effective area surveyed results in biased population estimators and, therefore, faulty inferences about the population in question. /// El mtodo de conteo en puntos es comnmente el ms usado para estimar la abundancia de aves. Sin embargo, este mtodo generalmente no da cuenta de una forma apropiada de que las probabilidades de deteccin pueden ser variables e incompletas. Desarrollamos una tcnica que combina muestreos de distancia con muestreo de doble observador para estimar las probabilidades de deteccin y las reas efectivas de muestreo. Aplicamos esta tcnica de parcela circular variable con observador doble (PCVOD) en muestreos utilizando conteos en puntos (n = 753) realizados en bosques de dosel cerrado en el sureste de Alaska. Los datos de distancia fueron analizados para cada especie para modelar una probabilidad de deteccin para cada observador y para calcular una estimacin de la densidad. Luego, multiplicamos la estimacin de densidad de cada observador por un factor de correccin para ajustar por probabilidades de deteccin < 1 en el centro de la parcela. Comparamos los resultados analticos de cuatro mtodos de muestreo: parcelas de radio fijo (50 m) con un observador nico, parcelas de radio variable con un observador nico (PCVOU); parcelas de radio fijo (50 m) con dos observadores; y PCVOD. Examinamos las diferencias en las probabilidades de deteccin de deteccin en el centro de la parcela, el rea efectiva muestreada y las densidades para cinco especies de aves: Empidonax difficilis, Troglodytes troglodytes, Regulus satrapa, Catharus guttatus y Dendroica townsendi. Las probabilidades de deteccin promedio de los muestreos con dos observadores aumentaron en un 8% (EE=2.9) para todas las especies, una vez que las estimaciones fueron corregidas por las aves no detectadas en el centro de la parcela. Las estimaciones de densidad utilizando el mtodo de radio fijo estuvieron probablemente sesgadas de manera negativa, debido a que el supuesto de deteccin perfecta no se cumpli. Las estimaciones de densidad generadas utilizando los mtodos de PCVOU y PCVOD fueron similares, aunque los errores estndar fueron mucho menor para el mtodo de muestreo de PCVOD. Recomendamos utilizar el mtodo de PCVOD cuando se requieren estimaciones precisas de densidad. No considerar las diferencias en las probabilidades de deteccin y en las reas de muestreo efectivas genera estimaciones poblacionales sesgadas y, por lo tanto, inferencias erradas sobre la poblacin estudiada. 
4090521| In species with long-term partnerships, optimal mate preferences may differ from actual mate choice, and pair displays that advertise individual quality may be expected. We examined the relationship between nest-building and nestling-provisioning effort in Neotropical Buff-breasted Wrens (Thryothorus leucotis) to determine whether male or female expenditure during nest construction was used as an indicator of subsequent parental ability. Buff-breasted Wrens build two nest types: breeding nests used for raising offspring, and "dormitory" nests built year-round and used by pairs for roosting overnight. The building effort of males was greater than that of their mates for dormitory nests, whereas male and female effort were similar during breeding-nest construction and nestling provisioning. Despite large within-sex variation in building and provisioning efforts, male and female effort within pairs were significantly positively correlated for construction of both nest types and for nestling feeding. Effort expended by males during dormitory-nest construction was positively correlated with nestling-provisioning effort, whereas female building effort was not. No relationship existed between effort in breeding-nest construction and nestling provisioning in either sex. These results suggest that effort in dormitory-nest construction was an indicator of male Buff-breasted Wren parental ability. Females that survived to the year following observation built dormitory nests at a lower rate than those that disappeared, which suggests that nest building may be costly and that by building more than females, males may increase the survival prospects of their partners. Dormitory-nest building by males may play dual roles throughout the year, indicating parental ability and investment in the partnership. /// En especies que forman parejas de largo plazo, las preferencias optimas de pareja pueden diferir de la eleccin real de la pareja, por lo que se espera que el comportamiento de exhibicin en las parejas evidencie la calidad de los individuos. Examinamos la relacin entre el esfuerzo de construccin de nidos y el de aprovisionamiento de polluelos en Thryothorus leucotis para determinar si el gasto de las hembras o machos durante la construccin del nido era utilizado como un indicador de la habilidad parental posterior. T. leucotis construye dos tipos de nidos: nidos reproductivos utilizados para criar a la progenie y nidos "dormitorio" que construyen a lo largo de todo el ao y que son utilizados por las parejas para dormir durante la noche. Para los nidos dormitorio, el esfuerzo de construccin fue mayor en los machos que en sus parejas, mientras que durante la construccin del nido reproductivo y del aprovisionamiento de polluelos, el esfuerzo fue similar entre hembras y machos. A pesar de la gran variabilidad en el esfuerzo en la construccin y en el aprovisionamiento en cada sexo, en cada pareja los esfuerzos de las hembras y machos se correlacionaron positiva y significativamente tanto durante la construccin de los dos tipos de nido como durante la alimentacin de los polluelos. El esfuerzo invertido en la construccin de nidos dormitorio se correlacion positivamente con el esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento de los polluelos en el caso de los machos, pero no en el de las hembras. Para ninguno de los sexos existi una correlacin entre el esfuerzo de construccin de nidos reproductivos y el aprovisionamiento de polluelos. Estos resultado sugieren que el esfuerzo en la construccin de nidos dormitorio fue un indicador de la habilidad paterna en T. leucotis. Las hembras que sobrevivieron al ao siguiente de la observacin construyeron nidos dormitorio a una tasa menor que aquellas que desaparecieron, lo que sugiere que la construccin de nidos puede ser costosa y que los machos, al construir ms que las hembras, pueden aumentar las expectativas de vida de sus parejas. La construccin de nidos dormitorio por parte de los machos puede tener un papel doble a lo largo del ao, indicando la habilidad paterna e una inversin en la pareja. 
4087088|Nestlings and young fledglings of the Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus) produce three structurally different vocal signals. The postures of the chicks and the contexts in which these signals are produced differ for each call. Nestlings produce all three calls within one day after hatching. One is given during pipping, when the chick is moving on or near the nest, or when it is isolated from the nest. The second is given by begging chicks. The third is given when an intruder approaches. The repertoire is composed of frequency-modulated tonal elements and broad-band bursts of sound. Although changes occur in the temporal and frequency patterns of the calls during the nestling and fledgling stages, there is little resemblance to the adult repertoire during these periods.
25150259|When the reproductive value of sons differs from that of daughters, selection will favor broods biased toward the sex that can provide greater fitness benefits. In species where female choice is based on male ornamentation, females mated to highly ornamented males may experience a reproductive advantage by skewing the brood sex ratio toward sons. In the Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas), males with larger black facial masks are more likely to gain a social mate and sire extrapair young and, as a result, have increased seasonal reproductive success. Females mated to larger-masked males could benefit if they produced more sons. Given that larger-masked males are preferred as extrapair sires, females may also benefit by producing more extrapair sons. We tested these hypotheses during a five-year study of Common Yellowthroats in Wisconsin. Contrary to our predictions, females did not produce more sons when mated to males with larger masks, and extrapair young were not more likely to be male. However, sons were more likely to be sired by males with longer tarsi, which suggests that females may respond to male body size rather than to male ornament size. /// Cuando el valor reproductivo de los hijos difiere del de las hijas, la seleccin favorecer las nidadas sesgadas hacia el sexo que puede brindar mayor adecuacin biolgica. En las especies en las que la eleccin de las hembras se basa en la ornamentacin de los machos, las hembras que se aparean con machos con muchas ornamentaciones pueden obtener una ventaja reproductiva sesgando el cociente de sexos de la nidada hacia los hijos. En Geothlypis trichas, los machos con antifaces negros ms grandes tienen una mayor probabilidad de conseguir una pareja social y engendrar juveniles extra pareja y, como resultado, incrementar su xito reproductivo estacional. Las hembras que se aparean con machos con antifaces ms grandes podran beneficiarse si ellos produjesen ms hijos. Dado que los machos con antifaces ms grandes son los preferidos como progenitores extra pareja, las hembras pueden tambin beneficiarse produciendo ms hijos extra pareja. Evaluamos estas hiptesis en un estudio sobre G. trichas durante cinco aos en Wisconsin. Contrariamente a nuestras predicciones, las hembras no produjeron ms hijos cuando se aparearon con machos con antifaces ms grandes, y los juveniles extra pareja no presentaron mayor probabilidad de ser machos. Sin embargo, los hijos tuvieron una probabilidad mayor de ser engendrados por machos con tarsos mayores, lo que sugiere que las hembras podran responder al tamao del cuerpo de los machos, ms que al tamao de la ornamentacin de stos.
10.2307/4089850| Although area and isolation effects on avian communities in highly fragmented landscapes are well known, importance of landscape composition in more forested landscapes remains poorly understood. We determined if the type (agriculture and silviculture) and extent (percentage within 1 km radius) of disturbance within forested landscapes influenced avian nesting success, and then examined if differences in stand-level habitat structure, nest-patch microhabitat, distance of nests to habitat edges, brood parasitism rates, and nest-predator abundance were potential underlying mechanisms of observed associations between landscape composition and nesting success. We monitored active song-bird nests (n = 341), surveyed Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and nest predators, and measured stand-level and nest-patch microhabitat from May-July 1998 and 1999. Each of 10 study sites was located within contiguous mature forest in central Pennsylvania and contained either agricultural or silvicultural disturbances (n = 5 each). Sites of the two landscape types had similar ranges of disturbance within 1 km (21-55% for agriculture, 18-51% for silviculture). Daily nest survival for all species combined (94.0  0.55 in agriculture and 96.9  0.87 in silviculture) and midstory-canopy nesters (93.8  0.97 in agriculture and 97.4  0.75 in silviculture) were greater within forested landscapes disturbed by silviculture than by agriculture, but rates did not significantly differ between landscapes for ground nesters (92.2  1.32 in agriculture and 94.6  1.63 in silviculture) or understory nesters (95.4  1.60 in agriculture and 95.0  1.47 in silviculture). Nest survival was not significantly associated with disturbance extent. Rates of brood parasitism were low, with only 11% of nests containing cowbird eggs or young. Neither nest fate nor differences in daily nest survival between the two landscape types were explained by variation in brood parasitism rates, stand-level or nest-patch habitat characteristics, or distance of nests to edges. Instead, the lower nest success within forested landscapes disturbed by agriculture was best explained by greater abundances of some avian and small mammalian predators (American Crow [Corvus brachyrhynchos] and squirrels) in those landscapes in one or both years. Results suggest that landscape composition within forested landscapes significantly influences avian nesting success by altering interactions between nest predators and nesting birds. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10186|Refueling by spring migrant landbirds is an important determinant of arrival timing and, thus, should also affect acquisition of high-quality territories and mates. Spring migrants can encounter adverse weather and low prey availability, but emergent aquatic insects (e.g., chironomid midges) may provide an important food resource in wetland areas. We used stable-carbon-isotope (
10.1525/auk.2012.12003|Understanding how animals will adapt to climate change requires understanding how climate variables influence their biology year round, and how events in different seasons interact. Migratory birds may be especially vulnerable because of the wide range of geographic areas that they depend on throughout the annual cycle. We examined the potential effects of non-breeding season climate change on the breeding biology of Kirtland's Warbler (
10.2307/4090072| The accuracy with which avian song features indicate phylogenetic relationships has rarely been investigated. In a previous study of vocal evolution in oropendolas (Price and Lanyon 2002a), we estimated the phylogenetic position of the Green Oropendola (Psarocolius viridis) using characters derived from oropendolas' elaborate courtship songs. Here, we test that estimate using mitochondrial DNA sequence data. The position of the Green Oropendola determined from molecular data is remarkably close to that based solely on song characters; both data sets support a close relationship between P. viridis and members of the genus Gymnostinops. Numerous morphological differences yet low genetic divergence among the species in question suggest that rapid diversification has occurred in the group. The fact that this position has not been proposed previously for P. viridis underscores the effectiveness of song characters for phylogenetic reconstruction. /// Existen pocos estudios sobre la exactitud con que las caractersticas del canto de las aves indican las relaciones filogenticas. En un estudio previo sobre la evolucin de las vocalizaciones de las oropndolas (Price y Lanyon 2002a), estimamos la posicin filogentica de Psarocolius viridis utilizando caracteres derivados de los elaborados cantos de cortejo de estas aves. En este estudio, ponemos a prueba dicha estimacin utilizando secuencias de ADN mitocondrial. La posicin filogentica de P. viridis determinada a partir de los datos moleculares es extremadamente similar a aquella basada slo en los caracteres del canto; ambos tipos de datos apoyan una relacin cercana entre P. viridis y miembros del gnero Gymnostinops. La existencia de numerosas diferencias morfolgicas con poca divergencia gentica entre las especies en cuestin sugiere que el grupo se diversific rpidamente. El hecho de que esta posicin no haya sido propuesta previamente para P. viridis resalta la efectividad de los caracteres del canto para la reconstruccin de filogenias. 
25488615|In hay fields in the northeastern United States, Savannah Sparrows (
25150358|Stopover habitat quality may influence the abundance of migrant landbirds, yet little is known about how spatial and temporal changes in stopover habitat quality influence the use of habitats by migrant landbirds. From late April to late May, 1997-1999, we surveyed migrant landbirds within five habitats (early successional shrub-sapling-stage forest, midsuccessional pole-stage forest, mature forest interior, mature forest-agricultural edge, and mature suburban forest) in central Pennsylvania. To assess relative quality of stopover habitats, we measured species abundance, species richness, and foraging behavior of Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata). We measured vegetation structure and phenology to examine proximate cues of potential importance in habitat selection. Of nine transient (nonbreeding) species analyzed, seven - Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus), Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla), Northern Parula (Parula americana), Magnolia Warbler (D. magnolia), Black-throated Blue Warbler (D. caerulescens), Yellow-rumped Warbler, and Blackpoll Warbler (D. striata) - were most abundant in mature forests, and especially edge-dominated mature forests (forest-agricultural edge and suburban forest). Habitats used by mature-forest-breeding transients changed between years, but edge-dominated forest types were used most frequently in all three years. Although canopy leaf development at mature forest sites showed little relationship to site use by mature-forest-breeding transients within weekly intervals, year-to-year differences in leaf phenology were consistent with year-to-year changes in habitat use by migrant landbirds. Foraging behavior of Yellow-rumped Warblers suggested higher food availability and quality in forest-agricultural edges, compared with suburban forest and forest interior. Mature-forest-breeding transients were positively associated with sites that had large trees (>38 cm diameter at breast height) and denser understory vegetation (stems 0-2.5 cm in diameter). Extensive use of mature edge-dominated forests by migrating forest birds during spring suggests that these habitats may be important for the conservation of migrant landbirds. /// La calidad del hbitat de los sitios de escala migratoria puede influenciar la abundancia de las aves migratorias terrestres, pero se conoce poco acerca de cmo los cambios espaciales y temporales en la calidad del hbitat de estos sitios influencian el uso de los hbitats por estas aves. Entre finales de abril y finales de mayo de 1997 a 1999, realizamos censos de aves terrestres migratorias en cinco ambientes (matorrales sucesionales tempranos-bosques en estado de renovales, bosques en estads de sucesin media, interior de bosques maduros, bordes entre bosques maduros y reas agrcolas y bosques maduros suburbanos) en el centro de Pensilvania. Para evaluar la calidad relativa de los hbitats de escala migratoria, medimos la abundancia de especies, la riqueza de especies y el comportamiento de forrajeo de Dendroica coronata. Medimos la estructura de la vegetacin y la fenologa para examinar las variables prximas potencialmente empleadas por las aves para seleccionar los hbitats. De nueve especies transentes (no reproductivas) analizadas, siete - Empidonax minimus, Vermivora ruficapilla, Parula americana, Dendroica magnolia, D. coronata, D. caerulescens y D. striata - fueron ms abundantes en los bosques maduros, y especialmente en los ambientes dominados por bordes (borde entre bosque y reas agrcolas y bosque suburbano). Los ambientes utilizados por las especies transentes que se reproducen en bosques maduros cambiaron entre aos, pero los tipos de bosque dominados por bordes fueron los ms frecuentemente utilizados en los tres aos. Aunque a intervalos semanales el desarrollo de las hojas del dosel en los sitios de bosque maduro mostr poca relacin con el uso de los sitios por parte de las especies transentes que se reproducen en bosques maduros, las diferencias entre aos en la fenologa de las hojas fueron concordantes con los cambios anuales en el uso de hbitat por parte de las aves migratorias terrestres. El comportamiento de forrajeo de D. coronata sugiri que la abundancia y la calidad del alimento son mayores en los bordes entre bosques y reas agrcolas que en los bosques suburbanos y el interior de bosque. Las especies transentes que se reproducen en bosques maduros se asociaron positivamente con los sitios que presentaban rboles grandes (>38 cm de dimetro a la altura del pecho) y vegetacin ms densa en el sotobosque (tallos de 0-2.5 de dimetro). El uso considerable de bosques maduros dominados por bordes por parte de aves migratorias de bosque durante la primavera, sugiere que esos ambientes podran ser importantes para la conservacin de las aves migratorias terrestres.
4090584| We report survival probabilities for 148 breeding adult Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) monitored through capture-mark-resight at two colonies for 11 years (1992-2003). The colonies, Eastern Egg Rock and Seal Island, are 42 km apart in the Gulf of Maine. Support for competing models in the program MARK suggests constant survival of 0.95  0.01 (SE) that is independent of colony. Our high survival probability is consistent with published estimates for Atlantic Puffins and other long-lived seabirds. No time-variance contrasts with many long-term seabird studies, which often report high survival in most years, broken occasionally by low-survival events. However, a post-hoc observation of survival estimates from the time-dependent model suggests that there may have been at least two low-survival events in our time-series; sparse data may have precluded detection by our models. In this study, each bird received an individually engraved, plastic, field-readable leg band, as well as the standard metal band. Using an index of band readability, we show that plastic bands wore rapidly, resulting in accumulating losses of engraved characters through time. Degradation and loss of marks is a common source of overdispersion in capture-mark-re-encounter data and results in underestimated sampling variances. In the presence of a 70% reduction in band readability over eight years, an estimate of the adjusted overdispersion factor ( = 1.14) identified very little overdispersion in our data. Overdispersion was avoided by double banding and intensively resighting metal bands. /// Nous prsentons les probabilits de survie de 148 adultes de Fratercula Arctica reproducteurs issus de deux colonies et suivis par capture-marquage-robservations pendant 11 ans (1992-2003). Les colonies, Eastern Egg Rock et Seal Island, sont loignes d'environ 42 km dans le Golfe du Maine. Les deux modles privilgis lors de la slection dans le programme MARK suggrent une survie constante de 0,950,01 (SE) indpendante de la colonie. Notre forte probabilit de survie est en accord avec les estimations publies pour Fratercula Arctica et d'autres oiseaux de mer  longue dure de vie. Par contre, l'absence de variation temporelle contraste avec les rsultats d'autres tudes ralises sur ces espces. Ces tudes affichent gnralement une survie leve au cours de la plupart des annes, mais peuvent tre occasionnellement recoupes par des vnements de faible survie. Nanmoins, une observation post-hoc des estimations de survie issues du modle dpendant du temps suggre que nos sries temporelles pourraient prsenter au moins deux vnements de faible survie. La dispersion des donnes pourrait avoir empcher leur dtection par nos modles. Dans cette tude, chaque oiseau recevait une bague tarsale en plastique, grave et lisible sur le terrain, ainsi qu'une bague de mtal classique. En utilisant un index de lisibilit de bagues, nous montrons que les bagues en plastique se dtriorent rapidement, conduisant  l'effacement progressif des caractres inscrits. La dgradation et la perte de marqueurs constituent une source frquente de surdispersion avec des donnes de capture-marquage-robservations et conduisent  des variances d'chantillonnage sous-estimes. En prsence d'une rduction de 70% de la lisibilit des bagues en huit ans, l'estimation du facteur de surdispersion ajuste (= 1.14) n'a permis d'identifier que trs peu de surdispersion dans nos donnes. La surdispersion a t vite par un marquage double et des robservations frquentes de bagues mtalliques. 
4087336|During 1978-1981 I studied age- and sex-related dispersal and foraging patterns of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) that breed on Southeast Farallon Island, California. Most adults were sedentary and foraged primarily on oceanic food during all seasons except autumn, when human refuse was of major importance. Autumn was the only period when adults did not maintain breeding territories, and also the time of primary molt when flight capabilities were reduced. During the breeding season many subadults moved north to areas where oceanic productivity is high. During autumn/winter most moved south to the Gulf of the Farallons/San Francisco Bay Area, where birds ate both oceanic food and refuse. Dispersal patterns of first-year gulls varied markedly between years, apparently as a result of annual differences in oceanic productivity. The consistency of movement patterns of other age classes resulted from an age-related increase in fidelity to foraging locations. This was most pronounced in adults. Most adults dispersed each year to the same site, and minimized competition by reducing concentrations at each location. Males were more sedentary than females, probably because they are responsible for securing and holding breeding territories.
10.2307/4088976|Seasonal changes in corticosterone metabolism have been implicated in the migratory physiology of passerines. To investigate how this hormone might relate to migratory condition in free-living birds, we compared plasma levels of corticosterone in response to capture and handling stress in premigratory and migrating Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis). Lean, premigratory catbirds exhibited stress responses typical of other nonlipogenic, nonhyperphagic bird species sampled on the breeding or wintering grounds (i.e. low levels of corticosterone at capture followed by significant increases over 1 h). In contrast, fat, migratory catbirds sampled later in the season showed significantly higher baseline levels of corticosterone at capture and no significant increase in hormone levels with handling time. We also sampled a group of migrating Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) at a stopover site. Like catbirds, migrating warblers exhibited an absence of a stress response, with no significant change in corticosterone levels with capture and handling stress. Unlike birds sampled on the breeding grounds, there was no relationship between corticosterone levels at capture and fat scores in premigratory and migratory catbirds, or in the migratory warblers. These results support our Migration-Modulation Hypothesis regarding seasonal changes in corticosterone levels, viz.: (1) an absence of a relationship between fat deposition and baseline corticosterone levels illustrates the permissive nature of the hormone, which remains elevated throughout the migratory period to facilitate hyperphagia and lipogenesis independent of short-term changes in energetic condition; and (2) further elevation of corticosterone in response to acute stress is suppressed during migration to protect skeletal muscle needed for flight.
10.2307/4088824|I studied intraspecific variation in foraging behavior of an endemic, insectivorous bird, the Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis), in two Hawaiian forests that differed in degree of human modification. The undisturbed forest had a closed canopy, a dense understory, and a groundcover of native plants. The disturbed forest had much lower tree and shrub densities, and a ground cover of alien grasses. Search-and-attack rates, proportions of attack maneuvers, and proportional substrate use differed between habitats. Birds in disturbed habitat attacked prey two-thirds as often as birds in undisturbed habitat, hopped less frequently, and flew farther and more often. They also did less perch-gleaning and chasing, did more flight-gleaning and hawking, used small branches and the ground less often, and used leaves and the air more often than birds in undisturbed habitat. Disturbed areas may be lower-quality foraging habitat because they require more difficult foraging methods. Age was associated with variation in search-and-attack rates and proportions of attack maneuvers, but sex was not. Subadult Elepaio attacked prey less often than adults, searched more slowly, and used simpler maneuvers more often, possibly to compensate for their lower proficiency. Log-linear analysis showed that attack maneuver was related to substrate and to tree species. Birds perch-gleaned more often on twigs and in ohia (Metrosideros polymorpha), hung more often on bark and in koa (Acacia koa), and flight-gleaned more often on leaves. Elepaio showed much flexibility in foraging behavior and used more-diverse attack maneuvers and substrates than related continental species, which may allow Elepaio to exploit disturbed habitats successfully.
10.1525/auk.2009.09043|The functional significance of bird egg color and patterning is a continuing subject of interest and debate. Extreme polymorphism in eggshell appearance is often thought to be maintained by frequency-dependent selection operating within populations. However, variation could also be explained by small-scale differentiation combined with limited migration. Here, we report the existence of extreme variation in egg color in a population of Mexican Jays (
25150263|The ratio of hatch-year (HY) to after-hatch-year (AHY) individuals (HY:AHY ratio) can be a valuable metric for estimating avian productivity because it does not require monitoring individual breeding sites and can often be estimated across large geographic and temporal scales. However, rigorous estimation of age ratios requires that both young and adult age classes are sampled in an unbiased manner, an assumption that is rarely tested. We estimated HY:AHY ratios for Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus), a threatened seabird, using at-sea surveys and captures to assess whether age-specific differences in behavior and distribution result in biased productivity estimates in central California. AHY and HY Marbled Murrelets were distributed similarly at sea, and HY individuals did not congregate in nursery areas. Moreover, dispersal by rediomarked AHY Marbled Murrelets out of our survey area occurred at a low rate, and AHY densities were constant over the survey period, which suggests that AHY immigration and emigration did not significantly bias productivity estimates. HY density increased linearly over the survey period as expected if little dispersal occurred, which suggests that productivity estimates were not significantly biased by HY dispersal. Finally, simulation analyses indicated that annual variation in the timing of breeding resulted in only small biases in HY:AHY ratios. HY:AHY ratios were corrected for the proportion of AHY Marbled Murrelets that were incubating and the proportion of HY individuals that had not fledged at the time of sampling. Mean corrected HY:AHY ratios were low on the basis of both at-sea surveys conducted from 1996 to 2003 (0.032; SE = 0.011) and captures conducted from 1999 to 2003 (0.037; SE = 0.028), implying that productivity was poor in central California. Estimating age ratios may be an effective way of monitoring changes in reproductive success and identifying environmental factors that affect Marbled Murrelet populations, though tests of assumptions are needed in other regions. /// Le rapport entre les jeunes de l'anne (HY) et les jeunes de plus d'un an (AHY) (HY:AHY) peut tre une mesure trs utile pour estimer la productivit aviaire car il ne ncessite pas le suivi de sites de reproduction individuels et peut souvent tre estim sur de grandes chelles gographiques et temporelles. Toutefois, l'estimation rigoureuse du rapport des ges ncessite que les classes d'ge des jeunes et des adultes soient chantillonnes d'une manire non biaise, une hypothse qui est rarement teste. Nous avons estim le rapport HY:AHY pour l'Alque marbre (Brachyramphus marmoratus), un oiseau de mer menac, dans le centre de la Californie en utilisant des inventaires et des captures en mer afin d'valuer si les diffrences de comportement et de rpartition spcifiques  l'ge rsultent en des estims de productivit biaiss. Les Alques marbres AHY et HY taient similairement rpartis en mer et les individus HY ne se rassemblaient pas sur des aires de crches. De plus, la dispersion des Alques marbres AHY marques d'un metteur  l'extrieur de notre aire d'inventaire s'est produite  un faible taux et les densits des AHY taient constantes pendant la priode d'inventaire, ce qui suggre que l'immigration et l'migration des AHY n'a pas biais significativement les estims de productivit. La densit des HY a augment linairement durant la priode d'inventaire tel qu'attendu si peu de dispersion se produisait, ce qui suggre que les estims de productivit n'taient pas significativement biaiss par la dispersion des HY. Finalement, des modles de simulation ont indiqu que la variation annuelle associe  la synchronisation de la reproduction n'a entran que de faibles biais des rapports HY:AHY. Les rapports HY:AHY ont t corrigs en tenant compte de la proportion d'Alques marbres AHY en train d'incuber et de la proportion d'individus HY n'ayant pas atteint l'envol au moment de l'chantillonnage. Les rapports HY:AHY corrigs moyens taient faibles pour les inventaires raliss entre 1996 et 2003 (0.032; SE = 0.011) et les captures effectues de 1999  2003 (0.037; SE = 0.028), ce qui suggre que la productivit tait faible dans le centre de la Californie. L'estimation des rapports d'ge peut tre un moyen efficace pour suivre les changements du succs de reproduction et identifier les facteurs environnementaux qui affectent les populations d'Alque marbre, mme si des tests d'hypothses sont ncessaires dans d'autres rgions.
10.1525/auk.2010.10025|We investigated the effect of spring temperatures, female age, and female body condition on the timing of laying in a migratory woodpecker, the Northern Flicker (
10.2307/4086820|We examined the effects of wing tags on breeding Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) by comparing the performance of tagged birds with that of color-banded birds. During the year of marking, effects seemed minimal. The following year, however, substantial differences were observed between the two groups. Fewer tagged birds returned to the colony and those that did were six days later, on average, than banded birds. About 60% of the tagged females were unable to acquire mates in the year after marking, but tagged males paired without apparent problems. Mean hatching date of tagged birds was three days later than banded birds. A large proportion of this group failed to raise any young, principally because tags seemed to interfere with pairing. Wing tags also may have affected birds at later stages of the reproductive cycle, but brood sizes for successful tagged and banded birds were similar in the year after marking.
4087118|I used captive young and adult American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) during October-February 1984-1985 to test whether body weight and age affected time of pair-bond formation. Eighty ducks were marked individually, and 10 ducks (6 males and 4 females, half of each age class) were assigned to each of 8 experimental pens. Ducks in 4 pens received an ad libitum diet of commercial duck food, and ducks in the other 4 pens received a restricted ration of the same food. During early winter ducks in both groups gained weight, but ducks on the restricted diet gained less than birds on the ad libitum diet; peak winter weight of ducks on the ad libitum diet averaged 22% greater than initial body weight compared with 6.5% for ducks on the restricted diet. In late winter ducks on the restricted diet lost 28.7% of peak winter weight, and ducks on the ad libitum diet lost 19.3%. Weight loss of ducks on the ad libitum diet began before weather conditions became severe and coincided with a reduction in food consumption. This result supports the idea that weight loss of waterfowl in late winter is controlled endogenously. Individuals on the ad libitum diet paired earlier than those on the restricted diet, and pair bonds were stronger. Adults of both sexes paired earlier than young ducks, but differences for females were not significant statistically. Age and energy constraints are factors that can affect intraspecific variation in pairing chronology.
10.2307/4086027|Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) in southeastern Missouri court and form pairs from September to May. Courtship bouts occurred in groups averaging 11.4 birds, with a male: female sex ratio of 2.24:1. Several new displays and vocalizations are described. The length of display sequences decreased from 1.9 min per sequence in the fall to 1.0 min per sequence in the spring. By 30 November, 60% of all females were paired. Early pair bonds appeared tenuous and were continually tested until nest-searching activities began in March. Birds in groups displayed and vocalized more than paired birds, and birds displayed and vocalized more in the fall than in the spring. Early pairing may be related to a bird's condition, success in obtaining a nesting site, and increased productivity.
4090440| The many hazards that await birds along their migratory routes may negatively affect their survival, especially among newly fledged young. We estimated survival of young Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica) during fall migration from the High Arctic to temperate areas and examined factors affecting their survival over a five-year period, using two approaches. First, each year (1993-1997), we banded fledglings and adults in mid-August, just before their departure from Bylot Island in the High Arctic (Nunavut, Canada), and again at an important staging area 3,000 km to the south at the Cap Tourmente National Wildlife Area (Qubec, Canada) in October; recovery data from those two banding periods allowed estimation of survival during fall migration. Second, we visually determined brood size of neck-banded females before and after the main portion of the migratory flight, to estimate survival of young. The two approaches yielded similar survival estimates and showed the same interannual variation, thus suggesting that estimates were reliable. Mortality of young shortly after fledging and during the fall migration was high, compared with that of adults (monthly survival 0.662 in young vs. 0.989 in adults). However, mortality of young after migration was similar to that of adults (monthly survival 0.969 in young vs. 0.972 in adults). Migration survival of young varied considerably among annual cohorts (range of 0.119-0.707 over five years), and most of the mortality appeared to be natural. Survival was especially low in years when (1) temperatures at time of fledging and start of migration were low (i.e. near or below freezing), (2) mean body mass of goslings near fledging was low, or (3) mean fledging date was late. Our results suggest that migration survival of young is affected by a combination of several factors (climatic conditions, body mass, and fledging date) and that survival is reduced when one of those factors intervenes. /// Les nombreux dangers qui guettent les oiseaux au cours de leur vol migratoire peuvent affecter ngativement leur survie, notamment chez les jeunes rcemment mancips. Nous avons utilis deux mthodes pour estimer la survie des jeunes de Chen caerulescens atlantica durant leur migration automnale du Haut Arctique aux rgions tempres, et examin les facteurs affectant leur survie sur une priode de cinq ans. Premirement, chaque anne (1993-1997) nous avons bagu des adultes et des jeunes  la mi-aot, juste avant leur dpart de l'le Bylot dans le Haut Arctique (Nunavut, Canada), et de nouveau, en octobre,  une halte migratoire importante 3000 km au sud, la Rserve Nationale de Faune du Cap Tourmente (Qubec, Canada); les rcuprations de bagues des deux priodes ont permis d'estimer la survie pendant la migration automnale. Deuximement, nous avons dtermin, par observation directe, les tailles de famille dont la femelle tait marque avec un collier, avant et aprs la majeure portion de la migration, afin d'estimer la survie des jeunes. Les deux mthodes ont donn des estimations de survie similaires, prsentant les mmes variations interannuelles, suggrant ainsi que les estimations sont fiables. La mortalit des jeunes juste aprs l'envol et durant la migration d'automne tait trs leve, compare aux adultes (survie mensuelle de 0.662 pour les jeunes vs. 0.989 pour les adultes). Cependant, la mortalit des jeunes aprs la migration tait similaire  celle des adultes (survie mensuelle de 0.969 pour les jeunes vs. 0.972 pour les adultes). Une variation considrable de la survie durant la migration se retrouvait chez les jeunes de diffrentes cohortes (de 0.119  0.707 sur cinq ans), et la majeure partie de la mortalit semblait naturelle. La survie tait particulirement faible les annes o (1) la temprature  l'envol et au dbut de la migration tait basse (proche ou sous le point de conglation), (2) la masse moyenne des jeunes  l'envol tait faible, ou (3) la date moyenne d'envol tait tardive. Cela suggre que la survie des jeunes pendant la migration est affecte par une combinaison de facteurs (les conditions climatiques, la masse corporelle et la date d'envol) et que la survie est rduite lorsqu'un de ces facteurs entre en compte. 
10.2307/4088414|We investigated the effects of dietary protein quality on the development and functioning of the immune system in four-week-old Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) chicks. Chicks were fed isocaloric diets containing 8, 15, or 33% protein over a three-week period. Significant reductions in the rate of body growth were evident in chicks receiving 8 and 15% protein. Development of the bursa of Fabricius and spleen was significantly depressed in the 8% protein group compared to the other two treatments. Lymphocyte yields from dissociated lymphoid organs of chicks fed 8% protein were substantially reduced compared to birds fed higher levels of protein. In vitro lymphoproliferative responses of cultured splenocytes to mitogenic stimulation (concanavalin A, pokeweed mitogen, and Salmonella typhimurium), white-blood-cell counts, and in vivo measures of humoral immunity did not differ among dietary treatments. Cell-mediated immune function, as measured by an in vivo hypersensitivity response to an intradermal injection of a T lymphocyte-dependent mitogen (phytohemagglutinin), was significantly suppressed in the 8% protein group compared to the other two treatments. Several measures of immune-system development and function were significantly correlated with body mass change during the trial. Results indicated that four-week-old Northern Bobwhite chicks fen an 8% protein diet for three weeks may have difficulty expressing a competent immune response to pathogenic challenge in the wild.
4090559| Concentrations of plasma metabolites, including triglyceride, glycerol, and B-OH butyrate, can be used to determine refueling performance of migratory birds. We tested the effects of diet type and diet lipid content on the predictive relationships between metabolites and body mass changes in three species of passerines in captivity. In addition, we tested whether measurement of plasma phospholipids improved predictions of mass change. Rate of mass change was positively related to triglycerides in a captive frugivore (Cedar Waxwing; Bombycilla cedrorum) and a granivore (White-crowned Sparrow; Zonotrichia leucophrys). B-OH butyrate was negatively and nonlinearly related to mass change in Cedar Waxwings and White-crowned Sparrows. Glycerol was negatively related to mass change in Cedar Waxwings but not in White-crowned Sparrows. Mass change was positively related to triglycerides and negatively related to B-OH butyrate in Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata). There was no effect of diet lipid content (9% vs. 28% dry mass) on these predictive relationships. Plasma phospholipids were positively related to mass change in White-crowned Sparrows, but negatively related to mass change in Yellow-rumped Warblers and not related to mass change in Cedar Waxwings. Measurement of phospholipids did not improve prediction of mass change by metabolite profiles. Nevertheless, plasma metabolite profiles are predictive of short-term mass changes in captive birds regardless of diet type or diet lipid content, and can provide valuable information on refueling performance in studies of stopover ecology. /// Las concentraciones de metabolitos plasmticos, como triglicridos, glicerol y B-OH butirato, pueden ser usadas para determinar la capacidad de reabastecimiento de las aves migratorias. Probamos el efecto del tipo de dieta y del contenido de lpidos sobre la relacin de prediccin entre los metabolitos y los cambios en el peso corporal en tres especies de aves paserinas en cautiverio. Adems, probamos si la medicin de fosfolpidos plasmticos mejoraba la prediccin de los cambios en el peso corporal. La tasa de cambio del peso se relacion positivamente con los triglicridos en un frugvoro (Bombycilla cedrorum) y en un granvoro (Zonotrichia leucophrys). El B-OH butirato se correlacion negativamente y de forma no lineal con el cambio en el peso de B. cedrorum y Z. leucophrys. El glicerol se relacion negativamente con el cambio del peso en B. cedrorum, pero no en Z. leucophrys. En Dendroica coronata, el cambio del peso se relacion positivamente con los triglicridos y negativamente con el B-OH butirato. No hubo un efecto del contenido de lpidos en la dieta (9% vs. 28% de peso seco) sobre estas relaciones de prediccin. Los fosfolpidos plasmticos se relacionaron positivamente con el cambio del peso en Z. leucophrys, se relacionaron negativamente con el cambio del peso en D. coronata, y no se relacionaron con el cambio del peso en B. cedrorum. La medicin de fosfolpidos no mejor la prediccin de los cambios del peso mediante perfiles de metabolitos. Sin embargo, los perfiles de metabolitos plasmticos pueden predecir los cambios en el peso a corto plazo independientemente del tipo de dieta o del contenido de lpidos en aves en cautiverio, y pueden proveer informacin importante sobre la capacidad de reabastecimiento en estudios sobre ecologa migratoria. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10031|We documented patterns of nectar availability and nectarivorous bird abundance over ~3 years at nine study sites across an 1,800-m elevational gradient on Hawaii Island to investigate the relationship between resource variation and bird abundance. Flower density (flowers ha
40406063|We evaluated the influence of weather on reproduction of the Crested Caracara (
10.2307/4089714|Historically, a paucity of comparative morphological characters has led to much debate regarding relationships within and among the major lineages of New World nine-primaried oscines. More recently, DNA-DNA hybridization studies have provided novel and testable hypotheses of relationships, although no consensus has been reached. For 40 songbird taxa, we obtained 1,929 base pairs (bp) of DNA sequence from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b (894 bp) and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 (1,035 bp) genes. Phylogenetic analyses confirm the monophyly of this assemblage as traditionally defined. The lineages delineated historically on morphological grounds are retained; finches (Fringillinae) are sister to a well-supported clade (Emberizinae) containing blackbirds (Icterini), sparrows (Emberizini), wood-warblers (Parulini), tanagers (Thraupini), and cardinal-grosbeaks (Cardinalini). However, each tribe individually is either paraphyletic or polyphyletic with respect to most recent songbird classifications. Our results suggest that Euphonia is not a tanager but perhaps represents a derived form of cardueline finch. Piranga, traditionally considered a typical tanager, is a cardinaline in all of our analyses. Calcarius falls outside the sparrow lineage in all of our analyses, but its true affinities remain unclear. Elements of four different AOU families are represented in our clade Thraupini. The inclusion of several "tanager-finches" (Haplospiza, Diglossa, Tiaris, Volatinia, Sporophila) and a nectarivore (Coereba) in this clade is consistent with findings from other molecular phylogenies in suggesting that convergence in feeding specializations among some lineages has confounded traditional morphological classifications. We obtained a novel arrangement of relationships among tribes in our "best" topology; Cardinalini is sister to the rest of the Emberizinae assemblage (as defined by Sibley and Ahlquist [1990]), and Thraupini is sister to a clade containing Icterini, Emberizini, and Parulini. Despite nearly 2,000 bp of sequence for each taxon, and a high degree of stability across most weighting schemes and analytical methods, most nodes lack strong bootstrap support. The ND2 gene provided higher resolution than did cytochrome b, but combining genes provided the most highly supported and resolved topology. We consider the phylogeny a working hypothesis to be used as a guide for further studies within the nine-primaried oscine assemblage.
25150308|Group breeding is perplexing, because individuals incur density-dependent fitness costs to breed in groups, yet no universal benefit appears to explain its evolution. Coloniality in birds, defined as dense nesting within limited territories, is a striking example of group breeding. Adaptive explanations for coloniality are diverse, and several research approaches have emerged. Here, we test models for the evolution of coloniality with a population of Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena). We distinguish habitat models from conspecific models for explaining the adaptive evolution of coloniality. Habitat models propose that the fitness benefits of colonial breeding are gained through the characteristics or location of the colony site, whereas conspecific models posit that the benefits of colonial breeding are gained solely from nesting near conspecifics. Red-necked Grebes are waterbirds that typically nest in a dispersed fashion, only rarely nesting in colonies. Both dispersed and colonial nesting co-occurred in the study population, and aquatic nests were found in three distinct habitat types. We gathered detailed demographic data and used analyses of covariance to test whether variation in habitat type or conspecific aggregation best explained differences in breeding success across the population. We further used fitness, genetic, and spatial data to test whether kin selection, sexual selection, or conspecific reproductive-success cueing may drive colony formation. The data provided strong support for a habitat-based model and inconsistently supported conspecific models. Our results suggest that colonial individuals of this population gain selfish benefits from relatively rare, high-quality habitat rather than from proximity of conspecifics. /// La nidificacin grupal es asombrosa, ya que los individuos soportan costos denso dependientes en trminos de su adecuacin biolgica al nidificar en grupo. A pesar de esto, no parecen haber beneficios generales que expliquen la evolucin de este rasgo. La colonialidad en las aves, definida como una nidificacin densa dentro de territorios limitados, es un excelente ejemplo de cra en grupo. Las explicaciones adaptativas de la colonialidad son diversas y han surgido diversos enfoques de investigacin al respecto. En este estudio, evaluamos los modelos de evolucin de la colonialidad en una poblacin de Podiceps grisegena. Separamos los modelos de hbitat de los modelos coespecficos para explicar la evolucin adaptativa de la colonialidad. Los modelos de hbitat proponen que los beneficios en trminos de adecuacin biolgica de la cra colonial se manifiestan a travs de las caractersticas o de la localizacin del sitio de la colonia, mientras que los modelos coespecficos destacan que los beneficios de la cra colonial se manifiestan slo por el hecho de nidificar cerca de los individuos coespecficos. Podiceps grisegena es una especie de ave acutica que tpicamente nidifica de modo disperso y slo en raras ocasiones nidifica en colonias. Tanto la nidificacin dispersa como colonial se presentan conjuntamente en la poblacin de estudio, y los nidos acuticos fueron encontrados en tres tipos de ambientes diferentes. Recolectamos datos demogrficos detallados y usamos anlisis de covarianza para evaluar si la variacin en el tipo de hbitat o la agregacin de individuos coespecficos explicaba mejor las diferencias en el xito reproductivo a lo largo de la poblacin. Luego empleamos datos de adecuacin biolgica, genticos y espaciales para evaluar si la seleccin de parentesco, la seleccin sexual o el xito reproductivo de los coespecficos podran determinar la formacin de la colonia. Los datos apoyaron de manera contundente un modelo de hbitat y slo apoyaron dbilmente a los modelos coespecficos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los individuos coloniales de esta poblacin se beneficiaron de su presencia en ambientes relativamente raros y de alta calidad, ms que de la proximidad a individuos coespecficos.
4087914|Cyclical production of seeds in a pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus monosperma) woodland enabled us to assess the effects of resource abundance on the winter foraging ecology and flock formation of two avian seed predators, the Mountain Chickadee (Parus gambeli) and the Plain Titmouse (P. inornatus). During the winter of low seed abundance (1986/1987), chickadees and titmice converged in microhabitat use. Chickadees exhibited a coarse-grained response by selectively foraging in areas with greater ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) density during the winter of high seed production, but shifted to a fine-grained use of microhabitat during the following year by randomly foraging in different tree species. Titmice displayed a fine-grained response in microhabitat use irrespective of seed abundance, but foraged significantly more in ponderosa pine during the winter of low seed production (becoming more like chickadees in use of tree species). Conversely, foraging behavior was consistent between years, and the two species were separable based upon the use of juniper substrates (e.g. chickadees foraged more on juniper needles than titmice, titmice foraged more on the ground beneath juniper). The convergence in microhabitat use by chickadees and titmice during the winter of low seed abundance may be attributed to the prevalence of mixed-species flocks. During the year of a mast seed crop, chickadees and titmice foraged singly or in pairs 80% of the time and were never observed together. Half of all individuals were observed in flocks the following year, and two thirds of flocking chickadees and nearly all (88%) gregarious titmice participated in mixed flocks. Monospecific flocks of chickadees used less juniper and foraged distinctly from titmice (e.g. probed more, pecked less, gleaned from an inverted position), but converged in these characteristics in the presence of titmice. Only two titmice ever occurred in mixed-species flocks, yet up to six chickadees formed these mixed-species flocks. Chickadees apparently join titmice, as substantiated by the observed shifts in foraging ecology by chickadees in the presence of titmice, and perhaps gain knowledge of resource locations from resident titmice (chickadees are potentially altitudinal migrants within our study area). We observed an increase in sociality during periods of low seed abundance, which supports the proximate role of resource levels in promoting flock formation, but does not preclude the possibility that other factors that are a consequence of low resource abundance (e.g. decreased time available for vigilance) provide the primary impetus for flocking behavior.
4087966|We identified habitat features that characterized successful and unsuccessful nest sites, nest sites vs. random sites, and differences among coexisting species of cavity-nesting birds for 356 nests in central Arizona. Live and, more commonly, dead quaking aspens (Populus tremuloides) were used for 88% of all nest sites, but aspens constituted only 12% of all trees in random plots (n = 152). Nest patches (11.3-m-radius circle centered on the nest tree) of most bird species contained significantly more aspens and conifers, which provided foraging substrates for cavity-nesting species, than random plots, but the patches had fewer deciduous trees (except aspens). Thus, more potential nest sites and foraging substrates existed in chosen nest patches than in random plots. Failed nests generally were more concealed by foliage and were closer to conifers. Nest success was lower for species with lower nest height. Reduced nest success at lower and more concealed nests may occur because predators are more successful. Nonexcavator species had lower nesting success than excavator species possibly because they nested lower, had greater nest concealment, used older cavities, and tended to have smaller body mass.
4088460|Mitochondrial-DNA (mtDNA) polymorphisms were studied in the Oilbird (Steatornis caripensis). Twelve closely related (P = 0.06 to 0.35%) mtDNA haplotypes were found in Oilbird colonies studied in northeastern and northwestern Venezuela. Eleven of the mtDNA clones are related to the ancestral one by one or two mutational steps. Female-mediated gene flow is high (Nm > 1) among the colonies studied. As a consequence of the high female-mediated gene flow, no phylogeographic structuring among the mtDNA composite haplotypes was observed. Evidence from mtDNA analysis suggests that Oilbird populations in Venezuela have gone through a bottleneck. Results also seem to indicate that the annual postbreeding migrations of Oilbirds from the Guacharo Cave to the caves in the Mata de Mango area involve mostly the breeding adults, whereas juveniles disperse from the Guacharo Cave to the Mata de Mango cave system for longer periods.
4087092|We studied two populations of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) that differed primarily in the amount of food available to the breeding birds. We obtained an index of food abundance and performed field experiments to distinguish factors affecting variability in growth of nestlings. The experiments were designed to detect the influence of the location of egg laying, incubation, and nestling rearing, type of parent (natural or foster), and year of breeding on nestling growth. Some broods were transferred between nests and raised by foster parents, and some clutches and broods were transferred between populations. Variables were analyzed in two- and three-way factorial analyses of variance. The insect biomass index during the nestling period differed about 7-fold between locations, regardless of year of breeding. Nestlings with more food grew and survived better. Type of parent (i.e. natural or foster) or prehatch factors such as location of incubation did not influence growth. The location where nestlings were raised, however, explained as much as 51% of the variation in growth, and genetic variation in offspring and variation in provisioning abilities of parents may have been important components of within-population variation in growth regardless of where parents nested.
10.2307/4088094|We used survival analysis to examine the fates of Jackass Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) chicks on Dassen Island, off the west coast of South Africa. There were two distinct phases of chick loss. The first, when chicks were 0-34 days old, involved losses primarily due to burrow collapse, exposure and drowning, and accidental death in the nest. This mortality was influenced strongly by nest-site characteristics. Overall reproductive success was lowest in open nests, intermediate in burrows, and highest in rock nests. The probability of chick death due to flooding was highest for burrows in shell/guano conglomerate, whereas the risk of burrow collapse was highest in sand. Burrows in high-density colonies had a greater likelihood of collapsing after heavy rain than burrows in low-density areas. The second phase occurred 42-90 days after hatch, when losses were almost entirely due to starvation. Comparisons of survival in control and experimental nests with varying degrees of sibling asymmetry indicate that it is the extent of hatching asynchrony that affects the ability of the smaller sibling to compete for food and that will produce sibling differences in the risk of starvation. Chicks in two-chick control nests starved at higher frequencies than chicks in less asynchronous experimental broods.
10.2307/4088814|Data on waders and allies (Charadriiformes) previously published by Strauch are reanalyzed using cladistic techniques, rather than compatibility analysis as in the original paper. The resulting trees are compared to those of Strauch, to a previous cladistic reanalysis, and to trees based on DNA-DNA hybridization data. In contrast to all previous results, the current analysis shows scolopacine and charadriine waders to be a monophyletic group, each of them being monophyletic. The alcids form a very basal group. The thick-knees (Burhinidae) form a sister group to all waders and larids (gulls and terns). Chionis and Dromas are sister taxa to glareolids and waders. The data contain several uncertainties in character codings and polarizations, which in turn may affect the outcome in various ways.
4085222|Maternal calls of 11 wood duck (Aix sponsa) hens were recorded at nest sites in the field. Audiospectrographic analyses revealed that most of the hens uttered calls containing two (or more) temporally overlapping, nonharmonically related tones, thereby implicating two or more independent sound-producing sources in the syrinx. Evidence for the "two-voice" phenomenon has heretofore come mainly from songbirds. The present report presents the first evidence of this vocal phenomenon in waterfowl.
10.2307/4089453|Considerable attention has been directed toward documenting the effects of environmental chemicals on the endocrine systems of vertebrates, especially on development and reproduction. Given the well-documented role of hormones in controlling behavior, one would expect to see abnormal behavior in contaminated wildlife. We describe abnormal nest-building behavior in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) breeding along the Hudson River of New York in areas highly contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (a group of chemicals known to disrupt endocrine systems). Previous studies of Tree Swallows have shown that nest quality is an important component of reproductive success. Swallows breeding in contaminated areas built smaller nests of lower quality compared with those in uncontaminated areas. Our observations are consistent with the possibility that chemical contaminants interfered with behavior.
10.1525/auk.2010.09096|The adrenocortical response to perturbation varies considerably within and across avian species during breeding. Among the factors hypothesized to influence this variation is the degree of parental care expressed by an individual. To increase our understanding of the relationship between parental care and the adrenocortical response, we examined corticosterone secretion in the polymorphic White-throated Sparrow (
4086642| The energetic cost of incubation of a free-living Blue Tit (Parus caeruleus) female was studied during two breeding seasons by measuring the rate of oxygen consumption in a nest box converted into a metabolic chamber. Like its congeners, only the female Blue Tit incubates and during that time is fed by the male. Just before and during the egg-laying period the female spends the night in the nest. Because of the progressive development of incubation behavior during this period, it is possible to measure the oxygen-consumption rate of a nonincubating female (resting metabolism) and to compare it with values obtained later when the bird is incubating a full clutch under otherwise similar conditions. The air temperature in the metabolic chamber was regulated experimentally. The results show that the energy cost of incubation is relatively important below the lower critical temperature (about 15C). With a fall in the air temperature, energy expenditure increased in relation to that of the resting metabolism. The energy cost of incubation also increased with clutch size, by about 6-7% for each additional egg. At air temperatures around 0C, which are frequent under natural conditions in Fennoscandia, the female must increase her metabolic rate by 50-90% to keep the eggs in a normal-size clutch (10-13 eggs) warm. During the last days of incubation we accounted for the metabolism of the embryos, which on the day before hatching contributed about 15% of the total oxygen consumption when the female was incubating a clutch of 13 eggs. 
4086712|Measured values for the water loss from unpipped eggs, the water-vapor conductance and functional pore area of the shell, and the number of pores in the shell were all lower than predictions based on fresh-egg mass. Predictive equations incorporating incubation period yielded closer approximations to measured values. The total water loss from the egg represented 12.9% of the mass of the freshly laid egg. The initial event in the pipping process was star-fracture of the shell, which occurred 3.5 days before hatching. It was followed by internal pipping and the formation of a pip-hole. The duration of the interval between star-fracture of the shell and hatching represented 8.0% of the total incubation period but accounted for 17.1% of the total water loss from the egg.
10.2307/4090397| Stable-isotope analyses of egg components can illuminate the contributions of endogenous and exogenous nutrients to egg formation in cases where birds move from one isotopic biome to another just before egg-laying, as in Red Knots (Calidris canutus islandica) and Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres interpres) nesting in the northeastern Canadian High Arctic. Those populations use inshore marine habitats during the winter and northward migration periods, but switch to feeding and breeding in terrestrial C-3 habitats in the Arctic. Upon the birds' arrival at Alert, Nunavut, Canada, stable carbon (
25488730|There is widespread evidence that individuals within and among host populations are not evenly parasitized by Common Cuckoos (
10.2307/4089288|The development of functional capacity of skeletal muscle proceeds more rapidly in precocial than in altricial birds and more rapidly in leg than in pectoral muscles. To determine whether protein accumulation and electrolyte differentiation proceed in parallel with functional development, we examined changes in protein (lipid-free dry mass, LFDM), K
25488643|The disturbance associated with nest monitoring raises concerns about the validity of the estimated nest success and the well-being of the populations under study. Observer activity may attract or deter predators to or from bird nests, thus decreasing or increasing nest success. Results of previous studies related nest success to frequency of nest visits or estimated survival over rechecking intervals of different length. Such studies usually cannot reveal the underlying mechanism through which predation rate is influenced, because the timing of predation remains unknown. I measured, using data loggers, the exact survival times of 747 nests of 11 songbird species in fragmented woodland in the Czech Republic in 20012003 and analyzed the temporal relationship between predation and observer visits. I found only a short-term observer effect that lowered the hazard of predation during 2 h after a visit but did not appreciably affect the overall nest success. The timing of nest visits and the short duration of the effect imply that predators were deterred from the nests directly by the observer's presence, rather than by long-lasting cues (scent trails, damage to vegetation), and that diurnal predators (mainly corvids) responded to observer presence. This effect was consistent across years but differed between species groups. Deterrence of avian predators was profitable for a heterogeneous "warbler" group of species with limited nest-defense ability (model-averaged hazard ratio: 0.38; 95% confidence interval: 0.121.25), but it had little effect on thrushes (
10.2307/4089888| Use of point-count surveys is a popular method for collecting data on abundance and distribution of birds. However, analyses of such data often ignore potential differences in detection probability. We adapted a removal model to directly estimate detection probability during point-count surveys. The model assumes that singing frequency is a major factor influencing probability of detection when birds are surveyed using point counts. This may be appropriate for surveys in which most detections are by sound. The model requires counts to be divided into several time intervals. Point counts are often conducted for 10 min, where the number of birds recorded is divided into those first observed in the first 3 min, the subsequent 2 min, and the last 5 min. We developed a maximum-likelihood estimator for the detectability of birds recorded during counts divided into those intervals. This technique can easily be adapted to point counts divided into intervals of any length. We applied this method to unlimited-radius counts conducted in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. We used model selection criteria to identify whether detection probabilities varied among species, throughout the morning, throughout the season, and among different observers. We found differences in detection probability among species. Species that sing frequently such as Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes) and Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) had high detection probabilities (90%) and species that call infrequently such as Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) had low detection probability (36%). We also found detection probabilities varied with the time of day for some species (e.g. thrushes) and between observers for other species. We used the same approach to estimate detection probability and density for a subset of the observations with limited-radius point counts. /// El muestreo mediante conteos por punto es un mtodo popular para colectar datos sobre distribucin y abundancia de aves. Sin embargo, los anlisis de estos datos generalmente ignoran diferencias potenciales en la probabilidad de deteccin. Aqu adaptamos un modelo de remocin para estimar directamente la probabilidad de deteccin de aves en conteos por punto. El modelo supone que la frecuencia con que las aves cantan es un factor principal que influencia la probabilidad de deteccin. Esto puede ser apropiado en muestreos en donde la mayora de las detecciones son por sonido. El modelo requiere que los conteos sean divididos en varios intervalos de tiempo. Los conteos por punto duran por lo general 10 min, donde el nmero de aves registradas es dividido en aquellas observadas durante los primeros 3 min, los 2 min subsecuentes y los ltimos 5 min. Desarrollamos un estimador de mxima probabilidad en relacin a la detectabilidad de las aves registradas durante conteos divididos en dichos intervalos. Esta tcnica puede ser fcilmente adaptada a conteos por punto divididos en intervalos de cualquier duracin. Aplicamos este mtodo a conteos de radio ilimitado realizados en el Parque Nacional Great Smoky Mountains. Empleamos criterios de seleccin del modelo para identificar si las probabilidades de deteccin variaban entre especies, a lo largo de la maana, a lo largo de las estaciones y entre diferentes observadores. Encontramos diferencias entre las especies en la probabilidad de deteccin. Las especies que cantan con frecuencia, como Troglodytes troglodytes y Empidonax virescens, tuvieron una alta probabilidad de deteccin (90%), mientras que las especies que realizan pocas llamadas, como Dryocopus pileatus, tuvieron una baja probabilidad de deteccin (36%). Encontramos tambin que la probabilidad de deteccin vari en relacin a la hora del da para algunas especies (e.g. Trdidos) y entre observadores para otras. Empleamos el mismo procedimiento para conteos por punto de radio limitado para estimar la probabilidad de deteccin y la densidad en un subconjunto de las observaciones. 
10.2307/4086824|A review of the historical treatment of Common and Hoary redpolls (Carduelis flammea flammea and C. hornemanni exilipes) revealed no diagnostic means of distinguishing the two taxa. Interpretations of species limits have varied, resulting in conflicting treatment of intermediate forms. Variability in plumage and skeletal characters of redpolls from 9 breeding locations in Alaska and Canada were examined to determine if a means of discriminating between the two taxa could be found, and to determine if individuals with intermediate plumage characteristics (potential hybrids) were also morphologically intermediate. Because sexes differed in most skeletal dimensions, all analyses were duplicated for the two sexes. A character index was developed based on three plumage characteristics: rump streaking, undertail covert streaking, and lateral (side) streaking. This index characterized redpolls on a darkness gradient from extreme flammea (dark, heavy streaking) to extreme exilipes (light, no streaking). The observed range of scores was divided into thirds to designate flammea, unknown (intermediate), and exilipes classes. Females showed a much narrower range of plumage variability than males. No females were white enough to be considered exilipes on the scale used for males. Most birds from the flammea and exilipes extremes of plumage variability could be distinguished by skeletal criteria (using discriminant fuction analysis); however, no discontinuity existed, as other birds were intermediate for both plumage and skeletal characteristics. Intermediates were found at all sampled localities where both plumage morphs occurred. Results of analyses based on plumage (character index) and skeletal measurements were very similar and showed that samples containing intermediate plumage birds were also intermediate skeletally. Considering the continuous variability of both plumage and skeletal characters and the lack of any diagnostic criterion for identifying the taxa, the two redpolls should be merged into a single taxon, Carduelis flammea.
10.2307/4088642|This paper documents and evaluates seasonal trends in reproductive performance in the Marsh Tit (Parus palustris) in southern Sweden. Clutch size decreased for nests started later in the season. This pattern held true both for second-year and older females when analyzed separately. Individual females adjusted clutch size in relation to the relative time of season they produced a clutch a particular year. The seasonal decline in clutch size was also evident for clutches produced in the same territory at different parts of the season in different years. Females breeding for several years demonstrated a high consistency in relative laying date and clutch size. The same was not true for males or for territories. The length of the incubation period normally decreased with season. Nestling mass and survival did not show any systematic seasonal trend. Nest predation was probably more prevalent late in the season. Fledglings that hatched later had poorer survival until autumn. This effect was evident for males, but not for females. Hatching date did not influence fledglings' survival to the next breeding season, but sample sizes were small. I suggest that the Marsh Tit adjusts clutch size to the survival probability of nestlings, this being affected by the probability of nest predation and by fledgling survival. Hence, late-laying females are not prepared to accept as large reproductive costs as early laying females.
10.2307/4090236| We collected 328 freshly laid Great Tit (Parus major) eggs from 38 clutches in 1999 to determine the relationship of whole egg weight, wet yolk weight, wet albumen weight, dry shell weight, and the occurrence of laying gaps with mean ambient temperature in the three days preceding laying, while controlling for laying date and position in the laying sequence. We also reanalyzed existing data on whole egg weight in 1978 and 1979 in relation to temperature, controlling for the same other variables. Egg weight was correlated with temperature in 1978 and 1979, but not in 1999. None of the egg components was related to temperature preceding laying, apart from a nonsignificant tendency for albumen weights to be lower at higher temperature. Egg weight increased with laying date in 1978 and 1979 after controlling for other variables. In 1999, albumen and shell weight increased seasonally, but shell weight only did so to the extent expected on the basis of the seasonal increase in whole egg weight. Yolk weight did not increase significantly seasonally, but neither did yolk weight relative to whole egg weight decrease significantly. Whole egg weight and the weights of all components varied between clutches. Most weights also varied through the laying sequence. The probability of a laying gap occurring varied between clutches, and increased with position in the laying sequence and decreased with temperature and laying date. Eggs preceding laying gaps were lighter and contained less albumen but had higher shell weights than other eggs. Eggs following laying gaps also had heavier shells relative to the size of the egg than other eggs. /// Colectamos 328 huevos recin puestos de 38 nidadas de Parus major en 1999 para determinar la relacin del peso total del huevo, el peso fresco de la yema, el peso fresco del albmen, el peso seco del cascarn y la ocurrencia de interrupciones en la postura, con la temperatura media del ambiente en los tres das previos a la postura (controlando por la fecha de postura y la posicin en la secuencia de postura). Tambin reanalizamos datos existentes sobre el peso total del huevo en 1978 y 1979 con relacin a la temperatura, controlando por las mismas variables adicionales. El peso del huevo se correlacion con la temperatura en 1978 y 1979, pero no en 1999. Ninguno de los componentes del huevo estuvo relacionado con la temperatura previa a la postura, pero hubo una tendencia no significativa en la que el peso del albmen fue menor a mayores temperaturas. Tras controlar por otras variables, el peso del huevo aument con la fecha de postura en 1978 y 1979. El peso de albmen y del cascarn aumentaron estacionalmente en 1999, pero el peso del cascarn slo lo hizo hasta el nivel esperado con base en el incremento estacional en el peso total del huevo. El peso de la yema no aument estacionalmente, pero su peso relativo al peso total del huevo no disminuy significativamente. El peso total del huevo y sus distintos componentes variaron entre nidadas. La mayora de los pesos tambin variaron a travs de la secuencia de postura. La probabilidad de que ocurriera una interrupcin en la postura vari entre nidadas, aument con la posicin en la secuencia de postura y disminuy con la temperatura y la fecha de postura. Los huevos que precedieron interrupciones fueron ms livianos y tuvieron menos albmen, pero presentaron cascarones ms pesados que otros huevos. Los huevos que siguieron a las interrupciones tambin tuvieron cascarones ms pesados (con relacin al tamao del huevo) que otros huevos. 
10.2307/25150227|There is widespread interest in the roles that carotenoids play as yolk and shank pigments, antioxidants, and immune-system regulators in chickens, but nothing is known of such functions in the wild ancestors of chickens-the Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus). We manipulated carotenoid access in the diet of captive male and female Red Junglefowl to investigate its effects on the coloration of the red comb and buff-brown legs and beak as well as on several indices of immuno-competence. Comb, leg, and beak did not differ in coloration between control and carotenoid-supplemented groups; in fact, biochemical analyses showed that, unlike in chickens, leg and beak tissue contained no carotenoids. Carotenoids showed variable effects on immunological performance, boosting the potency of whole blood in males to kill bacterial colonies, while inhibiting the ability of macrophages to phagocytize bacterial cells and having no significant effect on the accumulation of haptoglobin-an acute-phase protein whose production was induced by a simulated infectious challenge with lipopolysaccharide. These results bring into question interpretations of the evolutionary significance of carotenoid-based and sexually dichromatic shank coloration in domestic chickens, which was apparently derived through artificial selection, and suggest that carotenoids can exert different, mechanism-specific actions on the many lines of immune defense in birds. /// Existe un amplio inters en el papel que tienen los carotenoides como pigmentos de la yema y parte inferior de las patas, as como tambin en antioxidantes y reguladores del sistema inmunolgico en gallinas, pero nada se sabe sobre estas funciones en el ancestro silvestre de las gallinas, Gallus gallus. Manipulamos el acceso a carotenoides en la dieta de machos y hembras en cautiverio de G. gallus para investigar los effectos sobre la coloracin roja de la cresta y coloracin caf de las patas y el pico, como as tambin en varios ndices de inmuno-competencia. La cresta, las patas y el pico no difirieron en coloracin entre el grupo control y el suplementado con carotenoides. De hecho, los anlisis bioqumicos mostraron que, contrariamente a lo observado en las gallinas, los tejidos de las patas y el pico no contienen carotenoides. Los carotenoides mostraron efectos variados sobre el desempeo inmunolgico. En los machos, impulsaron el potencial del tejido sanguneo para matar colonias bacterianas, mientras que inhibieron la habilidad de los macrfagos de fagocitar clulas bacterianas y no tuvieron un efecto significativo sobre la acumulacin de haptoglobina-una protena de fase aguda cuya produccin fue inducida por una infeccin simulada con lipo-polisacridos. Estos resultados cuestionan las interpretaciones del significado evolutivo de la coloracin con carotenoides y de la coloracin di-cromtica sexual de la parte inferior de las patas en gallinas domesticas, la cual aparentemente deriv a partir de seleccin artificial y sugiere que los carotenoides pueden ejercer acciones mecnicas especficas y diferentes sobre las variadas lneas de defensa inmunolgica en aves.
10.2307/4089947|The cloacal protuberance (CP) of passerines functions primarily to store spermatozoa. When gently squeezed, the CP of male Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) everts to expose a small papilla from which semen can be expressed. From 1994 to 1999, I examined individual and seasonal variation in CP dimensions and papilla length of mated male Tree Swallows in western Michigan. Male CP volumes were greatest when their mates were laying eggs and declined to the nestling period. Papilla lengths did not vary over the course of the breeding season. Cloacal protuberance dimensions and papilla length were not associated with the age class of a male's mate, the date she started laying eggs, or number of eggs she laid. The decrease in CP size over the course of the breeding season is consistent with the steady decrease in reproductive opportunities for male swallows. Although it seems likely, whether or not the papilla of Tree Swallows functions as an intromittent organ awaits further study of the anatomical mechanics of copulation in these birds.
10.2307/4089241|We studied the foraging ecology of three sympatric turacos (Great Blue Turaco [Corythaeola cristata], Ruwenzori Turaco [Musophaga johnstoni], and Black-billed Turaco [Tauraco schuettii]) in a tropical montane forest in Rwanda between November 1991 and December 1992. All three species fed primarily on fruit. Whereas Black-billed Turacos were strictly frugivorous, Great Blue and Ruwenzori turacos were partially folivorous; leaves constituted 25% and 6.3% of their overall diets, respectively. The overall dietary diversity was highest for Great Blue Turacos and lowest for Black-billed Turacos. Most fruits eaten by turacos came from trees. Although most leaves eaten by Great Blue Turacos also came from trees, leaves eaten by Ruwenzori Turacos mainly came from lianas and epiphytes. For the Ruwenzori and Black-billed turacos, the two territorial species, monthly dietary diversity increased with increasing fruit abundance in the environment, but this relationship did not hold for Great Blue Turacos. During periods of fruit scarcity, all three species depended more heavily on their most frequently used foods; this trend was particularly evident in the two territorial species. Like most frugivores, these turacos probably were generalists that exploited a great variety of fruit sources.
10.2307/4089514|The intensity of sperm competition is one of the factors known to determine interspecific variation in the size of male reproductive organs. However, individual variation in the size of reproductive organs and its relation to male quality have not been considered appropriately. We investigated the annual pattern of variation in the size of the cloacal protuberance (CP) in male Bearded Tits (Panurus biarmicus) and correlated CP volume during the fertile period of females with reproductive and morphological features of males. Contrary to other passerines, the cloacal protuberance does not constitute a sperm reservoir but functions as a copulatory organ in Bearded Tits. CP volume differed significantly between unmated and mated males and provided a good indicator of their reproductive status. Within individual mated Bearded Tits, CP size changed in conjunction with their mate's fertile cycle, peaking around the day of clutch initiation. During the fertile period, mated Bearded Tits possess the largest CP (relative to body size) known for a passerine (average volume index = 59.14 mm
4088375|Observation of a resident population of Western American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos hesperis) over five years revealed a social structure that deviates from that of a majority of cooperative breeders, including other corvids. Breeding density was unusually high (0.8 pairs/ha). Core areas occupied by pairs and families were small, overlapped extensively with those of neighbors, and were not defended against conspecifics. A nonbreeding flock was resident on the study site. Juvenile dispersal patterns were highly variable; individuals dispersed at various ages after two months postfledging. They either joined the nonbreeding flock or left the study area. Some individuals delayed dispersal for one or more years, while some returned home after extended absences. As yearlings, more females than males were resident in their natal core area during the breeding season. Most, but not all of those at home served as helpers. More females than males assisted their parents in breeding. The female bias in dispersal and helping is unusual. It suggests that the costs and benefits associated with these behaviors differ between the sexes, and may be different from those postulated for many other cooperative breeders.
90008062|Temporal segregation is known to be an important mechanism of coexistence in many foraging guilds but has not been examined in avian scavengers. Given that carrion availability is higher in the morning than in the afternoon and that differences in wing-loading and nesting behavior may limit morning activity in some species, there is potential for temporal segregation in resource use to play an important role in the coexistence of avian scavengers. I predicted that Lappet-faced Vultures (
10.2307/4089027|Following the prediction that body condition affects whether eggs are laid in birds, we examined variations in prebreeding body condition (i.e. body mass one month before laying, adjusted for structural size, breeding experience, and date of return), incidence of breeding, and reproductive success of male and female Blue Petrels (Halobaena caerulea). Condition was inversely correlated with date of return and positively related to breeding experience in males, but not in females. In both sexes, condition displayed year-to-year variations; the 1991-1992 season was distinguished by poor condition, low incidence of breeding, and low reproductive success. Condition in both males and females, and breeding experience in males had significant effects on the "decision to breed." Breeding experience also influenced the decision to breed, especially in males. Condition, but not breeding experience, had a significant influence on male incubation success. Female breeding performances were not related to condition but to breeding experience. Annual average breeding success was highly variable and significantly correlated with male condition. Prebreeding visits appeared to be critical for this pelagic seabird and may allow individuals, through their condition, to manage their reproductive investment. We suggest that condition mainly affects egg formation in females and, together with breeding experience, influences the duration and the quality of prebreeding colony attendance in males. The potential relationships of body condition, breeding experience, reproductive investment, and future survival are discussed.
90008172|Sandpipers and allies (Scolopacidae) show an astounding diversity in mating and parental care strategies. Comparative studies have tried to interpret this variation in terms of phylogenetic constraints and ecological shaping factors. In such analyses, mating and parental care systems are necessarily discretely classified at the species level. The few available descriptive studies on breeding strategies of the Sanderling (
10.2307/4088596|Nesospiza buntings have speciated at the Tristan da Cunha archipelago in the central South Atlantic Ocean. Two species, the Tristan Bunting (N. acunhae) and Wilkins' Bunting (N. wilkinsi), differ markedly in size and co-occur without interbreeding on Nightingale Island. Nearby Inaccessible Island supports two altitudinally segregated color morphs of N. acunhae, as well as a hybrid complex involving acunhae and wilkinsi. Plumage variation was evaluated for 581 buntings, most of which were caught on Inaccessible Island. Nesospiza plumages vary with age and sex; immature plumage is retained for at least two years. Despite age and sex differences, there is no overlap in coloration between the upland and lowland morphs of N. acunhae on Inaccessible Island. The two morphs are distinct from the time of hatching; chicks of lowland acunhae are pinkish, whereas upland acunhae are yellow. Color differences between acunhae morphs were quantitative rather than qualitative; their feathers contain the same suite of carotenoid pigments, but at three times greater concentration in upland birds. Dispersion of different bunting populations on Inaccessible Island is closely related to vegetation types. Individually marked individuals were largely sedentary; only immature birds moved more than 400 m. The parapatric dispersion of acunhae morphs probably results from habitat-specific dietary differences. Nertera fruits are likely sources of carotenoid pigments in the diets of buntings, but feeding experiments on captive birds are needed to elucidate fully the basis of color variation between morphs. Whatever the proximate cause, plumage-color variation may allow population differentiation if birds mate assortatively on the basis of color. A review of previous visits to the islands suggests that the diversity of forms on Inaccessible Island could have been overlooked.
10.2307/4086829|To investigate the bioenergetics of reproduction in American Coots (Fulica americana) we collected 108 males and 93 females at Delta Marsh, in southern Manitoba, in 1981. Prenesting and nesting birds were analyzed for fat, protein, and ash content in the nonreproductive tissue. For females, these values were compared to the nutrient requirements of the reproductive tissue during egg-laying. We suggest that feeding conditions before arrival can affect subsequent reproductive output. Fat reserves may function as a threshold that influences the initiation of breeding; protein reserves and time of arrival influence the timing of a nesting attempt. We infer that territory quality is important and that it can result in the termination of laying before nutrient reserves are depleted. By distributing costs of clutch formation before (through nutrient storage) and after (through increased biparental care of eggs and young) clutch formation, the required energy intake concurrent with egg-laying is substantially reduced in female coots.
4086608|Observations of the behavior of roosting male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) indicated that after hatching year (AHY) males were dominant over hatching year (HY) males. This dominance resulted in AHY males occupying central roost positions in dense vegetation and HY males occupying edge positions in sparse vegetation. Overall, the birds preferred positions over deep water, although the edge positions of HY males were over deeper water than were the positions of AHY males. These results are consistent with the two-strategies roosting hypothesis (Weatherhead 1983), in that the dominance of older males allows them access to roost positions with relatively low vulnerability to predation. In this study, these positions also appeared to be microclimatically superior. These results also suggest that the bright plumage of adult males of sexually dimorphic species may be advantageous in some nonbreeding situations in addition to their more commonly recognized role in reproduction.
10.2307/4088418|We assessed philopatry, site fidelity, dispersal, and survival during the last eight years of an 18-year study of Spotted Sandpipers (Actitis macularia). The first 10 years of the study were of an island population. For the last eight years of the study, we expanded the study area to include a mainland subpopulation, 7 km from the primary island population. We also assessed between-site movement. Yearlings made up 7 to 36% of breeders recruited annually, and yearling return was negatively associated with number of fledglings the previous year. We found male-biased philopatry when all yearling returns were included, but no significant sex bias of birds that returned and bred. Return rate for males that successfully bred was 63%; for males that were not successful, 29% returned. For females, the return rate of successful breeders was 63% and for unsuccessful breeders 26%. Females changed territories between clutches more often after nest failure, and birds moved more often to the island than to the mainland. We used hatch and fledging success, philopatry, and site fidelity rates to construct male and female life tables, separating successful and unsuccessful breeders. From U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service recovery records, dispersal distances ranged from 3.6 to 147 km. We conclude that expanding our study site gave a more accurate picture of philopatry, dispersal, and site fidelity. Birds apparently treated all study areas as a single site, with the island preferred to the mainland for breeding.
10.2307/4090118|Prescribed burning is increasingly being used to restore and maintain oak-dominated (Quercus spp.) forests in the eastern United States. We assessed effects of prescribed burning on the nesting ecology of the Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina). Recent declines in Wood Thrush populations have prompted concern about their conservation status. Low-intensity surface fires in mixed-oak forests resulted in reductions in midstory vegetation, a documented habitat requirement for Wood Thrushes, but local population levels of Wood Thrushes did not differ between burned and unburned areas. Wood Thrushes inhabiting recently burned areas selected nest sites where leaf litter cover, fern cover, densities of shrubs and saplings, and moisture levels were higher and where fire intensity was lower in comparison to random sites. Wood Thrushes also placed their nests higher off the ground, and in taller and larger-diameter trees and shrubs, in burned than in unburned areas. Reproductive success did not differ between burned and unburned areas. However, successful nests were placed higher off the ground and in areas with lower densities of shrubs and saplings than unsuccessful nests in both burned and unburned areas. Prescribed burning appeared to have minimal effects on nesting ecology of Wood Thrushes, given their flexibility in nest placement, with no adverse consequences in terms of reproductive success. Local variation in fire intensity and moisture levels also maintained availability of suitable nesting habitat within burned areas. Continued monitoring would be appropriate to further assess the response of Wood Thrushes to prescribed burning, particularly in consideration of their conservation status and the uncertainty associated with potential long-term effects of habitat change. /// Las quemas planeadas son utilizadas cada vez con mayor frecuencia para restaurar y mantener los bosques dominados por robles (Quercus) en el este de los Estados Unidos. En este estudio evaluamos los efectos de las quemas planeadas sobre la ecologa de anidacin de Hylocichla mustelina. Las disminuciones recientes de las poblaciones de esta especie han causado preocupacin en cuanto a su estatus de conservacin. Las quemas superficiales de baja intensidad en bosques mixtos de roble causaron reducciones en la vegetacin de los niveles medios del bosque, uno de los requerimientos de hbitat de H. mustelina. Sin embargo, los niveles poblacionales locales no fueron diferentes entre reas quemadas y no quemadas. Las aves que habitaban reas recientemente quemadas seleccionaron sitios de anidacin donde la cobertura de hojarasca, la cobertura de helechos, la densidad de arbustos y renovales y los niveles de humedad eran mayores, y donde la intensidad del fuego era menor en comparacin con sitios aleatorios. Los nidos fueron ubicados a una mayor altura sobre el suelo y en rboles ms altos y de mayor dimetro en reas quemadas que en reas no quemadas. El xito reproductivo no difiri entre reas quemadas y no quemadas. Sin embargo, los nidos exitosos estuvieron ubicados ms lejos del suelo y en reas con menores densidades de arbustos y renovales tanto en sitios quemados como en no quemados. Las quemas planeadas parecieron tener efectos mnimos sobre la ecologa de anidacin de H. mustelina y no hubo consecuencias adversas en trminos de su xito reproductivo, dada la flexibilidad en la ubicacin de los nidos de la especie. La variacin local en la intensidad del fuego y los niveles de humedad tambin mantuvo la disponibilidad de hbitat de anidacin adecuado al interior de las reas quemadas. Considerando el estatus de conservacin de H. mustelina y la incertidumbre asociada con los efectos potenciales de la modificacin del hbitat a largo plazo, sera apropiado continuar haciendo monitoreos para determinar su respuesta ante las quemas.
4088455|Intrapopulation variation in hatching synchrony has been documented in several avian species, although little attention has been paid to this phenomenon. We experimentally reversed some synchronously and asynchronously hatched broods to test an individual-optimization hypothesis to explain variation in hatching synchrony in a population of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in central Illinois. Contrary to expectation, the number and quality (as measured by mass) of fledglings produced in reversed broods was the same as that for unmanipulated broods, as were recapture rates of juveniles and offspring recruitment to subsequent breeding populations. Thus, the results do not support the individual-optimization hypothesis as an explanation of intrapopulation variation in brood hatching intervals in this House Wren population. In this and other studies we have not been able to detect any advantage associated with producing either synchronous or asynchronous broods. Although other adaptive hypotheses to explain such variation remain to be tested, we suggest that variation in hatching intervals may indicate that female control of hatching pattern is imprecise and may be unrelated to fitness in this House Wren population.
25488526|Four Great Knots (
10.1525/auk.2010.09247|The term "resource polymorphism" refers to the existence of alternative phenotypes in relation to resource use, as a result of disruptive selection. Evidence for resource polymorphism is widespread in fish but remains scarce in birds. Although Zenaida Doves (
4086370|I report the results of experiments designed to distinguish factors affecting within-population variability in measurements of nestling European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Individuals were switched among pairs of nests at the beginning of the incubation period and at the beginning of the nestling period. Variables were analyzed in a replicated (nested), three-way factorial analysis of variance to distinguish the contributions of factors associated with (1) the genotype of the embryo or composition of the egg, (2) the incubation period, and (3) the nestling period. In addition, I analyzed the correlations among growth variables within the sample as a whole and among main effects in the experimental design to search for patterns of genotypic and phenotypic interrelationship. I also related growth variables of nestlings to the size and composition of sibling eggs and to the length of the incubation period. The present experiment did not reveal any genetic or egg-quality component to within-population variation in rate of mass increase and mass asymptote achieved, length of the tarsus of fully grown nestlings, or rates of growth of the wing and outer primary feather. Similarly, the nest in which the individual was incubated had no effect on postnatal growth. The nest in which the individual was reared significantly contributed between 19 and 29% of the sums of squares in rate of mass increase, length of the tarsus, rate of increase in length of the wing, and the maximum length of the sheathed portion of the outer primary feather. Rearing nest did not have a significant effect on the mass plateau of the chick. These results, particularly the absence of some effects, are difficult to interpret, because a large proportion of the variation in several variables occurred between pairs of switched nests. These differences undoubtedly included some of the variation that might have been attributable to effects within experiments. Growth variables were weakly correlated over the entire sample, revealing little pattern of variation in postnatal growth. Over certain of the effects in the experimental design, however, particular groups of variables were strongly correlated, indicating interrelated responses of some of the growth parameters to environmental and, perhaps, genetic factors. The size of the egg had a small effect only on the mass plateau and the length of the tarsus of the chick. The composition of a sibling egg influenced only the maximum length of the sheath of the outer primary feather. The present study was somewhat weakened by small sample size and an inexplicable between-experiment effect that reduced its power to distinguish among effects of interest. The experimental design has the potential, however, to disentangle many classes of factors associated with genotype and parental care that contribute to within-population variation in phenotypic measurements.
10.2307/4088732| We examine genetic diversity within endemic island avian species that recently went extinct in the wild and compare results with nonendangered, nonendemic, and nonisland species. The Micronesian Kingfisher (Halcyon cinnamomina cinnamomina) and flightless Guam Rail (Rallus owstoni) once were endemic to the Pacific island of Guam and now survive only in captivity. Horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis and minisatellite DNA profiles were used to measure genetic diversity within and among the rails, kingfishers and closely related species. Allozyme analyses of Micronesian Kingfishers revealed no genetic diversity (29 enzymes screened). DNA profiles were variable, although similarity (S) among founders to the captive kingfisher population was high relative to nonendangered birds (S = 0.56  SE of 0.02; 89 bands scored/individual). Three other Halcyon species examined had average allozyme heterozygosity and DNA similarity. Guam Rails had average to high allozyme heterozygosity as measured by four polymorphic loci (H = 0.03 to 0.05) relative to four other rail species (3 Rallus spp., 1 Porzana sp.). However, S (0.62  0.02) was higher than in Micronesian Kingfishers. Further analyses indicated a significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in two of three polymorphic loci for captive Guam Rails. Our results suggest that caution be taken in making generalizations about genetic diversity in island species. The type and number of genetic techniques used, number of species or populations examined, and variance in life-history traits among species must be considered. 
4090672| Tracking seasonal movements of songbirds is a key step in understanding the annual cycle of migrants. To better understand autumn migration of wood warblers, I analyzed stable-hydrogen isotope ratios of feathers collected from three species captured during stopover at the Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico. To assess the form and strength of the relationship between timing of migration and breeding origins, I regressed stable-hydrogen isotope ratios of feathers against date of capture. These analyses indicated that Orange-crowned Warblers (Vermivora celata) and Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) breeding in the southern portion of these species' ranges precede their northern conspecifics in autumn migration. By contrast, Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) from northern breeding sites arrived before more southerly breeding conspecifics. This pattern is similar to that reported previously in Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla). These findings suggest that, among wood warblers, (1) timing of autumn migration is often strongly related to breeding location and (2) interspecific variation in the direction of this relationship is large. The direction and strength of these patterns have implications for our understanding of inter- and intraspecific geographic variation in the life histories of migrants. /// Realizar seguimientos de los movimientos estacionales de las aves canoras es un paso clave para entender el ciclo anual de las aves migratorias. Para entender mejor la migracin de otoo de las reinitas (Parulidae), analic las proporciones de istopos estables de hidrgeno en plumas de tres especies que fueron obtenidas de aves capturadas en Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico. Para establecer la forma y la fuerza de la relacin entre el momento en que las aves migran y sus reas reproductivas de origen, relic una regresin entre las proporciones de istopos estables de hidrgeno presentes en las plumas y la fecha de captura. Estos anlisis indicaron que los individuos de las especies Vermivora celata y Geothlypis trichas que se reproducen en la parte sur de las distribuciones de estas especies migran antes que los individuos coespecficos de la parte norte. En contraste, los individuos de la especie Dendroica petechia provenientes de sitios de cra ubicados al norte arribaron antes que los individuos provenientes de sitios de cra ubicados al sur. Este patrn es similar al documentado previamente para Wilsonia pusilla. Estos hallazgos sugieren que, en las reinitas, el momento en que las aves migran est frecuentemente asociado fuertemente con las reas de cra y que la variacin interespecfica en la direccin de esta relacin es amplia. La direccin y la fuerza de estos patrones tienen implicaciones para nuestro entendimiento de los patrones de variacin geogrfica inter- e intraespecfica en las historias de vida de las aves migratorias. 
4086218|I studied the song development of five Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) and four Alder Flycatchers (Empidonax alnorum) taken from nests at 7-10 days of age. Three Willow Flycatchers and four Alder Flycatchers were tutored with songs of the other species, and two Willow Flycatchers served as controls, hearing only conspecific songs. All nine subjects, both females (when administered exogenous testosterone) and males, and both experimentals and controls, produced remarkably normal songs; slight differences between songs of wild and experimental subjects could be attributed to motivational states rather than to the effects of acoustic isolation in the laboratory. I found no microgeographic variation of wild songs, no evidence of learning from a tutor tape, nor any similarity of song characters among kin. The vocal development of these suboscine flycatchers is strikingly different from that of typical oscines, where vocal learning is the rule.
4086279| Rates of water loss
4085850|The Galapagos Hawk (Buteo galapagoensis) has a polyandrous mating system. We prefer to call it cooperative polyandry, because one to four males mate with a single female and all males aid in caring for the eggs and young. Preliminary observations over a 2-yr period revealed that polyandrous groups did better reproductively, on the average, than monogamous pairs (2.0 young/nest vs. 1.0 young/nest), but polyandrous males, on the average, did worse than monogamous males (0.6 young/male compared to 1.0 young/male). Polyandrous groups appeared to be highly stable in composition. The occurrence and frequency of polyandry, however, varied considerably among islands. We suggest that the frequency of cooperative groups depends upon the extent of habitat not suitable for breeding. Islands with large amounts of nonbreeding habitat supported large nonbreeding populations of hawks. Excess males provide the material and pressure for group formation. As territorial birds have a higher survivorship than nonterritorial birds (85% over 2 yr compared to 40%), polyandry is likely adaptive because the increase in life-span and thus the number of reproductively active years compensates polyandrous males for the decrement in number of young produced per breeding attempt.
25488710|
               
10.2307/4089016| I followed the survival of 153 Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus; 68 males, 85 females), which had bred at least once in or near my study area. All were of known age, and had been banded during a 10-year period, (1980-1981 through 1989-1990). Male breeders lived an average of 3.19  1.85 years (n = 68), while female breeders averaged 2.53  1.98 years (n = 85). Most of this difference was due to differential mortality during and immediately after their first breeding season; female breeders suffered a significant peak in mortality during this period, while males showed no particular peaks in mortality associated with any given season or age class. Two factors had a significant effect on female survival in their first breeding season: high initial rank in the previous winter's nonbreeding flocks; and being mated to a male with prior breeding experience. Moreover, oversummer mortality of young females mated to inexperienced males was significantly higher in years with cold spring weather (mean low temperature in May 7C or below) than in years with warmer spring weather (mean low in May >7C). This suggests that inexperienced males may provide less food for their mates during egg laying and incubation than do experienced males, and that the effect on females of lower provisioning by inexperienced males is worsened by harsh weather conditions. The relationship between provisioning level and male experience also may carry over to the nestling period. The cost to a female of producing a particular brood size will, therefore, vary both with her own status and with the degree of experience of her mate. Hence, the relative cost of increased fecundity should vary from population to population, depending on the local proportion of young females and experienced breeding males. 
10.2307/4089723|White-crowned Pigeons (Columba leucocephala) varied their timing of breeding and nesting intensity in response to variation in production of the four most important fruit species in their breeding-season diet in the upper Florida Keys. From 1988 through 1990, we monitored fruit production year-round in five habitats in which pigeons foraged and monitored all pigeon nests along two transects on Middle Butternut Key. Annually, pigeon breeding was positively correlated with summer rains and with the peak in overall fruit production. However, within the breeding season, only the availability of Metopium toxiferum was positively correlated with rainfall and the number of new clutches initiated. Both the timing and magnitude of breeding varied annually. In 1988, when Metopium was more available, more pigeons nested, the nesting season started earlier and lasted longer, and a large peak in nesting occurred when Metopium fruit ripened. During 1989 and 1990, when the relative availability of Metopium was lower, fewer pigeons nested, the nesting season was shorter, and the seasonal peak in nesting associated with Metopium fruit was reduced or absent. Nesting patterns did not appear to vary with changes in the relative availability of other fruits. White-crowned Pigeons appear to prefer Metopium fruits to other species. Because pigeons do not supplement nestling diets with arthropods, but augment their diets with protein-rich crop milk, they may depend on lipid-rich fruits such as Metopium to provide the energy for breeding and crop-milk production. Metopium fruit production may be influenced by rainfall and climatic conditions, both of which may vary spatially within the range of White-crowned Pigeons in Florida. Evidence that pigeons shift foraging sites when Metopium availability varies emphasizes the need to preserve large tracts of seasonal deciduous forest in the Keys and to protect Metopium trees in suburban areas where they are removed because they cause contact dermatitis in humans.
10.2307/4089628|We tested Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla), Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus), Lark Sparrows (Chondestes grammacus), Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Dickcissels (Spiza americana), Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna), and Western Meadowlarks (S. neglecta) to determine whether the low level (<10%) of observed parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on these grassland hosts is a result of egg rejection. Western Meadowlarks rejected 78% of artificial and real cowbird eggs, Eastern Meadowlarks rejected 36% of artificial cowbird eggs, and Dickcissels rejected 11% of artificial cowbird eggs. None of the other hosts regularly rejected cowbird eggs. Thus, egg rejection may account for some, but not all, of the low level of observed parasitism on grassland hosts in the Midwest. Meadowlarks were also tested with nonmimetic eggs, and the remaining hosts were tested with undersized mimetic and nonmimetic eggs when possible. All hosts, with the exception of the Field Sparrow, demonstrated some level of rejection of the nonmimetic eggs. These results suggest that some grassland hosts, which apparently have been in contact with cowbirds the longest, have evolved some form of rejection behavior that might have selected for mimetic eggs in cowbirds. The intermediate levels of rejection by both species of meadowlarks also may indicate that rejection is increasing in these populations.
10.2307/4088896|Breeding success was studied in relation to time partitioning, and diet, in Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) on Terschelling, The Netherlands, in 1992. The average fledging success of 0.5 chicks fledged/pair (n = 26 pairs) was lower than in the 1960s. We suspect that increased conspecific predation of eggs and chicks was the result of local food shortages. Successful pairs differed markedly in attendance patterns and diet from unsuccessful pairs. Unsuccessful pairs traveled to the feeding grounds more frequently (pre-egg and egg stages), and left the territory unguarded, for longer periods of time (egg and chick stages) than successful ones. Feeding frequency of chicks was significantly higher in successful pairs and was accompanied by higher growth rates in chicks. Overall, successful pairs ate more fish and chicks of conspecifics and Lesser Black-backed Gulls (L. fuscus) than unsuccessful ones, while the latter generally ate more crabs and starfish. Chicks of pairs that did not change their diet at hatching suffered higher mortality than chicks of pairs that did. We suggest that the deteriorating feeding conditions on Terschelling since the late 1960s has resulted in less synchronous territory attendance within pairs and less adequate feeding behavior, resulting in high levels of conspecific predation and relatively poor chick growth.
10.2307/4090182| We addressed the evolution of long-distance migration in and the historical biogeography of Catharus thrushes within a phylogenetic framework. Catharus thrushes are a Nearctic-Neotropical genus consisting of five migrant and seven resident species. We reconstructed a molecular phylogeny using a combined analysis of cytochrome-b and ND2 genes. Phylogenetic reconstructions indicate the nonmonophyly of migratory Catharus species. The Neotropics are the most likely ancestral geographic area for the entire lineage, and migratory species are sister to resident taxa whose ranges are restricted to Central America, Mexico, or both. Resident behavior may be ancestral within the lineage, with migratory behavior evolving three times, although confidence in those reconstructions is equivocal in many cases. However, uncertainty in ancestral character states presents an intersting scenario including potential drop-offs of resident species from migratory ancestors. /// Estudiamos la evolucin de la migracin a larga distancia y la biogeografa histrica del gnero Catharus desde una perspectiva filogentica. Catharus es un gnero Nertico-Neotropical que incluye cinco especies migratorias y siete residentes. Construimos una filogenia molecular por medio de un anlisis combinado de secuencias de los genes citocromo-b y ND2. Las reconstrucciones indican que las especies migratorias de Catharus no forman un grupo monofiltico. El Neotrpico constituye el rea ancestral ms probable para todo el grupo y las especies migratorias son hermanas de taxa residentes cuyos rangos estn restringidos a Amrica Central y/o Mxico. El comportamiento residente podra ser ancestral en el grupo y el comportamiento migratorio habra evolucionado tres veces, aunque estas reconstrucciones son inciertas en varios casos. Sin embargo, la incertidumbre en cuanto a los caracteres ancestrales representa un escenario interesante, incluyendo la posibilidad de que especies residentes se hubieran derivado de ancestros migratorios. 
10.2307/4090206| We report the first case of mycoplasmosis in the western range of the House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus). This disease originated in the eastern United States and has been previously documented only in eastern introduced House Finch populations where it reached epizootic proportions causing extensive and widespread mortality. Documentation of this disease in western Montana suggests that previously disjunct eastern and western populations of House Finches are now mixing in the northern part of their range. More importantly, as native House Finches are highly susceptible to this novel pathogen, western populations may now be at risk of high mortality, similar to that experienced by non-native eastern populations. Close monitoring of this disease in the western part of the House Finch range will provide important insight into the dynamics of the emerging disease and evolution of resistance to the pathogen. /// Reportamos el primer caso de mycoplasmosis en el rango de distribucin oeste de Carpodacus mexicanus. Esta enfermedad se origin en el este de los Estados Unidos y ha sido documentada previamente slo en poblaciones de C. mexicanus introducidas en el este, donde alcanz proporciones epizoticas causando una mortalidad amplia y difundida. El registro de esta enfermedad en el oeste de Montana sugiere que poblaciones del este y del oeste de C. mexicanus previamente disyuntas se estn mezclando actualmente en la parte norte de su rango de distribucin. An ms importante, debido a que individuos nativos de la especie C. mexicanus son altamente susceptibles a este nuevo patgeno, las poblaciones del oeste pueden tener un alto riesgo de mortalidad similar al observado en poblaciones introducidas del este. Un monitoreo cuidadoso de esta enfermedad en la parte oeste del rango de distribucin de C. mexicanus proporcionar informacin importante sobre las dinmicas de la enfermedad emergente y evolucin de la resistencia al patgeno. 
10.2307/4090093|Several European studies have indicated advances in breeding dates of birds in the last 30 years, which authors attributed to climate change. In North America, Dunn and Winkler (1999) reported a continent-wide advance of five to nine days in breeding dates of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) between 1959 and 1991. I present results of an intensive study of Tree Swallows breeding on and near Long Point, Ontario, at four sites monitored 1969-2001, 1977-1986, 1978-2001, and 1987-2001. Local air temperatures varied among sites, according to distance from Lake Erie, but there was no significant regional trend in April and May temperatures between 1969 and 2000. Median and 10th percentile dates of clutch initiation by females that were at least two years old varied among years by up to 20 days overall and 18 days within sites, and differed by 0-14 days between sites in the same year. There were no significant differences in average timing of laying among the 1970-1980, 1980-1990, and 1990-2000 periods. Nevertheless, there was a significant trend towards earlier laying in 1990-2000, which was attributable to exceptionally early laying and warm May weather in 1998-2001. Across all sites, median dates of clutch initiation were strongly correlated with average daily maximum temperatures in the first four, five-day periods in May, but clutches at one site were initiated three days earlier than predicted by temperatures alone. I estimate that climate warming of 5C in May could result in an average advance of about seven days in the median date of laying of Tree Swallows at those sites. My results indicate that spring temperatures are strongly correlated with timing of laying, but show that spring temperatures have not increased in the Long Point region and timing of the breeding season has not advanced throughout North America. /// Plusieurs tudes europennes ont rvl un devancement de la date de reproduction chez les oiseaux au cours des 30 dernires annes. Les auteurs ont attribu ce phnomne aux changements climatiques. En Amrique du Nord, Dunn et Winkler (1999) ont report,  l'chelle du continent, un devancement de cinq  neuf jours de la date de reproduction chez l'Hirondelle bicolore (Tachycineta bicolor) entre 1959 et 1991. Je prsente les rsultats d'une tude approfondie de la reproduction chez l'Hirondelle bicolore dans quatre sites de la rgion de Long Point, Ontario. Le suivi de chacun de ces sites a t effectu de 1969  2001, 1977  1986, 1978  2001 et de 1987  2001. La temprature locale de l'air variait entre les sites et elle tait fonction de la distance au Lac ri. Par contre, il n'y avait pas de tendance rgionale significative dans les tempratures des mois d'avril et mai entre 1969 et 2000. Les dates mdianes et du dixime de centile d'initiation de couves, par des femelles ges d'au moins deux ans, variaient entre les annes, et ce jusqu' 20 jours pour l'ensemble des sites et 18 jours  l'intrieur d'un mme site. Ces dates diffraient galement de 0  14 jours entre les sites pour une mme anne. Il n'y avait pas de diffrence significative dans la chronologie moyenne de ponte entre les priodes 1970-1980, 1980-1990 et 1990-2000. Nanmoins, il y avait une diffrence significative allant dans le sens d'une ponte plus prcoce en 1998-2001. Pour tous les sites, les dates d'initiation de couves taient fortement corrles avec les tempratures maximales moyennes dans les quatre premires priodes de cinq jours en mai. Mais, les couves d'un site taient inities trois jours plus tt que la date prdite  partir des tempratures seulement. J'ai estim que le rchauffement climatique de 5C en mai pourrait rsulter dans un devancement moyen d'environ sept jours de la date mdiane de ponte chez l'Hirondelle bicolore dans ces sites. Mes rsultats indiquent que les tempratures printanires sont fortement corrles avec la chronologie de ponte. Mais, ils montrent galement que les tempratures printanires n'ont pas augment dans la rgion de Long Point et que la chronologie de la saison de reproduction n'a pas t devance  travers toute l'Amrique du Nord.
4086976| The metabolic cost of rest and activity
10.2307/4090233| Prey capture in owls and hawks is largely dependent on the biomechanics of the hindlimbs, and both limb size and grip forces potentially determine the size of prey that can be captured and the extent of possible resource partitioning among sympatric species. Morphological study of six species of sympatric raptors-the owls Otus asio, Strix varia, and Bubo virginianus; and the hawks commonly considered their diurnal "ecological equivalents," Falco sparverius, Buteo lineatus, and Buteo jamaicensis-revealed that, in both groups, talon closure is effected by two discrete mechanisms that function together in a potentially additive or alternative fashion. Grip force measurements obtained from live owls and hawks using "hydraulic" perches showed that grip force increases exponentially with body size and that owls produce greater forces than hawks. That finding is consistent with the distinctive osteology and myology of their hindlimbs and with their hunting behavior. These data provide some understanding of the different demands of diurnal and nocturnal hunting as well as the mechanism of coexistence for those six species in eastern woodlands. /// La captura de presas por parte de bhos y halcones depende en gran medida de la biomecnica de las extremidades posteriores. Tanto el tamao como la fuerza de las extremidades pueden determinar la dimensin de la presa que puede capturarse y el grado de la posible particin de recursos entre especies simptricas. El estudio morfolgico de seis especies simptricas de rapaces-los bhos Otus asio, Strix varia, y Bubo virginianus; y los halcones normalmente considerados sus "equivalentes ecolgicos" diurnos, Falco sparverius, Buteo lineatus, y Buteo jamaicensis-revel que en ambos grupos, el cierre de la garra se efecta por medio de dos mecanismos discretos que funcionan juntos, probablemente de una manera aditiva o alternativa. Medidas de la fuerza de asimiento obtenidas de bhos y halcones vivos que utilizan perchas "hidrulicas" mostraron que la fuerza de asimiento aumenta exponencialmente con el tamao del cuerpo y que los bhos producen mayores fuerzas que los halcones. Este hallazgo es consistente con la osteologa y miologa distintiva de sus extremidades posteriores y con su conducta de caza. Estos datos proporcionan cierto entendimiento de las diferentes demandas de caza diurna y nocturna, as como el mecanismo de coexistencia entre estas seis especies en los bosques del este. 
90008540|Factors that determine the condition of migratory birds at their wintering sites are poorly known. Age, sex, and morphological characteristics of birds may have an influence on their winter condition by affecting their foraging and competitive abilities. Winter body condition could have long-term consequences on the reproductive success of migratory birds during the subsequent breeding season. Using 3 yr of data from Collared Flycatchers (
10.2307/4090060| Seasonal patterns of singing activity of male birds have been thoroughly studied, but little is known about how those patterns vary with time of day. Here, we censused mated and unmated male Nightingales (Luscinia megarhynchos) at four different hours of the day throughout the breeding cycle. In unmated males, singing activity increased until the young hatched in their neighborhood, and the seasonal variation was similar at each of the four hours of the day. In mated males, however, the seasonal patterns of singing activity differed between hours of the day. In morning (about the hour of egg-laying) and during the dusk chorus, the singing activity of mated males was strongly influenced by the females' reproductive state: singing activity was low before egg-laying and during incubation, but high during the egg-laying period. In the dawn chorus, however, singing activity showed a similar seasonal pattern in mated and unmated males and was high until late stages of the breeding cycle. Our results suggest that the social context influences singing behavior to a varying degree across the season, and that this variation also depends on time of day. The hour of data collection thus is an important but often neglected factor when seasonal changes of singing activity are studied. /// L'volution saisonnire du chant chez les oiseaux mles a t largement tudie, mais peu de choses sont connues quant  sa variation au cours de la journe. Dans cette tude, nous avons recens des mles de Luscinia megarhynchos accoupls ou non,  quatre diffrentes heures de la journe tout au long du cycle de reproduction. Pour les mles non accoupls, les activits de chants augmentaient jusqu' l'closion des jeunes dans le voisinage, et la variation saisonnire tait similaire pour les quatre diffrentes heures de la journe. Par contre, pour les mles accoupls, les profils saisonniers du chant diffraient entre les heures de la journe. Le matin ( l'heure de ponte) et au crpuscule, les chants des mles accoupls taient fortement influencs par le stade de reproduction des femelles. En effet, les chants taient peu frquents avant la ponte et au cours de l'incubation, mais ils taient plus frquents durant la priode de ponte. Nanmoins,  l'aube, les chants montraient un profil saisonnier similaire pour les mles, qu'ils soient accoupls ou non, et demeuraient trs frquents jusqu'aux dernires phases du cycle de reproduction. Nos rsultats suggrent que le contexte social influence le comportement de chant de manire plus ou moins importante au cours de la saison, et que cette variation dpend galement du moment de la journe. La prise en considration de la chronologie journalire est un facteur d'importance souvent nglig dans les tudes portant sur l'volution saisonnire du chant. 
10.2307/4088909| We studied spatial and temporal variation in a population of Sulawesi Red-knobbed Hornbills (Aceros cassidix) in relation to availability of fruit resources over a two-year period in the Tangkoko DuaSudara Nature Reserve, North Sulawesi, Indonesia. Fruit production did not show any discernable patterns over 22 months of study, in spite of the strong seasonality of rainfall. Figs were available in all months of the year, and fig biomass exceeded ripe nonfig-fruit biomass in 10 of 22 months. Hornbill densities fluctuated dramatically over time (x = 51 birds
10.2307/4090235| Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola) and the North American population of Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) typically breed in boreal and montane regions where food is less available relative to most habitats used by temperate nesting ducks. We investigated diets and digestive organ morphology of sympatrically breeding female Buffleheads and Barrow's Goldeneyes in central British Columbia. Because those congeners exhibit interspecific aggression in defense of breeding territories, we predicted that competition for food could be a principal factor in evolution of that behavior. We also hypothesized that breeding Buffleheads would show greater variation in digestive organ morphology than Barrow's Goldeneyes because of their smaller body size and consequently greater reliance on their diet to meet nutritional requirements for egg production. Both species fed predominantly on aquatic insects during all reproductive periods, particularly larvae of damselflies (Zygoptera), midges (Chironomidae), and phantom midges (Chaoborinae). Plant foods, primarily seeds of submergent and emergent vegetation, generally represented <15% of diets in both species. Diets of breeding female Buffleheads and Barrow's Goldeneyes were similar throughout reproduction, hence competition for food has likely been a factor in evolution of territorial aggression between those species. The digestive tract morphology of Buffleheads was more variable than that of Barrow's Goldeneyes suggesting that the former relied more on dietary nutrients during reproduction than did their larger congener. /// Le Petit garrot (Bucephala albeola) et la population nord-amricaine du Garrot d'Islande (Bucephala islandica) nichent gnralement dans les rgions borales et montagneuses o la nourriture est moins disponible comparativement  la plupart des habitats utiliss par les canards nichant en milieu tempr. Nous avons tudi l'alimentation et la morphologie des organes digestifs de femelles de Petit garrot et de Garrot d'Islande nichant en sympatrie dans le centre de la Colombie Britannique. Comme ces congnres montraient des comportements d'agression interspcifiques pour la dfense de territoires de nidification, nous avons mis l'hypothse que la comptition pour la nourriture pourrait tre le principal facteur dans l'volution de ce comportement. Nous avons galement mis l'hypothse que les Petits garrots nicheurs montreraient une plus grande variation dans la morphologie de leurs organes digestifs que les Garrots d'Islande en raison de leur plus petite taille corporelle et, par consquent, de leur plus grande dpendance en matire d'alimentation afin de rpondre aux besoins nutritionnels ncessaires  la production d'ufs. Les deux espces se sont nourries majoritairement d'insectes aquatiques durant toute la priode de reproduction, particulirement de demoiselles (Zigoptera), moucherons (Chironomidae), et Chaoborinae. Les plantes utilises pour l'alimentation, principalement des graines provenant de vgtation submerge et mergente, reprsentaient <15% de l'alimentation des deux espces. L'alimentation des femelles nicheuses de Petit garrot et de Garrot d'Islande ont t similaires durant la reproduction. Par consquent, la comptition pour la nourriture a probablement t un facteur dans l'volution des comportements territoriaux agressifs entre ces espces. La morphologie de l'appareil digestif du Petit garrot tait plus variable que celui du Garrot d'Islande suggrant que le Petit garrot dpendait plus des apports alimentaires au cours de la reproduction que ces congnres de plus grande taille. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09089|Understanding when species distributions should be ascribed to patterns in the physical habitat, rather than to the influence of social cues, is a crucial step in understanding avian habitat selection. To distinguish between these mechanisms, we assessed the point pattern of 213 Saltmarsh Sparrow (
10.2307/4088907|We tested whether a common host of the brood parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), accepts cowbird eggs in its nest because the blackbird does not recognize foreign eggs (evolutionary-lag hypothesis) or because the cost of rejecting eggs or deserting the nest and re-laying exceeds the benefits of egg rejection (evolutionary-equilibrium hypothesis). We reasoned that, if egg acceptance is due to the high cost of rejection, increasing the cost of acceptance should cause the blackbirds to attempt to reject cowbird eggs, or desert the nest and renest elsewhere. We increased the cost of acceptance by adding one, two or three cowbird eggs to Red-winged Blackbird nests, and by removing one host egg for every cowbird egg added. We found no rejection at any level of parasitism. Additionally, we found that Red-winged Blackbirds incubated parasitized clutches that contained none of their own eggs. We conclude that evolutionary lag is the reason for egg acceptance in Red-winged Blackbirds.
10.1525/auk.2013.13010|Descriptions of intra- and interspecific variation in migratory patterns of closely related species are rare yet valuable because they can help assess how differences in ecology and life-history strategies drive the evolution of migration. We report data on timing and location of migration routes and wintering areas, and on migratory speed and phenology, of Eastern Kingbirds (
4086707|Overwintering male and female Wilsonia citrina defended exclusive feeding territories in the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Woody vegetation ranging from successional scrub to tall evergreen forest was utilized by the species, but males were most abundant in closed-canopy forest of moderate to tall stature, while females were commonest in lower, more open vegetation. The pattern of plumage variation in female W. citrina suggests that females with malelike melanistic plumage tend to locate their territories in the kind of habitat occupied by males.
4090441| The Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) is a species of conservation concern in eastern North America, where declines in its population have been documented over the past several decades. A high proportion of the population occurs in forested areas of southern West Virginia, where it may be threatened by loss and degradation of forested habitat from mountaintop mining and valley fill (MTMVF). We examined, from a landscape perspective, the effects of forest fragmentation (in particular, effects of fragment size and response to edges) on Cerulean Warblers, using territory mapping techniques and geographic information system (GIS) technology in portions of four counties in southwestern West Virginia. We quantified landscape characteristics from digitized aerial photographs and measured microhabitat characteristics on spot-mapping plots. Territory density of Cerulean Warblers was 4.6 territories per 10 ha in intact forest and 0.7 territories per 10 ha in fragmented forest. The best habitat model included both landscape and microhabitat variables and indicated that territory density increased with increasing snag density, percentage of canopy cover >6-12 m and >24 m in height, and distance from mine edge. Models for predicting microhabitat use at the territory level were weak, indicating that microhabitat characteristics of territories were similar to habitat available on spot-mapping plots. The species did not appear to avoid internal edges, such as natural canopy gaps and open-canopy or partially open-canopy roads. Territory placement on ridges was greater than expected, and in bottomlands (ravines) and midslopes less than expected, given availability. Fifty percent of all territories were on ridges. Preference for ridges suggests that MTMVF may have a greater effect on Cerulean Warbler populations than other sources of forest fragmentation, given that ridges are removed in MTMVF. Our data indicate that Cerulean Warblers are negatively affected by mountaintop mining from loss of forested habitat, particularly ridgetops, and from degradation of remaining forests, as evidenced by lower territory density in fragmented forests and lower territory density closer to mine edges. /// Dendroica cerulea es una especie con un estado de conservacin preocupante en el este de Norteamrica, donde se ha documentado una disminucin de sus poblaciones durante las ltimas dcadas. Una alta proporcin de la poblacin se encuentra en las reas boscosas del suroeste de Virginia, donde las causas de la amenaza pueden estar relacionadas con la prdida y degradacin del hbitat boscoso debido a actividades mineras en las cimas de los cerros y el relleno de los valles. Desde una perspectiva a nivel del paisaje, examinamos los efectos de la fragmentacin del bosque (en particular los efectos del tamao de los fragmentos y las respuestas a los bordes) sobre D. cerulea utilizando tcnicas de mapeo de territorios y tecnologa de sistemas de informacin geogrfica (SIG) en partes de cuatro condados del suroeste de Virginia. Cuantificamos las caractersticas del paisaje a partir de fotografas areas digitalizadas y medimos las caractersticas del microhbitat en los sitios en que se realiz el mapeo de los territorios. La densidad de territorios de D. cerulea fue de 4.6 territorios por 10 ha en bosques intactos y de 0.7 territorios por 10 ha en bosques fragmentados. El mejor modelo de hbitat incluy tanto variables del microhbitat como del paisaje, e indic que la densidad de territorios aument con la densidad de rboles vivos en pie, el porcentaje de cobertura del dosel entre 6-12 m y >24 m de altura y la distancia al borde de la mina. Los modelos para predecir el uso de hbitat a nivel de territorio fueron dbiles, lo que indica que las variables de microhbitat de los territorios fueron similares al hbitat disponible en los sitios en que se realiz el mapeo de los territorios de las aves. Esta especie no pareci evitar los bordes internos, tales como aberturas naturales en el bosque, aberturas en el dosel o caminos con dosel semi-abierto. El establecimiento de territorios en las cimas fue mayor de lo esperado y en el fondo de las quebradas y laderas fue menor de lo esperado con relacin a la disponibilidad. El 50% de todos los territorios estuvieron en las cimas. La preferencia por las cimas sugiere que las actividades mineras en las cimas de los cerros y el relleno de los valles pueden tener un mayor efecto sobre las poblaciones de D. cerulea que otras fuentes de fragmentacin del bosque, dado que las cimas son removidas por las actividades mineras. Nuestros datos indican que las poblaciones de D. cerulea estn siendo afectadas negativamente por las actividades mineras en la cima de los cerros debido a la prdida de hbitat boscoso, particularmente en las cimas de las montaas, y por la degradacin del bosque remanente. Esto se evidencia en una menor densidad de territorios en los bosques fragmentados y cerca de los bordes con las minas. 
10.2307/4088905|Capture data from mist nets are used frequently to quantify the relative abundance of birds. In spite of obvious confounding variables, most of which have been mentioned previously in the literature, relative capture of birds typically is equated directly to relative abundance. Through modeling, we quantify the potential magnitude of the effect of those variables among species and between age/sex categories of the same species. We demonstrate that differences in proportional use of vertical-height categories, including differences below the resolving power of visual estimates, can produce substantial differences in the capture rates of birds with identical abundance. To simulate capture on the horizontal plane, we designed a computer program that models how frequently birds strike nets with respect to home-range size and overlap, number of flights, and mean flight distance. The quantitative results of these simulations show that differences in spacing system, flight distance, and flight frequency have strong effects on capture rates. We also list additional problems with interpretation of differences in capture data. We think that these influences on capture data combine to preclude quantitative comparisons of relative abundance of birds, either among species or within species in different habitats, by use of mist-net capture data under most current research protocols. Although our analyses refer directly only to birds and mist nets, the outcomes of the analyses are relevant to any method that estimates relative abundance from captures of mobile organisms by stationary traps during brief sampling periods.
4086115|The phylogenetic relationships of the avian order Piciformes were studied using a cladistic analysis of the skeletal morphology. We hypothesize that the piciforms constitute a monophyletic group on the basis of possessing a unique flexor tendon pattern in the hindlimb, a M. flexor hallucis longus with three heads of origin, zygodactyly, and a well-developed sehnenhalter on the outer (IV) trochlea of the tarsometatarsus. Two major lineages are defined by osteological characters, one (the Galbulae) consisting of the Galbulidae and Bucconidae, and the other (the Pici) comprising the remaining four families. Within the Pici, two lineages are discerned: the Ramphastoidea, consisting of the Ramphastidae and the Capitonidae, and the Picoidea, which includes the Picidae and Indicatoridae. The systematic position of the fossil families Zygodactylidae and Primobucconidae are interpreted within the framework of the phylogenetic hypothesis for the Recent families.
4085616|The copulatory behavior of the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) was observed in a heronry in central Japan. In 38 of 147 extramarital copulation (EC) attempts with seven females, the males seemed in ejaculation. There were relatively few complete ECs prior to egg laying, because females responded aggressively to approaching males and because the mates of the females stayed in the territories for 78.8% of the time and protected the females. After egg laying, the aggressiveness of females against approaching males decreased and their mates spent more time outside the territories, resulting in an increase in the occurrence of complete ECs. Fighting males that were approaching a female exhibited a dominance hierarchy. The most dominant male stayed in the territory for the longest time and copulated most intensively with his mate and other neighboring females. Extramarital copulations are likely to occur in colonial herons, but mate-guarding by the male and aggression by the female mate enhance the probability that copulations will be performed only between members of the pair during the fertilizable period of the female. Thus, the monogamous pair bond is maintained.
4087665|I used a DNA-DNA hybridization method to generate more than 1,200 pairwise comparisons among species of the family Gruidae (cranes) and an outgroup Limpkin (Aramidae). A matrix of genetic distances included average delta ${\rm T}_{m}$ values for all cells, and reciprocals among cranes, based on 3-10 replicate experiments per cell. I chose delta ${\rm T}_{m}$ as the appropriate dissimilarity measure because virtually all homologous single-copy DNA sequences in crane genomes were sufficiently similar to form hybrid duplexes under standard experimental conditions. The normalized percent hybridization (NPH) values approached 100 for all crane species pairs. The delta ${\rm T}_{m}$ data departed slightly from metricity as a result of experimental variation associated with the measurement of small genetic distances. The DNA data, analyzed with a best-fit tree approach and checked for internal consistency by jackknifing, support the traditional view that crowned cranes (Balearica) are the most ancient lineage of extant gruids. The enigmatic Siberian Crane (Grus leucogeranus) appears as the sister group of the remaining species, which fall into four closely related groups. Bugeranus and Anthropoides are sister groups. The three species of Australasian Grus (antigone, rubicunda, and vipio) form a clade, as do five predominantly Palearctic Grus (grus, monachus, nigricollis, japonensis, and americana). The Sandhill Crane (G. canadensis), while clearly a member of the gruine clade, is an old lineage without close relatives.
10.2307/4090306| The curassows comprise 14 species of sedentary Neotropical birds classified in four genera (Crax, Nothocrax, Mitu, and Pauxi) in the family Cracidae. Congeneric species have a striking pattern of allopatric distributions that might be attributable to vicariance, dispersal, or a combination of the two. To test those biogeographic hypotheses, a strongly supported phylogeny was needed, so that existing problems of taxonomic rank could be solved and a better understanding of the group's evolutionary history attained. We therefore estimated the phylogenetic relationships of all 14 species, on the basis of 6,929 sites of six different mitochondrial DNA regions, and reassessed the status of the four genera. Sequences from the ND4 gene favored a tree that was highly incongruent with the tree recovered using the other five gene regions. However, when the ND4 sequences were concatenated with the sequences of the other genes, the optimal phylogeny was unchanged from that derived for the other genes. That combined tree was divided into two well-supported clades: one containing the seven species of Crax and the other containing the monospecific genus Nothocrax, as sister to a clade of the Mitu and Pauxi species. Mitu and Pauxi are not reciprocally monophyletic, which appears to be attributable to a distant hybridization event and a transfer of Mitu mtDNA into P. unicornis. We estimated divergence times; the diversification of curassow seems to have occurred from the Middle Miocene to the end of the Pliocene (9.5 to 1.6 Ma). Vicariance-following marine transgressions, the rise of the Andes, and subsequent changes in river basins in South America-seems to be the major mode of isolation that favored allopatric speciation in the group. /// El grupo de los pavones o paujiles incluye 14 especies de aves neotropicales sedentarias clasificadas en cuatro gneros (Crax, Nothocrax, Mitu y Pauxi) en la familia Cracidae. Las especies cogenricas presentan un llamativo patrn de distribuciones aloptricas, que podra ser atribuido a vicarianza, dispersin o a una combinacin de los dos procesos. Para poner a prueba estas hiptesis biogeogrficas, resultaba necesario contar con una filogenia fuertemente respaldada de modo que los problemas de rango taxonmico existentes pudieran resolverse y se alcanzara un mejor entendimiento de la historia evolutiva del grupo. Por lo tanto, estimamos las relaciones filogenticas entre las 14 especies con base en 6,929 posiciones nucleotdicas de seis regiones mitocondriales diferentes, y revaluamos el estatus de los cuatro gneros. Las secuencias del gen ND4 sugirieron un rbol que fue sustancialmente incongruente con el rbol recobrado usando las otras cinco regiones. Sin embargo, cuando las secuencias de ND4 se concatenaron con las de los dems genes, la filogenia ptima no difiri de la derivada a partir de stos. Este rbol combinado estuvo dividido en dos clados con buen respaldo, uno incluyendo las siete especies de Crax y el otro incluyendo al gnero monotpico Nothocrax como hermano de un clado compuesto por las especies de Mitu y Pauxi. Mitu y Pauxi no son grupos recprocamente monofilticos, lo que parece ser atribuible a un evento distante de hibridacin y a la transferencia de ADNmt de Mitu a P. unicornis. Tambin estimamos tiempos de divergencia; la diversificacin de los pavones parece haber sucedido desde el Mioceno medio hasta el final del Plioceno (9.5 a 1.6 millones de aos atrs). Los procesos de vicarianza causados por transgresiones marinas, el levantamiento de los Andes y los cambios subsecuentes en las cuencas de los ros de Sur Amrica parecen representar el principal modo de aislamiento que favoreci la especiacin aloptrica en el grupo. 
10.2307/4085271|We studied assemblages of feeding shorebirds in three intertidal habitats on the coast of New Jersey during August to document how species segregate spatially both among and within habitats and to determine the effects of tidal cycles on these patterns. The habitats were a sandy beach facing the ocean proper (outer beach), a sandy beach on the mainland side of a barrier island (inner beach), and a small mudflat adjacent to a Spartina alterniflora salt marsh. We were able to identify several microhabitats on the outer beach and mudflat. Most species fed in more than one habitat, but only two, Charadrius semipalmatus and Calidris canutus, used all three habitats regularly. Within habitats, most species exhibited strong preferences for the wettest areas, but we found differences among species in degrees of preference. The least amount of partitioning occurred on the inner beach, where birds crowded into a small zone near the water's edge and had frequent agonistic encounters suggesting intense competition. Shorebird feeding activity was partly a function of tide time: each habitat had a characteristic temporal pattern of use by shorebirds related to tide time rather than diel time; within habitats, we found species-characteristic feeding activity rhythms that were also a function of tide time. Feeding by most species peaked during the first 2 hours after low tide on the outer beach and mudflat. The results are discussed in terms of feeding strategies and interspecific competition.
10.2307/4089512|The order Trogoniformes currently is divided into six genera: Apaloderma, Pharomachrus, Euptilotis, Priotelus, Trogon, and Harpactes. For this study, the question of intergeneric relationships was addressed based on mitochondrial cytochrome b and 12S ribosomal RNA genes. Maximum parsimony analyses confirmed the monophyly of currently accepted genera. A monophyletic clade encompassing the New World genera was the sister group to the Asian genus Harpactes. The sister group of these clades, in turn, was the African genus Apaloderma. Within the New World clade, the sister taxon of the genus Trogon was a clade formed by the Eared Trogon (Euptilotis neoxenus) and the Quetzals (Pharomachrus spp.). The most basal genus within the New World clade was Priotelus. These results suggest an Old World (Africa/Eurasia) origin for trogons, with the New World representing a secondary area of diversification. Patterns in plumage coloration concurred with relationships inferred from the molecular data. A hypothesis for the evolution of iridescent structures in trogon feathers suggests an increase in the complexity of these structures in the youngest lineages.
4086978|Body composition of male and female Ring-necked Ducks (Aythya collaris) changed substantially over the course of reproduction, with the largest nutrient reserves occurring before the onset of laying. Ring-necked Ducks used lipid reserves acquired before occupancy of nesting areas to meet subsequent reproductive requirements. Paired males reduced feeding and expended lipid reserves while attending prelaying and laying mates. Females depleted lipid reserves during ovarian follicle growth; after ovulation they were highly dependent on ambient food resources. Female Ring-necked Ducks obtain protein required for egg production from the diet during ovarian follicle growth. This conclusion was supported by (1) the limited extent of body protein fluctuation; (2) the absence of a relationship between body protein and protein contained in recrudesced reproductive tissues and expended in eggs; and (3) similarities in the rate of change in body protein by date between males and females, and among females before and after laying. Female energy expenditures during ovarian follicle growth are influenced by costs associated with obtaining nutrients needed for egg production. The level of lipid reserve needed for reproduction, therefore, changes with food availability. Deficiencies in female lipid reserve at the initiation of ovarian follicle growth further increase exogenous requirements for reproduction and may result in adjusted breeding patterns or deferred breeding. The contribution of body reserves to reproduction was partially a function of nutrient levels attained during the arrival period. Variations in Ring-necked Duck body-weight change, by year and by female age, suggest that nutrient acquisition and allocation for waterfowl nesting in temperate regions may be more indeterminant than has been implied previously.
40406707|Flight calls are commonly produced by nocturnal migrant birds. Uncertain or unknown identities and lack of information about inter- and intraspecific variation in call notes limit the usefulness of flight calls in monitoring bird populations. We developed a novel method for recording flight calls of temporarily captive birds that allows us to study inter- and intraspecific variation in call notes of birds of known identity, age, and sex. We recorded calls and analyzed data from 13,271 flight calls recorded from 469 individuals of 28 warbler species (Parulidae) over a two-year period. Principal coordinate ordination of spectral cross-correlation data on 7 of the 28 species indicated that flight calls recorded in captivity are similar to those recorded from wild birds. Visual and aural comparisons of species' flight calls from these two different types of recordings support these results. Additionally, we verified flight calls previously identified primarily on inferential evidence and report on previously undocumented flight calls. This method quickly provides many high-quality recordings of the flight calls of individuals of known age and sex, and the results of our analyses greatly facilitate the development of automated sound-analysis algorithms critical for implementing and strengthening future acoustic monitoring applications.
10.2307/4088863|Hypotheses concerning predation, sexual selection, and communication in birds often assume that individuals differ in conspicuousness. However, few studies have tested this by measuring the response of individuals that receive the signals. We investigated the effect of plumage coloration on conspicuousness by presenting caged Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) to unmated territorial males and measuring the time until a response (either courtship or aggression) from the territorial male was observed. In the first experiment, we presented caged males and females at various distances and degrees of habitat openness. Caged birds elicited responses more rapidly in open than in closed habitats, and response time increased with distance. Black-and-white-colored males seemed to trigger a response more rapidly than brown-colored females, at least in open habitats. In the second experiment, we presented bright-colored males, dull males, and bright-painted dull males. All trials were made at the same distance. Caged birds again elicited more rapid responses in open than in closed habitats. Bright-colored males seemed to trigger a response more quickly than dull-colored males, but only in closed habitats. Painted birds elicited response times intermediate to those of bright and dull males. The difference in interaction between color and habitat in the two experiments is difficult to explain but may have been caused by differences in background related to seasonal development of vegetation. One possible problem with experiments on conspicuousness is that the response may be delayed after the receiver has detected the signal. Field observations of the behavior of territorial birds suggested that this probably did not confound the results of our study. Thus, the results support the intuitive but previously untested hypothesis that a bright and contrasting coloration makes birds more conspicuous to conspecifics.
10.2307/4089641|Red-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa brevirostris) and Black-legged Kittiwakes (R. tridactyla) are morphologically similar, breed in mixed colonies, and nest at the same time, but they exhibit substantial differences in diet, rate of nestling provisioning, and foraging distribution. We cross-fostered nestlings of the two species to test the competing hypotheses that growth in mass of kittiwakes is constrained by diet (i.e. composition, provisioning rate, and quality) or by inherent species-specific physiology. Survival and body mass of cross-fostered nestlings at 30 to 32 days posthatching did not differ from those of conspecific controls. Black-legged Kittiwake fledglings had higher lean mass than Red-legged Kittiwake fledglings regardless of whether they were raised by foster or natural parents. However, nestlings of both species raised by Red-legged Kittiwakes were 50% fatter at 30 to 32 days posthatching than those raised by Black-legged Kittiwakes. Regurgitations from nestlings raised by Red-legged Kittiwakes consisted primarily of lanternfish and contained about twice the lipid (percent dry mass) as regurgitations from nestlings raised by Black-legged Kittiwakes. Consequently, growth rate of lean tissue was genetically and/or physiologically constrained, whereas rate of fat deposition was constrained by diet. We hypothesize that the adaptive significance of lanternfish in diets for Red-legged Kittiwake nestlings is manifest in higher prefledging and/or postfledging survival. Interspecific differences in energy density of food and food provisioning rates balanced each other so that rates of energy provisioning were similar.
4087116|We studied adaptations of digestive physiology that permit Rufous (Selasphorus rufus) and Anna's hummingbirds (Calypte anna) to absorb sugar-water meals rapidly and efficiently. As measured with soluble markers, transit times (<15 min) and mean retention times (ca. 48 min) of meals in the hummingbird digestive tract are brief compared with values for most other vertebrates. Glucose is extracted with an efficiency of 97%. We describe a new method, employing double isotope dilution, for measuring crop-emptying kinetics. Based on this method, the crop empties half of a meal in ca. 4 min and all of the meal in 15-20 min. Rufous and Anna's hummingbirds may be energy maximizers limited by crop emptying times, rather than foraging-time minimizers. This would explain why hummingbirds spend a majority of each hour sitting rather than feeding. The intestine's passive permeability to glucose is the lowest of any vertebrate studied to date. This may be an adaptation to prevent solute loss from the blood in the face of high fluid transit rates through the intestine. Active transport accounts for essentially all intestinal glucose absorption. Compared with intestines of other vertebrates, the glucose absorption sites of hummingbird intestines have normal binding constants but are present at extremely high densities. Comparisons of hummingbirds, chickens, and shrikes suggest that intestinal absorption rates for amino acids are independent of trophic habits in birds as in other vertebrate classes, but that sugar absorption decreases in the sequence herbivore > omnivore > carnivore.
4088363|We examined the roles of food abundance and male parental care in the maintenance of monogamy in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). Mated, male Tree Swallows were removed from territories to simulate the lack of male parental care that would be incurred by secondary females. Removals took place in lakeshore and radside habitats in central Alberta, Canada. Insect sampling over three breeding seasons indicated that the lakeshore had greater biomass of insects than the roadside during egg laying, but there was no difference during the nestling period. Both our male removal experiment and natural cases of polygyny suggested that loss of male parental care had little effect on reproductive success or survival of females or their offspring. Unaided females increased their per-capita nest-visit rate in two of three years, so the rate of visitation per nestling did not differ significantly between unaided females and both the male and female at control nests. Control females at the lakeshore produced more fledglings than control females at the roadside. This difference in productivity was due to earlier laying and larger clutches at the lakeshore than at the roadside and not to differences in brood reduction or insect abundance during the nestling period. In both habitats, male parental care was relatively unimportant to female reproductive success and, therefore, within a given habitat secondary females did not incur a reproductive cost. All natural cases of polygyny occurred at the lakeshore. We suggest that polygyny occurred at the lakeshore, and not at the roadside, because food abundance was greater during laying at the lakeshore, and this allowed secondary females to lay more eggs and produce more fledglings than females mated to monogamous males at the roadside.
10.1525/auk.2012.11188|Migration is a highly energy-demanding process, and migratory birds store energy at stopover sites along their migration routes to meet these demands. The Veery (
10.2307/4090064| Hybrid male Vidua were observed in the field and recorded to document host song mimicry. The mtDNA of one male was sequenced to identify the maternal parent. The hybrid males mimicked songs of Melba Finch (Pytilia melba), the usual host of Long-tailed Paradise Whydah (V. paradisaea), but the mtDNA matched that of indigobirds (V. chalybeata or another species), which parasitize and mimic other estrildid finches. This combination of song behavior and genetics is consistent with a two-generation history that began with a female indigobird (e.g. V. chalybeata) laying in a Melba Finch nest rather than in a nest of her usual host (e.g. Red-billed Firefinch [Lagonosticta senegala]). Her daughter, genetically an indigobird, imprinted on her Melba Finch foster parents and then mated with a male paradise whydah mimicking Melba Finch song. She also laid eggs in Melba Finch nests. Her son, the male hybrid carrying his grandmother's indigobird mtDNA, learned and later mimicked Melba Finch song. Genetic identification of the maternal species origin of this hybrid supports a model of mate choice based on mimetic song in the Vidua finches. /// Se observaron machos hbridos del gnero Vidua en el campo y se grabaron sus vocalizaciones para documentar la imitacin del canto de su hospedero. Tambin se secuenci el ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) de uno de los machos para identificar a la especie madre. Los machos hbridos imitaron el canto de la especie Pytilia melba, el hospedero usual de Vidua paradisaea, pero el ADNmt coincidi con el de una viuda (V. chalybeata u otra especie) que parasita e imita el canto de otros pinzones estrldidos. Esta combinacin del comportamiento de canto y la gentica es consistente con una historia de dos generaciones que comenz con una viuda hembra (e.g. V. chalybeata) que puso un huevo en un nido de P. melba y no en un nido de su hospedero habitual, Lagonosticta senegala. Su hija, genticamente una viuda, se impront en sus padres putativos (P. melba) y luego se apare con un macho de la especie V. paradisaea, que imitaba el canto de P. melba. Ella tambin puso huevos en nidos de P. melba. Su hijo, el macho hbrido que llevaba el ADNmt de viuda de su abuela, aprendi y ms tarde imit el canto de P. melba. La identificacin gentica de la especie materna que origin a este hbrido apoya un modelo de seleccin de pareja basado en cantos mimticos en el gnero Vidua. 
4090595| Individuals within a population vary in important fitness components, such as reproductive success. In general, females can maximize the number of young they produce by altering either the number of young per breeding attempt or the number of breeding attempts per season. In short-lived species, and especially in small passerine birds, number of breeding attempts per season varies markedly among individuals. Here, we evaluated factors influencing whether female Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) initiated additional nests after a successful breeding attempt (i.e. double-brooded). The percentage of females that laid a second clutch after successfully fledging a first brood ranged from 0 to 87% and averaged 53% (n = 7 years). Multiple logistic regression and
10.2307/4090312| Phylogenetic relationships within the genus Cinclodes, a group of South American furnariids, were studied using complete sequences of the mitochondrial genes COII and ND3. The 13 species of Cinclodes formed a monophyletic group consisting of three major lineages: (1) the southeastern Brazilian isolate C. pabsti, which was sister to the rest of the genus; (2) a clade of five primarily Patagonian or central Argentine highlands species; and (3) a clade of seven primarily north-central Andean or Pacific species. Biogeographic structure in the Patagonian-Andean taxa was consistent with the deep Patagonian and north-central Andean division previously noted in the similarly distributed genus Muscisaxicola. Evolutionary relationships among Cinclodes species were partially consistent with expectations based on plumage, behavior, and ecology. The phenotypically distinctive C. antarcticus was found to be sister to the widespread C. fuscus in the primarily Patagonian-Argentine clade, and the distinctive C. palliatus to be sister to C. atacamensis in the high Andean-Pacific clade. The central Argentine isolates C. comechingonus and C. olrogi formed a clade with C. oustaleti (olrogi sister to oustaleti, and comechingonus sister to those two) within the Patagonian-Argentine clade. The Pacific marine specialists C. nigrofumosus and C. taczanowskii were sisters within the Andean-Pacific clade and were distantly related to the southern maritime species C. antarcticus. Thus, marine ecological specialization apparently evolved twice within Cinclodes; behavioral and ecological data also support the nonhomology of the two character states. The two exclusively Pacific species were positionally apomorphic within the Andean-Pacific clade; ancestral area analysis indicated that the high Andes were the most likely area of origin for this clade, and that the Pacific coast was occupied secondarily. /// Se estudiaron las relaciones filogenticas en el gnero Cinclodes, un grupo de furnridos suramericanos, empleando secuencias completas de los genes mitocondriales COII y ND3. Las 13 especies de Cinclodes formaron un grupo monofiltico compuesto por tres linajes principales: (1) C. pabsti, una especie aislada del sureste brasileo, que fue la especie hermana del resto del gnero; (2) un clado de cinco especies principalmente patagnicas o de las tierras altas del centro de Argentina; y (3) un clado de siete especies principalmente del centro y norte de los Andes o del Pacfico. La estructura biogeogrfica en los taxa patagnicos-andinos fue consistente con la divisin profunda entre elementos patagnicos y de los Andes nor-centrales evidenciada anteriormente en el gnero Muscisaxicola, el cual tiene una distribucin similar. Las relaciones evolutivas entre las especies de Cinclodes fueron parcialmente consistentes con lo esperado con base en plumaje, comportamiento y ecologa. Se encontr que la especie fenotpicamente distintiva C. antarcticus es hermana de la ampliamente distribuida C. fuscus en el clado principalmente patagnico-argentino, y que la especie distintiva C. palliatus es hermana de C. atacamensis en el clado altoandino-Pacfico. Las especies aisladas del centro de Argentina, C. comechingonus y C. olrogi, formaron un clado con C. oustaleti (olrogi es hermana de oustaleti y comechingonus de estas dos) dentro del clado patagnico-argentino. Las especies especialistas marinas del Pacfico, C. nigrofumosus y C. taczanowskii, fueron hermanas dentro del clado andino-Pacfico y estuvieron lejanamente emparentadas con la especie marina del sur, C. antarcticus. Por lo tanto, la especializacin ecolgica en ambientes marinos parece haber evolucionado dos veces en Cinclodes; datos comportamentales y ecolgicos tambin sugieren la no-homologa de los dos estados de caracter. Las dos especies exclusivas del Pacfico fueron posicionalmente apomrficas en el clado andino-Pacfico; un anlisis de reas ancestrales indic que los altos Andes fueron el rea de origen ms probable para este clado, y que la costa Pacfica fue ocupada de forma secundaria. 
10.2307/4086903| The abundance of resources and their use by Accipiter in two areas within Oregon from 1969 through 1974 are presented. In the coastal mountains of northwestern Oregon only Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) and Cooper's Hawks (A. cooperii) nested. In the remainder of the state, A. striatus, A. cooperii, and Northern Goshawks (A. gentilis) were syntopic during the nesting season. The number of species and the total density of birds in eastern Oregon were about one-half those in northwestern Oregon. Mean prey size of A. striatus in northwestern Oregon (12.8 g) was significantly smaller than that of the same species in eastern Oregon (28.4 g). Accipiter striatus diets in both areas were composed almost entirely of birds (<5% mammals). Mean prey size of A. cooperii in both areas was nearly the same (134.7 g vs. 136.3 g) and was significantly larger than mean prey size of A. striatus. The frequency of occurrence and the size of prey taxa in A. cooperii diets, however, varied between areas: 74% birds (x = 79.2 g) and 25% mammals (x = 296.4 g) in northwestern Oregon versus 47% birds (x = 123.7 g) and 53% mammals (x = 147.5 g) in eastern Oregon. Mean prey size of A. gentilis in eastern Oregon (306.6 g) was significantly larger than that of A. cooperii and consisted of 55% birds (x = 195.5 g) and 45% mammals (x = 445.2 g). An analysis of prey sizes, prey taxa, and foraging heights indicated that, in general, food was partitioned in both areas primarily according to prey size. In eastern Oregon, however, where A. cooperii and A. gentilis overlapped broadly in prey size, these species tended to take different prey taxa. Both A. cooperii and A. gentilis foraged primarily in the lower zones (ground-shrub and shrub-canopy), whereas A. striatus foraged in the upper canopy. 
4087964| Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) avoid paralytic shellfish poisoning by conditioned aversions developed after the regurgitation of contaminated bivalve prey. In feeding experiments with free-ranging Glaucous-winged Gull chicks, toxic (445 g saxitoxin equivalents per 100 g) butter clams (Saxidomus giganteus) were regurgitated in <5 min (n = 58), and nontoxic butter clams were never regurgitated (n = 30). Chicks that had ingested toxic S. giganteus then refused to eat either toxic or nontoxic butter clams offered later, but they accepted other bivalve prey. In feeding experiments with wild adult and juvenile L. glaucescens, gulls took significantly fewer butter clams at a site where S. giganteus has been chronically toxic for >14 yr than they took at a nontoxic but otherwise comparable site. These preferences were species-specific and independent of prey toxicity or whether the live clams were intact or removed from their shells. The gulls showed no difference between sites in their preferences for three other bivalve species (Clinocardium nuttalli, Protothaca staminea, Tresus capax), all of which contained either no or very low levels of toxins at both sites. The aversion to intact but not to shucked butter clams was more strongly developed in adults than in juveniles. Most of the gulls that ate butter clams at the toxic site discarded the siphons (which account for the majority of the toxicity in contaminated butter clams) of both toxic and nontoxic butter clams, but they never discarded siphons of other bivalves. Gulls at the nontoxic site never discarded the siphons of bivalve prey. I suggest that avian predators generally are not at risk from paralytic shellfish poisoning toxin via bivalve vectors because they can detect and avoid toxic prey. Because of the apparent inability of gulls to discriminate between toxic and nontoxic individuals of the same prey species, avian predation pressure on some bivalve populations may be greatly reduced. 
4086369|Field trials in which paired observers were used and indoor simulations in which recorded bird songs were used indicated that, as the number of singing birds audible from a listening station increased from 1 to 4, the fraction of them recorded by observers declined by up to 50%. This reduction in efficiency violates one of the basic assumptions of any index-that the proportion of animals detected remains constant-and could cause surveyors who rely primarily on auditory cues to underestimate changes in population density by up to 25% for common species and 33% for abundant species. The change in efficiency, which is best regarded as measurement error, cannot be detected by a statistical examination of the data and thus may pass undetected in many field studies. It seems unlikely that any general procedure for "correcting" the error would be reliable. The results indicate that singing bird surveys of common species should be supplemented by other methods if accurate estimates of changes in density are needed. A general conclusion of the study is that whenever animals "compete" for a place in the survey, for example by filling up traps or suppressing one another's songs, then the index tends to underestimate a change in density. If efficiency increases with density, then the survey tends to overestimate a change in density. If the sign of the bias can be determined, the survey can be used to provide a minimum or maximum estimate of a change in density even if the magnitude of the bias cannot be estimated.
10.2307/4089377|We estimated annual survival of Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida using the Kaplan-Meier estimator with data from 271 radio-tagged birds over a three-year period and capture-recapture (resighting) models with data from 1,319 banded birds over a six-year period. We tested the hypothesis that survival differed among three age classes using both data sources. We tested additional hypotheses about spatial and temporal variation using a combination of data from radio telemetry and single- and multistrata capture-recapture models. Results from these data sets were similar in their indications of the sources of variation in survival, but they differed in some parameter estimates. Both data sources indicated that survival was higher for adults than for juveniles, but they did not support delineation of a subadult age class. Our data also indicated that survival differed among years and regions for juveniles but not for adults. Estimates of juvenile survival using radio telemetry data were higher than estimates using capture-recapture models for two of three years (1992 and 1993). Ancillary evidence based on censored birds indicated that some mortality of radio-tagged juveniles went undetected during those years, resulting in biased estimates. Thus, we have greater confidence in our estimates of juvenile survival using capture-recapture models. Precision of estimates reflected the number of parameters estimated and was surprisingly similar between radio telemetry and single-stratum capture-recapture models, given the substantial differences in sample sizes. Not having to estimate resighting probability likely offsets, to some degree, the smaller sample sizes from our radio telemetry data. Precision of capture-recapture models was lower using multistrata models where region-specific parameters were estimated than using single-stratum models, where spatial variation in parameters was not taken into account.
10.1525/auk.2011.10289|The experimentally supported and prevailing opinion is that blood sampling has few to no long-term effects on survival of birds when conducted properly, and blood sampling has become a vital addition to the toolbox of many ornithologists. However, many of the studies that concluded that blood sampling had negligible effects on birds used approaches that did not account for temporary emigration and probability of capture. To date, the only study to have done so found that blood sampling had a strong negative effect on survival. We conducted a markrecapture analysis of 8 years of banding and bleeding data on Eastern Kingbirds (
25488634|Studies of sexual dimorphism often focus on the evolution of elaborate male traits, whereas the evolution of elaborate females has been largely ignored. Yet a phylogenetic perspective suggests that changes in either male or female traits may lead to the evolution of sexual dimorphism. Furthermore, changes in the degree of sexual dichromatism can be caused by gains or losses of elaboration. One common form of elaboration found throughout the animal kingdom is the use of highly saturated and contrasting colors. To investigate further the evolution of female elaboration and sexual dichromatism, we took quantitative measurements of color from New World orioles (
10.2307/4089891| One potential determinant of colony size in birds is the local availability of food near a nesting site. Insectivorous Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in southwestern Nebraska nest in colonies ranging from 2 to over 3,000 nests, but they feed on so many kinds of insects that direct sampling of food resources is impractical. Instead, we investigated the degree to which swallow colony size was correlated with the extent of different habitat types, land use diversity, and plant species diversity in the colony's foraging range, and used those parameters as indices of potential variation among sites in food availability. Amount of flowing and standing water in the foraging range was a significant predictor of mean colony size across years at a site, with larger colonies associated with more water. The same result held for most years when analyzed separately. The extent of flowing water in the foraging range also was a significant predictor of the frequency with which a site was occupied across years. In addition, univariate tests suggested that the amount of cultivated cropland in the foraging range varied inversely with colony size. Land use diversity, as measured by Simpson's index, increased significantly with colony size, and all of the sites with perennially very large colonies (mean colony size >1,000 nests) were associated with foraging ranges of relatively high land use diversity. Repeatability of colony size across years differed significantly from zero across all sites, but repeatabilities were significantly lower (colony sizes less similar between years) for sites situated in low-diversity habitats and for sites used less often. There was no strong effect of plant species diversity within the foraging range on either colony size at a site or likelihood of site use. We conclude that land use diversity per se (and possibly the extent of water near a site) might influence insect distribution and constrain formation of the larger colonies to certain sites. These findings emphasize that colony choice in Cliff Swallows is complex, reflecting both the socially mediated costs and benefits of group size that vary among individuals and the effects of habitat heterogeneity that may influence food availability at some sites. /// Un determinante potencial del tamao de las colonias de aves es la disponibilidad local de alimento en el rea de nidificacin. La golondrina Petrochelidon pyrrhonota es una especie insectvora que nidifica en el sur oeste de Nebraska (USA) en colonias que fluctuan entre 2 y ms de 3000 nidos. Estas golondrinas se alimentan de una gran variedad de insectos, por lo que un muestreo directo de los recursos alimenticios es impracticable. En cambio, investigamos el grado de correlacin entre el tamao de las colonias de golondrinas y la cantidad de diferentes tipos de hbitat, la diversidad de usos del suelo y la diversidad de plantas en el rango de forrajeo de la colonia. Utilizamos estos parmetros como ndices de la variacin potencial en la disponibilidad de alimento entre sitios. En un sitio determinado, la cantidad de agua corriente y estancada en el rea de forrajeo predijo significativamente el tamao medio de las colonias a travs de los aos, con colonias ms grandes asociadas con una mayor cantidad de agua. Los resultados se mantuvieron para la mayora de los aos al analizar los datos por separado. La cantidad de agua corriente en el rea de forrajeo tambin predijo la frecuencia con que un sitio fue ocupado a travs de los aos. Adems, pruebas univariadas sugirieron que la cantidad de campos de cultivo en el rea de forrajeo vari inversamente con el tamao de la colonia. La diversidad de usos del suelo, medida mediante el ndice de Simpson, aument significativamente con el tamao de la colonia y todos los sitios con colonias permanentes de gran tamao (tamao medio >1,000 nidos) estuvieron asociados con reas de forrajeo con una diversidad de uso de suelo relativamente alta. La estabilidad del tamao de las colonias a travs de los aos fue significativamente diferente de cero en todos los sitios, pero la estabilidad fue significativamente ms baja (tamaos de colonia menos similares entre aos) en sitios situados en hbitats de baja diversidad y en sitios ocupados con menor frecuencia. No hubo un efecto marcado de la diversidad de plantas en el rea de forrajeo sobre el tamao de la colonia ni sobre la probabilidad de ocupacin de un sitio. Concluimos que la diversidad de uso del suelo per se (y posiblemente la cantidad de agua cercana a un sitio) podra influenciar la distribucin de insectos y restringir la formacin de grandes colonias a slo ciertos sitios. Estos hallazgos enfatizan la complejidad de la eleccin de sitios para establecer colonias en las golondrinas. Esta eleccin refleja tanto los costos y beneficios sociales del tamao del grupo que varan entre individuos, como los efectos de la heterogeneidad del hbitat sobre la disponibilidad de alimento en algunos sitios. 
4090346| Many species of marsh birds (e.g. rails and bitterns) are believed to be declining in North America, yet we lack an effective monitoring program to estimate their population trends. Broadcast of prerecorded calls to elicit vocalizations is a commonly used method in surveys of marsh birds, but whether gains in detection and index precision outweigh the drawbacks of call-broadcast is unclear. To evaluate the effectiveness of call-broadcast surveys, we pooled marsh-bird survey data from 8,047 point-count surveys contributed by 11 cooperators and compared numbers of birds detected and variation in numbers detected between call-broadcast and passive surveys. For most rails (particularly Virginia Rails [Rallus limicola]), call-broadcast surveys were effective at increasing the detection probability (e.g. average number of Virginia Rails detected per occupied point was 1.25 for call-broadcast surveys and 0.17 for passive surveys). The proportion of points at which no birds were detected was high for all species (range 74-99%) and was slightly lower on call-broadcast surveys as compared with passive surveys. Coefficient of variation (CV) among replicate surveys was higher for passive surveys, particularly for rails (average CV in number of birds detected per point was 209% for passive surveys and 189% for call-broadcast surveys). On the basis of those results, we recommend a marsh-bird monitoring protocol that includes an initial passive period followed by a period of call-broadcast to provide survey data that incorporate the benefits while avoiding the drawbacks of call-broadcast. We also recommend separating both the passive and the call-broadcast periods into 1-min subsegments that will allow estimates of components of detection probability within the monitoring effort. /// Se cree que muchas especies de aves de pantano (e.g. rlidos y avetoros) estn declinando en Norte Amrica, pero no contamos con un programa de monitoreo e ficaz para estimar sus tendencias poblacionales. La reproduccin de vocalizaciones pregrabadas para incitar a las aves a emitir vocalizaciones es un mtodo empleado comnmente en censos de aves de pantano, pero no est claro si las ganancias en trminos de deteccin y de la precisin de los ndices son superiores a los problemas inherentes a esta tcnica. Para evaluar la efectividad de los censos basados en la reproduccin de vocalizaciones pregrabadas juntamos datos de 8047 censos de aves de pantano realizados mediante conteos por punto por 11 colaboradores, y comparamos el nmero de aves detectadas y la variacin en este nmero entre censos que emplearon vocalizaciones pregrabadas y censos pasivos. Para la mayora de los rlidos (particularmente Rallus limicola), los censos con reproduccin de vocalizaciones fueron efectivos para incrementar la probabilidad de deteccin (e.g. el nmero de individuos de R. limicola detectados por punto ocupado fue de 1.25 en los censos con vocalizaciones pregrabadas y de 0.17 en los censos pasivos). La proporcin de puntos en los que no se detectaron aves fue alta para todas las especies (rango 74-99%) y fue ligeramente menor en los censos con vocalizaciones pregrabadas que en los censos pasivos. El coeficiente de variacin (CV) entre censos replicados fue mayor en los censos pasivos, particularmente para los rlidos (e.g. el CV promedio en el nmero de aves detectadas por punto fue 209% en los censos pasivos y 189% en los que emplearon vocalizaciones pregrabadas). Con base en estos resultados, recomendamos un protocolo para monitorear las aves de pantano que incluye un perodo pasivo inicial seguido por un perodo en el que se reproducen vocalizaciones, lo cual provee datos que incorporan los beneficios y evitan los problemas de la reproduccin de vocalizaciones pregrabadas. Tambin recomendamos separar tanto el perodo pasivo como el de emisin de vocalizaciones en segmentos de 1 min para permitir la estimacin de componentes de la probabilidad de deteccin en el esfuerzo de monitoreo. 
25150382|We studied habitat requirements and selection of Olrog's Gulls "(Larus atlanticus)" breeding at six colonies along 2,500 km of coastline in central Argentina that encompasses its entire distributional range. Colonies were located only on islands that ranged in size between 0.4 and 125.8 ha, and the islands' distance to the mainland varied from 0.12 to 16.7 km. Colonies ranged in size between 12 and 341 nests. In three of the colonies, gulls nested in subcolonies (range: 8-239 nests). They nested at relatively high densities, with a mean inter-nest distance of 0.66  0.25 m. Logistic regression analysis to compare nest and random-site characteristics at each colony showed that Olrog's Gulls selected sites that were close to the hightide line, at a lower height above sea level, far from available vegetation, and had lower vegetation cover over the nest. Olrog's Gulls showed a significant positive association with Kelp Gulls (L. dominicanus), an expanding generalist species that also nests in similar habitats. Current trends in coastal development, particularly in the Olrog's Gulls' main breeding grounds of southern Buenos Aires, indicate the urgent need for habitat-protection guidelines for this threatened species. Moreover, its breeding association with Kelp Gulls suggests a potential spatial conflict and highlights the need for increased monitoring and management actions. /// Estudiamos la seleccin y requerimientos de hbitat en Larus atlanticus en seis colonias reproductivas a lo largo de 2,500 km de costa en el centro de Argentina, rea que comprende la totalidad de su mbito de distribucin. Las colonias slo se encontraron en islas con tamaos entre 0.4 y 125.8 ha, y la distancia de las islas al continente vari entre 0.12 y 16.7 km. Las colonias tuvieron entre 12 y 341 nidos. En tres de las colonias, las aves nidificaron en subcolonias (rango: 8-239 nidos). Estas gaviotas nidificaron a densidades altas con una distancia promedio entre nidos de 0.66  0.25 m. Un anlisis de regresin logstica utilizado para comparar las caractersticas de los nidos con las de sitios escogidos al azar en cada colonia, mostr que L. atlanticus seleccion sitios que se encontraron ms cerca de la lnea de la marea alta, a una menor altitud sobre el nivel del mar, ms lejos de la vegetacin disponible y con una menor cobertura de vegetacin sobre el nido. Larus atlanticus mostr una asociacin positiva con L. dominicanus, una especie generalista en expansin que nidifica en hbitats similares. Las tendencias actuales del desarrollo costero, particularmente en las reas de reproduccin de L. atlanticus del sur de Buenos Aires, indican la necesidad urgente de delinear pautas de proteccin de hbitat para esta especie amenazada. Adems, la asociacin reproductiva con L. dominicanus sugiere un posible conflicto espacial y resalta la necesidad de aumentar el monitoreo y las acciones de manejo.
10.1525/auk.2011.10266|The influence of heterospecifics on successful avian reproduction remains poorly understood, despite the role that such relationships may play in the evolution of reproductive strategies. We estimated nest survival of Cackling Geese (
10.2307/4088638|We examined geographic differentiation in mitochondrial (mt) DNA and in morphometric characters among 12 populations of the Sharp-tailed Sparrow (Ammodramus caudacutus) representing all recognized subspecies and geographic regions. Both data sets reveal the existence of two distinct groups of populations, a northern group from the Canadian maritime provinces and Maine, the St. Lawrence Valley, Hudson Bay lowlands, and interior prairies, and a southern group from along the Atlantic coast north to southern Maine. In one sample from southern Maine, both forms co-occur, and about 40% of the individuals there appear to be of hybrid ancestry. Recently, principles of genealogical concordance have been proposed as a conceptual basis for recognition of biological taxa. Here we provide an empirical application of these principles in the context of observed concordance between the mtDNA phylogenetic partition and the subdivisions evidenced by morphological (and behavioral) attributes in the Sharp-tailed Sparrow complex. We recommend that two subspecies of A. caudacutus be recognized: one (A. c. nelsoni) to encompass the northern populations (formerly A. c. nelsoni, A. c. alterus, and A. c. subvirgatus); and the other (A. c. caudacutus) to encompass the southern populations (formerly A. c. caudacutus and A. c. diversus). By taxonomically formalizing what appears to be a fundamental phylogenetic partition among Sharp-tailed Sparrow populations, study of the biogeographic history, reproductive relationships, and management of the forms will be facilitated.
10.2307/4086023|We used four reasonably large samples (83-213) of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and Blue-winged Teal (A. discors) nests on an interstate highway right-of-way in southcentral North Dakota to evaluate potential biases in hatch-rate estimates. Twelve consecutive, weekly searches for nests were conducted with a cable-chain drag in 1976 and 1977. Nests were revisited at weekly intervals. Four methods were used to estimate hatch rates for the four data sets: the Traditional Method, the Mayfield Method, and two modifications of the Mayfield Method that are sometimes appropriate when daily mortality rates of nests are not constant. Hatch rates and the average age of nests at discovery declined as the interval between searches decreased, suggesting that mortality rates were not constant in our samples. An analysis of variance indicated that daily mortality rates varied with the age of nests in all four samples. Mortality was generally highest during the early laying period, moderately high during the late laying period, and lowest during incubation. We speculate that this relationship of mortality to nest age might be due to the presence of hens at nests or to differences in the vulnerability of nest sites to predation. A modification of the Mayfield Method that accounts for age-related variation in nest mortality was most appropriate for our samples. We suggest methods for conducting nesting studies and estimating nest success for species possessing similar nesting habits.
10.2307/4088416|The effect of clutch size on incubation persistence of male Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor) was studied over two breeding seasons in south-central Saskatchewan. The Wilson's Phalarope is a "sex-role-reversed" shorebird in which only males incubate and provide parental care. The breeding season is long enough to allow for renesting but not for the rearing of more than one brood per male. Barring secondary mating strategies, the total annual reproduction of a male is limited by the size of its clutch. Females lay determinate clutches of four eggs. By determining the minimum clutch size necessary for male incubation persistence, we demonstrated that males alter their reproductive effort in response to clutch size, and we identified the minimum potential annual reproduction for males necessary to maintain this unusual mating system. Clutch-size reductions led to an increased frequency of abandonment inversely proportional to the number of eggs remaining in the clutch. The timing of egg loss also was critical. Among males with clutches reduced to one egg or reduced to two eggs early in the incubation cycle, all but one abandoned incubation. Among males with clutches reduced to two eggs late in incubation or three eggs early, an intermediate proportion abandoned incubation. All but one male with three eggs late in incubation or a full, four-egg clutch continued to incubate. Experimentally increasing clutch sizes by two eggs over the normal four-egg clutch led to rapid nest failure. This suggests that the determinate, four-egg clutch of females is not suboptimal for males and that nest parasitism of two eggs by females has little potential benefit as an alternative reproductive tactic.
4090679| We examined the effects of environmental and ecological factors associated with seasonal fecundity on spatial and temporal patterns of productivity in Sagebrush Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri breweri) in British Columbia, the northwestern edge of its breeding range. This study is the first examination of seasonal fecundity in this species. Seasonal fecundity of females varied from 1998 to 2000. It was highest in 2000, when nest predation was lowest and number of clutches per female was intermediate, and lowest in 1998, when nest predation and number of clutches per female were the highest and warm El Nio conditions led to early breeding. Potential fecundity gains from early breeding were diminished by the interaction of shifting predation rates and variable effects of weather at different elevations. Early breeding in 1998 proved an advantage only at the low-elevation site, because an early spring storm destroyed 43% and 20% of first nests at two high-elevation sites. High seasonal fecundity varied between the sites, such that the best site in 1998 became the least productive in 1999 and vice versa. The overriding factor driving spatiotemporal variation was shifting rates of nest predation, though the elevation-related storm effects and variation in number of clutches were partly responsible. To maintain high productivity for Sagebrush Brewer's Sparrow at the northern edge of its range, where conditions are unpredictable and where there is no consistently best or worst site in terms of productivity, managers must protect sites from habitat loss or alteration across a range of elevations and conditions. /// Nous avons examin les effects de facteurs environnementaux et cologiques associs  la fcondit saisonnire sur des patrons de productivit spatiaux et temporels chez Spizella breweri breweri en Colombie-Britannique,  la limite nord-ouest de son aire de reproduction. Cette tude constitue le premier examen de la fcondit saisonnire chez cette espce. La fcondit saisonnire chez cette espce. La fcondit saisonnire des femelles a vari de 1998  2000. Elle tait la plus leve en 2000, lorsque la prdation des nids tait la plus faible et le nombre de couves par femelle tait intermdiaire. Par contre, la fcondit tait la plus faible en 1998, lorsque la prdation des nids et le nombre de couves par femelle taient les plus levs et associs le tout aux conditions chaudes d'El Nio qui ont conduit  une reproduction tt en saison. Les gains potentiels en termes de fcondit lis  une reproduction tt en saison ont t diminus par l'interaction d'un taux de prdation variable et les effets fluctuants des conditions mtorologiques  diffrentes altitudes. En 1998, la reproduction survenue tt en saison a avantag pour les sites  basse altitude uniquement, puisque qu'une tempte printanire a dtruit 43% et 20% des premiers nids prsents dans deux sites en haute altitude. La fcondit saisonnire leve variait entre les sites, de manire  ce que le meilleur site en 1998 est devenu le moins productif en 1999 et vice versa. Le principal facteur influenant les variations spatio-temporelles tait le taux variable de prdation sur les nids. Cependant, les effets de la tempte relis  l'altitude et la variation dans le nombre de couves taient en partie responsables de la situation. Dans le but de maintenir une forte productivit chez Spizella breweri breweri  la limite nord de son aire de reproduction, o les conditions sont imprvisibles et aucune constance n'est observe dans les meilleurs ou les plus mauvais sites, les gestionnaires doivent protger les sites des pertes d'habitats ainsi que de leur altration dans une gamme d'altitudes et de conditions varies. 
4088236| New distributional information is summarized from avifaunal surveys conducted from 1987 to 1991 in the ornithologically unknown islands of the province of Bocas del Toro, Panama, and points on the adjacent mainland. These establish the region of the Laguna de Chiriqu to be of great biogeographic interest and complexity. New records include 3 species new to Panama, and 11 species and 3 subspecies new to Bocas del Toro. Two taxa of birds (Platyrinchus cancrominus and a form Chlorophanes spiza) are relicts on islands and are not resident on the Panamanian mainland. Four pairs of species or subspecies (Anthracothorax prevostii/A. veraguensis, Glaucis aenea/G. hirsuta, Gymnopithys bicolor olivascens/G. b. bicolor, and Tangara inornata rava/T. i. languens) are shown for the first time to change abruptly over a narrow distance along the southern shore of the Laguna de Chiriqu. 
4085307|Ecological interactions between American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) and Least Flycatchers (Empidonax minimus) were studied in the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire, USA during three breeding seasons. These two taxonomically distinct passerines have converged on the ecological niche of "flycatching," overlapping significantly in body size, bill morphology, foraging behavior, and in patterns of habitat exploitation. They exhibit a striking amount of interspecific aggression during the breeding period. Coexistence between the two species is mediated by subtle habitat preferences and reinforced by interspecific aggression and by differences in life history characteristics. The redstart is a broad-niched, behaviorally plastic, socially subordinate habitat generalist relative to the flycatcher. It also fledges young earlier and defends larger territories. Such differences in social dominance and in niche breadths among members of an ecological guild may be important in permitting certain constellations of species to coexist and therefore important organizing features of bird community structure.
10.2307/4089684|Tape-luring often is used in studies of bird migration, and the technique can strongly augment the total number of birds captured. Additional captures from tape-luring could result from increasing the capture probability of birds already at the stopover site, or from attracting birds that normally would have overflown the stopover site. We conducted an experiment in which we captured night-migrating Eurasian Reed-Warblers (Acrocephalus scirpaceus) during 32 consecutive days, using tape-luring every fourth night, on average. Based on recruitment analysis (a class of Cormack-Jolly-Seber models), average capture probability was one to four times higher on days with tape-luring. The probability that a bird was a new arrival at the stopover site varied between 50% and 85% on days with tape-luring and was almost zero on control days without luring. Because tape-luring can influence where and when migrants choose to land, answers to biological questions about migration could be compromised by data from tape-lured birds.
4087037|In previous experiments, Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) were captured on a winter home range to which they had shown year-to-year site fidelity and held there until just before the autumn. They failed to show normal autumn migratory restlessness and fattening, which suggested that previous experience at the migratory destination suppressed readiness to migrate. We asked what the suppressing cues might be. Possibilities included very local features peculiar to the individual's winter home range (e.g. its trees) and cues common to the general region (e.g. geophysical or celestial information); features of the latter sort might give information about latitude. To test these possibilities we monitored autumn restlessness and fattening of new groups of juncos that were held before migration where some could perceive landmarks of their familiar winter home range and others only more general information about their location. In autumn those held at, near, and far south of their winter home ranges again failed to become restless or fat. A small group held far north of their winter home ranges became somewhat restless, significantly more so than the others. These may have perceived that they had not reached their usual winter latitude, but alternative explanations are possible.
4087036|Chlorostilbon bracei Lawrence, known from the unique holotype taken on New Providence Island, Bahamas, in 1877, is shown to be a valid species that is evidently now extinct. Compared with C. ricordii of Cuba and the Bahamas, C. bracei is smaller, has a longer bill, and has distinctly different plumage. Fossil evidence demonstrates that a small Chlorostilbon, tentatively referred to C. bracei, was present on New Providence in the Pleistocene. Populations of C. ricordii from Andros, Abaco, and Grand Bahama are indistinguishable from Cuban birds, and C. ricordii is therefore regarded as monotypic.
10.2307/4088626|Songs from 402 Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata castanotis) were sampled in order to describe the structure of the song phrase and the relationship of its elements to the call repertoire. The song of wild birds was also compared to that of 47 domesticated Zebra Finches from two European laboratories in order to examine the effects of domestication on song structure. The stereotyped phrase, which is the repetitive unit of the song, had a mean number of 6.75 elements and a mean duration of 0.86 s in wild birds. Elements were sung in sequence that defined three parts to the phrase-a start, a middle and an end. Fourteen types of elements were identified of which four were sung by the vast majority of males; three of these "primary" elements were "borrowed" unmodified from the call repertoire, and formed the start and end sections of the phrase. "Secondary" elements, which were less frequently represented across males, constituted the middle of the phrase and appeared to be modified versions of the Distance-call Element, the loudest element in the phrase. I tentatively conclude that Zebra Finch song may have evolved from the calls associated with flight intention and take-off. Domestication has led to changes in element morphology, frequency of occurrence, and rate of singing (elements/s), but not in number of elements per phrase.
10.2307/4088940|We studied reproductive success, growth, and survival of Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) chicks in two mixed-species heronries on marsh islands in Chincoteague Bay, Accomack County, Virginia in 1992 and 1993. We attached radio transmitters with mortality sensors to the oldest chicks (A-chicks) in 11 to 22 nests of both species to monitor survival during the mid- to late nestling period and into the postnesting dispersal period. For both species, we found significant differences between 1992 and 1993 in growth rates and survival. Mass growth rates of chicks were higher in 1993 than in 1992 for both species. Culmen-length growth rates varied significantly due to year-colony effects for night-herons, but only for hatching order for egrets. Differences in survival rates due to hatching order were found for the egrets in both years, but were found only in 1992 for night-herons. As with mass growth rates, survival of chicks was higher in 1993 than 1992. Survival of radio-marked A-chicks did not differ between species or years for the period from hatching to fledging or from fledging through the end of the study (ca. two months postfledging). Survival ranged from 0.80 to 1.00 from the time radio transmitters were attached (ca. two weeks of age) until dispersal age (53-55 days for egrets; 55-60 days for night-herons). After birds left the colony, survival rates were lower during the next 40 to 55 days, ranging from 0.25 to 0.60. These results suggest that, at least for Snowy Egrets, A-chicks may be buffered from annual variations in food conditions, but that growth and survival of other brood members may provide a barometer of local conditions. Despite problems of variability in measurement, some of these parameters show promise as bioindicators of estuarine conditions. We recommend that a cost-efficient wading-bird monitoring program would include: (1) estimating numbers of nesting birds of selected species (e.g. Snowy Egrets) at particular estuaries, and (2) monitoring "initial brood sizes" and survival of young to at least two weeks of age in a sample of nests for each focal species. However, additional biomonitoring (e.g. marsh forage fish, contaminant loads) is necessary to evaluate how well top trophic-level organisms such as fish-eating birds respond to changes in estuarine production or quality.
10.2307/4089239|We examined the abundance and species richness of birds breeding in floodplain forests of the Upper Mississippi River from 1992 to 1994 to identify effects of a major flood in 1993 on the bird assemblage. Sixty-five study plots were divided into treatments and controls based on whether they were flooded in 1993. Among 84 species observed on all plots, 41 species decreased in abundance from 1992 to 1994, 13 species increased, and numbers of 5 species were unchanged. Sample sizes were inadequate to evaluate trends for 25 species. Species richness declined over the three-year period. The main effect "year" was significant in 20 of the 36 species tested. Cool, wet conditions may have contributed to poor reproductive success in 1993 and resulted in widespread declines in abundance during the year following the flood. Bird abundance increased on most unflooded plots in 1993, probably because birds were displaced from flooded plots. This pattern was most striking for Neotropical migrants, species preferring habitat edges, lower-canopy nesters, and species that forage in the air. We suggest that periodic major flooding maintains suitable floodplain habitat for Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) in the face of competition with House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) for nest sites.
10.2307/4089901| We used radio telemetry to examine extraterritorial movements of female Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) breeding in small, isolated woodlots. Only 44% of the nine females tracked left their woodlots (n = 6 forays in total). Compared to males followed in the same fragments (Norris and Stutchbury 2001), females spent significantly less time off territory and traveled shorter distances across nonforested gaps. Unlike males in fragmented habitat and females in continuous forest, we found no evidence that females were actively seeking extrapair copulations. We conclude females are relatively more restricted to isolated fragments during the breeding season and suggest that the lack of extrapair copulation opportunity could contribute to female avoidance of fragmented habitat, resulting in a high number of unmated males. This study emphasizes the importance of examining the potential effects of fragmentation in both sexes. /// Estudiamos mediante radio telemetra los movimientos extra territoriales de hembras de Wilsonia citrina que nidifican en pequeos fragmentos de bosque. Slo el 44% de las nueve hembras rastreadas abandonaron sus fragmentos (n = 6 intentos en total). En comparacin con los machos seguidos en los mismos fragmentos (Norris y Stutchbury 2001), las hembras permanecieron significativamente menos tiempo fuera de los territorios y recorrieron distancias menores a travs de hbitats no boscosos. Contrariamente al comportamiento observado en machos el mismo hbitat y hembras en hbitats continuos, no encontramos evidencia de que las hembras estuvieran buscando activamente cpulas extra pareja. Concluimos que durante la poca de nidificacin las hembras se encuentran relativamente ms restringidas a los fragmentos de bosque y sugerimos que la falta de oportunidad de tener cpulas extra pareja podra contribuir a que las hembras eviten los hbitats fragmentados, lo que resulta en un gran nmero de machos sin pareja. Este estudio enfatiza la importancia de estudiar los efectos potenciales de la fragmentacin sobre ambos sexos. 
4085308|In a series of field experiments, adult Ring-billed Gulls attending either blindfolded or surgically muted chicks were observed in order to ascertain whether various patterns of parental behavior would be adversely affected by the failure of the chicks to peck the parent's bill or to vocalize. Adults attending chicks that were blindfolded either at hatching or 3 days later appeared normal in all patterns of parental behavior. Adults attending chicks that had been muted at hatching showed normal attentive and protective behavior but were markedly deficient in providing the chicks with food. Muting chicks after they had interacted normally with their attendant adults for 3 days resulted in no major departures from normal parental behavior, including the rate of feeding the chicks. These results indicate that parent Ring-billed Gulls do not require specific stimulus input in the form of bill-pecking or vocalizations by their chicks to continue exhibiting parental attentive and protective behavior. This behavior, which is largely a gradually modified extension of that shown in the incubation phase, evidently can be further maintained by more general visual and (or) tactile input from chicks. Moreover, the bill-pecking of chicks apparently is neither essential nor sufficient to incite normal parental food-provisioning behavior. On the other hand, this provisioning behavior does appear to depend temporarily on auditory reception of the vocalizations of chicks located in the nest. Once instigated, however, its further maintenance no longer requires this form of auditory input.
4090639| Invasive exotic plants are a major threat to many species of wild birds. When these plants become established and widespread, the floristic composition of native plant communities becomes simplified, which can result in long-term and often irreversible habitat degradation for birds and other animals. Until recently, few studies have focused on the effect of invasive exotic grasses on breeding birds in southwestern rangelands. During the 2001 and 2002 breeding seasons (May-June), we compared the abundance and species richness of breeding birds, native flora, and arthropods on South Texas rangeland plots dominated by native grasses and plots dominated by two invasive exotic grasses, Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniana) and buffelgrass (Cenchrus ciliaris). Native-grass cover was >400% greater on native-grass sites than on exotic-grass sites. Forb and grass species-richness were higher on native-grass sites. Shrub canopy cover, bare ground, and vegetation height measurements were similar on native-grass and exotic-grass sites. Overall bird abundance was 32% greater on native-grass sites than on exotic-grass sites. Lark Sparrows (Chondestes grammacus) were 73% more abundant on native-grass sites. Four other species-Black-throated Sparrow (Amphispiza bilineata), Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos), Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), and Cassin's Sparrow (Aimophilla cassini)-were 26-70% more abundant on native-grass sites. The guild of birds that foraged on the ground under open brush canopies was almost twice as abundant on native-grass sites. Arthropod abundance was 60% greater on the native-grass site we sampled. Specifically, spiders, beetles, and ants were 42-83% more abundant on a native-grass site than on a buffelgrass site. Compared with rangelands dominated by native vegetation, areas dominated by Lehmann lovegrass and buffelgrass in South Texas appear to provide less suitable habitat for breeding birds, especially for bird species that forage on or near the ground. /// Las plantas invasoras exticas son una gran amenaza para muchas especies de aves silvestres. Cuando las plantas invasoras exticas se establecen y se expanden, la composicin florstica de las comunidades de plantas nativas se simplifica, lo que pude resultar en una degradacin a largo plazo y generalmente irreversible del hbitat para las aves y otros animales. Hasta tiempos recientes, pocos estudios se enfocaron en el efecto de los pastos invasores exticos en las aves que nidifican en los campos de pastoreo del sudoeste. Durante las estaciones reproductivas de 2001 y 2002 (mayo-junio), comparamos la abundancia y la riqueza de las especies de aves nidificantes, de la flora nativa y de los artrpodos en parcelas de campos de pastoreo del sur de Texas dominadas por pastos nativos y por dos pastos invasores exticos, Eragrostis lehmanniana y Cenchrus ciliaris. La cobertura de los pastos nativos fue un 400% mayor en los sitios de pastos nativos que en los sitios de pastos exticos. La riqueza de especies de hierbas y pastos fue mayor en los sitios de pastos nativos. Las medidas de cobertura del dosel de los arbustos, de suelo desnudo y de la altura de la vegetacin fueron similares en los sitios de pastos nativos y de pastos exticos. La abundancia general de las aves fue un 32% mayor en los sitios de pastos nativos que en los sitios de pastos exticos. Chondestes grammacus fue un 73% ms abundante en los sitios de pastos nativos. Otras cuatro especies de aves (Amphispiza bilineata, Mimus polyglottos, Colinus virginianus y Aimophilla cassini) fueron entre 26 y 70% ms abundantes en los sitios de pastos nativos. El gremio de aves que forraje en el suelo, debajo del dosel abierto de los arbustos, fue casi dos veces ms abundante en los sitios de pastos nativos. La abundancia de los artrpodos fue un 60% mayor en el sitio de pastos nativos que muestreamos. Especficamente, las araas, los escarabajos y las hormigas fueron 42 a 83% ms abundantes en los sitios de pastos nativos que en el sitio con C. ciliaris. En comparacin con los campos de pastoreo dominados por vegetacin nativa, las reas dominadas por E. lehmanniana y C. ciliaris en el sur de Texas parecen brindar hbitat menos adecuado para las aves nidificantes, especialmente para las especies que forrajean en o cerca del suelo. 
4086458|Multivariate analysis and analysis for spatial autocorrelation of 21 frequency and time characteristics of the songs of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) showed that within a dialect area the songs of neighboring males were no more similar to one another than to the songs of non-neighbors. This result refutes one prediction of the hypothesis that song dialects are maintained because males copy the songs of neighbors to gain an advantage in territorial defense or mate attraction. Historical events were important in producing changes over 10 yr in dialect distributions in an area of secondary contact between two dialects. The dialect distributions changed as the sparrow population invaded a new area where the vegetation had been modified, and the sparrows disappeared from a drought-affected area. The basic structure of the dialects did not change in 18 yr, and the fine structure, measured by 21 variables, did not differ between the 2 yr sampled. In 10 yr the two dialects did not blend to form an intermediate dialect.
10.1525/auk.2009.09040|Piping Plover (
10.2307/4089629|We manipulated brood sizes of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in 1996 and 1997 to test for the existence of intra- and intergenerational costs of reproduction. Modal clutch size was six eggs, but experimental brood sizes ranged from two to nine young. Nestling starvation was higher in 1996 (and dependent on brood size) than in 1997, but in both years enlargement of brood size resulted in increased productivity. Nestling mass near fledging was negatively correlated with brood size, but tarsus length and wing chord were not. Food deliveries by parents increased steadily between broods of two to six young but then remained constant between broods of six to nine young. The loss of female mass between incubation and the end of the nestling period was positively related to the pair's total feeding effort, and female mass near fledging declined with increasing brood size. The latter decline disappeared, however, when broods of nine were omitted. Adult return rate (1996 to 1997) was highest among birds that raised enlarged broods. Our results, and a review of other studies of Tree Swallows, suggest that broods of seven or eight young can be raised without costs to the parents or young, and it appears that costs associated with feeding young have not influenced annual fecundity of Tree Swallows. Rather, egg production is most likely limited by energy availability to laying females. A major cost of reproduction for Tree Swallows probably arises from nest-site competition in that early arrival in spring to obtain nest sites exposes adults to high risks of death from starvation.
4086973|Analysis of 3,293 feeding trips to nestling Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) in the first 11 days of nestling life showed that males and females fed young at similar rates. Young were fed a mixed diet of animal prey and fruits, and males and females fed similar volumes of animal prey and of fruits. Females displayed a monotonic increase in feeding rate during nestling life but did not significantly increase load size. Males significantly increased both feeding rate and load size with age of nestlings, and their feeding rate peaked in the mid-nestling period, when young grow most rapidly. Males and females fed broods of two and three young at similar rates. There was a biased breeding-adult sex ratio in this population, with males outnumbering females. The unbalanced sex ratio may allow females to demand a high level of male parental care in feeding nestlings and in other behaviors included in parental investment.
25150258| We used stable hydrogen isotopes (D) to identify the breeding locations of Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla) migrating through five sites spanning a cross-section of the species' southwestern migration route during the springs of 2003 and 2004. Determining the temporal and spatial patterns of migration and degree of population segregation during migration is critical to understanding long-term population trends of migrant birds. At all five migration sites, we found a significant negative relationship between the date Wilson's Warblers passed through the sampling station and D values of their feathers. These data were consistent with a pattern of "leap-frog" migration, in which individuals that bred the previous season at southern latitudes migrated through migration stations earlier than individuals that had previously bred at more northern latitudes. We documented that this pattern was consistent across sites and in multiple years. This finding corroborates previous research conducted on Wilson's Warbler during the fall migration. In addition, mean D values became more negative across sampling stations from west to east, with the mean D values at each station corresponding to different geographic regions of the Wilson's Warblers' western breeding range. These data indicate that Wilson's Warblers passing through each station represented a specific regional subset of the entire Wilson's Warbler western breeding range. As a result, habitat alterations at specific areas across the east-west expanse of the bird's migratory route in the southwestern United States could differentially affect Wilson's Warblers at different breeding areas. This migration information is critical for management of Neotropical migrants, especially in light of the rapid changes presently occurring over the southwestern landscape. /// Usamos istopos estables de hidrgeno (D) para identificar las localidad de cra de individuos de Wilsonia pusilla que se encontraban migrando a travs de cinco sitios abarcando una seccin de la ruta migratoria del sudoeste de la especie durante las primaveras de 2003 y 2004. Determinar los patrones temporales y espaciales de migracin y el grado de segregacin poblacional durante la migracin es esencial para entender las tendencias poblacionales a largo plazo de las aves migratorias. En los cinco sitios de migracin encontramos una relacin negativa significativa entre la fecha en la que los individuos pasaron por la estacin de muestreo y los valores de D de sus plumas. Estos datos fueron consistentes con un patrn migratorio del tipo "salto de rana", en donde los individuos que cran en la estacin previa a latitudes ms meridionales migraron ms temprano a travs de las estaciones migratorias que los individuos que criaron en latitudes ms septentrionales. Documentamos que este patrn fue consistente a travs de los sitios y en mltiples aos. Este hallazgo corrobora investigaciones previas realizadas con W. pusilla durante la migracin de otoo. Adicionalmente, los valores medios de D se volvieron ms negativos a lo largo de las estaciones de muestreo desde el oeste hacia el este, correspondiendo los valores medios de D de cada estacin a diferentes regiones geogrficas del rango oeste de cra de W. pusilla. Estos datos indican que los individuos de W. pusilla que pasaron por cada estacin representaron un subconjunto especfico regional de la parte oeste del rango de cra de W. pusilla. Como resultado, las alteraciones de hbitat en reas especficas a lo largo de la extensin este-oeste de la ruta migratoria de la especie en el sudoeste de Estados Unidos podran afectar de modo diferencial a W. pusilla en las diferentes rea de cra. Esta informacin es crucial para el manejo de las aves migratorias neotropicales, especialmente a la luz de los cambios actuales rpidos que se presentan en el paisaje del sudoeste. 
4086641|Small numbers of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) were introduced into New Zealand from Great Britain and North America over 100 years ago. Both sexes have undergone differentiation in size and plumage characters as a consequence of hybridization with the indigenous Grey Duck (A. superciliosa). Pure forms of both species, as documented by early descriptions, appear to be disappearing, particularly the Grey Duck. In Otago, the Mallard and Grey Duck are introgressively hybridizing, and the majority of intergrades are Mallard-like in appearance. Separation of Mallards, hybrid birds, and Grey Ducks was achieved using a stepwise cluster analysis of mensural characters. The observed morphometric differentiation was not continuous throughout the Otago population, and a total of 5 discontinuities (groups of morphologically similar birds) were distinguished: male Mallards, female Mallards, Grey Ducks, and 2 groups of hybrid birds. The use of bivariate scattergrams of skull length and eye-lens weight provided the most useful illustration of the distinctions among Mallard, hybrid, and Grey Duck populations. As a consequence of hybridization, two morphologically distinct hybrid populations have been produced: one resembles the Grey Duck and the other the Mallard. This situation is discussed in relation to the two hybrid forms of the Marianas Mallard (A. oustaleti). The Mallard was so successful in newly created agricultural habitat that by 1958 this species constituted 53% of the Mallard-Grey Duck population. Prior to 1958 the observed hybrid frequency was less than 3% and the reduction in the proportion of the Grey Duck most probably was the result of habitat reduction. In 1977 the Mallard comprised 82% of the Mallard-Grey Duck population, and there was concern over the number of pure Grey Ducks remaining in Otago. By 1981-1982 levels of hybridization, based on plumage analysis, had reached 51%, and the proportion of pure Grey Ducks had dropped to 4.5%, which is below the level suggested for the maintenance of a species. In the absence of reproductive isolation or antihybridization mechanisms between these two species, the Mallard and hybrid populations represent a potential threat to the conservation of the New Zealand Grey Duck.
90008587|Optimal development of avian embryos occurs within a narrow range of incubation temperatures. Most parents that physically incubate their eggs through direct contact are challenged to balance their time on the nest with taking foraging recesses to satisfy their energetic requirements. To explore the costs and investment strategies of incubating female Wood Ducks (
10.2307/4089333|We examined genetic parentage in a population of Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) in New Hampshire during 1995 and 1996. Although parentage patterns have not been examined in this socially monogamous species, behavioral observations have suggested that extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) occur. Using multilocus DNA fingerprinting, we determined parentage of 125 offspring in 38 broods. EPFs were present in 17 broods (44.7%) and included 34 offspring (27.2%) over both years. We found no evidence of intraspecific brood parasitism, because all offspring had high band-sharing scores with their social mothers. Frequencies of EPFs did not differ significantly between years (although only two years were examined). There was also no significant effect of time of season, age of social parents, population levels of breeding synchrony, or breeding density upon frequency or presence of EPFs within broods. In contrast, the occurrence of EPFs was strongly and positively associated with breeding synchrony among neighboring females; nests in areas of high local synchrony were more likely to contain extrapair young. Univariate logistic regression indicated that the level of local synchrony accounted for 22% of the variance in probability of EPF. These results suggest that the temporal and spatial concentration of fertile females are important in influencing the prevalence of EPFs.
4088360| We measured intestinal (brush-border) uptake of the sugars glucose and fructose, and of the amino acid proline, each week from one day posthatching to 12 weeks of age in a rapidly growing strain of domestic chicken (Gallus gallus, White Cornish  Rock). Small-intestine mass increased as the 0.74 power of body mass, the same power as resting metabolic rate of the whole bird. Even on a constant diet, nutrient uptake varied with age, according to ontogenetic patterns that differed among nutrients. From the beginning to end of the 12-week period, glucose uptake per milligram of intestinal tissue remained on the average approximately constant, fructose uptake increased in the distal intestine, and proline uptake per milligram declined across all intestinal regions. Uptake capacity integrated over the whole length of the intestine generally increased for all three solutes, mostly as a consequence of increases in intestinal mass. A steep, brief, many-fold increase in glucose uptake appeared in two-week-old chicks, coinciding with increasing thermal independence and the exhaustion of yolk reserves. A similarly steep, brief, many-fold increase in proline uptake at week 6 coincided with the onset of molt and high relative growth rates. Comparisons of integrated nutrient-uptake capacities with estimated nutrient intakes suggest that intestinal nutrient uptake capacity is closely matched to dietary nutrient intake during growth. This supports the hypothesis that the intestine's capacity to assimilate nutrients may pose a proximal constraint on the rate of growth in precocial species. 
4086718|We studied altitudinal migration of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) over 5 yr in the Great Smoky Mountains to test hypotheses concerning ecological determinants of winter distribution and distance traveled in migration. We individually marked 1,832 juncos belonging to two subspecies that occur together in winter in the foothills: Carolina Juncos (J. h. carolinensis) that breed in high-elevation spruce-fir forests locally and Northern Juncos (J. h. hyemalis) that are latitudinal migrants. Carolina Juncos spend the winter at higher elevations than Northern Juncos. Above 600 m elevation in the drainage that formed the study area, juncos were 76% Carolinas in winter on average. Carolina Juncos show winter assortment by sex across altitudes that parallels latitudinal assortment found among Northern Juncos by Ketterson and Nolan (1976, 1983). Most Carolinas wintering above 600 m elevation and within 20 km of ridgetop breeding habitats were males (77%). Farther downslope most juncos were Northerns (83%) and most Carolinas were females (80%). Some males are resident year-round in the breeding habitat, while others migrate through the entire altitudinal range. Differential altitudinal migration by the sexes of Carolina Juncos and altitudinal segregation of the two races in winter were variable between years; smaller and competitively subordinate classes of juncos were better represented at higher elevations in a milder winter. This variation and the patterns of survival and ranging revealed by recapture data were consistent with the hypothesis that social dominance in competition for food significantly affects winter distribution. Migration and choice of wintering ground in this system are flexible responses that are probably malleable by pressures created by behavioral interactions with other birds in competition for winter food and breeding territories as well as by physiological constraints. Although three hypotheses developed in studies of latitudinal migration predict the basic patterns of winter assortment by subspecies, sex, and size, the balance of selective forces is likely different for these altitudinal migrants.
4085847|We increased the brood size of Red-winged Blackbirds to determine whether females could raise more young than they normally do. Despite greater within-brood losses, experimental nests produced more young than did natural and control nests. Females with enlarged broods made significantly more feeding trips to their nests; both male and female nestlings from enlarged broods, however, were significantly lighter than young from natural and control broods at the time they left the nest. Lighter young from enlarged broods probably experienced lower survival rates as fledglings than heavier young from natural and control broods. We interpret these results as being consistent with the hypothesis that selection produces clutch sizes that maximize the number of young that ultimately survive to breed and that the upper limit is set by the amount of food the parents can obtain for their young.
4086360|Old World starlings have been thought to be related to crows and their allies, to weaverbirds, or to New World troupials. New World mockingbirds and thrashers have usually been placed near the thrushes and/or wrens. DNA-DNA hybridization data indicated that starlings and mockingbirds are more closely related to each other than either is to any other living taxon. Some avian systematists doubted this conclusion. Therefore, a more extensive DNA hybridization study was conducted, and a successful search was made for other evidence of the relationship between starlings and mockingbirds. The results support our original conclusion that the two groups diverged from a common ancestor in the late Oligocene or early Miocene, about 23-28 million years ago, and that their relationship may be expressed in our passerine classification, based on DNA comparisons, by placing them as sister tribes in the Family Sturnidae, Superfamily Turdoidea, Parvorder Muscicapae, Suborder Passeres. Their next nearest relatives are the members of the Turdidae, including the typical thrushes, erithacine chats, and muscicapine flycatchers.
4086173| Heritabilities of egg size (0.7  0.2), hatch weight (0.5  0.1), chick viability (0.3  0.2), and body weight at 75 days of age (0.6  0.1) are given for Red Grouse (Lagopus lagopus scoticus). Much of the variation in mean egg size amongst wild hens within years was due to inherent differences amongst hens and had little to do with differences in their environment. Cocks had no detectable effect on the egg size of their mates or the hatch weight and viability of their chicks, but did affect their chicks' body weight. It seems that egg size in Red Grouse is determined largely by inherited factors and in turn affects hatch weight and viability. 
40406719|The importance of the formation of the Panamanian land bridge for mammalian diversification in the New World is well documented; however, studies investigating the role of this land bridge in avian diversification have only recently been reported. We used mitochondrial DNA data to reconstruct the phylogeny of a group of lowland tanagers (Thraupidae) that contains species distributed in both Central America and South America. Phylogenetic analyses identified a clade that includes all 26 species in the genera
10.2307/4088156|I investigated diving behavior in foraging flocks of wintering Surf Scoters (Melanitta perspicillata) and Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica). Individuals in flocks of scoters and goldeneyes tended to dive and surface in a highly synchronous fashion. Diving-party size explained a large amount of variation in observed levels of diving synchrony. Synchrony increased with flock size as individuals in large groups followed one another more quickly during foraging dives than birds in smaller parties. Synchrony may be advantageous in large groups to maintain cohesion during foraging trips. Scoters and goldeneyes appeared not to adjust diving behavior in the presence of kleptoparasitic Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens). The length of the pause between consecutive dives was positively correlated with the duration of the preceding dive in the two species. Based on these relationships, the deviation from the estimated surface time was obtained for each series of dives. In both species, pause duration in sequences of many dives tended to oscillate around predicted values. This supports the idea that divers foraging on sessile prey complete more of the recovery after each dive than birds foraging on mobile prey who occasionally delay repayment of the physiological debt.
25488717|Offspring quality is an important issue in avian life-history theory, particularly with regard to birds that have low reproductive rates and extended parental care. Offspring mass has been identified as an indicator of quality in several bird species. These studies have shown that nestling mass is predictive of offspring survival outside the nest, but few studies have considered the role of fledgling mass. Mass during the fledgling period may change and influence juvenile survival. Fledgling mass may be especially relevant for tropical birds that have very long fledgling periods during which food conditions randomly or seasonally change. Here, we show that fledgling mass predicts juvenile survival in the Hawaii Akepa (
10.1525/auk.2010.10032|Migratory birds are known to be able to navigateto determine their position on the globe and the direction toward their distant goaleven if they cannot perceive any information emanating from the goal. One hypothesis, that of true bicoordinate navigation, claims that birds should be able to sense and use a grid of two natural parameters as coordinates. Some indirect data support the idea that migratory birds can determine their northsouth position, and several recent studies have suggested that at least long-distance migrants, including the Eurasian Reed Warbler (
4087812|We studied foraging ecology of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) along the Tennessee River in west-central Tennessee during the breeding seasons of 1984-1987. We analyzed seven foraging variables to determine if this population exhibited annual variation in foraging behavior. Based on nearly 3,000 foraging maneuvers, most variables showed significant interyear variation during the four prenestling and three nestling periods we studied. This interyear variation probably was due to proximate, environmental cues-such as distribution and abundance of arthropods-which, in turn, were influenced by local weather conditions. Researchers should consider the consequences of combining foraging behavior data collected in different years, because resolution of ecological trends may be sacrificed by considering only general patterns of foraging ecology and not the dynamics of those activities. In addition, because of annual variability, foraging data collected in only one year, regardless of the number of observations gathered, may not provide an accurate concept of the foraging ecology in insectivorous birds.
4088356| The ability of American Coots (Fulica americana) to produce additional eggs was studied by experimentally removing six eggs from the clutch during laying (while always maintaining at least three eggs in the nest), and by removing entire clutches during laying to force birds to renest. Coots responded to partial (six-egg) clutch removals by laying an average of 11.5 total eggs, which represents a slight though significant increase over the mean control clutch size of 10.5. Despite this modest increase in mean clutch size, there was a pronounced increase in the proportion of coots producing supernormal clutches (i.e. 13 eggs; 26% of removal clutches vs. 8% of control clutches). Egg production was not affected by food availability, as coots with access to supplemental food were no more likely to respond to partial clutch removals than were coots from unsupplemented territories. In response to total clutch loss during laying, most coots (99/119; 83.2%) initiated a continuation clutch. Virtually all continuation clutches (92.4%) were initiated within five days (x = 1.5  SD of 2.2 days). Continuation clutches were no smaller than normal clutches, even though continuation nesters had produced several previous eggs. In 1990 and 1991, the total number of eggs produced by continuation nesters (all consecutive nests combined) averaged 15.8  8.2 and 12.8  5.2, respectively, compared to 9.8  1.5 and 11.0  2.1 eggs per clutch in initial undisturbed nests. One continuation nester produced a remarkable 35 eggs in 37 days (four consecutive nests plus two parasitic eggs). Neither egg size nor nesting success were reduced among continuation nesters. Collectively, these data provide strong evidence against the egg-formation hypothesis, which has been invoked to explain both clutch- and egg-size variation in American Coots. These data demonstrate that continuation nesting may provide a better means than partial clutch removals of testing egg-formation capabilities in birds. 
4087376|We examined the potential action of selection on body size in a population of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) breeding in the Canadian subarctic. We evaluated the genetic basis of phenotypic variation in body size and examined the association of body size and components of fitness related to fecundity and viability. There was a heritable component to body size in this population derived in part from the action of additive genes. There was no relation between adult body size and the number of eggs laid, the number of eggs surviving predation, the number of goslings that left the nest, or the number of goslings fledged. Small birds entered the breeding population at a younger age. They did so with no reduction in viability and may actually live longer than large birds. The heritable variation in body size combined with the directional selection gradient should lead to a gradual reduction in adult body size in this population. We found no evidence for such a change over 5 generations. We discuss this in terms of additional fitness components, the retarding effects of age structure on the response to selection, and the interaction of selection and gene flow.
25488649|Parasite defense is costly, and the detrimental effects of parasites, which can be measured in terms of parasite virulence, are thought to be influenced by the resources available to the host and, ultimately, by environmental conditions. Hence, if conditions are good, hosts can tolerate a certain number of parasites without suffering severe effects. In addition, the presence of other parasites can influence the virulence of a focal parasite either positively or negatively. We tested whether an experimental tick infestation reduced nestling performance in Great Tits (
25488576|As the human population and tourism increase in the Galpagos Islands, increased poultry production raises risks of pathogen spillover into native avian populations. Here, we characterize the disease risks to Galpagos avifauna of different types of poultry farming by comparing health status and serosurvey results between broiler and backyard chickens (
4090351| The importance of repertoire size to mate choice by female songbirds has been widely debated but has not been addressed in Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds"), despite extensive work on this species' songs. Male cowbirds cycle through repertoires of 2-8 perched song (PS) types in rapid sequences immediately prior to and during copulation, which suggests that repertoire size or content is important in mating contexts. Because male mating success in one well-studied cowbird population is correlated with large PS repertoires, we predicted that repertoire size is a cue in female mate choice. To test that prediction, we played three repetitions of conspecific songs in rapid succession to estradiol-primed female cowbirds (M. a. obscurus), to simulate the rapid song sequences that accompany naturally occurring matings. Females were presented with three different PS types, three repetitions of the same type, and heterospecific control songs of the same duration as the conspecific playbacks. Females gave longer copulation solicitation displays to three different PS types than to three repetitions of a single PS type, regardless of whether the playback songs were local or foreign. This is one of the few experimental studies on songbirds to show greater female responsiveness to a song repertoire presented so as to mimic singing in a natural mating context, and the first to present such a result for cowbirds. We conclude that presentation of multiple PS types is more sexually stimulating to females than a single type, because females prefer larger repertoires or singing patterns with a higher frequency of song-type switching. /// La importancia del tamao del repertorio para la seleccin de pareja por parte de las hembras en las aves canoras ha sido ampliamente debatida, pero no ha sido evaluada en Molothrus ater, a pesar de que se han realizado mltiples trabajos sobre los cantos de esta especie. Los machos hacen un ciclo de 2-8 tipos de canto de percha (CP) en secuencias rpidas inmediatamente antes de la cpula y durante sta, lo que sugiere que el tamao o el contenido del repertorio es importante en contextos de apareamiento. Debido a que el xito reproductivo de los machos en una poblacin bien estudiada de M. ater est correlacionado con repertorios de CP ms amplios, predijimos que el tamao del repertorio representa una seal empleada por las hembras para escoger sus parejas. Para poner a prueba esta prediccin, reprodujimos una sucesin rpida de tres repeticiones de cantos coespecficos ante hembras de M. a. obscurus iniciadas con estradiol para simular las secuencias de canto rpidas que acompaan a los apareamientos que suceden naturalmente. Las hembras fueron expuestas a tres tipos diferentes de CP, a tres repeticiones del mismo tipo y a cantos heteroespecficos de la misma duracin que los coespecficos, a manera de control. Las hembras respondieron presentando despliegues para solicitar cpulas de mayor duracin ante los tres tipos distintos de CP que ante las tres repeticiones de un solo tipo, sin importer si los cantos eran de aves locales o forneas. Este es uno de los pocos estudios experimentales sobre aves canoras que muestra mayores niveles de respuesta por parte de las hembras ante un repertorio de canto presentado de manera que imite el canto tpico del contexto natural de apareamiento, y el primero que muestra dichos resultados en el gnero Molothrus. Concluimos que la presentacin de mltiples tipos de CP es ms estimulante sexualmente para las hembras que un solo tipo porque las hembras prefieren repertorios ms amplios o patrones de canto con una frecuencia ms alta de cambio entre tipos de canto. 
10.2307/4088605|We used multilocus protein electrophoresis to analyze population genetics of Chukars collected at five locations along a north-south gradient in Israel. These birds belonged to two nominal subspecies, the northern A. c. cypriotes, and southern A. c. sinaica. Chukars from China were used as an outgroup. Allele frequencies at most polymorphic loci differed significantly among Israeli populations, and generally varied according to position along the north-south cline. As compared to northern (more mesic-zone) birds, southern (arid-zone) Chukars had higher gene diversity (P-, H-, and A-values) and significantly less heterozygosity than expected. Clustering and multidimensional scaling of genetic distance matrices revealed a genetic gap between A. c. sinaica and A. c. cypriotes. Average Nei's unbiased genetic distance was 0.0012 (
10.1525/auk.2012.12016|Understanding factors that determine sources of nutrients for reproduction is vital to interpreting different life-history strategies used among species, within species, and among taxa. We used stable carbon isotope analysis (
90008569|We report on the first global census of the Adlie Penguin (
10.2307/4090395| Parental care is regarded as one of the most influential forces acting on the evolution of mating systems. Polynesian Megapodes (Megapodius pritchardii) are burrow nesters and rely on geothermal heat for incubation. Because they provide no parental care, either before or after hatching, they can provide insights into selective forces that have shaped mating systems in the absence of parental care. Our study of their mating system-the first such study of any burrow-nesting megapode-suggests social monogamy. The partners of 10 marked pairs stayed together in the same territory for 12 months and were seen with their partner significantly more often than on their own. In 64% of all observations, pair partners foraged <5 m apart, and females fed on food items uncovered by the male. Duets also indicated long-lasting pair bonds. We propose that monogamy in this species is related to the fact that females lay only one large egg at a time (which weighs, on average, 24% of her body weight), in intervals of several days or weeks. Producing eggs year-round, females require a high intake of protein-rich food. They seem to benefit, within the pair bond, from the male-defended feeding territory and from the invertebrates the male uncovers while feeding close by. While being guarded by the male, females can spend more time searching for food and are protected from forced copulations by other males. The monogamous pair bond seems to benefit the male by enhancing his chances of fertilizing his partner's eggs; with an unpredictable laying interval and year-round egg production, males cannot predict when their partner will be fertile and thus benefit from staying with her year-round. /// El cuidado parental es considerado como una de la fuerzas ms influyentes sobre la evolucin de los sistemas de apareamiento. Megapodius pritchardii es un ave que nidifica en madrigueras y que se basa en calor geotermal para incubar. Debido a que estas aves no brindan cuidado parental ni antes ni despus de eclosionar, pueden brindar informacin sobre las fuerzas selectivas que han moldeado los sistemas de apareamiento en ausencia de cuidado parental. Nuestro estudio sobre sus sistemas de apareamiento-el primero de este tipo en un megpodo que nidifica en madrigueras-sugiere que existe monogamia social. Los compaeros de 10 parejas marcadas permanecieron juntos en el mismo territorio por 12 meses y fueron vistos con sus parejas significativamente ms a menudo que solos. En el 64% de las observaciones, los compaeros de pareja forrajearon separados a <5 m, y las hembras se alimentaron de tems alimenticios descubiertos por los machos. Los dos tambin indicaron vnculos de pareja duraderos. Proponemos que la monogamia en esta especie est relacionada con el hecho de que las hembras ponen slo un huevo grande por vez (que pesa, en promedio, 24% de su peso corporal), en intervalos de varios das o semanas. Debido a que producen huevos durante todo el ao, las hembras requieren un alto consumo de alimentos ricos en protenas. stas parecen beneficiarse, dentro del vnculo de pareja, del territorio de forrajeo defendido por el macho y de los invertebrados que ste descubre cuando se alimentan a corta distancia uno del otro. Mientras estn protegidas por el macho, las hembras pueden pasar ms tiempo buscando alimentos y estn protegidas de cpulas forzadas por otros machos. El vnculo mongamo de la pareja parece beneficiar al macho al aumentar sus posibilidades de fertilizar los huevos de su pareja. Debido a que las hembras presentan intervalos de puesta impredecibles y a que producen huevos a lo largo del ao, los machos no pueden predecir cundo sus parejas estarn frtiles y por lo tanto se benefician de estar juntos con las hembras durante todo el ao. 
4090669| We evaluated the relationship between salinity and Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) population parameters using 26 years of survey data for the lower Chesapeake Bay. Tidal tributaries within the study area were stratified according to the Chesapeake Bay Program's segmentation scheme, and segments with the same salinity classification were considered spatial replicates. Salinity categories included tidal fresh, oligohaline, mesohaline, and polyhaline. Four parameters-colonization rate, nesting density, projected carrying capacity, and productivity-were derived from nesting data within each shoreline segment and compared across the salinity gradient. The study-wide Bald Eagle population is exhibiting exponential growth, with an average doubling time of 7.9 years. All population parameters showed significant directional variation with salinity. Average population doubling time for tidal fresh reaches was <6 years, compared with >16 years for polyhaline areas. Current Bald Eagle nesting density is negatively related to salinity and varies by a factor of 4 across the gradient. Comparison of current densities with projected carrying capacity suggests that these differences will be stable or increasing as the geographic areas approach equilibrium densities. We suggest that fisheries within lower saline reaches, including spring spawning runs of anadromous Clupeidae (shad and herring), are the most likely explanation for salinity effects. Observed distribution patterns suggest that lands along low-salinity waters are the core of the Bald Eagle nesting population within the lower Chesapeake Bay and should be the focus of long-term programs designed to benefit nesting eagles. /// Evaluamos la relacin entre la salinidad y parmetros poblacionales del guila Haliaeetus leucocephalus utilizando datos de muestreos realizados a lo largo de 26 aos en la parte baja de la Baha de Chesapeake. Los tributarios afectados por la marea en el rea de estudio fueron clasificados de acuerdo al programa de segmentacin de la Baha de Chesapeake y los segmentos con la misma clasificacin de salinidad fueron considerados rplicas espaciales. Las categoras de salinidad fueron: agua dulce con poca influencia de la marea, oligohalina, mesohalina y polihalina. Se derivaron cuatro parmetros-tasa de colonizacin, densidad de nidos, capacidad de carga proyectada y productividad-a partir de datos de nidificacin en cada segmento de la costa y se compararon a travs del gradiente de salinidad. En el rea de estudio la poblacin de H. leucocephalus exhibe un crecimiento exponencial, con un tiempo promedio de duplicacin de 7.9 aos. Todos los parmetros poblacionales mostraron variacin direccional con la salinidad. El tiempo promedio de duplicacin poblacional en las reas de menor influencia de la marea fue < 6 aos, en comparacin con >16 aos para las reas polihalinas. La densidad actual de nidos de H. leucocephalus se relaciona negativamente con la salinidad y vara en un factor de 4 a travs del gradiente. La comparacin entre las densidades actuales con la capacidad de carga proyectada sugiere que estas diferencias sern estables o aumentarn a medida que las reas geogrficas alcancen densidades en equilibrio. Sugerimos que la disponibilidad de peces en reas de baja salinidad, incluyendo la oviposicin de primavera de peces andromos de la familia Clupeidae (arenque y sbalo), es la explicacin ms probable para los efectos de la salinidad. Los patrones de distribucin observados sugieren que las tierras a lo largo de aguas con baja salinidad son el rea ncleo de la poblacin nidificante de H. leucocephalus en la parte baja de la baha de Chesapeake y deberan ser el foco de programas a largo plazo diseados para beneficiar a las guilas nidificantes. 
10.2307/4088101| We examined allozyme variation in 10 breeding populations of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) across the United States, which represented samples from 9 of 14 putative subspecies in North America. Variation at 13 of 28 resolvable loci revealed a high level of genetic similarity for all seven populations from Florida and New York through the Great Plains to Oregon and northeastern California (pairwise Nei's distances, all 0.004). Differences in allozyme frequencies we found suggest that fewer subspecies exist in the continental United States than are currently recognized. The most interesting result was that the genetic distance between the populations sampled at Sacramento and San Francisco Bay national wildlife refuges, which are only 214 km apart, had a Nei's distance approximately 10 times as great as the genetic distance between Florida and Oregon populations. Salton Sea, California, the remaining population sampled, was also highly differentiated. Strong site fidelity, the nonmigratory behavior of populations at Salton Sea and San Francisco, or both probably explain their relative allozyme distinctness, but the possibility that the brackish environment in which these birds live enforces a selective regime that reduces successful immigration or emigration to other habitats is intriguing. 
4087035|We observed Andean Condors (Vultur gryphus), King Vultures (Sarcoramphus papa), Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus), Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura), and Crested Caracaras (Polyborus plancus) interacting at 217 animal carcasses at two sites in northern Peru. At 53 carcasses for which we knew order of arrival, Turkey Vultures usually arrived first, Black Vultures second, and condors third. On the basis of our observations of 8,066 aggressive encounters between birds, we constructed dominance hierarchies by calculating the proportion of encounters won by an individual of one species, sex, or age during encounters with an individual of another species, sex, or age. Within each species there was a positive relationship between a bird's dominance and its age. In condors, males dominated females of the same age. Interspecific dominance was correlated positively with body mass. There are convergent similarities between the organizations of guilds of Old and New World vultures.
4087277| The Yellow-shafted Flicker (Colaptes auratus auratus) and Red-shafted Flicker (C. a. cafer) form a stable, narrow hybrid zone on the western Great Plains of North America. Allozyme data were obtained from 31 structural gene loci for 33 samples representing 246 Northern Flickers from throughout the Great Plains. Flickers were approximately equivalent to other birds in terms of proportion of polymorphic loci (P = 0.207) and average heterozygosity (H = 0.056). There was no concordant variation between plumage characters and allelic frequencies. Gene-diversity analysis indicated that 92.5% of the genic variation occurred as within-deme heterozygosity (
40406718|Documenting space-use patterns of animals is important for understanding their ecology and providing for their conservation. The concept of territory refers to a defended area, whereas the concept of home range refers to any area used by an animal during its normal activities. Few studies have explored quantitatively how these areas differ, and the use of these terms in the literature has, at times, been inconsistent. Many studies attempt to estimate territory size of a bird by territory mapping, which involves using locations obtained by following a singing bird. This is often assumed to be an effective measure of territory size, but few studies have examined the efficacy of this technique. Here, we used radiotelemetry to estimate breeding home-range and territory sizes of Swainson's Warbler (
10.2307/4089409|Among birds, males investing highly in paternal care should be under particularly strong selection pressure to prevent extrapair paternity in their broods. Current literature implies that to obtain a high certainty of paternity, males should invest in paternity-assurance behaviors, and this makes them more likely to increase their investment in reproduction. The Purple Sandpiper (Calidris maritima) is a relatively long-lived arctic shorebird with a socially monogamous pair bond and strong mate and territory fidelity by both sexes. Paternal investment is high because males alone perform all of the brood care from hatching to fledging. We investigated the mating strategies of male and female Purple Sandpipers through genetic analysis and examined the possibility that this species exhibits paternity-assurance behaviors. We found no evidence that males exhibited behaviors such as frequent copulation or mate guarding during their mate's fertile period. Furthermore, high rates of copulation were not necessary for pairs to achieve complete fertility of the clutch. Multilocus DNA fingerprinting revealed little evidence for extrapair fertilizations: only 1 of 82 offspring was sired by an extrapair male. These results suggest that male and female Purple Sandpipers rarely seek extrapair copulations (EPCs). In contrast to several recent studies with similar findings, we believe that the apparent rarity of EPCs results because females have few genetic or other benefits to gain from seeking them. Thus, paternity-assurance behaviors by male Purple Sandpipers were not necessary for achieving full paternity of the clutch, and such behaviors cannot be said to have led to the observed high level of paternal investment in reproduction. Uniparental brood care, however, is associated with a high certainty of paternity in this species.
10.2307/4089820|Collared Flycatcher (Ficedula albicollis) females experimentally were forced to prolong their incubation to address the question whether mass constancy during incubation and subsequent mass loss after hatching is actually related to breeding stage. Compared to unmanipulated control females a week after expected hatching, experimental females did not show any significant mass loss during prolonged incubation, whereas control females that successfully hatched their eggs dropped their mass significantly. Results show that body mass in females is associated with the reproductive stage and may reflect an adaptive strategy. High and stable incubation mass can be a fasting endurance in case of adverse weather conditions when females stay on the nest instead of foraging.
4085404| Temperatures in penguin eggs were measured by telemetry during undisturbed incubation. During the second half of the incubation period egg temperatures average 29.9-34.4C in Rockhopper Penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome), 35.9-36.2C in Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua), and 31.9-36.0C in Jackass Penguins (Spheniscus demersus). These temperatures are not markedly lower than those in other birds' eggs. Gentoo and Jackass penguin eggs attain mean temperatures above 30C within 7 days of incubation but Rockhopper Penguin eggs attain similar high mean temperatures only after 16 days of incubation. Eggs of the Rockhopper Penguin are dimorphic and temperatures in the smaller, first-laid eggs are lower and more variable than in the larger, second-laid eggs. This is attributed to egg size per se and to differential positioning of the eggs in relation to the brood patch. 
25150393|In response to evidence of sexual segregation at foraging grounds as well as male-biased band recoveries, we investigated the ontogeny of the female-biased adult sex ratio in the Waved Albatross (Phoebastria irrorata), an IUCN "critically endangered species" essentially endemic to Isla Espaola, Galapagos, Ecuador. Using a molecular technique to determine the sex of chicks and adults and known fate analysis of chicks during rearing, we found no evidence of a sex-ratio bias at hatching or fledging in three consecutive years with variable reproductive success. Although male chicks were significantly larger than females at fledging, survival to fledging of a large sample of male and female chicks did not differ. The sex ratio among a cohort of young adults at approximately the age of first breeding (eight years) also did not differ significantly from parity. Differential adult mortality, including male-biased mortality in fisheries, is the most probable cause of a female-biased population sex ratio, and is at least partially responsible for an apparent reduction in the number of breeding pairs of this species. /// Como respuesta a la evidencia de segregacin sexual observada en las reas de alimentacin y a la mayor recuperacin de anillos pertenecientes a individuos machos, investigamos el desarrollo de la mayor proporcin de hembras en la poblacin de Phoebastria irrorata. Esta especie de albatros es principalmente endmica de Isla Espaola, Galpagos, Ecuador, y se encuentra en peligro crtico segn la UICN. Usamos tcnicas moleculares para determinar el sexo de los polluelos y de los adultos y un anlisis de destino conocido para los polluelos durante la crianza. Durante tres aos, durante los cuales se observ variabilidad en el xito reproductivo, no encontramos evidencia de una proporcin de sexos sesgada al momento de eclosionar ni al de convertirse en volantones. En una muestra de gran tamao de polluelos, la supervivencia de volantones machos y hembras no fue diferente, aunque los polluelos machos fueron ms grandes al volar. La proporcin de sexos entre una cohorte de adultos jvenes, aproximadamente a la edad de la primera reproduccin (ocho aos), tampoco fue sesgada. La mortalidad diferencial entre los adultos, incluyendo ms mortalidad de los machos por las pesqueras, es la probable causa de una mayor proporcin de hembras en la poblacin, y puede ser parcialmente responsable por una aparente reduccin en el nmero de parejas reproductivas de esta especie.
4090563| The postfledging dependence period is not well documented for many species of raptors, including Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos). From 1997 to 1999, we used satellite telemetry to estimate the length of the postfledging dependence period, and the finite survival rate of fledglings during that period, for migratory Golden Eagles in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska. Length of the postfledging dependence period averaged 50.1 days and ranged from 39 to 63 days. The postfledging dependence period was longer for Golden Eagles that hatched earlier, but hatching date did not influence the date they departed their natal area. Average date of departure from the natal area was 25 September. The departure period spanned a 17-day period from 15 September to 5 October, and coincided with a series of environmental changes including decreases in day length, temperature, and prey diversity. Probability of survival during the postfledging dependence period was 0.98 (95% CI = 0.94 to 1.00). /// El perodo de dependencia posterior al emplumamiento no ha sido bein documentado en muchas especies de rapaces, incluyendo a Aquila chrysaetos. Desde 1997 hasta 1999 usamos telemetra satelital para estimar la duracin del perodo de dependencia posterior al emplumamiento y la tasa finita de supervivencia de los volantones durante este perodo para el guila migratoria A. chrysaetos en el Parque Nacional y Reserva Denali, Alaska. La duracin del perodo de dependencia posterior al emplumamiento promedi 50.1 das y vari entre 39 y 63 das. El perodo fue ms largo para las guilas que eclosionaron ms temprano, pero la fecha de eclosin no influenci la fecha de partida del rea natal. La fecha promedio de partida desde el rea natal fue el 25 de septiembre. El perodo de partida se extendi por un perodo de 17 das (desde el 15 de septiembre hasta el 5 de octubre) y coincidi con una serie de cambios ambientales, incluyendo la disminucin en la extensin del da, en la temperatura y en la diversidad de presas. La probabilidad de supervivencia durante el perodo de dependencia posterior al emplumamiento fue 0.98 (95% IC = 0.94 a 1.00). 
4088041|I used a tracking device to record the positions in space of 16 East African White-backed Vultures (Gyps africanus) as they glided to landings from altitudes that in some cases exceeded 400 m above the ground. Like many human pilots, most of the birds descended by flying along three-dimensional rectangular paths with upwind, downwind, and crosswind legs. These patterns may not be evident to observers on the ground, who at long range see a two-dimensional projection of a bird's flight path. Stereo-pairs illustrate the paths in three dimensions. The rectangular patterns may help the vultures to judge wind speed and direction, and thereby avoid flapping during the landing approach.
10.2307/4089291|Birds that nest on the ground in hot environments employ behavioral and physiological mechanisms to prevent the overheating of their eggs and themselves (e.g. egg covering, belly soaking, orientation on the nest, ptiloerection, panting, and gular fluttering). One of the least energetically expensive behaviors employed during incubation at high temperatures is nest shading. During shading, the birds raise themselves onto their tibiotarsi so that the incubation patch is about 2 to 3 cm above the eggs. It has frequently been assumed that birds adopt shading behavior to allow for direct convective cooling of the eggs. However, an alternative hypothesis is that birds rise up onto their tibiotarsi in order to place themselves out of the boundary layer. In doing so, adult birds cool themselves directly by convection. The lowering of the adult's body temperature during nest shading may, of course, cool the eggs indirectly when the bird resumes incubation. We tested these hypotheses using a taxidermic model of a Crowned Plover (Vanellus coronatus), which nests in hot environments in South Africa. Field observations have shown that this species spends 20 to 50% of its time shading when incubating at high environmental temperatures. When we alternated the bird between incubating and shading positions, we found that bird temperature, but not egg temperature, was lowered by shading behavior. Furthermore, wind speed had a significant negative effect on bird temperature but not egg temperature. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis that shading behavior functions to lower the temperature of incubating adults rather than of the eggs.
10.2307/4090146| Lark Sparrows (Chondestes grammacus) are declining throughout most of their range. Effective management for this species is hampered because relatively little is known about nesting ecology. We studied habitat characteristics affecting Lark Sparrow nest-site selection and nest success at nine study pastures in a southern mixed-grass prairie in Oklahoma. We used a neural-network technique to discriminate between nest and random locations, and bootstrapping with 95% confidence intervals to compare habitat features of successful and unsuccessful nests. We quantified habitat features at the nest and random points during the breeding seasons of 1999 and 2000 among three grazing treatments (control, moderate, and heavy). We located 40 nests during two years of the study, for which crude nest-success was 26.3%. Most nests were located in either moderately grazed pasture (55%) or heavily grazed pasture (40%). The neural model correctly identified nest and random points 91% of the time. Percentage of structural cover, distance to nearest structural element, bare-ground exposure, and percentage of litter cover were the most important nest-site selection criteria according to the model. Simulation analysis indicated points were classified as nest sites if they were <270 cm from structural elements, <87% bare-ground exposure, <74% litter cover, and >9% structural cover. Successful nests had less bare-ground exposure (x = 6.2  1.9% [SE]) and more litter cover (x = 18.0  4.6%) compared to unsuccessful nests (x = 17.5  3.8% and 10.1  1.6%, respectively). These results suggest that habitat management for Lark Sparrows in mixed-grass prairie should focus on creating abundant structural cover with moderate levels of litter accumulation and bare ground. /// Las poblaciones de Chondestes grammacus estn disminuyendo a travs de una gran parte de su rango de distribucin. El manejo efectivo para esta especie se ve impedido debido al escaso conocimiento de su biologa reproductiva. Estudiamos las caractersticas del hbitat que afectan la seleccin de los sitios de nidificacin en nueve pastizales en una pradera de pastos mixtos del sur en Oklahoma. Utilizamos una tcnica de redes neurales para discriminar entre los sitios de los nidos y sitios al azar, y la tcnica de "bootstrapping" con un 95% de intervalo de confianza para comparar las caractersticas de los hbitats con nidos exitosos y con nidos no exitosos. Cuantificamos las caractersticas del hbitat en los sitios de los nidos y en puntos al azar durante las pocas reproductivas de 1999 y 2000 entre tres tratamientos de pastoreo (control, moderado e intenso). Localizamos 40 nidos durante los dos aos de estudio, para los cuales el xito crudo fue del 26.3%. La mayora de los nidos se encontr en las praderas con pastoreo moderado (55%) o en las praderas con pastoreo intenso (40%). El 91% de las veces el modelo neural identific correctamente los sitios de los nidos y los puntos al azar. Segn el modelo, el porcentaje de cobertura estructural, la distancia al elemento estructural ms cercano, la exposicin de suelo desnudo y el porcentaje de cubierta de hojarasca fueron los criterios ms importantes para la seleccin del sitio del nido. Anlisis de simulaciones indicaron que los puntos fueron clasificados como sitios de nido si se encontraban a <270 cm de elementos estructurales, si presentaban <87% de exposicin de suelo descubierto, <74% de cubierta de hojarasca, y >9% de cubierta estructural. Los nidos exitosos tuvieron menor exposicin de suelo descubierto (x = 6.2  1.9% [EE]) y cobertura de hojarasca (x = 18.0  4.6%) en comparacin con los nidos no exitosos (x = 17.5  3.8% and 10.1  1.6%, respectivamente). Estos resultados sugieren que el manejo del hbitat para C. grammacus en las praderas de pastos mixtos debera enfocarse en crear abundante cobertura estructural con niveles moderados de acumulacin de hojarasca y suelo descubierto. 
4086598|Recruitment of offspring into a breeding population of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) at La Perouse Bay, Manitoba was used as a measure of reproductive success to assess the relative fitness of females who hatched their clutches early, middle, and late in the breeding season. In three of seven seasons investigated, goslings from early-hatching clutches showed significantly greater recruitment rates than their middle- or late-hatching counterparts. No significant differences in recruitment rates were detected in the other four seasons, although early-hatching clutches showed numerically higher recruitment rates in three of these seasons. There is, therefore, some indication of directional selection for early breeding. This conclusion contrasts with that drawn by Cooke and Findlay (1982), who, using fledging success as a measure of reproductive fitness, showed that females whose clutches hatched in the middle period had the highest fitness and concluded that the population was being exposed to stabilizing selection for synchronization. The discrepancy between these results and those presented in this paper indicates that conclusions concerning the action of selection in natural populations depend heavily upon the stage of the life cycle during which reproductive success is estimated. As such, evolutionary biologists must be cautious of relying too heavily on measures taken too early in the life of the organism.
4086170|I found that in 4-egg clutches of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) the first 2 eggs laid produced mostly males (64%) and the last 2 produced mostly females (72%). To interpret the functional significance of this phenomenon adequately, it is necessary to determine the mechanism whereby it occurs. I propose and discuss three possible mechanisms: nonrandom segregation of sex chromosomes, earlier or faster growth of ovarian follicles that subsequently produce males, and temperature-influenced sexual differentiation.
4087131|The Turkey Vulture (Cathartes aura) is generally thought to rely on olfactory cues to locate carrion. Because vertically rising odorants are dispersed rapidly by wind turbulence, we predict that Turkey Vultures should be highly sensitive to these chemicals to detect them at foraging altitudes. Olfactory thresholds to three by-products of animal decomposition (1 10
4087657|We mapped ribosomal DNA (rDNA) restriction sites and length differences in 10 species from 8 orders and Alligator mississippiensis to assess the level of variation and to determine phylogenetic relationships. We found 19 phylogenetically informative characters, including 15 restriction site variants and 4 length differences, in coding and noncoding transcribed regions. The nontranscribed region sites mapped were unique to each taxon. Anseriformes and Galliformes are early divergents along the avian lineage, and only tinamous and ratites (paleognaths) are as old or older. Galliformes is more closely related to a clade of seven neognath orders and families than is Anseriformes, and one apparent synapomorphy involving length variation unites Anseriformes and Tinamiformes. In comparisons of 19 rDNA transcribed region restriction sites conserved among birds and Alligator mississippiensis with published sequences, all are present in Mus musculus, and only three (16%) are absent from Xenopus laevis. Nucleotide sequence data from variable rDNA regions, particularly internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and external transcribed spacer (ETS) regions, will provide greater resolution of relationships among more recent avian orders.
4086527| Based upon evidence from morphology, behavior, and ecology, I propose that the taxonomy of the southern Selasphorus hummingbirds be set forth as follows: Selasphorus flammula Salvin: Volcano Hummingbird S. f. flammula Salvin, 1864 (Volcn Iraz, Volcn Turrialba, Costa Rica) S. f. torridus Salvin, 1870 (Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica-Panama) S. f. simoni Carriker, 1910 (Volcn Pos, Volcn Barba, Costa Rica) Selasphorus scintilla Gould, 1850: Scintillant Hummingbird (Cordillera de Tilarn, Costa Rica south and east to Volcn Chiriqu, Panama, at lower elevations than populations of the preceding species). Selasphorus ardens Salvin, 1870: Glow-throated Hummingbird (Serrana de Tabasar, Panama). S. scintilla and S. ardens may comprise a superspecies. S. "underwoodii" is a hybrid between S. scintilla and S. f. flammula. The breeding distributions of flammula, simoni, and torridus are entirely allopatric, but the birds may occur together in the nonbreeding season. In particular, a pronounced postbreeding movement may carry many torridus into the breeding areas of flammula and even simoni. A possible evolutionary history of these forms is proposed in relation to post-Pleistocene climatic changes, ecological requirements, and probable populations sizes. 
10.2307/4088602|An 888-base-pair segment of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene was sequenced for New World barbets, Old World barbets, toucans, and several outgroup taxa. Toucans were consistently identified as the sister taxon of the New World barbets by a variety of analyses. These data are fundamentally different from earlier morphological analyses and the DNA-DNA hybridization study of these same taxa. Our results provide an independent confirmation of relationships proposed in both the morphological and molecular studies-that New World barbets and toucans are sister taxa with respect to Old World barbets.
4089551|Little is known about the structure and function of hummingbird vocalizations. We studied the vocalizations of Blue-throated Hummingbirds (Lampornis clemenciae) at two sites in southeastern Arizona. Songs were produced by males and females. Male songs consisted of arrays of notes organized in clusters of "song units." Within sites, all males shared the same song units. Individual differences occurred in some temporal aspects of song, and slight but consistent differences in note structure occurred between the two sites. The organization of units within songs was marked by rigid syntax, and long songs were produced by agglutination of units. Male songs may function in territorial advertisement and mate attraction. Female songs were very different acoustically from those of males and typically were given when females were within a few centimeters of a male. In these situations, the female's song often overlapped temporally with the male's song. Of the hummingbird species studied so far, the Blue-throated Hummingbird has the most complex songs and is the only known species with complex female songs. Blue-throated Humming-birds show convergence with oscines in vocal complexity, song organization, song function, and possible learning of some song elements.
10.2307/4090406| A phylogeny of extant penguins (18 forms) was estimated on the basis of 70 integumentary and breeding characters. Integumentary characters included structure and color of bill and legs, and plumage of adult, immature, and downy chick. Breeding characters included eggs, nesting, and sociability of immatures. Gavia was placed at the root, and 11 species of representative procellariiform groups completed the outgroup. A heuristic parsimony analysis under implied character weights was performed. Ingroup resolution was complete. The analysis recovered monophyly of Sphenisciformes and all the traditional genera. The ingroup topology was ((Eudyptula + Spheniscus) (Aptenodytes (Pygoscelis (Megadyptes + Eudyptes)))). Two suprageneric groups, (Eudyptula + Spheniscus) and (Megadyptes + Eudyptes), were well supported. Additional analyses under equal weights resulted in a consensus topology that differed only in the internal resolution of Spheniscus. Integumentary and breeding characters performed optimally at the ordinal and generic levels, and also provided resolution and varying degrees of support at the supra- and intrageneric levels. /// Se estim la filogenia de los pingvinos vivientes (18 formas) en base a 70 caracteres tegumentarios y reproductivos. Los caracteres tegumentarios incluyeron el color y estructura del pico y las patas, y el plumaje del adulto, inmaduro y pichn. Los caracteres reproductivos incluyeron huevos, nidificacin y sociabilidad de los inmaduros. La raz se ubic en Gavia, y 11 especies de grupos representativos de procelariformes completaron el grupo externo. Se ejecut un anlisis heurstico de parsimonia bajo pesos implicados. La resolucin del grupo interno fue completa. El anlisis apoy la monofilia de Sphenisciformes y recuper todos los gneros tradicionales. La topologa del grupo interno fue ((Eudyptula + Spheniscus) (Aptenodytes (Pygoscelis (Megadyptes + Eudyptes)))). Dos grupos supragenricos, (Eudyptula + Spheniscus) y (Megadyptes + Eudyptes), estuvieron bien apoyados. Anlisis adicionales bajo pesos iguales resultaron en un consenso que difiri solamente en la resolucin interna de Spheniscus. Los caracteres de tegumento y reproduccin fueron ptimos al nivel ordinal y genrico, y tambin aportaron resolucin y diferentes grados de apoyo en los niveles supra- e infragenricos. 
10.2307/4085499|The foraging behavior of fall migrant Ruddy Turnstones was studied on the Massachusetts coast on 2 different substrates, barnacle-covered rocks and sand and weed-littered flats. Foraging rates differed significantly between the 2 substrates. On each substrate the foraging and success rates of adults and juveniles differed significantly while the frequencies of success were similar for both age-classes. The observed differences in foraging rates of adults and juveniles may be due to the degree of refinement of foraging techniques. Experience in searching for and handling prey may be a primary factor accounting for these differences, and foraging performance probably improves with age and experience. Alternatively, the differences may be due to the presence of inefficient juveniles that do not survive to adulthood. Both adults and juveniles in the tail-depressed posture were dominant in aggressive interactions much more frequently than birds in the tail-level posture. In mixed flocks of foraging adult and juvenile turnstones, the four possible types of aggressive interactions occurred nonrandomly. Adult over juvenile interactions occurred more frequently than expected, and juvenile over adult interactions were never seen. A tentative explanation of this phenomenon may be that juveniles misinterpret or respond ambivalently to messages conveyed behaviorally by adults and thus become especially vulnerable to aggression by adults. The transiency of migrants made it unfeasible to evaluate the persistence of this nonrandom aggression.
4085397|Playback experiments performed in a colony of Least Terns near Fort Macon, North Carolina, demonstrated that adults can distinguish the call of their mate from that of a stranger. Sonagram analysis of the "Purrit-tit-tit" call, the most common vocalization used when an adult approaches its mate, revealed that both temporal and spectral characteristics of the first note of the call varied significantly among individuals, whereas all measured features of the second note were not significantly different for different birds. Presumably the first note is used to convey an individual's identity, while the second note indicates a tendency to approach the mate and perform certain courtship behaviors.
4088673|We used plastic capsules that were perforated at one end and filled with silica gel to measure the water vapor pressure (P
10.2307/4090492| Renesting decisions and annual fecundity are crucial for interpreting other demographic information, yet are infrequently reported. We used radiotelemetry to monitor female Dickcissels (Spiza americana) throughout the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons in southeastern Illinois. Overall fecundity (regardless of whether females remained in the study area throughout the breeding season) was 0.61  0.13 female fledglings per year. Of females that remained within the study area, 94% fledged young (1.25  0.15 female fledglings per year). Most females (62%) that experienced nest failure emigrated from the study area (moved >10 km) in 2.8  0.6 days; others (36%) initiated subsequent nests in 8.5  0.8 days. After fledging 1 young, 95% of females ceased breeding for the season. Successful and failed nest sites were indistinguishable on the basis of vegetative characteristics. Moreover, replacement nests had similar vegetative characteristics and were similar distances from habitat edges, compared with initial nests, which suggests that female Dickcissels do not or cannot "improve" nest-site characteristics in response to nest failure. We observed two behaviors unusual in female Dickcissels: one bird that fledged two broods in one season, and the return of five females banded in 1999 to the study site in 2000. /// La decisin de anidar ms de una vez por estacin reproductiva y la fecundidad anual son elementos cruciales para interpretar informacin demogrfica de diversa ndole, pero estos datos son reportados con poca frecuencia. Usamos radio-telemetra para monitorear a hembras de Spiza americana durante las estaciones reproductivas de 1999 y 2000 en el sudeste de Illinois. La fecundidad global (sin considerar si las hembras permanecieron en el rea de estudio durante la estacin reproductiva) fue de 0.61  0.13 pichones hembra emplumados por ao. De las hembras que permanecieron en el rea de estudio, el 94% produjo juveniles (1.25  0.15 pichones hembra emplumados por ao). La mayora de las hembras (62%) que perdieron sus nidadas emigraron del rea de estudio (se desplazaron >10 km) en 2.8  0.6 das; otras (36%) iniciaron nidadas subsecuentes en 8.5  0.8 das. Despus de emplumar un volantn, el 95% de las hembras cesaron de criar por el resto de la estacin. Los sitios de ubicacin de nidos exitosos y de nidos que fracasaron fueron indistinguibles con relacin a las caractersticas de la vegetacin. Ms an, los nidos vueltos a instalar presentaron caractersticas de la vegetacin similares y estuvieron a distancias similares del borde comparados con los nidos iniciales, lo que sugiere que las hembras de S. americana no "mejoraron" o no pudieron "mejorar" las caractersticas de los sitios de anidacin en respuesta al fracaso del nido. Observamos dos comportamientos inusuales en hembras de S. americana: un ave que produjo dos nidadas en una sola estacin, y el regreso al sitio de estudio en el 2000 de cinco hembras anilladas en 1999. 
10.2307/4088200|Whip-poor-wills (Caprimulgus vociferus) forage by sallying from a perch, are active during periods of the night with moonlight, and synchronize hatching with the lunar cycle. In contrast, Common Nighthawks (Chordeiles minor) forage during continuous flight and do not increase activity during moonlit periods or synchronize their breeding activities with the lunar cycle. We used data on the foraging activity and nest timing of the Common Poorwill (Phalaenoptilus nuttallii) to test the hypothesis that moonlight influences the activity patterns and nest timing of this sallying caprimulgid. If foraging strategy alone influences the response to the lunar cycle, activity by Common Poorwills should be correlated with lunar light levels and hatching should be synchronized with the lunar cycle. Our results support the general prediction that lunar light allows poorwills to forage during periods of the night. However, contrary to expectations, increased foraging activity was correlated only with increasing moon height and not the percent of the moon face illuminated. Furthermore, the nesting cycle was not synchronized with the lunar cycle. We conclude that knowledge of foraging style alone is not sufficient to predict the nature of lunarphilia by goatsuckers. We suggest that habitat choice, duration of twilight, the number of breeding attempts, and the physiological ability to enter torpor also may be important factors mediating lunar influence on foraging activity.
4085932|Hatchability, defined as the proportion of eggs surviving to the end of incubation that hatch, varies among populations of birds. Here, I examine the effects of a variety of variables on hatchability in a comparative analysis of 155 studies of 113 species. Of the ecological and geographical variables considered, latitude, diet, and nest type explain a significant amount of the variance in hatchability due to a significant increase in hatchability along a latitudinal gradient and a decrease in hatchability in carnivorous and hole-nesting species compared to herbivorous and open-nesting species. Of the variables related to sociality, all affect hatchability adversely as they increase along a sociality gradient (defined as the likelihood of increasing frequency of interactions with conspecifics), significantly so in the case of social organization and possibly incubation pattern. In addition, hatchability of eggs in nests of Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus) groups containing more than one breeding male and/or female is significantly lower than that observed in groups with a single breeding individual of each sex. Although the causes of these trends in hatchability are unclear, these results provide comparative evidence to support the hypothesis that there is a direct, detectable reproductive cost to individuals pursuing strategies that are more social.
10.2307/4089637|We investigated hatchling and fledgling sex ratios in Eurasian Oystercatchers (Haematopus ostralegus) using random amplified polymorphic DNA markers. The overall hatchling (53% males, n = 374 hatchlings from 177 broods) and fledgling (49% males, n = 51) sex ratio did not differ significantly from unity. Hatchling and fledgling sex ratios were not correlated with laying date, clutch size, brood size, egg-laying sequence, territory quality, male age, or male breeding experience, but hatchling sex ratio was positively correlated with age and breeding experience of females (0.05 < P < 0.075, n = 71). Older females produced more sons irrespective of the position of the offspring in the egg-laying sequence. Fledging mass was not correlated with female age, so the Trivers and Willard (1973) hypothesis is unlikely to explain our results. Sons dispersed less than daughters, so the local resource competition hypothesis of Clark (1978) might apply. The adaptive significance of a male-biased sex ratio in clutches produced by older females is speculative because the costs and benefits of dispersing versus philopatric offspring to parents and offspring are largely unknown.
10.2307/4088899|Cold-front passage has long been associated with south-bound raptor migration in northeastern North America. We used Hawk Mountain Sanctuary's 55-year database to calculate abundance indices of 14 raptor species at the site. These indices, together with data taken from coincidental U.S. Department of Commerce daily weather maps, were used to investigate the extent to which raptor migration at Hawk Mountain is associated with the passage of cold fronts. Daily abundance indices for 12 of 14 raptor species exhibited significant increases during one or more of the three days following frontal passage. Three basic patterns emerged, which differed in the number of days after frontal passage on which peak migration occurred. The patterns fit the flight behavior of the species involved. We failed to detect a long-term linear trend in numbers of fall-season cold fronts at the site. Stepwise multiple-regression analyses revealed that annual-abundance indices were not influenced by annual variation in the numbers of cold fronts passing the Sanctuary at the time of fall migration. Overall, our analyses confirm the results of earlier, short-term studies demonstrating within-year effects of frontal passage on raptor migration. Our failure to detect among-year effects of frontal passage rates on annual counts of raptors migrating past the site supports the notion that cold fronts enhance fall migration rather than simply making the birds more visible to observers at such times by forcing them closer to the watch site.
10.1525/auk.2013.12213|We used archival geolocators to track the migration of Red-eyed Vireos (
10.1525/auk.2012.12017|Global climate cycles have been shown to influence demographic rates of birds at local scales, but few analyses have examined these effects at larger, regional scales. We examined the relationship of broad-scale climate indices to apparent survival of a subspecies of Swainson's Thrush (
4088688|We reduced the foraging efficiency of female Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) during the prelaying period by removing one-third of their flight feathers by clipping them at their bases. Clipped females laid later and smaller clutches, and their clutch sizes were reduced more than what would be expected from the normal seasonal clutch-size decline. Feather clipping reduced subsequent female condition as measured by mass, breast-muscle thickness, and fat deposits, but these effects did not become significant until after the females laid their eggs. Females that were clipped fed their young at lower frequencies and were less likely to return the following breeding season. There were no effects of female condition near clutch completion on laying date, and there was a strong effect of laying date on clutch size, with only the most ambiguous of four condition measures (body mass) having a significant, albeit weaker, effect. Coupling these results with those of another study on unmanipulated swallows, it appears likely that female Tree Swallows base their early-season reproductive decisions largely on their income from foraging rather than the size of somatic stores of resources.
10.2307/4089678|I monitored 384 California Gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica) nests at five study areas in western Riverside County, California, from 1992 through 1995. Overall, 78.9% of the nesting attempts failed (52.9% from nest predation), and 21.1% fledged young. Vegetation measurements were taken at 207 of 384 nest locations and at 207 randomly selected locations within gnatcatcher territories. Nest placement was not random in that gnatcatchers placed their nests in locations with greater cover and height of perennial vegetation, increased horizontal structural homogeneity, and increased vertical structural homogeneity relative to random locations. The volume of gnatcatcher nest shrubs was lower than that of random shrubs, and concealment was higher at nests than at random shrubs. Nevertheless, variables that differed significantly between nests and random locations were not significantly associated with nesting success, nest predation, nest abandonment, or productivity. The use of specific perennial shrub species as nest substrates was not proportional to the availabilities of the shrub species within the study areas, yet I found no relationship between nesting success and the species of nest shrub. Nesting success appeared to be unrelated to the abundance of perennial shrubs at four of five study areas. My results suggest that factors affecting the fate of California Gnatcatcher nests operate at scales larger than the nest site or nest patch.
10.2307/4090242| We used miniature infrared video cameras to monitor Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nests during 1998-2000. We documented nest predators and examined whether evidence at nests can be used to predict predator identities and nest fates. Fifty-six nests were monitored; 26 failed, with 3 abandoned and 23 depredated. We predicted predator class (avian, mammalian, snake) prior to review of video footage and were incorrect 57% of the time. Birds and mammals were underrepresented whereas snakes were over-represented in our predictions. We documented 9 nest-predator species, with the southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans) taking the most nests (n = 8). During 2000, we predicted fate (fledge or fail) of 27 nests; 23 were classified correctly. Traditional methods of monitoring nests appear to be effective for classifying success or failure of nests, but ineffective at classifying nest predators. /// Utilizamos cmaras de video en miniatura de infrarrojo para monitorear nidos de Hylocichla mustelina entre 1998 y 2000. Documentamos a los depredadores de los nidos y examinamos si la evidencia en los nidos puede ser usada tanto para predecir las identidades de los depredadores como para predecir el destino de los nidos. Se monitorearon 56 nidos; 26 fallaron, 3 fueron abandonados y 23 depredados. Predijimos el tipo de depredador (ave, mamfero o serpiente) antes de revisar las imgenes de video. Nuestras predicciones fueron incorrectas el 57% de las veces, y subestimaron a las aves y los mamferos mientras que sobrestimaron a las serpientes. Documentamos 9 especies depredadoras de nido, siendo la ardilla voladora del sur (Glaucomys volans) la que depred el mayor nmero de nidos (n = 8). Durante el ao 2000, predijimos el destino (emplumamiento o falla) de 27 nidos; 23 fueron correctamente clasificados. Los mtodos tradicionales de monitoreo de nidos parecen ser eficaces para determinar el xito o fracaso de los nidos, pero ineficaces para determinar la identidad de los depredadores de nido. 
25150249|Using shared songs is believed to be an integral part of neighbor communication and territory establishment strategies among many avian species with repertoires. Previous studies of two western subspecies of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) reported a high level of song sharing among neighboring males, whereas studies of an eastern subspecies have reported a very low level. The purpose of our study was to investigate another population of the eastern subspecies to determine whether higher song-sharing levels existed within its range. Every song in the repertoire of 29 males was compared with the songs of all other males to assess the number of shared songs. For each male, we calculated the mean song-sharing level with neighbors and non-neighbors. Males shared, on average, 33% of their repertoire with neighbors, significantly more than they shared with non-neighbors (27% of their repertoire). Two first-year males learned whole song types from several individuals and preferentially learned the song types shared among those individuals. Our results suggest that the eastern and western subspecies may not differ genetically in the way they learn songs, because song-sharing levels and song learning in our population were more similar to those of the western subspecies than to those of other populations within its own subspecies. Song-sharing differences among eastern populations may be explained instead by factors acting at the level of individual populations. /// L'utilisation de chants partags est considre comme faisant partie intgrante de la communication entre voisins et des stratgies d'tablissement des territoires chez plusieurs espces aviaires possdant des rpertoires. Des tudes antrieures portant sur deux sous-espces de l'Ouest de Bruant chanteur (Melospiza melodia) ont rapport un niveau lev de chants partags entre les mles voisins, alors que les tudes d'une sous-espce de l'Est ont rapport un niveau trs faible. Le but de notre tude tait d'examiner une autre population de la sous-espce de l'Est afin de dterminer si des niveaux plus levs existaient dans son aire de rpartition. Chaque chant du rpertoire de 29 mles a t compar  ceux de tous les autres mles pour valuer le nombre de chants partags. Pour chaque mle, nous avons calcul le niveau moyen de chants partags avec les voisins et les non voisins. Les mles partageaient, en moyenne, 33% de leur rpertoire avec leurs voisins, soit significativement plus que ce qu'ils partageaient avec leurs non voisins (27% de leur rpertoire). Deux mles de premire anne ont appris des chants entiers de plusieurs individus et ont appris de faon prfrentielle les chants partags entre ces individus. Nos rsultats suggrent que les sous-espces de l'Ouest et de l'Est ne soient pas diffrentes gntiquement dans leur faon d'apprendre des chants, car les niveaux de chants partags et l'apprentissage des chants dans notre population taient davantage similaires  ceux des sous-espces de l'Ouest qu' ceux des autres populations de sa propre sous-espce. Les diffrences dans les chants partags parmi les populations de l'Est peuvent tre plutt expliques par des facteurs agissant au niveau des populations individuelles.
10.2307/4089326|Maintaining individual space is a foraging tactic widely used by many adult animals. However, this behavior has not been described for altricial nestling birds. In this study, nestling Arabian Babblers (Turdoides squamiceps) defended individual spaces around themselves and obtained food in relation to the size of these spaces. Each nestling created two circular feeding zones around itself: (1) an internal one (termed exclusive space), within which it usually succeeded in preventing nest mates from obtaining food; and (2) an external one (shared space), within which the nestling competed for food with siblings according to its relative strength. The first indication of the imminent death of a nestling was when siblings began receiving food inside its exclusive feeding space. Stability of feeding spaces was tested by adding a fifth nestling to the nest. None of the exclusive feeding spaces decreased, and feeding rates within them remained constant. In contrast, feeding rates in the shared feeding spaces diminished as a consequence of their reduction in size. It seems that a nestling's survival depends on its ability to defend its exclusive feeding space. This tactic may enable Arabian Babbler nestlings to obtain food and survive in their cooperative as well as competitive nest environment in a relatively nonaggressive manner.
10.2307/4089365|We describe a new species of pygmy-owl that is restricted to very wet cloud forest at 1,400 to 2,000 m in elevation along the Pacific slope of the western Andes of Colombia and Ecuador. This taxon had been long overlooked as a result of its morphological similarity and geographic proximity to the Andean Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium jardinii), but it is vocally very distinct and exhibits subtle but consistent morphological differences as well. Vocally, the new species is most similar to the Costa Rican-Panamanian form G. costaricanum and to the nominate subspecies of Northern Pygmy-Owl (G. gnoma), but again, consistent differences exist in vocalizations and morphology. Glaucidium costaricanum has long been considered a subspecies of G. jardinii, but at least one recent author treated it as a subspecies of G. gnoma. Genetic, vocal, ecological, and morphological data indicate that G. costaricanum should be elevated to species level, and it along with the new species are considered allospecies within the Northern Pygmy-Owl superspecies complex.
10.2307/4088778|We dissected carcasses of neonates belonging to ducks and geese (Anatidae; 8 species), shorebirds (Charadriidae and Scolopacidae; 12 species), gulls and terns (Laridae; 3 species), and nonanseriform water birds (Podicipedidae and Rallidae; 2 species) ranging in yolk-free lean wet body mass from 2.5 to 70 g. We have fitted allometric relationships between the lean wet mass of each component and the lean wet yolk-free neonatal body mass. The exponents of the relationships of the brain mass (0.73) or head mass (0.85) to neonatal body mass were significantly lower than 1. The exponents did not differ significantly from 1 for the heart, whole leg, leg bone, liver, intestines, pectoral muscles, skin, stomach, wings, feathers, yolk (wet and dry), and remainder of the body. The exponent for leg muscle mass (1.18) was significantly higher than 1. This suggests that larger chicks may have a higher potential for thermogenic heat production. At a given body mass, no differences could be detected with respect to the lean fresh leg muscle mass among ducklings, shorebirds, and the nonanseriform water birds. However, the high fractional lipid-free dry lean matter content of the leg muscles of ducklings (which might represent a high amount of contractile proteins in these muscles) could explain their observed high thermogenic heat production in response to cold stress. The exponents of feather mass and lean wet skin mass to body mass were significantly higher than 0.67 (i.e. surface-to-volume relationship of a sphere), in accordance with our previous finding that large neonates have a relatively lower minimal thermal conductance per unit surface area than smaller chicks.
4087714|I observed 96 pairs of Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus) and 105 pairs of Red-headed Woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) during three breeding seasons in urban and rural areas in Oktibbeha County, Mississippi. European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and Red-bellied Woodpeckers initiated nests in late March and early April; Red-headed Woodpeckers nested during the first week of May. Most competition for freshly excavated nest sites was between starlings and Red-bellied Woodpeckers. Fifty-two percent of Red-bellied Woodpecker nest cavities and 7% of Red-headed Woodpecker nest cavities were usurped by starlings. Differences in nest-site parameters of the woodpecker species appeared to influence starling choice of cavities. Pairs of Red-bellied Woodpeckers unable to avoid starling competition suffered apparent reductions in fecundity. Ultimately, pairs able to avoid starling competition in March and April should be at a selective advantage.
4086969|We studied hourly variation in measures of the abundance of individual species and the species composition of bird assemblages in different habitats and seasons in the western Sierra Nevada of California, using 8- and 10-min point counts. Results failed to show clearly that any one of the first 4-5 h after sunrise is better than another. The advantages of more counts or more sites sampled, or both, gained by counting over several hours outweigh any advantage that might result from restricting counts to periods that give counts with lower variance. Species richness was better measured by sampling over a period of several hours than by sampling an equal period of time during any single hour.
4087956|I assessed patterns of allozymic variation in Larus argentatus (Herring Gulls), L. cachinnans (Yellow-legged Herring Gulls), L. fuscus (Lesser Black-backed Gulls), L. glaucoides (Iceland Gull), L. hyperboreus (Glaucous Gulls), and L. marinus (Greater Black-backed Gull). I surveyed 34 presumed structural gene loci over 479 individuals. All birds were monomorphic and fixed for the same allele at each of 26 loci. There were neither fixed allelic differences nor marker alleles for the different species across eight polymorphic loci. Quantitative geneflow estimates are suggestive of high interspecific gene flow (Nm = 2.1-10.7 per generation). Gene-diversity analyses provide evidence that almost all allozyme variation (>90%) occurs within colonies, whereas almost none (2.3%) is accounted for by diversity among species. All these species are similar in both protein encoding genes and morphology, which implies overall genetic similarity. My results are consistent with the hypothesis that these taxa are of very recent origin, and indicate that speciation need only involve a minute portion of the total genome. Additional genetic differentiation such as the accumulation of rare alleles or fixed allelic differences at electrophoretically detectable loci may simply be an artifact of the time elapsed subsequent to speciation.
4085931| Naturally occurring populations of three species of colonial passerine birds, the Pion Jay (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus), Great-tailed Grackle (Quiscalis mexicanus), and Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica), were tested for conspecific egg discrimination and the presence of intraspecific brood parasitism that such discrimination would imply. Current theory predicts that intraspecific brood parasitism, or cheating, might occur when a brood parasite's fitness is enhanced relative to a nonparasite's. Due to the high cost of parental care in altricial birds, selection for defenses against such cheaters should also be intense. Egg rejection is the most common selection mechanism against interspecific brood parasites, and I tested for the presence or absence of this mechanism. Single eggs were switched between pairs of 19 Pion Jay nests, 15 Great-tailed Grackle nests, and 14 Barn Swallow nests, and a fifth egg was added to each of 8 Pion Jay nests. No significant level of rejection of introduced eggs was found, possibly either because the cost of cheating is too great or because egg discrimination and rejection are not the mechanisms of selection against cheaters in the populations tested. 
4085817|Distributional, ecological, and behavioral notes are presented for 34 species of poorly known birds from the Upper Urubamba River drainage in southern Peru. Records and data come from work by personnel of the LSU Museum of Zoology between 1974 and 1979.
25488611|Costa's Hummingbird (
10.2307/4090271| We quantified foraging rates and foraging visibility metrics for four Neotropical warblers-Slate-throated Redstart (Myoborus miniatus), Golden-crowned Warbler (Basileuterus culicivorus), Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla), and Black-and-White Warbler (Mniotilta varia)-under flocking and solitary conditions in western Panama to test hypotheses regarding the relative influences of predation pressure and social facilitation on foraging behavior. We also compared foraging behavior in primary forests and in traditionally managed shade coffee fields for two species (Slate-throated Redstart and Wilson's Warbler) to estimate spatial variation in foraging behavior and compare it to variation due to social situation (flocking or solitary). We then assessed the contribution of spatial variation in flocking propensity to the total spatial variation in foraging rates within species. We observed very little overall within-species variability in foraging behavior between social situations or study locations. Only Slate-throated Redstart's behavior was consistent with the hypothesis that flock membership reduces predation pressure and therefore reduces the amount of foraging time spent being vigilant against predators, allowing birds to forage more quickly and find more prey items per minute. No species' behavior supported the hypothesis that flocking birds forage more efficiently than solitary birds by obtaining useful information from flock mates about the location or suitability of foraging resources or techniques. The effort required to find prey items did not vary between study locations (forest and coffee field plots) for Wilson's Warbler. Because flocking also had no effect on foraging behavior of Wilson's Warbler, a reduction in flocking propensity in coffee habitat, relative to forest, did not cause further foraging behavior differences between study locations. Spatial variation in Slate-throated Redstart's foraging behavior independent of a flocking effect was minor; but flocking affected foraging rates, and flocking propensity was lower in coffee fields than in forest, so that location and flocking effects combined to widen foraging rate differences between locations. Thus, variations in flocking behavior and foraging behavior interacted differently for those two species. /// Con el fin de poner a prueba hiptesis sobre la influencia relativa de la presin de depredadores y la facilitacin social sobre el comportamiento de forrajeo, cuantificamos las tasas de forrajeo y mediciones de visibilidad de forrajeo en cuatro especies de reinitas neotropicales (Myoborus miniatus, Basileuterus culicivorus, Wilsonia pusilla y Mniotilta varia) cuando se encontraban en bandadas y cuando estaban solitarias en el oeste de Panam. Tambin comparamos el comportamiento de forrajeo observado en bosques primarios y en plantaciones de caf de manejo tradicional de sombra para dos especies (M. miniatus y W. pusilla) con el fin de estimar la variacin espacial en el comportamiento de forrajeo y compararla con la variacin debida a la situacin social (bandada o solitaria). Luego evaluamos la contribucin de la variabilidad espacial de la propensin a formar bandadas a la variacin espacial total de las tasas de forrajeo dentro de cada especie. En general observamos muy poca variacin intraespecfica en el comportamiento de forrajeo entre las situaciones sociales o sitios de estudio. Slo el comportamiento de M. miniatus fue consistente con la hiptesis que predice que la participacin en una bandada reduce la presin de depredacin y por ende reduce tambin el tiempo de forrajeo que se utiliza en permanecer vigilante ante los depredadores, lo que permite a las aves forrajear con mayor rapidez y encontrar ms presas por minuto. Ninguno de los comportamientos de las especies observadas apoy la hiptesis que predice que las aves en bandadas forrajean con mayor eficiencia que las aves solitarias al obtener informacin de los compaeros de bandada sobre la ubicacin o conveniencia de recursos alimenticos o tcnicas de forrajeo. El esfuerzo requerido para encontar una presa no vari entre sitios de estudio (bosque y plantaciones de caf) para W. pusilla. Debido a que el comportamiento de bandada tampoco tuvo un efecto sobre el comportamiento de forrajeo en W. pusilla, una reduccin en la propensin a formar bandadas en las plantaciones de caf en comparacin con los bosques no caus diferencias adicionales en el comportamiento de forrajeo entre sitios de estudio. Independientemente de un efecto de bandada, la variacin espacial en el comportamiento de forrajeo de M. miniatus fue menor, pero el comportamiento de bandada afect las tasas de forrajeo. La propensin a formar bandadas fue menor en las plantaciones de caf que en los bosques, de modo que los efectos combinados de bandada y de sitio aumentaron las diferencias en las tasas de forrajeo entre sitios de estudio. Por lo tanto, las variaciones en el comportamiento de bandada y de forrajeo interactan de manera diferente en las dos especies. 
4086526|Previous observations of forced copulation (FC) in captive Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) showed that most FC attempts were directed at females in prelaying and laying condition and that most FC's occurred in the morning when the females were leaving their nests after egg laying. In order to determine whether or not there is a physiological basis for these observed temporal patterns, sperm competition in captive Mallards was examined using artificial insemination and genetic markers. Results indicated that if a female was inseminated with two competing doses of semen at different time intervals, the proportion of progeny from the first and the second inseminations was not significantly different if these inseminations were simultaneous, 1 h, or 3 h apart. There was a preponderance of progeny (70%) from the second insemination, however, if the inseminations were 6 h apart. Insemination of females less than 1 h after egg laying resulted in 25% of the eggs laid the following morning being fertile. Only 1 of 179 eggs laid the following morning was fertile when the females were inseminated more than 1 h after egg laying. Our experiment demonstrated that there is an insemination "window," a short period when new sperm are least likely to meet competition from sperm already in the oviduct and from sperm introduced later, and it provided a possible explanation for the observed timing of FC attempts.
4090636| Accumulation of the advanced glycation endproduct pentosidine (Ps) in skin collagen is strongly correlated with age of adult birds. This allows age estimates to be made without use of banding data. We examined the stability of Ps in museum study skins. We took skin samples from six Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) study skins at three-month intervals over the course of one year. The data revealed no significant variation in Ps concentrations within individual birds, which indicates that Ps is stable in study skins for at least 12 months. These data suggest that inferences concerning age might be made from similarly prepared specimens from collections around the world. Additionally, we found significant variations in Ps concentrations in skin collagen among six different locations on the study skins. This suggests that care and consistency are important when excising skin for Ps measurement and age estimation in birds. /// La acumulacin de la pentosidina (Ps), el producto final de la glucosilacin avanzada en el colgeno de la piel, est fuertemente correlacionada con la edad de las aves adultas. Esto permite hacer estimaciones de la edad sin usar datos de anillado. Examinamos la estabilidad de la Ps en pieles de estudio de museo. Tomamos muestras de piel de seis pieles de Bonasa umbellus en intervalos de tres meses durante el curso de un ao. Los datos no mostraron variacin significativa en las concentraciones de Ps para cada ave individual, lo que indica que la Ps es estable en las pieles de estudio durante al menos 12 meses. Estos datos sugieren que pueden hacerse inferencias relacionadas con la edad a partir de especmenes preparados de modo similar en todas las colecciones del mundo. Adems, encontramos variacin significativa en las concentraciones de Ps en el colgeno de las pieles de estudio provenientes de seis lugares diferentes. Esto sugiere que es importante tener cuidado y ser consistente cuando se extraen muestras de piel para obtener medidas de Ps y para estimar la edad de las aves. 
4087813|I studied comparative breeding biology of bill morphs of the African finch Pyrenestes ostrinus in south-central Cameroon. Bill morphs bred randomly with respect to bill size and differed in diet and feeding efficiencies on various seeds. I designed an analysis to uncover evidence for reproductive divergence between morphs which might be indicative of sympatric speciation. Bill morphs showed no differences in habitat selection for nest sites, clutch size, predation rates, reproductive behavior, and nestling mouth patterns. The distribution of nest initiation dates for large-large and small-small pairs, however, differed significantly. Additionally, the abundance of juvenile large-billed and small-billed morphs were differentially correlated with the densities of two species of sedges on which they differed in handling efficiencies. I hypothesize that reproductive divergence could occur in some geographic regions if changes in rainfall dramatically affected fruiting phenology or diversity of major seeds on which finches feed.
4087712|I calculated food passage rates for caged hummingbirds (Amazilia saucerottei and Chlorostilbon canivetii), after ad libitum feeding and after single meals. Daytime excretion rates for both species conformed to a negative exponential function and were positively correlated with meal size. This supports a negative exponential model, rather than a linear model, of crop emptying rates and confirms that crop emptying rates parallel passage rates in the digestive tract. Active birds fed ad libitum cleared all excess water from their crops and gastrointestinal (GI) tracts in less than 25 min after food deprivation. In daytime trials both species had a statistically significant linear relationship between the size of a meal and the time required to excrete excess water. In 30 min, active birds can pass crop contents that are more than twice the volume of an average meal. This allows the use of 30-min deprivation periods to obtain body-mass measurements that are not subject to water content error. Ad libitum feeding rates were only 45% (Amazilia) and 67% (Chlorostilbon) of estimated maximum food passage rates. Although Chlorostilbon may be feeding at rates closer to its physiological limit, both species seem capable of processing food considerably faster than their ad libitum intake rates.
4088549|Breeding of individually color-banded European Nuthatches (Sitta europaea) was studied in central Sweden during 11 years. The birds bred in natural cavities. Timing of breeding varied between years and was negatively correlated with spring temperature. First-year females bred significantly later than older females and raised fewer young. The latter was not an effect of their later breeding as the difference did not disappear when hatching day was accounted for statistically. First-year females were no more likely than older females to experience total breeding failure. Although participation of the male may be important during breeding, his age had no effect on the variables studied. Thus, experience in breeding may be less important in males than in females.
10.2307/4090276| We examined prevalence of extrapair young (EPY) between first and second broods of a multibrooded passerine, Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe). During the 1998-2000 field seasons, we conducted behavioral observations to assign social parentage to offspring in nests and then conducted paternity analysis on a subset of social families where (1) the male and female maintained their pair bond for all broods within the breeding season, and (2) adults successfully fledged their first brood and subsequently attempted a second brood within the same breeding season. We used three hypervariable microsatellite loci to document the presence and frequency of EPY in first and second brood offspring from 87 social family units where all individuals had been sampled (n = 174 broods, n = 81 social males, n = 82 social females, n = 769 offspring). Although the majority of pairs were both socially and genetically monogamous within a breeding season, 17.2% (15 of 87 families) of all families had EPY in at least one brood and we found two cases of intraspecific brood parasitism. Overall, 9.2% of all broods (16 of 174 broods) contained EPY and 5.1% of all nestlings that hatched were EPY (39 of 769 nestlings). Second broods were more likely to contain EPY than first broods (4.6% first broods with EPY [4 of 87], 13.8% second broods with EPY [12 of 87]). The total number of EPY was greater in second broods than in first broods (1.0% EPY [4 of 411 nestlings] in first broods, 9.8% EPY [35 of 358 nestlings] in second broods). /// Examinamos la ocurrencia de cras extra-pareja (CEP) en la primera y la segunda nidada de un ave paserina (Sayornis phoebe) que presenta mltiples nidadas. Durante las temporadas de campo entre 1998 y 2000, realizamos observaciones de comportamiento para asignar la paternidad social de las cras en los nidos y posteriormente realizamos anlisis de paternidad para un subconjunto de familias sociales en que (1) el macho y la hembra mantuvieron su vnculo durante todas las nidadas dentro del periodo reproductivo, y en que (2) los adultos produjeron una nidada exitosa en el primer intento y subsecuentemente intentaron una segunda nidada dentro del mismo periodo reproductivo. Utilizamos tres loci microsatelitales hipervariables para documentar la presencia y frecuencia de CEP entre cras de primeras y segundas nidadas en 87 familias sociales en que todos los individuos fueron muestreados (n = 174 nidadas, n = 81 machos sociales, n = 82 hembras sociales, n = 769 cras). A pesar de que la mayora de las parejas fueron social y genticamente mongamas durante una misma temporada reproductiva, el 17.2% de todas las familias (15 de 87) tuvieron CEP en al menos una de las nidadas y encontramos dos casos de parasitismo de nidada intraespecfico. En general, el 9.2% de todas las nidadas (16 de 174) contuvieron CEP y el 5.1% de todos los polluelos que eclosionaron (39 de 769) fueron CEP. Las segundas nidadas tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de contener CEP que las primeras (4.6% de las primeras nidadas con CEP [4 de 87] y 13.8% de las segundas nidadas con CEP [12 de 87]). El nmero total de CEP fue mayor en las segundas nidadas que en las primeras (1.0% de CEP [4 de 411 polluelos] en las primeras nidadas y 9.8% de CEP [35 de 358 polluelos] en las segundas nidadas). 
10.2307/4088930|It is commonly assumed that passerine birds with open nests reduce the risk of predation by concealing their nests. At a forest study site in northwestern Pennsylvania, about 50% of the Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) nests were depredated-the primary cause of reproductive failure. To test the hypothesis that concealed nests are less likely to be depredated than conspicuous nests, we examined seven characteristics of the warbler's nest and nest microhabitat in relation to nest predation: nest visibility, vegetation density surrounding the nest, height of nest, height of nest substrate, nest-substrate species, height of cryptic dead-leaf base of nest, and proximity of nest to a microedge. Successful and depredated nests (n = 97) did not differ in any of these variables. In addition, we performed a vegetation-removal experiment in which manipulated nests (n = 15) with surrounding vegetation removed were on average 86% more visible overall than control nests (n = 15). The highly visible manipulated nests did not suffer higher predation than control nests. Contrary to our hypothesis, our results show that nest concealment is not an important factor in predator avoidance for Hooded Warblers. This outcome would be expected if nest predation is the result of nonspecialist predation that occurs by chance and is based on the location of available food in general.
4089546|In a migratory population of Black Redstarts (Phoenicurus ochruros) in central Europe, males were territorial and sang in autumn between the end of molt in early September and the abandonment of territories in October. Participants in autumn singing were adult males past their first potential breeding season; subadults rarely defended territories in autumn. Prior to the autumn singing period, unmated males and males after their first breeding season often dispersed to new locations within the study site. Pair associations with experienced female breeders still present on the breeding ground were preformed. Low winter mortality, site dominance, and fidelity to autumn territories allowed the reformation of 59% of autumnal pair bonds in the following spring. The mating pattern was assortative by age because the initiation of territory acquisition and pair formation was temporally segregated by more than six months between subadult and adult breeders. Males benefitted from mating with experienced females because they started breeding earlier and initiated more breeding attempts per season. Autumnal singing and territoriality, a phenomenon that has not attracted much attention, may play a key role in the understanding of age-related reproductive asymmetries in Black Redstarts. Age-related reproductive performance may be the underlying cause for the evolution of delayed plumage maturation in this species.
10.2307/4090402| Seabirds move throughout the day in changing, patchy environments as they engage in various behaviors. We studied the diurnal abundance dynamics of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) in a habitat patch dedicated to loafing in the Strait of Juan De Fuca, Washington. We constructed three differential equation models as alternative hypotheses and then used model selection techniques to choose the one that most accurately described the system. We validated the model on an independent data set, made a priori model predictions, and conducted a field test of the predictions. Clear dynamic patterns emerged in the abundance of loafing gulls, even though individuals moved in and out of the loafing area more or less continuously throughout the day. Temporal patterns in aggregate loafing behavior are predicted by three environmental factors: day of the year, height of the tide, and solar elevation. This result is important for several reasons: (1) it reduces the aggregate behavior of complicated vertebrates to a simple mathematical equation, (2) it gives an example of a field system in which animal abundances are determined largely by low dimensional exogenous forces, and (3) it provides an example of accurate quantitative prediction of animal numbers in the field. From the point of view of conservation biology and resource management, the result is important because of the pervasive need to explain and predict numbers of organisms in time and space. /// Las aves marinas se mueven a lo largo del da a travs de ambientes cambiantes y distribuidos en parches conforme realizan diferentes comportamientos. Nosotros estudiamos la dinmica de la abundancia diurna de gaviotas Larus glaucescens en un parche de hbitat dedicado al descanso en el estrecho de Juan de Fuca, Washington. Construimos tres modelos basados en ecuaciones diferenciales como hiptesis alternativas y despus empleamos tcnicas de seleccin de modelos para escoger el que mejor describa el sistema. Validamos este modelo usando datos independientes, hicimos predicciones a priori a partir del modelo y realizamos una prueba de dichas predicciones en el campo. Algunos patrones en la dinmica de la abundancia de las gaviotas que estaban descansando fueron claros, aunque algunos individuos se movieron hacia adentro y hacia afuera del rea de descanso de forma ms o menos continua a travs del da. Los patrones temporales en el comportamiento de descanso agregado fueron predichos por tres factores ambientales: el da del ao, la altura de la marea y la elevacin del sol. Este resultado es importante por varias razones: (1) reduce el complicado comportamiento de agregacin de los vertebrados a una simple ecuacin matemtica, (2) da un ejemplo de un sistema de campo en el que la abundancia de los animales est determinada en buena parte por fuerzas exgenas de pocas dimensiones y (3) provee un ejemplo de una prediccin cuantitativa exacta de nmeros de animales en el campo. Desde el punto de vista de la biologa de la conservacin y el manejo de los recursos, este resultado es importante debido a la imperiosa necesidad de explicar y predecir la abundancia de los organismos en el tiempo y en el espacio. 
25488682|Understanding sexual differences in habitat use is important for effective conservation management, particularly with regard to polygynous species, the sexes of which may differ in their responses to land-use change. We examined sex-specific habitat use in the critically endangered Bengal Florican (
4085895|Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica) and Blue-winged Warblers (Vermivora pinus) sing different song types in different contexts. Local dialects exist in the "Unaccented Ending" songs (often termed the "Type II' song for the Blue-winged Warbler), but the "Accented Ending" songs (or the "Type I" songs) vary only slightly throughout the breeding ranges of the two species. The degree of geographical variation in song types suggests that intrasexual selection has promoted dialects in Unaccented Ending (Type II) songs, while intersexual selection may have played a greater role in maintaining the stereotypy of Accented Ending (Type I) songs.
10.1525/auk.2011.10216|Carotenoids can be important antioxidants and immunostimulants for developing embryos and adult birds, and they are often incorporated into colorful sexual displays as signals of individual quality. The allocation of carotenoids to egg yolks and feathers can be affected by a female's physical condition, which can in turn affect offspring growth and survival. We examined relationships between yolk and feather concentrations of carotenoids and various indices of female quality (i.e., body condition, heterophil-tolymphocyte ratio, hematocrit, date of nest initiation, egg mass, reproductive success) in the Yellow-headed Blackbird (
4085313|The avifauna of a small forest island in lowland Ecuador was surveyed to detect recent extinctions. The 87-ha national forest, at Rio Palenque, has had serious declines in bird species numbers, even within the relatively short period of 1973-78. Among the 170 species of forest-dwelling birds, I found no recent records for 19 species, 25 had been last noted in 1975, and 15 presently have precariously low populations. Attributes of the species that had local extinctions included, in order of importance, large body size (predatory habits), general rarity (specialization), or declining populations throughout their range. Illegal hunting was related to the loss of two species at the preserve. The importance of large refuges is reaffirmed by this study.
10.2307/4085261|The use of sheep wool as a nesting material was examined from 1969 through 1975 on the island of Hawaii. Of the 10 bird species studied, six used wool in their nests. Both introduced and endemic birds use wool, with a significantly greater usage by endemic birds. Use of wool in nests appears correlated with the intricacy of a species' nest, with significant differences between degree of usage in complex and simple nests. Roughly built nests, like those of the Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), contained no wool whereas the complex nests of the Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis) had a great deal of it. Birds apparently use wool because of its ready availability and its binding quality. They gathered it from tufts that snag on branches as the sheep pass or from dried skins. The amount of wool in each nest varied both interspecifically and intraspecifically, but in all nests only the body contained wool; the lining was always of other material. A separate study compared an area void of sheep and an adjacent one containing sheep to determine if wool is a preferred and sought-after material. Only the Elepaio was found consistently to travel distances to procure it; the other species used it only when available within their territories.
25488638|We analyzed the seasonality of molt of African Penguins (
4085439|Fluctuations of some aspects of the predatory behavior of the Loggerhead Shrike were examined relative to cycles in prey availability and other physical and biological environmental factors during the nonbreeding period (September 1972-April 1973) near Davis, California. The attack rate of shrikes declined significantly after a minimum temperature threshold was reached, apparently because of the reduced availability of poikilothermic prey at low temperatures. Attack rate stabilized when prey density was high. Average prey size taken was constant with time and well below the maximum that shrikes are capable of capturing. The capture efficiency of shrikes was higher than that reported for other predators. Capture efficiency increased at very low prey density (availability), tending to balance the decreased attack rate. Handling time, though probably a significant variable in predation by shrikes, did not reduce time available for other activities during nonbreeding months. Handling time was highly correlated with length of prey squared.
90008549|Although the family Falconidae, which includes extant falcons and caracaras, has a long evolutionary history, most previously reported fossils referred to this family are isolated single elements. We report a new species,
10.1525/auk.2009.09129|Resident or short-distance migrant birds that occupy urban habitats are known to breed earlier than nearby rural populations, but similar data on long-distance tropical migrants are lacking. To understand the relationship between urbanization and reproductive phenology of a tropical migratory bird species, we (1) described variation in patterns and consequences of breeding phenology across an urban-to-rural gradient and (2) assessed underlying reasons why phenology may be related to urbanization. We studied Acadian Flycatchers (
90008169|The degree to which local song structure reflects the singers population of origin is a long-standing and contentious issue. Young songbirds that settle to breed outside their natal song-dialect area may learn to produce nonnatal dialect by hearing and memorizing these songs during juvenile dispersal. We quantified adult singing rates in a population of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (
10.2307/4089682|We examined patterns of variation in skeletal morphometrics (29 characters), allozymes (34 loci), mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites (n = 74) and fragments (n = 395), and mtDNA sequences (1,739 bp from cytochrome b, ND2, ND6, and the control region) among all species of Toxostoma. The phenetic pattern of variation in skeletal morphometrics generally matched traditional taxonomic groupings (based on plumage patterns) with the exceptions of T. redivivum, which because of its large size clusters outside of its proper evolutionary group (lecontei), and T. occelatum, which did not cluster with T. curvirostre. Skull characters contributed highly to species discrimination, suggesting that unique feeding adaptations arose in different species groups. Although genetic variation was detected at isozyme loci (average heterozygosity = 3.6%), these data yielded little phylogenetic resolution. Similarly, mtDNA restriction sites were relatively uninformative; hence, phylogenetic conclusions were based on sequence data. Phylogenetic analyses confirmed the monophyly of these traditionally recognized assemblages: rufum group (T. rufum, T. longirostre, and T. guttatum), lecontei group (T. lecontei, T. crissale, and T. redivivum), and cinereum group (T. bendirei and T. cinereum). The cinereum and lecontei groups appear to be sister lineages. Monophyly of the curvirostre group (which also includes T. occelatum) was not confirmed. Sequence data suggest that T. occelatum and T. curvirostre, which differ by 7.7% sequence divergence, are probably most closely related to the rufum group. Toxostoma rufum and T. longirostre have similar external appearances and differ by 5.0%. Toxostoma guttatum is restricted to Cozumel Island and often is considered a subspecies of T. longirostre; it differs by more than 5% from the other two members of the rufum group and is a distinct species constituting the basal member of this group. The phenotypically distinctive T. bendirei and T. cinereum differ in sequence divergence by only 1.6%. Overall, mtDNA distances computed from coding genes (mean 8.5%) exceeded distances computed from the control region (mean 7.6%), contrary to expectation. Because neither allozymes nor mtDNA could unambiguously resolve the placement of T. occelatum and T. curvirostre, a scenario involving contemporaneous speciation is suggested. Application of a molecular clock suggested that most speciation occurred in the late Pliocene or early Pleistocene.
10.2307/4089467|Few studies have examined the potential consequences of cowbird (Molothrus spp.) parasitism on entire avian communities. Because cowbirds are host generalists, an obvious opportunity exists for such community-level effects. We developed a model to predict how cowbird abundance affects and is affected by the relative abundances of different types of host species. Toward this end, we divided the passerine hosts of cowbirds into three categories, each having different population dynamic properties: (1) ejectors of cowbird eggs; (2) extinction-prone acceptors of cowbird eggs (species that decline in abundance in response to high levels of cowbird parasitism); and (3) insensitive acceptors of cowbird eggs (species that maintain their abundance even at high levels of cowbird parasitism). Ejectors are sinks for cowbird eggs and thus indirectly benefit extinction-prone hosts. Conversely, insensitive acceptors can raise cowbird young without a concomitant decrease in their own abundance; as such, they indirectly harm extinction-prone species. Although cowbird abundance is determined by the abundance of both ejectors and insensitive acceptors, the reverse is generally not true (i.e. their abundance is independent of cowbird abundance). The mathematical model of cowbird/host community dynamics we present consists of two ordinary differential equations that incorporate the above assumptions about the different classes of hosts and the manner in which they interact with cowbirds. The model predicts that extinction-prone species will have a higher potential to persist when one or more of the following exist: (1) ejectors are relatively more abundant than insensitive acceptors; (2) ejectors are abundant relative to extinction-prone carrying capacity; (3) maximum potential cowbird per-capita population growth rate is small; and (4) the potential effect of cowbirds on extinction-prone population growth rate is small. Extinction-prone species will decline or go extinct in reverse situations.
25488534|We used satellite telemetry to study year-round movements of two cohorts of juvenile Golden Eagles (
10.2307/4087605|Cercomacra manu is a distinctive new species in the family Formicariidae. The species is distributed locally in southeastern Peru and adjacent Bolivia at elevations below 1,200 meters. C. manu is secretive and restricted largely to extensive bamboo thickets. The female is gray below; this unusual feature-along with other plumage and vocal characteristics-places C. manu within a species group that contains four other, allopatric South American taxa. We suggest that manu is closest to C. melanaria of eastern Bolivia and Mato Grosso, Brazil.
4087963|In Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis), we have shown that male participation in care of the young usually has a small effect on the number of nestlings that leave the nest and markedly improves survival of fledglings to the age of independence. Here we ask whether male participation also improves male reproductive success by enhancing female condition for future reproductive efforts. We captured males when their eggs hatched, then released one group immediately (controls) and held the other group (experimentals). The mates of experimental males were therefore deprived of help in rearing their broods. Removed males were quickly replaced by new males, which rarely fed the young of the experimental males but usually mated with the experimental females for later nesting attempts. We compared experimental (unaided) and control (aided) females for differences in the potential costs of their respective reproductive efforts. As measures, we used percent loss of mass during the nestling period and absolute mass at nest-leaving. Mass was regarded as a potential correlate of physical condition that might affect subsequent reproductive success. We also considered whether aided and unaided females were equally likely to attempt a subsequent brood and whether subsequent broods were produced equally rapidly and were of similar quality. When data were combined over years and across brood sizes, unaided females lost more mass and weighed less when their young left the nest. However, the differences were significant in only one year. Unaided females that raised large broods lost more mass than those that raised small broods, whereas brood size did not influence mass in aided females. Treatment groups did not differ in the probability of nesting again after producing fledglings. After nest failure, if females renested, the brood interval was 18% (1.3 days) longer for unaided females; after success and rearing of young to independence, the brood interval of unaided females was ca. 21% (3.4 days) longer. Neither difference was statistically significant. In both groups when first-brood nests succeeded, size of the brood was not correlated with the brood interval. Finally, neither number nor mean mass of eggs in the subsequent clutch differed between unaided and aided females. Even if the greater loss of mass and the somewhat longer brood intervals of unaided females can be interpreted as reflecting poorer physical condition, these apparently had little effect on future reproduction. Instead we suggest that the impact of the absence of male parental care was largely on female success in raising fledglings of the current brood. If so, delayed benefits are not likely to have been important in selecting for paternal behavior in juncos.
10.2307/4088904|We examined the acoustic structure of mobbing calls of 52 species of passerines representing an array of taxa. Marler suggested that calls given during mobbing have characteristics enhancing locatability that include abrupt onsets and a wide frequency range. Only about one-half of the species we studied produced calls during mobbing that had these characteristics. However, clicks (probably produced by bill snapping) sometimes were given during dives at predators. Vocalizations given during mobbing were quite diverse in acoustic structure. Two trends were noted: phylogenetic patterns; and possible convergence in certain species engaged in interspecific flocking.
25150377| Some taxa of North American birds have unknown winter ranges, because of the difficulty in tracking individuals between seasons. Stable isotopes may provide clues to help locate these nonbreeding populations. Previously, no valid records existed for the Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana nigrescens) from October to late April. We used stable-isotope (C, N, and H) analyses to provide estimates of where molt occurs and then searched those areas for individuals of this species. The C and N of rump feathers were consistent with the Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow molting in more saline marshes than the nominate subspecies after the breeding season, which confirms what was already known. The values for the same isotopes from crown feathers revealed that winter molt in the Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow probably occurred in similar coastal brackish habitats. The D of crown feathers indicated that prebreeding molt occurred at latitudes between South Carolina and Virginia. A subsequent search of this region located 18 Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrows, all of which were found in North Carolina or southeastern Virginia. Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrows were found predominantly in brackish marshes similar to their breeding habitat. On the basis of these observations, it appears that Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrows undergo a short southerly migration to a coastal region with substantially warmer winter conditions. This study is the first to make a specific geographic prediction based on stable-isotope analysis and to test the prediction in the field. /// Algunos taxones de aves de Norte Amrica presentan distribuciones invernales desconocidas debido a la dificultad del seguimiento de individuos entre estaciones. Los istopos estables pueden revelar algunas pistas sobre la localizacin de estas poblaciones no reproductivas. Anteriormente, no existan registros vlidos para Melospiza georgiana nigrescens entre octubre y fines de abril. En este estudio utilizamos anlisis de istopos estables (C, N y H) para estimar las localizaciones donde ocurre la muda y posteriormente realizamos bsquedas en estas reas para encontrar individuos de esta especie. El C y N de las plumas de la cola fue consistente con la ocurrencia de la muda post-reproductiva de M. g. nigrescens en cinagas ms salinas que la muda de la subespecie nominal, lo que confirma lo que ya se conoca. Los valores de los mismos istopos de las plumas de la corona revelaron que la muda de invierno de M. g. nigrescens probablemente tambin ocurri en el mismo tipo de hbitat salino costero. El D de las plumas de la corona indic que la muda pre-reproductiva ocurri a latitudes entre Carolina del Sur y Virginia. La bsqueda subsiguiente en esta regin localiz a 18 individuos de M. g. nigrescens, todos en Carolina del Norte o el sureste de Virginia. Estos individuos fueron encontrados predominantemente en cinagas salinas similares a sus hbitats de reproduccin. Con base en estas observaciones, los individuos de M. g. nigrescens al parecer realizan una migracin corta en direccin al sur hacia una regin costera con condiciones invernales substancialmente ms clidas. Este estudio es el primero en hacer una prediccin geogrfica especfica basada en un anlisis de istopos estables y en probar estas predicciones en el campo. 
25488637|Museum specimens are valuable for studies of plumage color in birds, but feather color may fade over time and not accurately reflect the colors of live birds. In particular, it has been suggested that ultraviolet (UV) color may be more susceptible to degradation than human-visible colors. We used a reflectance spectrophotometer to measure feather color in five species of passerines for which museum specimens were collected consistently over the past 100 years. We found that the feather colors of museum specimens collected within the past 50 years were related closely to the feather colors of live birds. In fact, over a wide range of different colors, we found little change in color measurements for recent (<50 years old) specimens. Furthermore, UV color was not affected more severely by fading than human-visible colors when we confined our analyses to recent specimens. These results provide strong support for the continued use of museum specimens to examine coloration in birds, provided that the specimens were collected relatively recently.
4087865|We report relationships between bird species richness (BSR) and physical and biotic attributes of 51 sites in mixed-conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada of California. Three sites were in uncut forest and one was in a permanent shrubfield. The remaining 47 had been logged one to several times in the previous 10 years. Mean BSR in "unforested" sites (n = 20) was 7.6 for 1978 and 1979, combined; that in "forested" sites (n = 31) was 20.1. On 6-ha subplots in the forested sites, BSR averaged 16.7 breeding species in 1978 and 16.5 in 1979. Total crown volume was the best single predictor of BSR in each year separately and in the pooled data set for both years. Total crown volume accounted for 76% of the variance in BSR in the pooled data. Total crown volume and site size made up the best 2-variable subset for predicting BSR in each year separately and in both years combined. Addition of 3 and 4 variables to the predictor subsets accounted for little additional variance in all cases. The simple correlation between foliage height diversity (FHD) and BSR was significant, but when the covariance of FHD with other independent variables, especially total crown volume, was controlled through partial correlation, FHD was among the least useful variables for predicting BSR. BSR was less well predicted on forested and unforested sites separately, with 2-, 3-, and 4-variable subsets accounting for only 38-61% of the variation, compared with 76-84% for all sites combined.
4087383| I used doubly labeled water to study the field metabolic rate (FMR) of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) on Kent Island, New Brunswick, Canada, during the breeding season. I tested the hypothesis that aerially foraging species have higher energy requirements than other species. For incubating female swallows, carbon dioxide production averaged 201.4  15.8 ml
4086409|We examined variation in the calls and facial patterns of Cliff Swallow (Hirundo pyrrhonota) chicks to test the prediction that, in species in which dependent young intermingle, coloniality necessitates parent-offspring recognition and thus favors the evolution of highly variable "signature" traits. The calls of Cliff Swallow chicks were found to be highly distinctive: interindividual variation was significantly greater than intraindividual variation for five measured parameters. Playback experiments indicated that parents could locate their chicks by these signature calls alone. We found that chick faces were individually distinctive as well. Chick faces could be readily distinguished by human observers, although we did not test whether or not Cliff Swallow parents actually use this information. Studies of several swallow species implicate coloniality as the variable in this family that separates species with distinctive chick signatures and strong parental recognition [Cliff Swallows and Bank Swallows (Riparia riparia)] from species in which these traits are weak or absent [Northern Rough-winged Swallows (Stelgidopteryx serripennis) and Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica)].
10.2307/4088507|Sexual wing dimorphism in relation to tail ornaments and body size was studied in the strikingly sexually dimorphic widowbirds and bishops (Euplectes) of the African tropics. Seven widowbirds grow long tails, varying from 7 cm in Fan-tailed Widowbird (E. axillaris) to 0.5 m in the Long-tailed Widowbird (E. progne). Aerodynamic drag increases with tail length, and adaptations to compensate for this cost might be expected (e.g. increasing wing length), a prediction that was supported among the widowbirds. After controlling for overall size dimorphism (estimated by tarsus length), 70% of the variation in residual wing dimorphism among the widowbirds was explained by tail dimorphism. Bishops were more dimorphic in wing length than expected, which may be related to their slow display flight. The results suggest caution in using wing length alone for interspecific comparisons of sexual size dimorphism. Based on tarsus length, the lekking E. jacksoni is more size dimorphic than the average of its congeners, in contrast to what has been concluded in previous studies based on wing length.
10.2307/4089030|I presented four groups of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) with a problem that they had never encountered before. Could they demonstrate the solution to this problem without first practicing or learning the correct sequence of intermediary steps? The problem posed was the reaching of food suspended by a string. The solution required perching above the string and the food, reaching down, pulling up a loop of string, setting the looped-up string onto the perch, stepping onto the string, releasing the string with the bill while simultaneously applying pressure with the foot onto it, then reaching down again to repeat the cycle six to eight times in that precise order before finally securing a piece of dried meat. The results varied enormously between individuals. However, typically a bird approached the string nervously, pecked or briefly yanked on the string, repeated the approach when given another opportunity, extinguished the approach behavior, or suddenly did the entire string-pulling sequence correctly. One of the wild birds performed the entire sequence correctly on his first approach to the string, even though no other bird of that group had shown the behavior. After a bird had acquired the behavior it thereafter performed the behavior correctly without fail. Other behaviors were associated with successful string pulling. From their first trial, the four hand-reared individuals dropped the meat attached to string (and perch) if they were shooed from the perch. In contrast, other birds that were handed the food attached to string attempted to fly off with it, and it required five to nine trials before they refused to do so, apparently learning the consequences of this behavior. Other problems related to food presented on the dangling string also were solved without first overtly trying out the alternatives. These problems involved: (1) crossing the string with food with another string that held a rock; (2) using a novel string with food, next to the previously-rewarded "old" string; and (3) having food on string next to a rock on string, but with insertion of the string on the perch now displaced laterally. In contrast, the birds performed very poorly at some tasks where simple trial-and-error learning quickly would have resulted in appropriate responses. For example, three birds never once (in 79 trials) pulled the correct string in the crossed-strings experiments that another mustered with no trials. The results are discussed in terms of possible insight and alternative mechanisms, including innate behavior and learning.
10.2307/4088158| Recordings of dawn singing by male Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) show that each individual sings its fee-bee song at a wide range of frequencies. Males tend to repeat songs at a given frequency but on average after every 41  SE of 8.8 songs a male shifts the frequency of its song by a statistically significant amount (80 Hz). During any given morning, males may appear to shift among a limited set of discrete frequencies, but over longer time periods intermediate frequencies also are sung. These results suggest that chickadees can vary the frequency of their song more or less continuously over the species' frequency range. When songs of one of three widely spaced frequencies (recorded in previous years) were played back, males replied with songs that had approximately the same frequency as the playback song. Thus, frequency shifting appears, at least in part, to be a form of song matching. These results add to a growing body of evidence that some species with single-song repertoires have evolved effective matching strategies through manipulation of the frequency of their song. 
4085553|Winter territory size in the Sanderling (Calidris alba) on marine beaches varies inversely with prey density. Multivariate analyses suggest that the inverse correlation results indirectly because more intruders are attracted to areas of higher prey density, and increased intruder frequency makes territorial defense more costly. Once the interaction between prey density and intruder density is controlled statistically, prey density has no effect on territory size.
10.2307/4088932| When animals that provide parental care to offspring are faced with actual or potential failure during a breeding bout, the option to continue breeding is countered by the option to cut losses and forego reproduction until the next breeding season. In 1990, we recorded laying date and laying order of eggs in 51 Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) clutches prior to their total loss by flooding. Pairs remained on territory and produced new clutches following a refractory period of 11.6  SD of 1.9 days. Post-loss clutches were initiated synchronously (n = 51 clutches in four days; 89% of all clutches marked in the 7  7 m study plot) but mostly contained significantly fewer and lighter eggs than first clutches. We contrast incubation, hatching and chick survival patterns of these storm-delayed pairs in 1990 with patterns of early-, peak- and late-nesting pairs at the same colony in 1992. The incubation and within-clutch hatching patterns of post-loss clutches 1990 were most similar to those of late nesting pairs in 1992, yet these storm-delayed pairs realized a fledging success similar to that of early-and peak-nesting pairs in 1992. We discuss larid reproductive strategies in the context of conditions that favor successful renesting. 
10.2307/4089893| We studied prey selection of Sandwich Terns (Sterna sandvicensis) in the presence of kleptoparasitising Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus) on Griend, Dutch Wadden Sea, from 1992 to 1998. Most often, gulls robbed larger sandeels rather than herring from terns. Provided that one parent attends the chick, energy intake would be too low for the chicks' survival if exclusively fed on sandeel. By provisioning an increasing proportion of herring, parent terns could theoretically overcome a potential food shortage when the chicks grow older. However, the proportion of herring did not increase with age of chicks in most years. Instead, parents increased their foraging effort with the growth of their offspring. In years with high proportions of food loss, parents left their chicks unattended at the nest more often. In that way, parents were largely able to counterbalance food shortage of offspring. In 1992 and 1996, when diet composition was unfavorable and food losses to gulls were high, parents left their chicks unattended at the nest for 80% of the daylight period. It is argued that the present working level of parents might be higher than in the 1960s. /// Entre 1992 y 1998, estudiamos la seleccin de presas por parte del gaviotn Sterna sandvicensis en presencia de la gaviota cleptoparastica Larus ridibundus en Griend, Mar Holands Wadden. De los dos tipos principales de presas, las gaviotas robaron con mayor frecuencia el aguacioso (Ammodytes sp.) que el arenque, siendo el primero de mayor tamao. En consecuencia, si los polluelos fueran alimentados exclusivamente con aguacioso, su adquisicin de energa sera demasiado baja para sobrevivir, suponiendo que uno de los padres cuida de ellos. Tericamente, si los gaviotines aumentaran la proporcin de arenque que suministran a sus polluelos con el correr del tiempo, podran sobreponerse a una deficiencia inminente de alimento cuando los polluelos se hacen ms viejos. Sin embargo, en la mayora de los aos la proporcin de arenque no aument con la edad de los polluelos. En cambio, los gaviotines disminuyeron su esfuerzo de forrajeo a medida que sus cras crecieron. En aos con altas proporciones de prdida de alimentos, los gaviotines dejaron a sus polluelos solos en el nido ms frecuentemente, de modo que tuvieron la capacidad de compensar el dficit alimenticio de sus cras. En 1992 y 1996, cuando la composicin de la dieta fue desfavorable y la prdida de alimentos fue alta, los gaviotines dejaron a sus polluelos solos en el nido durante el 80% de las horas de luz del da. Se argumenta que el nivel actual de actividad de los parentales podra ser mayor que el de los aos 60. 
10.2307/4089282|Cooperative groups of American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) maintain group territories year-round while often traveling long distances to roost communally at night. Our goal was to discover how territorial crows resolve the conflict between the cohesive nature of group behavior with requirements of dispersal to roost communally. We color-marked crows to study group composition over two years, and radio-tagged crows to study movement among roosts, territories, and feeding areas. Most crows showed diurnal fidelity to the group territory throughout the year. Yet, most birds frequently left territories during the day to forage up to 4 km away. At night, crows roosted either on their territory or 18 km away at a large roost adjacent to a landfill. Crows roosted on territories more often in spring (87%) than in winter (42%). Group cohesion was high on territories, yet we found no evidence for group behavior away from territories. Crows arrived singly both to territories in the morning and to the communal roost in the afternoon. Group cohesion for territorial crows appears to be based on decisions of individuals to return to territories from distant roosting and foraging sites. Group cohesion on territories is tied to retention of breeding sites, whereas dispersal for communal roosting likely is linked to benefits derived from foraging away from territories, particularly in winter when physiological stress is greatest and territorial food supplies are lowest.
4088689|European Stonechats (Saxicola torquata rubicola) from Austria usually lay 5.0 to 5.6 eggs per clutch, whereas their African conspecifics (S. t. axillaris) from Kenya lay 3.0 to 3.1. To determine if this difference has a genetic basis we examined clutch size in both subspecies, as well as in
10.2307/4090116|Egg-capping is the slipping of a hatched eggshell fragment over an intact shell. It is a rare phenomenon among avian species, probably because most eggs in the same clutch hatch synchronously, are similar in size, and parents typically remove debris-including shell fragments-from nests. Hatching asynchrony and egg-size differences are typically more pronounced in the context of interspecific brood parasitism, making conditions for egg-capping more likely. Indeed, egg-capping of host eggs occurred in 33% of clutches of Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe) parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater), always by the earlier hatched cowbird's eggshell, whereas it was not detected in nonparasitized clutches near Ithaca, New York. To detemine experimentally if host parents rejected their own eggs capped by the parasite's shell, cowbird shell fragments were introduced into nonparasitized phoebe clutches either as slipped over intact phoebe eggs (caps) or simply placed into the nests (non-caps). The latency for cowbird egg-fragments to disappear was greater for caps (1-13 days) because all noncaps were removed in <1 day. Whether phoebe eggs hatched was also related to the outcome of the capping treatments: eggs that remained capped for >1 day had a greater probability of hatching failure (0.6) than noncapped eggs (0). Those data suggest that egg-capping by shell-fragments of earlier hatched cowbird eggs reduces phoebes' reproductive success and may represent a fitness cost to hosts in other parasitized species as well. /// El tapado de los huevos es la ubicacin de un fragmento del cascarn de un huevo eclosionado sobre un cascarn intacto. Este fenmeno es raro entre las aves, probablemente porque la mayora de los huevos de una nidada eclosionan sincrnicamente, son de tamao similar y los padres tpicamente remueven desechos de los nidos, incluyendo fragmentos de cascarn. La asincrona de eclosin y las diferencias en tamao de los huevos son tpicamente ms pronunciadas en el contexto de parasitismo de cra interespecfico, lo que hace que la probabilidad de tapado de los huevos sea mayor. De hecho, cerca de Ithaca, Nueva York, los huevos de Sayornis phoebe fueron tapados en el 33% de las nidadas parasitadas por Molothrus ater (siempre por cascarones de ste), mientras que esto no fue detectado en nidadas no parasitadas. Para determinar experimentalmente si los padres hospederos rechazaban sus propios huevos al ser tapados por el cascarn del parsito, se introdujeron fragmentos de cascarones de M. ater en nidos de S. phoebe no parasitados tapando los huevos intactos o simplemente ubicndolos sobre los nidos. Los cascarones puestos sobre los huevos tomaron ms tiempo en desaparecer (1-13 das) que los puestos slo sobre los nidos, todos los cuales fueron removidos en un da o menos. La eclosin de los huevos de S. phoebe tambin estuvo relacionada con el resultado de los tratamientos: los huevos que permanecieron tapados por ms de un da tuvieron una probabilidad de fracasar en la eclosin (0.6) mayor que los no tapados (0). Estos datos sugieren que el tapado de los huevos por fragmentos de cascarones de M. ater reduce el xito reproductivo de S. phoebe, y tambin podra representar un costo en trminos de adecuacin biolgica para otras especies que son parasitadas.
40406077|Breeding populations of grassland birds are declining across North America. Alteration of wintering-ground habitat in Mexico may be a significant causal component in these declines, considering the rapid changes in land use occurring there. We investigated the influence of precipitation, habitat structure, and plant community on the abundance and distribution of grassland passerines in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. We conducted bird and vegetation surveys during 19982007 in 65 plots at two study areas 75 km apart, Sueco and Tinaja Verde. Grassland guild species were the dominant component of the wintering bird community at both study areas. Passerine density at Sueco during winter was directly related to cumulative rainfall from the preceding December to September, a factor known to be strongly correlated with grass production. Herbaceous and woody vegetation structure and habitat type influenced occurrence of migratory grassland birds at the plot level. Nine of 11 study species occurred in a greater proportion of plots at Sueco than at Tinaja Verde, even though grasslands at the latter area were apparently in better condition. Whereas we may have overlooked key factors differentiating habitat quantity in the two study areas, some of the evidence suggests that Sueco is on a migratory route and Tinaja Verde is not. The future of desert grasslands in Chihuahua is in peril because of the ongoing wide-scale conversion to agriculture there and climate-change predictions of lower rainfall in coming decades.
25150262| The demographic significance of parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds") has been debated for years, because manipulative studies are few and mathematical models of cowbird-host systems have not led to tests of their predictions. We combine results from a cowbird-removal experiment (Smith et al. 2002, 2003) with a stochastic simulation model that we developed, to reassess the effect of cowbirds on the annual reproductive success (ARS) and nesting success in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia). Our model followed the breeding success of individual Song Sparrow nests and extrapolated to output variables including ARS, nest survival, and parasitism rates. We parameterized the model with field data from cowbird control sites (i.e., cowbirds not manipulated) and found that output variables matched those observed. We used the reduced parasitism rates observed on cowbird-removal sites, reran the model, and compared output with observed values. On removal sites, ARS was greater than predicted by the model, which indicates that the model failed to account for some biological phenomenon that occurred when cowbirds were in the system. To assess what this phenomenon might be, we conducted further analyses that indicated that cowbirds may facilitate nest predation by "conventional" predators. Using elasticity analyses, we show that cowbirds have their largest effect on ARS through egg removal and that conventional predators are more important than cowbirds in directly affecting nest survival rates. We report that to assess the effect of cowbirds on nest survival, researchers must avoid using the common technique of comparing survival rates of parasitized and unparasitized nests within populations. /// L'importance dmographique du parasitisme par le Vacher  tte brune (Molothrus ater, ci-aprs " vacher ") est une source de dbat depuis plusieurs annes, car les tudes comportant des manipulations sont peu nombreuses et les modles mathmatiques des systmes vacher-hte n'ont pas men  des tests sur leurs prdictions. Nous avons combin les rsultats d'une exprience impliquant le retrait des vachers (Smith et al. 2002, 2003) avec un modle de simulation stochastique que nous avons dvelopp afin de rvaluer l'effet des vachers sur le succs de reproduction annuel (SRA) et le succs de nidification des Bruants chanteurs (Melospiza melodia). Notre modle a suivi le succs de reproduction de nids individuels de Bruant chanteur et a extrapol pour produire des variables dont le SRA, la survie du nid et le taux de parasitisme. Nous avons entr dans le modle les donnes de terrain provenant de sites tmoins (i.e. sans retrait des vachers) et nous avons trouv que les variables produites correspondaient  celles observes. Nous avons utilis le taux de parasitisme rduit observ sur les sites dont les vachers avaient t retirs, rexcut le modle et compar les donnes de sortie avec celles observes. Sur les sites manipuls, le SRA tait plus lev que prvu par le modle, ce qui indique que le modle n'a pas tenu compte d'un phnomne biologique qui s'est produit lorsque les vachers taient dans le systme. Pour identifier ce phnomne, nous avons ralis d'autres analyses qui suggrent que les vachers peuvent favoriser la prdation des nids par des prdateurs " conventionnels ".  l'aide d'analyses d'lasticit, nous montrons que les vachers ont le plus d'influence sur le SRA en retirant les ufs de l'hte et que les prdateurs conventionnels sont plus importants que les vachers en affectant directement le taux de survie des nids. Nous rapportons que pour valuer l'effet des vachers sur la survie du nid, les chercheurs doivent viter d'utiliser une technique ordinaire pour comparer les taux de survie des nids parasits avec ceux des nids non parasits. 
90008584|The Rufous-tailed Tailorbird (
4087177|Restriction enzyme analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of the Black-capped Chickadee (Parus atricapillus), Carolina Chickadee (P. carolinensis), and Tufted Titmouse (P. bicolor) indicate substantial genetic divergence (p = 0.04-0.09). Eleven of 14 enzymes produced fragment patterns that distinguish the two chickadees, revealing a bounty of markers for studies of these sibling species.
4087674|Diet switching between fruits and insects is common among many species of temperate birds. We took advantage of this behavior to examine phenotypic adaptations of birds to different diets. American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were presented with crickets or three species of wild fruits for 3- to 10-day feeding trials. During the course of these trials, we measured utilization efficiencies, nitrogen balance, consumption rates, changes in body mass, and feeding behavior. Metabolizable energy coefficients (energy ingested minus energy excreted is divided by energy ingested) increased over the course of the cricket feeding trial, indicating a lag in digestive responses and suggesting that digestive efficiency is at first compromised when a bird switches diet. Metabolizable energy intake on the cricket diet stayed constant, despite the changes in metabolizable energy coefficients (MEC). This suggests that birds regulated energy intake by balancing consumption rates against rising MECs. Fruit was consumed at higher rates than insects, yet birds did not eat enough fruits to meet energy and nitrogen requirements. Their inadequate consumption rate and subsequent weight loss may have resulted from intake limitation due to digestive constraints or secondary chemicals (toxins) in fruit pulp. MECs on fruit pulp were surprisingly low, considering that so much pulp mass was soluble in neutral detergent and hence potentially digestible. We suggest that these low utilization efficiencies are a result of rapid gut transit times.
10.2307/4088636|An analysis of restriction-site variation in mitochondrial DNA was conducted to examine relationships among five taxa in one group of honeycreepers-the amakihi complex (genus Hemignathus). We analyzed 35 ingroup and 3 outgroup samples. Tree topologies, based on both distance and parsimony methods, grouped taxa into two distinct lineages: the virens-wilsoni lineage; and the chloris-stejnegeri-parvus group. Inter-island sequence divergence (average
10.2307/4088099|We compared restriction fragments of mitochondrial DNA and sequences of portions of the cytochrome b gene of the following: the Hawaiian Goose (Nesochen sandvicensis), five subspecies of the Canada Goose (Branta canadensis), the Pacific Black Brant (B. bernicla nigricans), and the Emperor Goose (Chen canagica). Both comparisons support the association of the Hawaiian Goose and the Canada Goose as sister taxa as well as the association of all four large-bodied subspecies of Canada Geese as separate from the one small-bodied subspecies analyzed here. Bootstrap and winning-sites tests show these associations to be statistically significant. The amount of sequence divergence implies that Hawaiian and Canada Geese diverged from a common ancestor less than three million years ago and that this divergence preceded the divergence of large- and small-bodied Canada Geese only slightly, if at all. Therefore, we suggest a North American origin for the Hawaiian Goose.
4089545|In contrast to the Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana) and Song Sparrow (M. melodia), vocal studies of the congeneric Lincoln's Sparrow (M. lincolnii) are essentially lacking. To provide comparative data on song variation in this species, we obtained and analyzed recordings from 58 males (4,537 songs) breeding in montane meadows of the Sierra Nevada and San Bernardino Mountains, California. Males sang from one to six song types, and repertoire size averaged 3.7 types. No two males shared an identical song type. Males varied their types by changing the number of repetitions of a syllable or by adding, deleting, or substituting one or more syllables (i.e. by changing syllable composition). The number of variants, identified on the basis of differences in syllable composition, averaged 2.6 per song type (range 1 to 12). Individual variability was highest in the terminal elements of the song. Production of variants appears to be a process of "open-ended improvisation" of song types. Similarity of songs on the basis of shared syllables, as calculated by simple matching coefficients, showed a strong pattern of concordance with geography. Pairwise similarity declined with increasing distance between meadows, and meadows from different geographic regions clustered separately in a UPGMA tree. Patterns of geographic variation in song of Lincoln's Sparrows are similar to those observed in Song Sparrows and Swamp Sparrows. Song complexity and repertoire size show different evolutionary trends within Melospiza.
4086177|Embryonic oxygen consumption, incubation period, and hatchling mass do not vary significantly among populations of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) breeding over a 2,900-m altitudinal gradient, despite a 28% decrease in oxygen tension from the lowest to the highest altitude. Calculations suggest that embryos develop normally at 2,900 m at air-cell O
10.2307/4086902|A field study of Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) nesting in and near the Snake River Birds of Prey Area was conducted during 1977-1979. Patterns of parental care differed between female and male eagles during incubation and chick rearing; males consistently captured more food throughout all phases of brood rearing (1.2 vs. 0.6 prey/day), while females typically fed and tended the offspring. During the 7th through 9th week of chick rearing, when the food requirements of nestlings were greatest, the female contributed 43% of the prey biomass. No differences were observed in mean daily capture rates between 1978 and 1979 or between parents of one-chick broods and parents of two-chick broods. Although there were no differences between the sexes in the mean weight of prey captured, there were significant differences among pairs, suggesting differences in prey availability or hunting ability. The daily food consumption of eaglets increased as chick rearing progressed and peaked between the 7th and 9th week. Comparisons between eaglets in different-sized broods revealed that individuals in multiple-chick broods received more food from adults than those in one-chick broods. Late in chick rearing, however, those chicks competing with siblings for food had lower consumption rates.
90008591|One of the most commonly estimated parameters in studies of songbird ecology is reproductive success, as a measure of either individual fitness or population productivity. Traditionally, the success in reproductive success refers to whether, or how many, nestlings leave nests. Here, we advocate that reproductive success in songbirds be redefined as full-season productivity, or
10.1525/auk.2013.12196|We studied patterns of geographic variation in structural size and genetic characteristics of white-cheeked geese inhabiting coastal areas of Hudson Bay, Canada, from northern Manitoba to southern Nunavut to determine the degree of morphological and spatial overlap, if any, between Cackling Geese (
10.2307/4087610|We used DNA fingerprinting to show that, in Purple Martins (Progne subis), forced extrapair copulations (FEPC) result in age-biased extrapair fertilizations. Older males achieved 96% paternity of their broods and increased their fecundity at the expense of young males, which achieved only 29% paternity. Older males recruit young males and females to unused nesting cavities that they had previously defended against other older males. Each year, nearly half (45%) of the breeding martins were recruited young birds not born in the colony. Recruitments are individually timed and begin when each older male's mate has completed a nest. Adult males may have accrued an average of 3.6 fertilized eggs through forced extrapair copulations in addition to eggs produced by their mates (4.5 eggs) for an overall average of 8.1. Noncolonial males without the opportunity for FEPCs would suffer 44% lower lifetime fecundity. Thirty-six percent of the eggs in the nests of young males were the result of egg parasitism, the significance of which is unstudied. These findings support the hypothesis that colonial breeding evolved in Purple Martins to increase the opportunity for extrapair fertilizations. Martins may be an extreme example of a general trend in breeding systems where migration and temperate climate concentrate fertile females in time and space.
4090557| Much of our current understanding of the demographic effects of habitat fragmentation on bird populations is derived from studies of passerines in forests and tallgrass prairie surrounded by woody vegetation. We quantified grassland bird density, nest survival, and productivity in 41 native mixed-grass prairie pastures during 1997-2000 in southern Saskatchewan, Canada. Pastures ranged in size from 18 ha to 11,600 ha and were typically surrounded by agriculture (i.e., ranching and annual cropping). Grassland passerines did not respond strongly or uniformly to patch size. Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii) was the only species whose density increased with pasture size. Patch size had minimal influence on nest survival of Sprague's Pipit or Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella pallida); whereas nest survival increased with patch size for Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) and declined for Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii), Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). Time-specific factors (i.e., nest age, date, and year) were more important predictors of nest survival than patch size. Exploratory analyses indicated that effects of edge distance, pasture shape, or landscape on nest survival were just as likely as patch-size effects. However, effects of edge on Chestnut-collared Longspurs may be governed by landscape-level factors, because nest survival decreased with distance to edge in landscapes with increased amounts of cropland. Our results indicate that mixed-grass prairie parcels 18 ha play a role in the conservation of several grassland passerine species currently in decline, but the conservation of Sprague's Pipit likely depends on maintaining larger tracts of native prairie. /// La majeure partie de notre comprhension actuelle des effets dmographiques de la fragmentation de l'habitat sur les populations d'oiseaux provient des tudes sur les passereaux dans les forts et les prairies d'herbes hautes entoures de vgtation ligneuse. Nous avons quantifi la densit en oiseaux de prairie, la survie des couves et la productivit dans 41 pturages de type prairie herbace indigne en 1997-2000 dans le sud de la Saskatchewan, Canada. Les pturages avaient une taille qui variait de 18  11 600 ha et ils taient gnralement entours par des activits agricoles (i.e. levage et cultures annuelles). Les passereaux rpondaient faiblement et de manire non uniforme  la taille des parcelles d'habitats. Anthus spragueii a t la seule espce dont la densit augmentait avec la taille des prairies. La taille des parcelles avait une influence minimale sur la survie des couves d'Anthus spragueii et de Spizella pallida, alors que la survie des couves augmentait avec la taille des parcelles pour Passerculus sandwichensis et dclinait chez Ammodramus bairdii, Calcarius ornatus et Sturnella neglecta. Les facteurs temporelles (i.e. l'ge, la date et l'anne de la couve) taient des prdicateurs plus importants de la survie des couves que la taille des parcelles. Des analyses exploratoires ont indiqu que les effets sur la survie des couves de la distance  la bordure, de la forme des pturages et du paysage taient aussi peu probables que les effets de taille des parcelles. Nanmoins, les effets de bordure sur Calcarius ornatus pourraient tre issus de facteurs qui agissent  l'chelle du paysage, puisque la survie des couves diminuait avec la distance  la bordure dans les paysages avec des quantits croissantes de cultures. Nos rsultats indiquent que les parcelles de 18 ha de prairies herbaces jouent un rle important dans la conservation de plusieurs espces de passereaux de prairie actuellement en dclin. Mais, la conservation d'Anthus spragueii dpend probablement du maintien de plus larges tendues de prairies indignes. 
4085405|Photostimulation of male Willow Ptarmigan resulted in a rapid molt from the white winter plumage to the pigmented plumage of the breeding bird. In castrated ptarmigan the breeding plumage was omitted, resulting in a slow molt from white to pigmented summer (post-nuptial) plumage. Feathers were plucked from the head and back of castrated and intact birds kept on short daylength to investigate the effects of testosterone on feather pigmentation. Both castration and testosterone treatment resulted in pigmentation of regenerating feathers, while the untreated, intact birds regenerated white feathers. Pigmented feathers that regenerated on short daylengths in castrated or testosterone-treated birds were similar to each other, but were not the same as any type of pigmented feather seen in intact or castrated birds exposed to long daylengths. Pigmented feathers that generated in testosterone-treated intact or castrated birds on long daylengths were the same as feathers in breeding males. When compared with control birds, testosterone treatment shortened the interval between photostimulation and the beginning of the molt, while castration markedly lengthened this interval. Together with the photostimulated development of pigmented breeding plumage in intact males, there was a 100% increase of comb height. Castrates did not show any comb growth, whereas testosterone treatment always resulted in a rapid comb growth, both in intact males on short daylengths and in castrates on short daylengths and on long daylengths. In the male Willow Ptarmigan, testosterone and perhaps gonadotrophins (LH) affect the pigment producing system. There is a daylength dependent testosterone induction of molt from winter to breeding plumage, and a testosterone-stimulated and a testosterone-dependent comb growth.
10.2307/4089716| We describe nest-site selection and report measures of breeding productivity from a population of Song Wrens (Cyphorhinus phaeocephalus) in central Panama. We studied 31 pairs from 1995 to 1998 and collected data on nest predation from 1996 to 1998. Song Wrens are year-round residents that build breeding nests for reproduction and dormitory nests for roosting. Twenty-five of 50 Song Wren breeding nests produced fledglings (daily nest survival rate = 0.968). Song Wrens usually (78%) placed their breeding nests in ant-defended acacias (Acacia melanoceras). However, nests placed in acacias did not experience lower rates of nest predation than nests placed in sites not defended by ants. The population-wide breeding season was seven months long, but individual pairs often bred within a span of only 2.5 months. Modal clutch size was two (n = 42), but the frequency of three-egg clutches was high (27%). Pairs that lost eggs or chicks renested more quickly than pairs that fledged young and attempted a second brood. Observed annual production of young was 1.4 fledglings per pair. Compared with other wrens, Song Wrens had a much longer breeding season and longer intervals between broods. The annual productivity of Song Wrens was the lowest recorded for any wren, which may have been due to smaller clutch sizes, long intervals between broods, and the correspondingly low number of nesting attempts per pair per year. 
10.2307/4089414|Common Murres (Uria aalge) exhibit an unusual molt sequence. Primary molt begins at a focus between P4 and P7 and progresses in two rapid concurrent waves, proximally to P1, and distally to P10. The only other birds known to have a similar molt sequence are caracaras and falcons (Falconidae), parrots (Psittaciformes), and Pied Kingfishers (Ceryle rudis). Great Auks (Pinguinus impennis) also appear to have followed the same primary-molt sequence. Phylogenies for the Alcidae indicate that Great Auks, Common Murres, Thickbilled Murres (Uria lomvia), Razorbills (Alca torda), and Dovekies (Alle alle) share a common ancestor and are more closely related to one another than to other alcids. This suggests that the unusual sequence of primary molt in Common Murres is a shared-derived character that occurs in the other four species in their clade but has been overlooked. Adult male Common Murres have significantly shorter secondaries and longer primaries, on average, than do adult females, resulting in a slightly higher aspect ratio in males. Secondary molt begins when primary molt is more than one-third completed. Secondaries are replaced rapidly but sequentially (not synchronously or simultaneously); molt appears to proceed from two foci, proximally from S1 to S4, and both proximally and distally from S8, but more data are needed to clarify this point. Rectrix molt begins when primary molt is two-thirds completed. Rectrix loss and replacement occur rapidly, possibly synchronously, and in no apparent order. Adults molt about two weeks later than nonbreeding subadults. We found no differences in the timing of molt between the sexes in adults or subadults. Duration of flight-feather molt can vary from less than 25 days to more than 80 days, possibly reflecting interyear variation in prey abundance.
4086959|Diurnal activity patterns of Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) and Slaty-backed Gulls (Larus schistisagus) were investigated. The petrels reduced activity in moonlight in May and June when the predation rate by gulls was relatively high. Petrel activity levels were inversely correlated with light intensities and the corresponding risk of predation by the gull. This suggests that nocturnal activity and moonlight avoidance by the petrel in its colony are an effective defense against diurnal predators. Activity synchronization of the petrel was most marked during the full moon, further supporting the predator-avoidance hypothesis.
4087030|Several lines of evidence indicate that the territorial behavior of postbreeding North American hummingbirds can be explained in primarily energetic terms. The territoriality of breeding males, however, may be different in that it may play an important role in courtship. The results of this study on breeding male Calliope Hummingbirds (Stellula calliope) indicated that territoriality could not be explained either directly or indirectly in terms of defense of energy resources. Throughout the 2-month breeding season, flower sampling indicated that males could have obtained energy faster by foraging on nearby undefended areas than by foraging on their territories. In June there were no profitable flowers on the territories, and males did all or nearly all of their foraging away from their territories. In May, when territory nectar availability was fairly high, males did not leave, expand, or shift their territories in response to experimental exclosure of all profitable flowers on those territories. I suggest that males may have preferentially selected territory sites with prominent perches near females' nesting areas, and that these considerations outweighed the potential benefits of defending territories on areas with high-quality nectar resources.
4090447| Females of some bird species "steal" the parental care of other breeding individuals by laying eggs parasitically in their nests. In most populations, conspecific brood parasites lay parasitically before laying in their own nests. By contrast, in a young and expanding Common Moorhen (Gallinula chloropus) population, 17.4% (n = 8) of brood parasites laid parasitically when their own clutches were currently being incubated, and 13.1% (n = 6) laid parasitically when they were tending to their young. This result differs from previous data on conspecific brood parasitism in this (and other) avian species and suggests that site-specific ecological conditions exert differing selective influences on the behavioral development of populations. The behavior adopted by individual vertebrate species may not, therefore, be rigidly fixed throughout their geographic range. /// Las hembras de algunas especies de aves "roban" el cuidado parental de otros individuos al parasitarles los nidos con sus huevos. En la mayora de las poblaciones, las aves parsitas coespecficas realizan una puesta parsita antes de poner huevos en sus propios nidos. En contraste, en una poblacin joven y en expansin de Gallinula chloropus, el 17.4% (n = 8) de las aves parasitaron nidos cuando sus propias nidadas estaban siendo incubadas, y el 13.1% (n = 6) parasitaron nidos cuando estaban atendiendo a sus pichones. Este resultado difiere de los datos anteriores de parasitismo de cra para aves coespecficas en esta y otras especies, y sugiere que las condiciones ecolgicas especficas de los sitios ejercen influencias selectivas diferentes en el desarrollo del comportamiento de las poblaciones. Por lo tanto, el comportamiento adoptado por cada especie de vertebrado podra no estar fijado de modo rgido a travs de su rango geogrfico. 
4088042|I examined the hypothesis that low-ranking White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) during winter are more likely than high-ranking birds to find novel sources of food near a known feeding site. If so, high- and low-ranking birds might use different tactics during foraging, each with compensating advantages and disadvantages (Rohwer and Ewald 1981). I presented small, partially hidden concentrations of seed at random locations within 2 m of regularly supplied feeding sites, used by individually marked birds with known dominance relationships. Individuals that found the novel sources of food included approximately equal numbers of birds in all four quartiles of the distribution of dominance proportions. Once the novel food was found, disproportionate numbers of high-ranking birds tended to feed there. They gained access to the food in most cases by supplanting subordinates, whereas the low-ranking birds waited until they could approach the food without interactions. In addition, high-ranking birds usually left the food of their own accord, whereas low-ranking birds were usually supplanted by dominants. I suggest that high-ranking birds found new sources of food as often as low-ranking birds and also appropriated sources of food once found by others. I found no evidence that advantages in finding food compensated birds with low rank for disadvantages in competing for food once found.
90008070|We studied the diversity and abundance of keratinolytic bacteria hosted by the plumage of Spectacled Thrushes (
10.2307/4088595|For many passerines, the extent, timing, and even presence of allospecific vocal learning can be influenced by the form of input that is received. Little data exist, however, on vocal learning in parrots (Psittacidae). I have previously proposed that such vocal learning proceeds most readily when input is (1) referential, (2) contextually applicable, and (3) interactive. The referential aspect demonstrates the meaning of the code to be taught, the contextual aspect demonstrates the use that can be made of the information contained in the code, and the interactive aspect provides explicit training that is constantly adjusted to the level of the learner. To obtain information on the relative importance of these three aspects of input on learning in a mimetic species, I used three different conditions to train two juvenile Grey Parrots (Psittacus erithacus) to produce English labels to identify various common objects. Each bird experienced: (1) audiotaped tutoring, which was nonreferential, noninteractive, and did not demonstrate contextual applicability; (2) videotapes, which provided reference and limited information about context, but which were noninteractive; and (3) live human tutors, who interactively modeled the meaning and use of the labels to be learned. The birds learned only from the live tutors. A third parrot, trained on a separate set of labels by tutors who provided only limited reference and context for those vocalizations, learned to produce that set of labels without comprehension. The data suggest that, even for birds known for their mimetic abilities, social interaction, reference, and full contextual experience are important factors in learning to produce and comprehend an allospecific code.
10.2307/4090051| The Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) tops many lists of species of conservation concern because of severe population declines and habitat loss. Here we present the first robust estimates of annual survival and population growth rates for this species. We used capture-mark-recapture models to estimate survival of adult male Cerulean Warblers in an eastern Ontario population that has been studied since 1994. Adult male survival probability () was constant over time in our best-supported model. Our second-best-supported model indicated a negative effect of a 1998 ice storm on survival. The third-best-supported model indicated a significant year effect on survival. On the basis of those results and previously published estimates of annual fecundity, we calculated a population growth rate using a two-stage Leslie matrix. Population growth rate () was 0.73, using the estimate for constant survival. Model elasticities imply that adult mortality had a stronger effect on  than did seasonal fecundity. Oversummer survival estimates suggest that events during migration or on wintering grounds are responsible for most adult male mortality. It appears that our study population, thought to be one of the healthiest known for this species, may not be currently reproducing at a high enough rate to accommodate adult mortality. However, caution must be used when interpreting those results, given the possibility of underestimating survival and fecundity of this species. /// Dendroica cerulea encabeza muchas listas de especies cuyo estado de conservacin es preocupante debido a sus disminuciones poblacionales severas y a la prdida de hbitat. Aqu presentamos la primera estimacin robusta de la supervivencia anual y de las tasas de crecimiento poblacional para esta especie. Empleamos modelos de captura, marcado y recaptura para estimar la supervivencia de machos adultos de D. cerulea en una poblacin del este de Ontario que ha sido estudiada desde 1994. La probabilidad de supervivencia de los machos adultos () fue constante a lo largo del tiempo (0.49  0.05) en el modelo con mayor respaldo. El modelo en segundo orden de respaldo indic un efecto negativo en la supervivencia de una tormenta de hielo ocurrida en 1998: sin tormenta de hielo  = 0.54  0.06; tormenta de hielo  = 0.40  0.08. El modelo en tercer orden de respaldo indic un efecto significativo de ao en la supervivencia. Basados en estos resultados y en estimaciones anuales de fecundidad previamente publicadas, calculamos una tasa de crecimiento poblacional usando una matriz de Leslie de dos etapas. La tasa de crecimiento poblacional () fue de 0.73, usando el parmetro estimado para supervivencia constante. La elasticidad de los modelos implica que la mortalidad de los adultos tuvo un efecto mayor sobre  que la fecundidad estacional. La supervivencia a fines del verano fue estimada en 0.98  0.05, sugiriendo que eventos durante la migracin o en las reas de invernada son responsables de la mayor parte de la mortalidad de los adultos. Aparentemente, nuestra poblacin de estudio, que se supone es una de las ms saludables que se conoce para esta especie, podra no estar reproducindose actualmente a una tasa suficientemente alta para balancear la mortalidad de los adultos. Sin embargo, debe actuarse con cautela al interpretar estos resultados, dada la posibilidad de subestimar la supervivencia y fecundidad de esta especie. 
4086363| Using Christmas Bird Count (CBC) data, I compared range sizes and within-range abundances of 70 species of apodiform, piciform, and passerine landbirds whose ranges are 75% or more restricted in winter to the contiguous U.S. and southern Canada. Range size was computed as the number of occupied 5 latitude-longitude blocks. Three abundance measures were calculated: (1) mean birds counted/census hour across all occupied blocks, (2) maximum birds/hour in a single block, and (3) maximum birds/hour on a single CBC. Range size was positively but weakly correlated with each abundance measure, and the abundance measures were very strongly correlated with one another. Geography was a powerful predictor of the species' positions in a two-dimensional space difined by the axes of range size and average within-range abundance. Taxa that breed and winter at higher latitudes had larger total populations, and had significantly larger ranges and average local abundances. Species grouped by longitudinal areas of greatest local abundance had distinct range sizes but did not differ in average within-range abundance. Eastern species had larger ranges than comparably abundant western forms, probably because the eastern U.S. is characterized by relatively widespread habitat types. Results of this study suggest that a species' within-range abundance is influenced by the degree of its habitat generalization, whereas its range size will be larger if it is a habitat generalist or a specialist on widespread habitats. Because individual CBC's include many habitats, the same ecological attribute-habitat generalization-could cause species to be both widespread and abundant inside CBC circles. Carefully standardized within-habitat censuses will be required to determine whether or not these generalist species also dominate the individual habitats occupied by their more specialized and narrowly distributed relatives. 
10.2307/4088425|We assayed restriction-site differences in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) within and among populations of the Ostrich (Struthio camelus) throughout much of its African distribution. Little genetic diversity was evident among samples drawn from localities throughout southern Africa (S. c. australis), while deep divisions in the mtDNA gene tree exist between representatives of the eastern (S. c. molybdophanes and S. c. massaicus) and northern African subspecies (S. c. camelus). The low mtDNA variability within australis and the presence of widespread mtDNA genotypes in this subspecies suggest considerable historical interconnectedness among populations, either through gene flow and/or recent colonization from smaller source populations. The strong phylogeographic structuring evident in eastern and northern Africa aligns with the currently accepted subspecies designations. Data indicate that the Ethiopian system of the Great Rift Valley has been effective in disrupting east-west gene flow between molybdophanes and camelus, while ecological differences and behavioral/reproductive cues have contributed to maintaining the genetic and phenotypic discreteness of molybdophanes and massaicus in east Africa. Although contemporary Ostrich populations are effectively divided into southern and northern populations by a belt of Brachystegia woodland, arid-corridor links in the recent evolutionary past appear to have allowed for periodic contact between australis and massaicus populations. Consequently, the development of subspecific differences between these two taxa has occurred within the context of shallow evolutionary separation.
4085703|We studied mortality experienced by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) at a communal winter roost in live oak groves on the Rice University campus, Houston, Texas. Objective "circle count" estimates of the roosting population suggest that about 500,000 birds occupied the roost from late January through mid-March of each year (1974-1976), and that an additional 400,000 birds joined them in February 1975. About 40% of the roosting birds were Brown-headed Cowbirds. The cowbird population was predominately (80-95%) male at this location. In January their weights were directly correlated with ambient temperature, which suggests difficulty in maintaining fat reserves. Most mortality occurred following exposure to freezing temperatures in February. Autopsies showed that bacterial infections were prevalent among sick birds; intestinal coccidiosis was also important, especially among males in 1975. Neither metazoan parasites nor pesticide residues were implicated as causes of death. Males were overrepresented among the dead in 1975 but not in 1976. A comparison of the characteristics of live (decoy-trapped) and dead cowbirds during 1976 indicated that adult males were overrepresented among the dead and that within each age class the dead males had significantly longer wings. There was a significant positive correlation between daily temperature minima and the mean wing length of male cowbirds dying each day. Mortality tends to reinforce sexual dimorphism with respect to tarsus length. These results suggest that mortality is related to depletion of winter food supplies. Aggressiveness, a trait unrelated to size, was found to have important survival value under these circumstances.
10.2307/4090415| In South American temperate rainforests, five endemic understory birds (four Rhinocryptidae and one Furnariidae) are often associated with the main understory plant, the native bamboo Chusquea valdiviensis (Poaceae: Bambusoideae). We studied the effects of bamboo cover on species abundance and richness of those understory birds and explored the functions of bamboo as food resource and escape cover. In Chilo Island (42S), southern Chile, we selected four old-growth forest patches >100 ha and in each patch conducted bird surveys in six plots with >70% understory cover. Three plots were dominated by native bamboo and three plots had a sparse bamboo cover. Bird abundance (point counts) was significantly correlated with both total understory cover and percentage of bamboo cover but was not correlated with other kinds of understory plant cover. Bird species richness was positively correlated with bamboo cover and negatively correlated with other kinds of understory cover but unrelated to total understory cover. Leaf-gleaners Magellanic Tapaculos (Scytalopus magellanicus), Ochreflanked Tapaculos (Eugralla paradoxa), and Des Murs's Wiretails (Sylviorthorhynchus desmursii), and the ground-gleaner Chucao Tapaculos (Scelorchilus rubecula) were more abundant in high-bamboo plots; but the ground-gleaner Black-throated Huet-huet (Pteroptochos tarnii) was recorded more times in plots with low-bamboo cover. Availability of invertebrates per unit of understory dry mass did not differ between high- and low-bamboo plots; but plant biomass was greater in high-bamboo plots, so total invertebrate abundance per plot was higher there. Ground-litter invertebrate abundance was similar in all plots. To examine escape-cover preferences, nine captured Chucao Tapaculos were released in front of two different understory scenarios (high-bamboo cover or bamboo-free understory); 88% of released birds moved into bamboo cover. We suggest that the structure of native bamboo understory is critical for the maintenance of four of those species, and retaining bamboo cover in managed stands may help minimize the effect of logging on understory birds. /// En bosques templados de Sudamrica, cinco especies de aves endmicas de sotobosque (cuatro Rhinocryptidae y un Furnariidae) se encuentran frecuentemente asociadas a la principal planta de sotobosque, el bamb nativo Chusquea valdiviensis (Poaceae: Bambusoideae). Estudiamos los efectos de la cobertura de Chusquea sobre la abundancia y riqueza de especies de estas aves de sotobosque, y exploramos las funciones del bamb como fuente de recursos (alimento) y cobertura de escape. En la isla de Chilo (42 S), sur de Chile, seleccionamos cuatro parches de bosque primario mayores a 100 ha y en cada parche realizamos censos de aves en seis estaciones con ms de 70% de cobertura de sotobosque. Tres estaciones estaban dominadas por Chusquea y tres tenan una escasa cobertura de bamb. La abundancia de aves (en estaciones de escucha) estaba positivamente correlacionada con la cobertura total de sotobosque y el porcentaje de cobertura de bamb, pero no presentaba correlacin con la cobertura de otras especies de plantas en el sotobosque. La riqueza de especies de aves estaba correlacionada positivamente con la cobertura de bamb y negativamente con la cobertura de otras especies del sotobosque, pero no tuvo relacin con la cobertura total del sotobosque. Las especies que se alimentan en el follaje, Scytalopus magellanicus, Eugralla paradoxa y Sylviorthorhynchus desmursii, y una especie que forrajea en suelo, Scelorchilus rubecula, fueron ms abundantes en las estaciones dominadas por bamb, pero otra especie de suelo, Pteroptochos tarnii, fue ms frecuente en estaciones con escasa cobertura de bamb. La disponibilidad de invertebrados por unidad de biomasa seca de sotobosque no difiri entre estaciones con dominancia o escasez de bamb, pero la biomasa vegetal fue mayor en las primeras. Por lo tanto, la abundancia total de invertebrados en stas fue mayor. La abundancia de invertebrados en la hojarasca fue similar en todas las estaciones. Para examinar posibles preferencias de cobertura de escape, se liberaron nueve individuos de S. rubecula frente a dos tipos de sotobosque (alta cobertura de bamb o sin bamb); 88% de las aves eligieron cobertura de bamb. Se sugiere que el sotobosque de bamb es crtico para la mantencin de cuatro especies de aves, por lo que la retencin de cobertura de bamb en bosques manejados puede reducir el impacto de la alteracin del hbitat sobre las aves del sotobosque. 
10.2307/4088594| Green Woodhoopoes (Phoeniculus purpureus) roost in cavities in groups throughout the year. It has been proposed that the energy savings achieved by roosting with conspecifics in a cavity could enable birds in poor body condition to remain normothermic during inclement weather. We tested the hypothesis that woodhoopoes conserve energy by roosting with conspecifics in cavities and found that a woodhoopoe roosting with four conspecifics can reduce its nighttime energy expenditure by 30% or more when the minimum ambient temperature is about 5C. In areas where nocturnal temperatures sometimes drop below freezing, such energy savings are associated with mortality patterns among adults during winter. Our data support the idea that energy considerations may have been important in the evolution and/or maintenance of sociality in this species. 
10.2307/4088005|We examined winter distribution and fidelity to wintering areas for the American Woodcock (Scolopax minor), which exhibits reversed, sexual size dimorphism. Band-recovery data revealed no difference in winter distributions of different age/sex classes for woodcock from the same breeding ares. Similarly, band recoveries from woodcock banded on wintering grounds revealed no difference in fidelity to wintering sites. Males may winter north of a latitude that is optimal for survival based on physiological considerations, but they gain a reproductive advantage if they are among the first to arrive on the breeding grounds. This may explain our results, which indicate males and females have similar distribution patterns during winter.
4090597| Body composition analysis was performed on 37 Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica baueri) that had been illegally shot during migratory fueling in northern New Zealand in March 1992. Adults (n = 35) were heavy (442-721 g), with fat loads of 30-45% of body mass. Two first-year males had only 5.4% and 8.9% fat, respectively, and had 13% less lean (fat-free dry) tissue than the average adult male. Males and females scaled along the same size axes, with little overlap between the sexes (females were larger). Larger birds carried more fat, but fat loads did not differ systematically with size (and, therefore, sex). Fatter birds (after accounting for body size) had larger flight muscle and lung masses, implying premigratory hypertrophy. Males that were not in body molt were fatter, but less colorful, than molting birds. They were also longer-winged and had larger testes but smaller intestines and salt glands, which suggests that they may belong to a subpopulation with a different fueling and molt strategy. Comparison between L. l. baueri and a smaller subspecies (L. l. taymyrensis) indicated that although the two subspecies scaled along the same lean mass-size axes, L. l. baueri deposited much more fat for their body size (1.7 more than the equivalent-sized L. l. taymyrensis). On the basis of estimated travel costs for L. l. taymyrensis, predicted flight ranges for L. l. baueri ranged from 6,000 to 8,600 km, depending on whether wind assistance is assumed. That suggests that direct flights from New Zealand to southeastern or eastern Asia are possible (e.g. Philippines, 7,200 km; Japan, 8,700; South Korea, 9,100 km). /// Des analyses de composition corporelle ont t ralises sur 37 Limosa lapponica baueri qui ont t tirs illgalement au cours d'une halte migratoire dans le nord de la Nouvelle-Zlande en mars 1992. Les adultes (n = 35) taient lourds (442-712 g), avec une masse de graisse reprsentant 30-45% de la masse corporelle. Les mles de un an et deux ans avaient seulement 5,4% et 8,9% de graisse, respectivement, et des tissus 13% plus maigres (masse sche sans gras) que la moyenne des adultes. Mles et femelles s'chelonnaient selon des axes de mme taille, avec un peu de chevauchement entre les deux sexes (les femelles taient plus grandes). Les oiseaux plus grands possdaient plus de gras, mais la quantit de gras ne diffrait pas systmatiquement avec la taille (et, par consquent, le sexe). Les oiseaux plus gras (en contrlant pour la taille) avaient des masses musculaires de vol et pulmonaires plus grandes, suggrant une hypertrophie pr-migratoire. Les mles, qui ne muaient pas, taient plus gras, mais moins colors, que les mles en mue. Ils avaient galement des ailes plus longues et des testicules plus grosses mais des intestins et des glandes  sel plus petits. Ceci suggre qu'ils pourraient appartenir  une sous-population avec des stratgies diffrentes d'approvisionnement et de mue. Les comparaisons ralises entre L. l. baueri et une sous-espce plus petite (L. l. taymyrensis) indiquaient que L. l. baueri accumulait bien plus de graisse pour leur taille corporelle (1,7 fois plus que L. l. taymyrensis de taille quivalente), malgr que les deux sous-espces s'chelonnaient selon les mmes axes masse-taille. En se basant sur une estimation des cots de dplacement de L. l. taymyrensis, la distance prdite de vol devrait se situer entre 6 000 et 8 600 km, selon que l'assistance par le vent soit considre ou non. Cela suggre que les vols directs entre la Nouvelle-Zlande et le sud-est ou l'est de l'Asie sont possibles (e.g. Philippines, 7 200 km; Japon, 8 700 km; Core du Sud, 9 100 km). 
10.2307/4088723|Within broods of many altricial birds, one or more nestlings is often predictably smaller than the rest. This occurs both because of hatching asynchrony within broods and also because one sex rapidly becomes larger than the other in sexually dimorphic species. If parents rely on competitive, size-based cues from nestlings in deciding which to feed, this size asymmetry presents a major predictable problem to younger or smaller nestlings. A recent study of sexually dimorphic Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) suggested that the gape, a prominent feature of the begging signal of hungry young, may grow more rapidly in female nestlings than males. In this paper, I report similar data on nestling gape growth in another sexually dimorphic species, the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), and show that the apparent relatively faster gape growth of females in both Yellow-headed and Red-winged blackbirds is an artifact of the analytical method used in the comparison. Gapes of males and females grow in exactly the same relation to their mass and, to the extent that the mass of females is less at a given age, females will have smaller gapes. I further analyze gape growth in a group of undernourished nestling Red-winged Blackbirds to evaluate the related prediction that, when resources for growth are limited, nestlings should conserve the growth of those morphological characteristics such as gapes that directly influence feeding. The data yield little support for this hypothesis. The specialized and prominent nestling gapes, however, may have important functions beyond feeding competition.
10.2307/4089812| Postbreeding season activities of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) were examined during 24 h long observation periods at inland impoundments and a coastal roost site. Storks were present at inland impoundments and foraged more at night there than at other times of the day. Wood Stork attendance at the coastal roost site was significantly reduced during nocturnal low tides than during daytime low tides or at either period of higher tide levels. Presumably, storks were leaving the roost to forage on fish concentrated in tidal creeks by dropping tides. Nocturnal foraging in freshwater and estuarine systems may be an advantageous strategy for the tactile-feeding storks by reducing the likelihood of their being observed by their prey and possibly by reducing competition with other wading birds. Also, some prey species in both freshwater and saltwater environments are more active nocturnally than diurnally, this increasing their likelihood of capture by nocturnal-foraging Wood Storks. In the coastal setting, low tide events (two per 24 h) typically provide at least one "pulse" of stork prey in draining tidal creeks during the nocturnal period. 
10.2307/4088499| We describe a new species of cotinga, Doliornis remseni, known from three localities from the Ecuador/Colombia border south to the Ecuador/Peru border. Plumage and syringeal morphology unequivocally place it in the genus Doliornis, which was formerly considered to be monotypic and restricted to central Peru south of the Ro Maran. Ageing and plumage sequences in Doliornis and Ampelion are clarified. 
10.2307/4088155|We used nine years of nesting data from a population of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) using nest boxes to test predictions regarding proximate controls of nest-site fidelity and the consequences of returning to the same nest site. Overall, 41.9% of females returned to the same nest box in year t + 1, 37.5% nested in a different box on the same wetland, and 20.5% of females moved to a different wetland to nest. There were no yearly differences in the degree of nest-site fidelity, and females using different wetlands between years travelled a median of two wetlands and moved an average distance of 1.3 km. Females nesting successfully used the same nest box to a greater extent in year t + 1 than females that were not successful. The positive association between nest success and nest-site fidelity also occurred within breeding seasons. Degree of nest-site fidelity exhibited by females was similar within and between breeding seasons. After controlling for variation in nest success, nest-site fidelity of yearlings did not differ from that of adults. Proportion of females returning to the same box in year t + 1 was not correlated with estimated population size of breeding females in that year. Females returning to the same box nested earlier than females using different boxes, but clutch size did not differ. Overall, females nesting in the same box did not have greater nest success in year t + 1, were not more likely to have nests parasitized, and did not survive better to year t + 2 than females nesting in different boxes. However, females that nested unsuccessfully tended to improve nest success by moving to a different nest box.
10.2307/4089885| Comparative analyses constitute an important complement to studies of adaptive behavior. Previous studies of avian mating systems considered the role of paternal care and habitat type on the evolution of polygyny. We extended those studies and included in our analyses the role of habitat quality, as characterized by food supply. Species in the monophyletic lineage of acrocephaline warblers (Acrocephalus, Chloropeta, Hippolais) are widely distributed, inhabit a variety of different habitats, and show a variety of breeding systems. We present a phylogenetic analysis of parental care and mating system characteristics in relation to ecological traits in 17 species. On the basis of a molecular phylogeny, we reconstructed patterns of changes from social monogamy to polygyny, and in paternal brood care. Specifically, we analyze the coevolution of brood care participation of males and social system, and how it relates to habitat quality. Furthermore, we assessed the phylogenetic inertia of mating systems. We found support for the hypothesis that change to highly productive habitats was associated with a greater emancipation of males from brood care, and with polygyny and promiscuity. Poor habitats, on the other hand, were associated with monogamy and the occurrence of helpers. In contrast to some morphological characters, mating systems appear to be phylogenetically labile. /// Los anlisis comparativos constituyen un complemento importante de los estudios del comportamiento adaptativo. Estudios previos sobre los sistemas de apareamiento de las aves consideraron el papel del cuidado parental y el tipo de hbitat en la evolucin de la poliginia. Nosotros extendimos dichos estudios e incluimos en nuestros anlisis el papel de la calidad del hbitat en trminos de la abundancia de alimento. Las especies en el linaje monofiltico que incluye los gneros Acrocephalus, Chloropeta, e Hippolais (Sylviidae) estn ampliamente distribuidas, habitan una variedad de ambientes diferentes y poseen una variedad de sistemas reproductivos. Presentamos un anlisis filogentico del cuidado parental y de algunas caractersticas del sistema de apareamiento en relacin a caracteres ecolgicos en 17 especies. Con base en una filogenia molecular, reconstruimos los patrones de cambio de monogamia social a poliginia y del cuidado paterno de la nidada. Especficamente, analizamos la coevolucin de la participacin de los machos en el cuidado de la nidada y el sistema social, y cmo se relaciona con la calidad del hbitat. Tambin evaluamos la inercia filogentica de los sistemas de apareamiento. Encontramos evidencia que apoya la hiptesis de que el cambio a hbitats altamente productivos estuvo asociado con una mayor emancipacin de los machos del cuidado de la nidada, y con la poliginia y la promiscuidad. Por otro lado, los hbitats pobres estuvieron asociados con la monogamia y la presencia de ayudantes. A diferencia de algunos caracteres morfolgicos, los sistemas de apareamiento parecen ser filogenticamente lbiles. 
4084888|A specimen of the Yellow-green Bush Tanager collected in 1972 was the first Colombian and third known specimen since the previous two taken in Ecuador in 1935, and the species has not been reported since. Presents notes and new records of 36 other species from this region of high endemism on the western slopes of the western Andes.
4088555|We collected breeding Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) in subarctic Alaska during 1987 and 1988 to assess nutrient-reserve dynamics. Greatest body mass of both sexes occurred during the rapid-follicle-growth (RFG) period of females. Males lost lipid, but not protein reserves, between RFG and laying periods. Females lost an average of 94 g of lipid from RFG to early incubation. An average clutch contained less than half the amount of carcass lipid lost between RFG and early incubation; thus, endogenous lipid was used to meet both reproductive and maintenance energy costs. Females lost protein during laying; we estimate endogenous protein provided 21 to 62% of the protein requirement for egg production. Carcass protein reserves were negatively related to the proportion of clutch laid (P = 0.01), whereas lipid reserves were not, suggesting that protein limited clutch size. These patterns differ from those for most temperate-breeding ducks, but we are uncertain whether this results from geographic and/or phylogenetic variation.
4086603|Adults of the polyandrous Northern Jacana (Jacana spinosa) defend their offspring against avian territorial intruders that are potential offspring predators. I investigated this defensive behavior in Costa Rica during 1980 and 1981. Jacanas attacked 15 species; most attacks were against Purple Gallinules (Porphyrula martinica), which are known predators of jacana eggs and offspring. Three factors influenced the probability of attacks: (1) spatial proximity of intruders to jacana offspring, (2) species identity of intruders, and (3) stage of breeding (jacanas were most responsive to intruders when young offspring were present). Attacks prevented intruders from reaching jacana offspring, and limited evidence suggests that attacks also reduced the density of intruders near jacana nests. The female's role in offspring defense was substantial. Females participated in the defense of eggs and small young at levels comparable to those of males. This participation included: (1) joining ongoing attacks when their mates solicited aid, (2) continuing attacks while their mates led offspring away from intruders, and (3) launching attacks in the absence of their mates, especially during incubation.
10.2307/4087762|Mortality among breeding adult California Gulls (Larus californicus) was low and spread throughout the breeding season in five years of a six-year study. In one year, nesting habitat decreased by 65%, mortality was 3-11 times higher and was concentrated during the period of intense territorial defense. Apparently, some displaced gulls that attempted to reclaim territories near their previous nest sites encountered resistance from territory holders. This resulted in death from trauma, especially among relatively small birds. In general there was a tendency for deaths among females to predominate in the first half of the breeding season and among males, in the latter half. Unlike the situation in British Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus), I found no indication of increasing adult mortality at the end of the nesting season.
10.2307/4089023|We examined habitat preferences of 106 radio-marked Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) in the San Francisco Bay estuary during winter and spring at two scales: comparing proportions of habitats in their home range with habitats available in the study area (second-order selection), and comparing proportions of radio locations in different habitats with their availability in the home range (third-order selection). Daily and seasonal habitat preferences differed significantly as habitat availability changed temporally. Under second-order selection, Western Sandpipers preferred tidal sloughs and mud flats on winter low tides, and salt-pond levees at high tides. They preferred salt-pond levees and mud flats at low tides, and salt-pond levees at high tides under third-order selection. During the spring, their preferred habitats were drained and tidal salt ponds, and seasonal wetlands at high tide. At low tide, their preferred habitats were tidal sloughs and tidal salt ponds. Salt-marsh plains were the least preferred habitats during both seasons. Adults were more selective than juveniles in use of low tide habitats, but salt-pond levees were the most preferred habitats for both. Habitat preferences varied considerably when different estimates of habitat availability and use were used. If mud-flat habitats were measured as linear foraging areas along the tide line, the preference for those habitats increased from second to first. When second-order selection was estimated from radio locations rather than home ranges, the resulting composition was similar to third-order selection. Our results suggest that regional conservation plans that restore salt marshes for the benefit of endangered species must consider the effects of losing artificial salt-pond habitats, which are locally important for sandpipers.
4087332|The beached-bird deposits of saline (80-90%) Mono Lake, California, are dominated by Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) and California Gulls (Larus californicus), which together comprise 95% of the specimens. Nevertheless, the diversity of waterbirds in these deposits is high (31 species), because mortality is high among migratory species that are poorly adapted to saline environments. The composition of the Mono Lake assemblage differs markedly from local Pleistocene faunas that accumulated in fresh or slightly saline habitats.
10.2307/4088513|To evaluate the hypothesis that Pleistocene glaciations in southern South America effected differentiation in the Imperial Shag (Phalacrocorax atriceps), I analyzed geographic variation in plumage, skeletal size and proportions, and allozymes in populations from seven South American localities. Alar bar size, crest length, and the size of the white dorsal patch vary geographically among juveniles but not adults, and the alar bar and white dorsal patch are both present all year in adults. Geographic variation in osteology is marked, with males showing more interpopulational differentiation than females. Coastal populations follow Bergmann's rule, while freshwater Fuegian lake shags are smaller than coastal populations even though the geographically nearest coastal population is the largest one in body size. Shags from the lowest latitude, in central Chile, have relatively long culmens, conforming to Allen's rule. All populations except that from Chubut Province are very similar in allozyme frequencies, and the very low genetic distances between populations are noncongruent with the greater degree of morphological differentiation, particularly between lake and coastal populations. The genetically differentiated Chubut population was probably somewhat isolated on the Patagonian Massif, a circumstance unrelated to Pleistocene glaciations. Chilean shags were probably not long reduced during glaciations to a small isolate, because they can form colonies on unglaciated headlands; they are only slightly differentiated from Atlantic populations. The treatment of the Falkland Islands population as a distinct subspecies is supported by plumage characters. The freshwater Fuegian shags must have differentiated since glacial recession. The populations from the southern Atlantic coast and coastal Tierra del Fuego, which were probably contiguous throughout the Pleistocene, differ from each other only clinally in size. Unlike the cases of other Fuego-Patagonian species studied, Pleistocene vicariance events appear to have had little influence on the evolutionary history of the Imperial Shag. This is probably related to life-history traits of this species such as coloniality, vagility, longevity, trophic generalism, and cold tolerance.
25488681|Point counts are used widely to index bird populations. Variation in the proportion of birds counted is a known source of error, and for robust inference it has been advocated that counts be converted to estimates of absolute population size. We used simulation to assess nine methods for the conduct and analysis of point counts when the data included distance-related heterogeneity of individual detection probability. Distance from the observer is a ubiquitous source of heterogeneity, because nearby birds are more easily detected than distant ones. Several recent methods (dependent double-observer, time of first detection, time of detection, independent multiple-observer, and repeated counts) do not account for distance-related heterogeneity, at least in their simpler forms. We assessed bias in estimates of population size by simulating counts with fixed radius
10.2307/4083498|The shapes of birds' eggs, as distinct from their sizes, can be very closely specified by three parameters, elongation, asymmetry, and bicone, as used in the Handbook of North American birds (Palmer, 1962). The present paper shows that they cannot be specified by less than three because no significant correlation exists between any two of the three. The distribution of any one of the parameters is not normal or Gaussian, and strongly suggests that there must have been now-extinct families with intermediate properties. Existing reptiles considerably extend the range of some parameters beyond those of birds. Negative bicone, however, seems to be essentially an avian monopoly and its function is not clear. The properties of Monotremes' eggs are inadequately known.
4087187|Analysis of radio signals from transmitters affixed to 7 Gentoo (Pygoscelis papua) and 6 Chinstrap (P. antarctica) penguins allowed us to track penguins at sea. Signal characteristics allowed us to distinguish among 5 foraging behaviors: porpoising, underwater swimming, horizontal diving, vertical diving, and resting or bathing. Gentoo Penguins spent a significantly greater portion of their foraging trips engaged in feeding behaviors than Chinstraps, which spent significantly more time traveling. Gentoos had significantly longer feeding dives than Chinstraps (128 s vs. 91 s) and significantly higher dive-pause ratios (3.4 vs. 2.6). These differences in foraging behavior suggest Gentoo and Chinstrap penguins may have different diving abilities and may forage at different depths.
10.2307/4089285|We investigated habitat selection by the Townsend's Warbler (Dendroica townsendi), a Netropical-Nearctic migrant that breeds primarily in mature coniferous forests. From 1993 to 1994, we compared the features of habitat selected for nest sites and foraging sites with those selected for territories in mature, mixed coniferous-deciduous forests in south-central Alaska. We also tested the prediction that large conifers are selected for nesting and foraging sites. Females placed nests in relatively large white spruce (Picea glauca) and consistently chose nest trees that were within areas of higher densities of large white spruce than were generally available. Nesting areas also had a higher density of small white spruce than was generally available, which may have been important in concealing nests from predators. Vegetation features selected for foraging differed from those selected for nesting and varied seasonally. Foraging was concentrated in medium-sized white spruce during the prehatching stage and became more generalized across coniferous and deciduous vegetation during the posthatching stage. Adults foraged in large white spruce in direct proportion to their availability on the study areas. Territories, which encompassed both nesting and foraging areas, were heterogeneous in vegetation structure and floristics. Areas selected for territories clearly reflected availability of the large white spruce selected for nest sites but did not reflect selection of medium white spruce for foraging. Characteristics of habitats varied with specific resource needs, but the distribution of Townsend's Warblers was most strongly related to specific habitat requirements for nest sites.
25488728|The zone of secondary contact between Herring Gulls (
10.2307/4090401| In European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), mass of new primary feathers increases linearly with time for most of the duration of molt (Dawson 2003). Here, we had two aims: (1) to confirm that mass of new primary feathers increases linearly in other species, and (2) to use that linear increase as the basis of a system to score the progress of molt. Increase in length of primary feathers during molt was recorded for captive Eurasian Magpies (Pica pica), Carrion Crows (Corvus corone), European Greenfinches (Carduelis chloris), and Eurasian Bullfinches (Pyrrhula pyrrhula). Wing shape differs among those species. Feather lengths during molt were converted into mass by using information on final feather length and mass and the distribution of mass from tip to base of feather. Rate of increase in total mass of new primary feathers was largely linear in all four species. A molt scoring method is described in which individual feather scores are weighted to account for the contribution of each particular primary feather's mass toward total primary-feather mass. When the method was tested on eight captive starlings, the increase in mass-corrected molt score was almost linear, unlike the increase shown by the standard scoring system, which exaggerated molt rate during the early part of molt and underestimated it later. In the four species studied here, mass-corrected molt score likewise closely tracked the actual increase in mass, unlike the standard molt score. Because it is based on feather mass, the method presented here is of greater physiological and energetic relevance than the standard method. Because the mass-corrected score increases more linearly with time, it has the additional advantage of enabling less complicated, and potentially more accurate, estimations of molt start dates and molt durations. /// En Sturnus vulgaris, la masa de las plumas primarias nuevas aumenta linealmente con el tiempo durante la mayor parte de la duracin de la muda (Dawson 2003). Este estudio tiene dos objectivos: (1) confirmar que la masa de las plumas primarias nuevas incrementa linealmente en otras especies, y (2) usar este incremento lineal como la base de un sistema para registrar el progreso de la muda. Registramos el incremento en la longitud de las plumas primarias durante la muda en individuos cautivos de Pica pica, Corvus corone, Carduelis chloris y Pyrrhula pyrrhula. La forma del ala difiere entre estas especies. Las longitudes de las plumas durante la muda fueron transformados a masas usando informacin sobre la longitud y la masa final de la pluma, y sobre la distribucin de la masa de la pluma desde la punta hasta la base. La tasa de incremento de la masa total de las plumas primarias nuevas fue mayormente lineal en las cuatro especies. Se describe un mtodo de "puntaje" de la muda en el cual se consideran puntajes individuales de plumas para establecer la contribucin especfica de la masa de cada pluma primaria en relacin a la masa total de las plumas primarias. Cuando evaluamos el mtodo en ocho individuos cautivos de S. vulgaris, el incremento en el puntaje de la muda corregido por la masa fue casi lineal, contrariamente al incremento registrado por el sistema estndar de puntaje, el cual exagera la tasa de muda durante la parte inicial de la muda y la subestima ms tarde. En las cuatro especies estudiadas aqu, el puntaje de la muda corregido por la masa sigui de cerca el incremento real en la masa, contrariamente al puntaje estndar de muda. El mtodo presentado aqu es de mayor relevancia fisiolgica y energtica que el mtodo estndar ya que est basado en la masa de la pluma. Debido a que el puntaje corregido por la masa se incrementa con el tiempo ms linealmente, presenta la ventaja adicional de permitir estimaciones ms simples, y potencialmente ms exactas, de la fecha de comienzo de la muda y de su duracin. 
10.2307/4089726|We used two different methods to estimate the density of nesting Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) across different parts of northern Eurasia. In the "territory-density" method, we extrapolated our density estimate of 406 km
10.1525/auk.2013.12241|An important step in conservation is to identify whether threatened populations are evolutionarily discrete and significant to the species. A prior mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) phylogeographic study of the California Gnatcatcher (
4090640| Grassland birds have declined more than any other avian assemblage in North America, with nearly every species showing negative population trends. In the Flint Hills of Kansas, the largest remnant of the tallgrass prairie biome, annual spring burning of rangeland has recently replaced burning every 2-3 years. I examined effects of different burning and bison (Bos bison) grazing regimes on June abundances of seven bird species using a 23-year data set from the Konza Prairie Biological Station. Fire significantly affected the abundances of six of the seven species. Effects varied among species but, notably, four grass-dependent species-Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Henslow's Sparrow (A. henslowii), Dickcissel (Spiza americana), and Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna)-and the shrub-dependent Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii)-were least abundant or absent at sites in the breeding season immediately following burning. Upland Sandpipers (Bartramia longicauda) were most abundant at sites in the season following burning, whereas Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) exhibited no significant response. Bison grazing increased abundance of Upland Sandpiper and Grasshopper Sparrow, nearly eliminated Henslow's Sparrow, and (in combination with recent fire) lowered the abundance of Dickcissel. Although fire and grazing are natural forces that maintain tallgrass prairie, their action was, until recently, intermittent and patchy, providing grassland birds with a variety of levels of disturbance. If the vast Flint Hills prairie is to serve as a grassland bird stronghold, the region-wide practice of annual burning with intensive grazing must be replaced with alternatives that restore heterogeneity to the landscape. /// Las aves de pastizal han disminuido ms que cualquier otro ensamblaje de aves en Norte Amrica: casi todas las especies muestran tendencias poblacionales negativas. En las colinas de Flint, Kansas, el relicto ms grande del bioma de pradera de pasto alto, las quemas anuales realizadas durante la primavera han reemplazado recientemente a las quemas que se realizaban cada 2-3 aos. Examin los efectos de diferentes rgimenes de quema y de pastoreo por parte de bisontes (Bos bison) sobre las abundancias de siete especies de aves en el mes de junio utilizando una base de datos de 23 aos de la estacin biolgica de la pradera de Konza. El fuego afect significativamente las abundancias de seis de las siete especies. Los efectos variaron entre las especies pero, notablemente, cuatro especies que dependen de los pastizales (Ammodramus savannarum, A. henslowii, Spiza americana y Sturnella magna) y una que depende de los matorrales (Vireo bellii) fueron menos abundantes o estuvieron ausentes en los sitios de estudio durante la temporada reproductiva justo despus de las quemas. Bartramia longicauda fue ms abundante durante la temporada posterior a las quemas, mientras que Molothrus ater no exhibi una respuesta significativa. El pastoreo por los bisontes increment la abundancia de B. longicauda y A. savannarum, elimin casi por completo a A. henslowii y (en combinacin con quemas recientes) disminuy la abundancia de S. americana. Aunque el fuego y el pastoreo son fuerzas naturales que mantienen la pradera de pastos altos, sus efectos fueron, hasts hace poco, intermitentes y esparcidos, proporcionando una variedad de niveles de disturbio a las aves de pastizal. Si se quiere que la vasta pradera de Flint sirva como un sitio de gran importancia para las aves de pastizal, la prctica extensiva de quemas anuales con pastoreo intensivo debe ser reemplazada por alternativas que restauren la heterogeneidad del paisaje. 
4087034| I applied the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique to measure rates of water flux and energy expenditure of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) during two breeding seasons on Kent Island, New Brunswick, Canada. Simultaneous to DLW measurements, I constructed time-activity budgets for territorial males, monitored nest attentiveness for incubating females, and quantified frequency of nest visitation for parents feeding young. To ascertain the relationship between brood size and adult energy expenditure, I measured the energy expenditure of adults feeding 2, 4, and 6 nestlings. There was little difference in field metabolic rates (FMR) between territorial males
4087132|We provide a detailed description of a fixed-radius point count method that carries fewer assumptions than most of the currently popular methods of estimating bird density and that can be used during both the nonbreeding and breeding seasons. The method results in three indices of bird abundance, any of which can be used to test for differences in community composition among sites, or for differences in the abundance of a given bird species among sites. These indices are (1) the mean number of detections within 25 m of the observer, (2) the frequency of detections within 25 m of the observer, and (3) the frequency of detections regardless of distance from the observer. The overall ranking of species abundances from a site is similar among the three indices, but discrepancies occur with either rare species that are highly detectable at great distances or common species that are repulsed by, or inconspicuous when near, the observer. We argue that differences in the behavior among species will preclude an accurate ranking of species by abundance through use of this or any other counting method in current use.
4086280|The hunting behavior, snail size selection, and time-activity patterns of non-breeding Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis sociabilis) were studied in Guyana rice fields. Kites spent 62% of the photoperiod perching, 19% foraging, 13% in maintenance activities, and 6% flying. As the day progressed, the percentage of daylight hours spent perching increased significantly, while foraging decreased significantly. Kites successfully captured and ingested Pomacea snails in 78% of the foraging bouts observed. The mode of hunting was evenly split between coursing (50.7%) and still-hunting (49.3%). Searching and returning times were related to time of day, as significantly more coursing hunts and still-hunts occurred in mornings and late afternoons, respectively. Prey handling time was the most time-consuming component of a foraging bout. Time spent searching for prey, returning, or handling prey was not related to snail size. The size distribution of captured snails differed significantly from that of available snails; kites selected more medium snails and fewer small snails and took large snails in equal frequency to that at which large snails were available. Kites captured the same-sized snails when coursing as when still-hunting. As rice grew, kite utilization of rice fields declined, and the frequency of still-hunting decreased while course-hunting attempts increased. The daily caloric intake of kites was estimated to be 104.2 kcal, the daily energy expenditure 85.7 kcal. Results are discussed in relation to consumer choices of specialists. The most important decision a foraging Snail Kite may make is what patch to search in and how long to search before abandoning patches.
90008541|An extended reproductive period and high variability in food resource availability at sea make good quality nest sites particularly important for the survival of pelagic seabird chicks. Despite high philopatry during the early pre-laying period, males compete strongly for nests, making this period a unique opportunity to independently assess the influence of nest-site characteristics and individual quality on the foraging behavior of Corys Shearwater (
25488573|Since 2004, we have surveyed birds in the southwest Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of China. Many times during February, July, and October 2005 and January 2006, we observed, in Nonggang Natural Reserve of Guangxi, a species in the family Timaliidae that has never been recorded before in China or Southeast Asia. Nonggang Natural Reserve is located in the Sino-Vietnamese border region at 22132234N, 1064210705E, 18 km southeast of the Vietnamese border. On 21 January 2006, we captured two individuals. Subsequent investigation showed that the specimens belonged to a previously undescribed species, which we designate
4090589| We studied the relationship between breeding parameters and leukocyte counts (number of cells in
10.2307/4088147|We analyzed parentage in a wild population of the Bull-headed Shrike (Lanius bucephalus) by DNA fingerprinting. Male Bull-headed Shrikes pair with a single female and defend a large all-purpose territory. Generally, both parents provide substantial parental care. Among 99 nestlings from 24 clutches, 10 (10%) nestlings from 4 (17%) clutches had extrapair paternity, but were offspring of the females. These results show that copulation frequency is not necessarily a good measure of reproductive success even in monogamous birds where no extrapair copulations are observed. The average band-sharing proportion between full siblings was the same as that between parent and offspring, but the variance was greater. This is likely the case because the band-sharing proportion reflects the gene-sharing proportion.
4087721|We examined three factors (predation rate, incubation ability, and feeding ability) that might limit clutch size in the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus) in an area where large emergences of midges (Chironomidae) provided abundant food for adults and nestlings. Clutch size ranged from two to five eggs, but clutches of four were most frequent (78.6% of 192 clutches) during our study. Rate of nest predation was not correlated with either clutch or brood size which suggests that Least Flycatchers did not lay smaller clutches in order to minimize predation. Incubation efficiency declined as clutch size increased, but both natural and experimental clutches of five produced more hatchlings than clutches of four. Brood size was not limited by incubation ability of females. Least Flycatchers successfully raised broods larger than the modal clutch size; neither growth rates (as measured by mass and tarsus length) nor relative survival after fledging (as indicated by frequency of recapture in mist nets) varied with brood size. We suggest several alternative hypotheses to explain why larger clutches were not more common in this local area of food abundance.
4087439|During the boreal winter, New World Red Knots (Calidris canutus rufa) principally occupy two areas widely separated in latitude. The larger group of approximately 100,000 birds is distributed along the Patagonian Atlantic coast, the smaller group of about 10,000 along Florida's Gulf coast. Resightings of banded individuals showed no interchange between these groups. The annual survival rate of knots marked in Florida is twice that of marked knots that winter in Patagonia. During northward migration Florida knots were sighted significantly less often at a major New Jersey stopover site than knots marked in Argentina. Whether this segregation is maintained during the breeding season is unknown. Wing and culmen lengths did not differ between the groups. The higher survival of individuals from the smaller Florida group, which presumably migrates a much shorter distance than the Argentina birds, runs counter to current evolutionary theories on the benefits of migration.
10.1525/auk.2009.09054|Sugar-type preferences of nectarivores may be an important selective factor in the evolution of sugar composition in floral nectar. We investigated sugar preferences of the Malachite Sunbird (
10.2307/4088776| Using census data on three species of pygoscelid penguins, we tested the hypothesis that competition for food during the chick-provisioning stage of reproduction limits the number of conspecific seabirds in a region. This prey-depletion hypothesis predicts that a negative correlation should exist between colony population size and the total number of breeding pairs from other colonies within parental foraging range. We also tested whether or not a negative correlation exists between colony size and the population size of, or distance to, the nearest neighboring colony. Suitable data were available for Adlie, Chinstrap, and Gentoo penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae, P. antarctica, P. papua) along the coasts of Victoria Land and the Antarctic Peninsula, where major portions of these species' world populations nest. Results indicated that colonies were highly clustered, with small colonies grouped around one or two large ones, in turn spaced widely. Depending on species, two different patterns of geographic structuring were observed. For the Adlie and Gentoo penguins, no significant negative correlation existed between colony size and the total number of pairs breeding within parental foraging range of the reference colony; however, a significant negative correlation occurred at 150 and 200 km, well beyond foraging range. We found no relationship between colony size and size of or distance to the nearest neighboring colony. In contrast, for the Chinstrap Penguin, a significant positive correlation existed between colony size and total breeding population within the foraging range (50 km) but, as with the other two species, the correlations became more negative at greater distances. Moreover, a significant positive correlation existed between colony size and size of, but not distance to, the nearest colony in this species. We confirmed the hypothesis previously put forward that prey depletion by parents feeding chicks cannot explain size structuring of seabird colonies where breeding-season food supply is superabundant, as in polar regions. However, we also showed that prey depletion is not a necessary condition for negative size structuring. We suggest that if prey depletion occurs (by exploitative or interference competition), any manifestation in terms of colony distribution is overridden near to the colony by aggregating factors that originally led penguins to be colonial and philopatric, for example, social facilitation or predator avoidance. We further propose that geographic structuring is better explained by factors affecting the metapopulation (all breeders and nonbreeders associated with the colony cluster), especially during the prebreeding period, than by factors affecting chick-provisioning parents alone. 
4087189| We plotted the density distributions of 41 land-bird species along a 1,200-km transect spanning 728 (865 km) of latitude through relatively uniform bottomland deciduous forest in middle North America. Standardized counts and observations at 12 survey stations, closely matched in habitat structure and widely distributed along the route, provided population data for all species and indices of total avian foraging pressure (consuming biomass) on each of six major foraging substrates. Density curves for species fluctuated considerably from station to station but tended to be level across range centers and slope peripherally to north and south boundaries at rates of 3-30% per degree of latitude. Substrate foraging pressures declined northward on the aerial and midfoliage substrates and southward on the low-foliage substrate. Summed community densities showed no significant latitudinal trends. We used the distinctive distribution patterns of climate (smooth latitudinal gradients), habitat structure (irregular mosaics of vegetation patches), and competition (reciprocally sloping density gradients) to identify and evaluate the role of these three constraints along the transect. Progressive latitudinal trends in species abundance thus were attributed to climatic factors, irregular station-to-station fluctuations to habitat factors, and inversely sloping density trends in paired profiles to competition. On this basis all species apparently responded to both climatic and habitat factors, and about half of the species showed suggestions of competition. In a correlation analysis across the 12 stations, latitude per se most closely matched density distribution in 12 species, one or another of the habitat parameters in 25 species. We proposed that season length (days available for breeding activity) was the principal constraining attribute of latitude at northern range boundaries, day length (hours available for feeding and provisioning young) at southern boundaries. Boundaries have been essentially stable during the past 50-100 yr in most species, but the northern boundary expanded northward in one species following human-induced habitat enhancement, and temporarily receded southward in another following a winter of severe stress. We attribute this general stability of range boundaries over time to within-population gene flow and the associated peripherally declining mean fitness of phenotypes adapted to central range conditions along radially diverging environmental gradients. We suggest that two boundary lines should be recognized for each species, an inner functional boundary at the line where birth rates drop below death rates, and an outer empirical boundary at the limit of recorded occurrences. 
4090664| A new species of Hawaiian finch is described from two fossil maxillae recovered from Holocene lacustrine sediments in Makauwahi Cave, island of Kaua'i. The new species is assigned to Loxioides on the basis of characters defined in a previous study of drepanidine phylogeny. The maxilla of the new species resembles that of L. bailleui (the only other member of the genus) in its distinctly foreshortened shape, but differs in size and several qualitative characters. The species was sympatric with Loxioides cf. bailleui during the Holocene on Kaua'i. Like L. bailleui, it may have been a resource specialist feeding mainly on leguminous pods. The radio-carbon chronology of the Makauwahi site indicates that the species became extinct in the late Holocene and, more tentatively, that it may have survived well beyond the time when humans first discovered and colonized Kaua'i. /// Se describe una nueva especie de pinzn de Hawai a partir de dos fsiles de maxilas extraidos de sedimentos lacustres del Holoceno en la cueva Makauwahi, en la isla de Kaua'i. La nueva especie es asignada a Loxioides con base en caracteres definidos en un estudio previo sobre la filogenia de los Drepanidini. La maxila de la nueva especie es similar a la de L. bailleui (el nico otro miembro del gnero) en su forma marcadamente achatada, pero difiere en tamao y en varios caracteres cualitativos. La especie fue simptrica con Loxioides cf. bailleui durante el Holoceno en Kaua'i. Como L. bailleui, puede haber sido un especialista que se alimentaba principalmente de vainas de leguminosas. La cronologa de radiocarbono del sitio Makauwahi indica que la especie se extingui durante el Holoceno tardo y de modo ms tentativo, que podra haber sobrevivido ms all del tiempo en que los humanos descubrieron y colonizaron por primera vez Kaua'i. 
10.2307/4087501|Through natural population changes and experimental field removals, we tested the hypothesis that Least Flycatchers (Empidonax minimus) restrict habitat use by socially subordinate American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla). On a 10-ha site 2-yr-and-older (ASY), but not yearling (SY), male redstarts avoided the sector occupied by flycatchers from 1975 to 1980, but preferred this sector from 1981 to 1985 when flycatchers were absent. Vegetation changed subtly on the site but could not account for the sudden shift in redstart settlement pattern. On 6 4-ha sites ASY male redstarts were most abundant in years of Least Flycatcher absence. On the 5 4-ha sites from which Least Flycatchers either disappeared independently or were removed experimentally between 1981 and 1984, redstart abundance increased on four and remained constant on the fifth; on three control areas redstart numbers declined during the same period. Least Flycatchers recolonized one removal site, and ASY redstart abundance subsequently declined. SY male redstart abundance varied inversely with that of ASY male redstarts. We conclude that flycatchers influenced the distribution of ASY male redstarts directly, and that of SY males indirectly, more than either vegetation structure or other habitat characteristics. At no spatial scale examined, however, did total redstart abundance (ASY + SY) vary inversely with that of Least Flycatchers; in fact, their total abundances correlated positively at a regional scale. These findings, combined with a model for asymmetric competition for mutually preferred habitat (Pimm et al. 1985, Rosenzweig 1985), illustrate how a socially dominant competitor could lead to a broadening rather than a narrowing of the habitat breadth of a subordinate species. We show that competitor species abundances need not vary inversely and that age classes may be affected differentially. This species interaction illustrates subtleties and complexities of how competition can modify avian habitat selection.
10.2307/4090030| Forest fragmentation in North America concerns many biologists because of its effects on wildlife populations. One group that has demonstrated particular sensitivity is Neotropical migrant birds. We studied Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) in forest fragments in a suburban landscape in eastern Massachusetts to determine effects of cowbird parasitism on Ovenbird reproductive success. Our three large (120-312 ha) and six small (10-59 ha) forests were all smaller than most of those studied by other researchers, and they were surrounded by wooded suburban lots rather than agricultural land. Twenty-nine percent of nests found were parasitized by cowbirds; that frequency is lower than other investigators have reported for small, isolated fragments. The number of Ovenbirds fledged in successful parasitized (x = 2.4) and unparasitized (x = 3.8) nests was similar to other studies. Cowbirds were found to remain in nests for one to two days after their Ovenbird nestmates fledged. Differences in parasitism rate between this and other Ovenbird studies may be related to landscape characteristics. Ovenbirds nesting in small fragments in relatively wooded landscapes, as was the case in this study, have higher reproductive success than do Ovenbirds nesting in similar-sized fragments within an agricultural landscape. Using Ovenbirds as a model for neotropical migrants, we suggest that small fragments in a landscape with relatively wooded connections between forested areas may allow migrants to attain higher reproductive success than similar sized forests surrounded by agricultural land. /// La fragmentacin de los bosques en Amrica del Norte preocupa a muchos bilogos debido a sus efectos sobre poblaciones silvestres; un grupo que ha resultado ser particularmente sensible es el de las aves migratorias neotropicales. Estudiamos los efectos del parasitismo por Molothrus ater en el xito reproductivo de Seiurus aurocapillus en fragmentos de bosque en un paisaje suburbano del Este de Massachusetts. Nuestros tres fragmentos grandes (120-312 ha) y seis pequeos (10-59 ha) fueron de tamao menor que la mayora de los bosques estudiados por otros investigadores y estuvieron rodeados por lotes suburbanos arbolados en lugar de campos de cultivo. El 29% de los nidos encontrados fueron parasitados por Molothrus; esta frecuencia es menor que la presentada por otros investigadores para fragmentos pequeos aislados. El nmero de volantones de S. aurocapillus criados en nidos exitosamente parasitados (x = 2.4) y no parasitados (x = 3.8) fue similar al de otros estudios. Los pichones de Molothrus permanecieron en los nidos por 1-2 das ms que los pichones de S. aurocapillus. Las diferencias en la tasa de parasitismo entre ste y otros estudios de S. aurocapillus pueden estar relacionadas con las caractersticas del paisaje. Los individuos de S. aurocapillus que nidifican en fragmentos pequeos en paisajes relativamente arbolados, como los de este estudio, presentan un xito reproductivo superior que los individuos de S. aurocapillus que nidifican en fragmentos de tamao similar pero en paisajes agrcolas. Usando a S. aurocapillus como un modelo para migrantes neotropicales, sugerimos que fragmentos pequeos en un paisaje con conecciones relativamente arboladas entre bosques pueden permitir a los migrantes alcanzar un xito reproductivo mayor que bosques de tamao similar rodeados por un paisaje agrcola. 
10.2307/4088630|Both unlimited and fixed-radius point counts only provide indices to population size. Because longer count durations lead to counting a higher proportion of individuals at the point, proper design of these surveys must incorporate both count duration and sampling characteristics of population size. Using information about the relationship between proportion of individuals detected at a point and count duration, we present a method of optimizing a point-count survey given a fixed total time for surveying and travelling between count points. The optimization can be based on several quantities that measure precision, accuracy, or power of tests based on counts, including (1) mean-square error of estimated population change; (2) mean-square error of average count; (3) maximum expected total count; or (4) power of a test for differences in average counts. Optimal solutions depend on a function that relates count duration at a point to the proportion of animals detected. We model this function using exponential and Weibull distributions, and use numerical techniques to conduct the optimization. We provide an example of the procedure in which the function is estimated from data of cumulative number of individual birds seen for different count durations for three species of Hawaiian forest birds. In the example, optimal count duration at a point can differ greatly depending on the quantities that are optimized. Optimization of the mean-square error or of tests based on average counts generally requires longer count durations than does estimation of population change. A clear formulation of the goals of the study is a critical step in the optimization process.
25488618|We conducted dual-observer trials to estimate detection probabilities (probability that a group that is present and available is detected) for fixed-wing aerial surveys of wading birds in the Everglades system, Florida. Detection probability ranged from <0.2 to ~0.75 and varied according to species, group size, observer, and the observer's position in the aircraft (front or rear seat). Aerial-survey simulations indicated that incomplete detection can have a substantial effect on assessment of population trends, particularly over relatively short intervals (3 years) and small annual changes in population size (3%). We conclude that detection bias is an important consideration for interpreting observations from aerial surveys of wading birds, potentially limiting the use of these data for comparative purposes and trend analyses. We recommend that workers conducting aerial surveys for wading birds endeavor to reduce observer and other controllable sources of detection bias and account for uncontrollable sources through incorporation of dual-observer or other calibration methods as part of survey design (e.g., using double sampling).
4085902|Abert's Towhee (Pipilo aberti) numbers and their associations with various characteristics of riparian vegetation along the lower Colorado River were examined for 4 yr. Towhee numbers were positively correlated with horizontal patchiness, foliage density, and foliage height diversity. Correlations of towhee numbers with vegetation parameters were generally significant from January to September and nonsignificant the remainder of the year. Preferred habitats were the same throughout the year. Vegetation relationships of the resident population were obscured in the fall and early winter months because some birds dispersed into marginal habitats. Climatic and/or resource influences probably modify this pattern of dispersal.
4088459| We investigated the relationship between parental behavior and brood size, and the consequences of this relationship in terms of parental fitness (timing of molt and body mass at onset of molt in same year as breeding, and probability of return, timing of breeding, and clutch size in following year) in the precocial Lesser Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba. The percentage of time parent birds spent feeding decreased with increasing brood size, from greater than 90% for pairs without offspring to less than 80% for broods of seven and eight. The number of vigilant (head-up) postures per minute by parental birds increased up to brood size five and then decreased. Parental females also spent significantly less total time feeding and more time in alert behavior as brood size increased from one to five goslings. The relationship between parental behavior and brood size remained significant for small brood sizes even if pairs without goslings were excluded (range one to five goslings), and this relationship was independent of female age. Males (but not females) rearing larger broods molted later than those with smaller broods, although only by one to two days. This was directly related to rearing of offspring; in both sexes, birds that hatched four or more goslings and subsequently lost one or more goslings during brood-rearing molted significantly earlier than birds rearing all of their hatched goslings. There was no relationship, in either sex, between number of goslings reared and the adult mass five to six weeks posthatch (molt) in the same year, or probability of return or timing of breeding (laying date or hatch date) in the following year. Partners of males that reared the largest number of goslings laid significantly larger clutch sizes the following year, suggesting that these were "better-quality" pairs. Over the range of naturally observed brood sizes, the effect of increasing brood size on parental behavior does not appear to be associated with any negative effects on residual parental reproductive effort or fitness in this species. 
10.1525/auk.2010.10068|Many songbirds are seasonally frugivorous and eat primarily fruit during migration and insects or seeds during nonmigratory periods. Previous work has suggested that most wild fruits may have inadequate protein for birds. Assessing the nutritional adequacy of fruit requires knowing the protein requirements of birds in relation to the composition of available fruits. We tested predictions of two hypotheses: (1) interspecific differences in protein requirements of birds are related to their foraging strategy; and (2) protein requirements of birds increase with demand, for example during migratory periods of the annual cycle. We measured the protein requirements of the omnivorous Hermit Thrush (
10.2307/4089847|European Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) nestlings were studied on a small island off the coast of central Norway. Increase in body mass (BM) with age (t, days) was described by the logistic equation:
10.2307/4087489|Breeding-site fidelity, territory retention, and mate fidelity were examined in a color-banded population of monogamous Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) breeding at five focal sites in southern Manitoba from 1981 to 1986. Frequent nest destruction by predators and storms provided numerous opportunities for birds to change mates and territories during and among breeding seasons. Between years approximately 70% of surviving adults were site faithful. Males did not return significantly more often than females, and both sexes returned regardless of previous reproductive success. Although former mates were present in subsequent years, 30 of 37 birds changed mates. Birds that changed mates from the previous year and whose mates were present in subsequent years had experienced poorer hatching success the previous season than those that retained mates. Birds that retained mates did not improve their reproductive success over the previous year. After nest destruction during the breeding season, most adults kept mates (34/52 pairs) but changed territories. Birds changed territories significantly more often, and moved significantly farther, following nest destruction by storm than following predation. Birds that retained mates during the breeding season fledged more chicks than those that changed.
25488570|Niceforo's Wren (
4087340| We used starch-gel electrophoresis to assess variability at 41 genetic loci in 208 individuals from 11 breeding populations of the Western Flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis) complex. Genic variability was substantial in most populations and equivalent to levels found in other avian taxa. A sample of E. d. insulicola from Santa Catalina Island, however, showed reduced heterozygosity and an unusually low percentage of polymorphic loci. We attribute this to a bottleneck at the time of the original colonization. Nei's genetic distances among populations of one taxon ranged from D = 0.0003 (in E. d. difficilis) to D = 0.0033 (in E. d. hellmayri). Intertaxon Nei's D ranged from 0.009 (E. d. insulicola vs. E. d. difficilis) and 0.0149 (E. d. difficilis vs. E. d. hellmayri) to 0.0228 (E. d. insulicola vs. E. d. hellmayri).
10.2307/4089021|Modern raptors feed predominantly on animals and exhibit a wide range of feeding behaviors and prey preferences. The following six ecomorphs, based on feeding preferences served to classify members from all families of diurnal birds of prey: (1) avivores, which feed primarily on avian prey; (2) mammalivores, which feed primarily on mammalian prey; (3) herpetivores, which feed primarily on reptiles and amphibians; (4) piscivores, which feed primarily on fishes; (5) scavengers, which are primarily carrion feeders; and (6) generalists, which are opportunistic feeders on all of the above prey and on invertebrates. A series of skull-based indices were created to reflect functional aspects of prey preferences-calculated from measures of the cranium, maxilla (beak) and mandible-and were analyzed separately and with all units combined. The same indices were determined for 13 raptor species, including some extinct genera unearthed from the Pleistocene Rancho La Brea tar pits in California. A discriminant function analysis was used to assess the functional predictability of the indices for the extant raptors and also to predict the ecomorphs of the fossils. Results indicate that all of the indices combined provide the best predictor of prey preferences, especially for scavengers and avivores. Cranial and mandibular indices provide a better resolution than maxillary indices when considering only isolated elements. Eleven fossil species were assigned to their dietary categories with high probabilities and two were less definitely classified.
4087659|The breeding cycle of individual pairs of Eurasian Kestrels (Falco tinnunculus) started with an extension of male hunting time, followed by an increase in hunting yield. Both early- and late-breeding males hunted ca. 3 h/day, but had different hunting yields. In late-breeding males, increase in hunting yield was slower and started later in the season than in early males. Females stopped hunting during courtship and were fed by the males until the young were 10 days old. In the 2 weeks before laying, there was a 70-g rise in female body mass (64% was due to accumulation of body reserves; the remaining 36% was due to development of oviduct and eggs). Experiments with lipophilic dyes showed that eggs developed in 9 days. Rapid growth of the follicles lasted 7 days; and the formation of egg membranes, albumen, and shell lasted 2 days. Total energetic content of an egg was 99.7 kJ, partitioned between yolk (65.0 kJ) and albumen (34.7 kJ). Daily costs of egg formation were similar for large and small clutches, but were extended at the maximum level for two more days for every extra egg laid. During courtship and egg laying, late-breeding females had a 23-35% lower food intake and a 5% lower body mass than early breeders. Lower energy intake of late females corresponded with lower maintenance and thermoregulation costs. Late females had 33% lower body reserves than early females and were therefore less buffered against episodes of food shortage. Time of breeding for individual pairs seems to be regulated by proximate energetic limitations in the female combined with her declining body mass, and by the courtship strategy of the male.
4088372|We investigated nest predation in a population of Florida Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma c. coerulescens) at Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid, Florida. Frequency of nest visits by investigators did not influence predation rates. Nest predation increased as the breeding season progressed and occurred most often during daylight hours. When seasonal effects were held constant, nestlings were depredated more often than eggs, and young nestlings were depredated more often than old nestlings. Several lines of evidence indicated that, for Florida Scrub Jays, diurnal snakes and birds were the most important nest predators, while nocturnal mammals were relatively less important. Late in the breeding season, pairs with helpers experienced less nest predation than pairs without helpers. This effect was primarily the result of reduced predation on nestlings.
10.2307/4090484| Telemetry devices used on seabirds have been shown to affect their behavior, reproduction, and survival. However, studies have primarily been limited to larger species, and results are occasionally equivocal. We quantified tag retention time and effects of attaching subcutaneous anchor radiotransmitters on behavior, provisioning, and reproduction in the Common Murre (Uria aalge), a medium-bodied seabird. Between 1999 and 2001, we tagged 48 Common Murres on Tatoosh Island, Washington. Subsequently, 46 birds were detected during colony observation, radiotracking, or both. Activity budgets and time spent at the nest site did not differ between tagged birds and their untagged mates. However, tagged birds made fewer but longer trips away from the nest and provisioned their chicks significantly less than their mates did (
10.1525/auk.2011.11121|Humans profoundly affect wildlife through environmental modification but they can also influence wildlife through direct interactions. We surveyed human attitudes and actions towards birds in two urban areas (Seattle, Washington, and Berlin, Germany) to determine whether encouraging (e.g., providing bird feeders) and discouraging (e.g., actively repelling) behavior directed at birds affected bird behavior. We studied human and bird behavior across an urbanization gradient (heavy to light urbanization) in both cities to capture variation in urban cover, human density, attitudes, and actions as well as variation in human culture and socioeconomic condition and education. We found that residents of Berlin encouraged birds more than residents of Seattle did, and that Seattleites discouraged birds more than Berliners. These differences varied across the urbanization gradient. Likewise, birds (crows and other songbirds) varied their flight initiation distance across the urbanization gradient, with distances increasing from urban to rural sites. However, in rural sites in Seattle, American Crows (
4086599|We used the doubly-labeled water (DLW) technique to measure the daily energy expenditure
25150289| We investigated territoriality, prospecting, and dispersal behavior in cooperatively breeding Pohnpei Micronesian Kingfishers (Todiramphus cinnamominus reichenbachii) throughout the annual cycle using radiotelemetry and color-band resights. Mean home-range size was 6.3 ha and territories were 8.1 ha. Within territories, Micronesian Kingfishers shared 63% of their home-range space with coterritorial occupants, and 3% was shared with extraterritorial conspecifics. Birds on cooperative territories had larger home ranges that overlapped more with coterritory occupants' home ranges than birds in pair-held territories. Despite evidence suggesting that resources necessary for survival and reproduction occurred on each territory, Micronesian Kingfishers of all age and sex classes made extraterritorial prospecting movements. Prospecting was rare; it comprised only 4.3% of our observations. When birds departed on forays, they were gone for 1.9 h and returned to home territories before sunset. Prospecting by dominant birds was temporally correlated with courtship and nest initiation, and birds were observed at neighboring nest sites with opposite-sex conspecifics during the period when females were available for fertilization. Juveniles and helpers prospected throughout the year and made repeated homesteading movements to dispersal destinations before dispersing. Mean dispersal distance for radiomarked individuals was 849 m. Results suggest that prospecting in Micronesian Kingfishers is a complex behavior that provides information for dispersal decisions and familiarity with dispersal destinations. Additionally, extraterritorial movements may provide covert opportunities for reproduction, which have potential to profoundly influence the distribution of fitness among helper and dominant Micronesian Kingfishers. /// Au cours du cycle annuel, nous avons tudi la territorialit, la prospection et le comportement de dispersion chez des Martins-chasseurs cannelle (Todiramphus cinnamominus reichenbachii) cooprant pour la reproduction. Pour ce faire, la tlmtrie et la r-observation d'oiseaux marqus de bagues colores ont t utiliss. Le domaine vital moyen s'tendait sur 6,3 ha et les territoires, sur 8,1 ha. Les martins-chasseurs partageaient 63% de leur domaine vital avec les autres occupants du territoire et 3% avec leurs congnres extraterritoriaux. Les oiseaux occupant des territoires en coopration avaient des domaines vitaux plus grands qui chevauchaient davantage celui des autres occupants du territoire que les couples d'oiseaux occupant seuls le territoire. Malgr des signes vidents suggrant la prsence des ressources ncessaires  la survie et la reproduction dans chaque territoire, les martins-chasseurs des deux sexes et de toutes les classes d'ge ont effectu des dplacements extraterritoriaux de prospection. La prospection tait rare, comptant seulement pour 4,3% de nos observations. Lorsque les oiseaux partaient pour une incursion, ils s'absentaient pendant ?1,9 h et revenaient dans leurs territoires avant le coucher du soleil. La prospection par les oiseaux dominants tait corrle dans le temps avec la parade nuptiale et l'initiation des nids. Ces oiseaux taient observs  des sites de nidification voisins en compagnie de congnres du sexe oppos pendant la priode o les femelles pouvaient tre fertilises. Les juvniles et les aides au nid prospectaient tout au long de l'anne. Ils ont effectu des dplacements rpts vers des destinations de dispersion avant la dispersion elle-mme. La distance moyenne de dispersion chez les individus munis d'metteurs tait de 849 m. Les rsultats suggrent que la prospection chez les Martins-chasseurs cannelle est un comportement complexe qui les informe dans leur dcisions de dispersion et leur permet de se familiariser avec les destinations de dispersion. De plus, les mouvements extraterritoriaux peuvent fournir des opportunits clandestines pour la reproduction, lesquelles ont le potentiel d'influencer profondment la distribution du fitness parmi les martins-chasseurs dominants et les aides au nid. 
4085546|Thirty avian censuses were conducted over 2 yr along a wooded streamside in southcentral Washington. Avian species diversity and richness show temporal periodicity (summer maxima and winter minima), but evenness does not. Comparison with contemporaneous censuses in adjoining shrubsteppe shows substantially greater diversity and richness along the streamside, while community evenness is greater in the shrubsteppe. We infer these conditions to be a result of the arboreal physiognomy of the streamside plant community. Comparing winter censuses to spring censuses, we observed statistically significant differences in avian community structure: in winter, species diversity is correlated with evenness but not richness, while in the breeding season, diversity varies as a function of richness, not evenness. Following a model proposed by Tramer (1969), we suggest that community organization during the spring breeding season may reflect elements of resource-based interspecific competition, while winter assemblages of birds are regulated by a harsh and variable climate.
25488692|We investigated the genetic population structure of the Black-throated Blue Warbler (
10.2307/4088979|Forest bird communities were sampled along line transects in northwestern Wisconsin during June of 1985 through 1992 to determine whether edge type and patch shape affect avian abundance. Landscape structural characteristics quantified along these transects included: (1) edges that defined the habitat patches they separated, (2) fractals to quantify patch shapes, and (3) areal extent of different patches. Three multiple-regression models were constructed for 10 bird species and the mean number of individuals and species using the following sets of independent variables: (1) edge variables and fractals, (2) area variables, and (3) the first six components from a principal components analysis based on all independent variables. Multiple-regression analysis indicated that edge variables and fractal dimension explained the most variation in abundance for Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus), Red-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta canadensis), Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus), and American Robins (Turdus migratorius). In contrast, area variables explained the most variation in abundance for Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica), and Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus). Abundances of Yellow-bellied Flycatchers (Empidonax flaviventris), Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), and White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) were equally correlated with both edge and area variables. Results of our study show that, for selected species, forest management strategies must be developed that consider not only stand characteristics, but also the edges created between these stands.
10.2307/4085260|The Three-wattled Bellbird (Procnias tricarunculata) was studied for 7 1/2 weeks (April-June 1974) at Monteverde, Costa Rica. In the study area, measuring approximately 1,400 by 3,200 m, 13 adult males held territories from which they advertised themselves by loud calls for 83-93% of the daylight hours. The majority had a repertoire of three different calls. Evidence from a tape recording from Panama and descriptions from elsewhere in Costa Rica show that the Monteverde dialect is distinctive. Two individuals had part or all of their repertoire different from other Monteverde males but matching vocalizations from elsewhere. Males call from exposed perches above the canopy and from a special broken-off branch, the visiting perch, beneath the canopy. Calling males perform two displays involving flight, each preceded by a characteristic call. These displays and a silent wattle-shaking display are mainly performed when another bellbird visits a calling male. The visitors were usually females or immature males but occasionally adult males. At the climax of the visit, the territory-holding male leans over his visitor, perched at the broken-off end of the visiting perch, and utters some extremely loud calls into its ear. This usually makes the visitor leave. Both sexes receive the same treatment. During May and June, females were watched coming to the visiting perches of calling males on 20 different occasions, but none of these visits culminated in mating. The male's wattles are fully extended when he is calling in his territory, but are usually retracted when he leaves his territory to feed. During encounters between closely matched males, first one and then the other may extend the wattles and call. Bellbirds were seen feeding only on fruits, mainly drupes of the family Lauraceae but also other drupes, particularly a species of Rutaceae. An individual male feeding exclusively on the latter fruit took an average of 9.0 g of pericarp per hour. A comparison is made of the calls and displays of the four Procnias species, and it is suggested how these may be related to habitat.
90008572|Small-bodied birds engaging in incubation by a single sex experience a tradeoff between incubating to create a buffered thermal environment for their eggs and foraging to meet their own energetic requirements. This tradeoff is intensified in alpine environments, which are characterized by cold and variable conditions. We monitored the incubation rhythms of alpine Horned Larks (
90008586|Sperm competition, whereby sperm from multiple males compete to fertilize an egg, selects for adaptations that increase fertilization success. Because fertilization success is related to sperm number, size, and quality, both interspecific and intraspecific variation in these traits are predicted to correlate with the level of sperm competition. Specifically, species and individuals that experience high sperm competition are predicted to produce more sperm per ejaculate, produce longer sperm, and exert higher quality control, resulting in reduced numbers of morphologically abnormal sperm and reduced size variation via selection for the most successful sperm phenotype. However, the causes of sperm morphological and size variation and its consequences for sperm competition remain poorly understood, especially within species. We quantified variation in sperm morphology, size, and number in the Lance-tailed Manakin (
10.2307/4089759|Seasonal changes in corticosterone metabolism may be in part responsible for mediating the changes in nutrient reserves before and during migration. To investigate the role of glucocorticoids in the migratory physiology of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla), we compared plasma levels of corticosterone in response to capture and handling stress during prolonged stopovers in Delaware Bay during spring 1996 and 1997. Although Semipalmated Sandpipers showed significant stress responses to handling in both years, the magnitude of the response was significantly lower in 1997. We found no correlation between energetic condition and initial corticosterone concentration in either year, or between energetic condition and corticosterone concentration in samples collected 30 min after capture in 1996. However, energetic condition was positively correlated with corticosterone concentration in 30 min sample collected in 1997. Between-year differences in regression functions of energetic condition by Julian date suggested that birds were accumulating fat mass more rapidly, or arriving in better energetic condition during 1996 compared to 1997. Those differences were especially evident during the "early" stages (before 26 May) of stopover periods. In 1997, we found that birds sampled early in the season did not show a significant increase in corticosterone 30 min after capture, while birds sampled in early 1996 did. In both years, birds sampled during the "late" stages of stopover periods (after and including 26 May) showed significant stress response. Birds in relatively poor energetic condition, or with low rates of fat-mass gain, were less likely to secrete additional corticosterone in response to acute stress, possibly to protect skeletal muscle needed for migratory flight. Those results suggest that patterns of corticosterone secretion in sandpipers can be modified in response to changes in energy demand during the migratory period.
4087373|We examined the hypothesis that territorial American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) males are geographically randomly distributed with respect to structure of the single song used predominantly before nesting. Present methods to assess the degree of similarity of song between neighboring birds are often inadequate because they do not give the level of statistical significance. We present a computer method to generate the appropriate null distribution from which the level of significance can be determined. We found statistically significant correlations between neighbors primarily in the last and penultimate discrete vocal items (phones) of the song. There were also important differences between the 2 samples.
25150261|The distribution and abundance of food are primary factors affecting resource-use patterns in birds. Many bird species eat several food types, which may differ in their distribution and overall abundance. I studied foraging ecology of seven sympatric species of Tangara at Mindo, Ecuador, to determine whether the patterns of resource use differed between two food types: arthropods and fruits. Interspecific differences in arthropod-foraging were manifested in the fine segregation of microhabitat preference combined with different habitat use. By contrast, interspecific differences in fruit-foraging were manifested in preferences for different plant genera, often associated with different habitats. No evidence was found for spatial partitioning of the same fruit species. Interspecific overlap in fruit-foraging was 3 higher than that in arthropod-foraging, and species of Tangara that frequently joined the same mixed-species flocks differed largely in arthropod-foraging but overlapped greatly in fruit-foraging. The differences in patterns between arthropod and fruit-foraging may be explained by the different characteristics of arthropods and fruits as food resources. High sympatry of species of Tangara and other omnivorous tanagers, in general, appears to be maintained not because fruits are abundant, resulting in little competition for them, but because these tanagers specialize on different microhabitats for foraging arthropods. /// La distribucin y abundancia de los alimentos son factores principales que afectan los patrones del uso de recursos de las aves. Muchas especies de aves comen varios tipos de alimentos que podran diferir en su distribucin y abundancia. Estudi la ecologa de forrajeo de siete especies simptricas del gnero Tangara en Mindo, Ecuador, para determinar si los patrones de uso del recurso difirieren entre dos tipos de alimentos: artrpodos y frutos. La diferencia interespecfica en el forrajeo de artrpodos se manifest por la fina segregacin en la preferencia del microhbitat combinada con el uso del diferentes hbitats. En el contraste, la diferencia interespecfica en el forrajeo de frutos se manifest por las preferencias por diferentes gneros de plantas, a menudo asociado con los diferentes hbitats. No se encontr ninguna evidencia en la segregacin espacial de las mismas especies de frutos. El traslape interespecfico en el forrajeo de frutos fue tres veces mayor que el traslape en el forrajeo de artrpodos, y las especies de Tangara que frecuentemente se encontraban en las mismas bandadas mixtas difirieron mayormente en el forrajeo de artrpodos pero se solaparon en el forrajeo de frutos. Las diferencias entre el forrajeo de artrpodos y el de frutos podran explicarse por las diferentes caractersticas de artrpodos y frutos como recursos alimenticios. La alta simpatra de Tangara y otras Tangaras omnvoras, en general, parece ser mantenida no porque los frutos sean abundantes y causen poca competencia, sino porque estas tangaras se especializan en diferentes microhbitats para forrajear artrpodos.
10.2307/4089506|The Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (Pseudoleistes virescens) is a nonterritorial blackbird with helpers at the nest that inhabits temperate marshy areas and humid grasslands of Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil. We estimated nesting success of marshbirds throughout the breeding season (late September to mid-December) and analyzed the effects of brood parasitism and nest-site selection (i.e. nesting substrate) on daily survival rates at different stages of the nesting cycle. Most nests were started in November, and these nests had a higher daily survival rate than those initiated in October or December. Only 13.3% of the nests fledged chicks. Predation accounted for 77% of nest losses, whereas the other failures resulted from nest desertion, in most cases after the loss of several eggs. Sixty-five percent of the nests were parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis), but brood parasitism did not reduce nest survival. Daily survival rates increased from egg laying and incubation to the brood-rearing stage. Nesting success was three times higher in nests built in native black rushes and pampa grasses than in nests built in two exotic species of thistle. Eighty-nine percent of the nests were built in thistles, which were the most abundant plants in the study area. However, many black rushes and pampa grasses remained unoccupied.
10.2307/4090018| We used capture and recapture data (1985 to 1994) to examine seasonal variation in habitat use, movements within and among habitats, and survival rates of manakins (Manacus candei, Corapipo altera, Pipra mentalis, P. pipra) in northeastern Costa Rica. Manakins were captured in young and old second-growth woodlands in the lowlands and in old-growth forest at approximately 50, 500, and 1,000 m. Manakin species differed in their use of habitats, with old-growth forest species showing large and predictable seasonal variation in capture rates. Corapipo capture rates in lowland (nonbreeding) habitats were greater during the wet season than during the dry season and were greater in old-growth forest than in second growth. Capture rates at 500 m were higher in the dry season. Pipra mentalis capture rates were high in second growth and old growth. Capture rates were higher in the wet season and were correlated with capture rates of Corapipo, indicating that at least some individual P. mentalis migrate along the elevational gradient. P. pipra capture rates were highest at 1,000 m; few individuals descended to lowlands in the wet season. Manacus capture rates were highest in young second growth and did not vary between wet and dry seasons. Use of second-growth habitats by species typically associated with old-growth forests illustrates the value of maintaining a mosaic of habitats to accommodate seasonal changes in use of habitats. Contrary to expectations based on lek mating systems, there was little evidence that movements within habitats (i.e. recapture distances) varied between sexes. Yet, recapture percentages were higher in all species for adult females than males. Adult survival rates were 0.75 for Manacus in young second growth, 0.62 for Corapipo in old-growth forest at 50 m and 0.66 at 500 m, and 0.70 for Pipra mentalis in lowland old-growth forest. Results support the suggestion that geographic variation in survival rates may be common in the tropics and illustrate the need for examining survival rates separately by age and sex. /// Con base en datos de capturas y recapturas recolectados entre 1985 y 1994, examinamos la variacin estacional en el uso de hbitat, los movimientos dentro y entre hbitats y las tasas de supervivencia de saltarines (Manacus candei, Corapipo altera, Pipra mentalis, P. pipra) en el noreste de Costa Rica. Los saltarines fueron capturados en bosques sucesionales jvenes y viejos y en bosques maduros a aproximadamente 50, 500 y 1,000 m de elevacin. Las especies difirieron en trminos de uso de hbitat y las tasas de captura de las especies de bosques maduros presentaron grandes variaciones estacionales predecibles. Las tasas de captura de Corapipo en reas de tierras bajas (no reproductivas) fueron mayores en la estacin lluviosa que en la estacin seca y mayores en bosques maduros que en bosques secundarios. Las tasas de captura a 500 m fueron mayores en la estacin seca. Las tasas de captura de Pipra mentalis fueron altas en bosques secundarios y maduros. stas fueron mayores en la estacin lluviosa y se correlacionaron con las tasas de captura de Corapipo, lo que indica que al menos algunos individuos de P. mentalis migran a lo largo del gradiente altitudinal. Las mximas tasas de captura de P. pipra se presentaron a 1,000 m; algunos pocos individuos descendieron hacia las tierras bajas en la estacin lluviosa. Las tasas de captura de Manacus fueron mximas en crecimiento secundario joven y no presentaron variacin entre la estacin lluviosa y la estacin seca. El uso de hbitats secundarios por parte de especies tpicamente asociadas a bosques maduros demuestra la importancia de mantener un mosaico de hbitats para permitir la variacin estacional en el uso de stos. A diferencia de lo que se esperara con base en los sistemas de apareamiento en leks de estas aves, existe poca evidencia para sugerir que los movimientos dentro de hbitats (i.e. distancias de recaptura) varan entre sexos. Sin embargo, en todas las especies los porcentajes de recaptura de las hembras adultas fueron mayores que los de los machos. Las tasas de supervivencia de los adultos fueron de 0.75 para Manacus en crecimiento secundario joven, 0.62 para Corapipo en bosque primario a 50 m y 0.66 a 500 m, y 0.70 para Pipra mentalis en bosque maduro de tierras bajas. Los resultados apoyan la sugerencia que la variacin geogrfica en tasas de supervivencia puede ser comn en el trpico e ilustran la necesidad de examinar las tasas de supervivencia de las distintas edades y sexos por separado. 
10.2307/4089587|Determining whether nesting attempts are successful can be difficult. Yet, current protocols for estimating nesting success do not address how uncertain nest fates should be handled. We examined the problem of nest-fate uncertainty as it relates to Mayfield estimation of nesting success and in analyses of factors that influence success. We used data from Minnesota to illustrate the potential effect of uncertain fate; 40% of Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus; n = 127) nests and 30% of Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus; n = 144) nests had uncertain fates. How this uncertainty is incorporated into Mayfield estimates of success varied widely among researchers. In a survey of researchers who use the Mayfield method, 9 of 22 respondents (of 40 contacted) excluded nests with uncertain fate. Excluding uncertain fates is counter to how Mayfield first described his estimator and can result in severe downward bias. The remaining respondents (59%) included nests with uncertain fate but varied in how they terminated the exposure period. We developed a simulation model that calculated Mayfield estimates using different approaches and compared them with a known rate of nesting success. Magnitude of bias in Mayfield estimates varied considerably in our simulations. The approach with the least bias terminated exposure with the last observed active date for nests with uncertain fate, and with the midpoint between last observed active and first observed inactive dates for nests with known fate. In addition, information necessary to interpret and compare Mayfield estimates often is not reported. These values, including variance estimates and the period lengths used to estimate survival rates, should be reported with Mayfield estimates. Finally, nest fate is commonly used as a categorical variable in studies of factors affecting nesting success. In this approach, however, nests with uncertain fate must be excluded. An alternative approach is Cox regression, which incorporates nests with uncertain fate.
10.2307/4089689|We examined the sequence of parental-care evolution in calidridine sandpipers by mapping parental-care characters onto the two trees produced by a maximum-likelihood and parsimony analysis of molecular data. Our analysis indicated that asymmetric biparental care (male incubates and cares for young, female incubates) is plesiomorphic for the group. This state has been maintained in at least 10 of the 22 species investigated. There have been four changes from the ancestral condition: (1) three to four increases in female care coupled with a complete loss of male care; (2) an increase in female care with the maintenance of male care, producing symmetric biparental care; (3) an increase in female care followed at a later date by three independent losses of male care in Calidris melanotos, C. fuscicollis, and Tryngites subruficollis; and (4) a decrease in female care in C. pusilla.
25150260|Despite their large vocal repertoires and otherwise highly versatile singing style, male mockingbirds (Mimus spp.) sometimes sing in a highly repetitive fashion. We conducted a playback experiment to determine the possible signal value of different syllable-presentation patterns during simulated male intrusions in the Tropical Mockingbird (Mimus gilvus), testing the hypothesis that more repetitive singing represents a stronger threat and generates a stronger aggressive response. Responses were measured in terms of approach and singing behavior and were analyzed using McGregor's (1992) multivariate method. We also introduce the use of survival analysis for analyzing response variables for which subjects do not perform the behavior in question in at least one of the replicates (known as "right-censored variables" in the statistical literature). As predicted by theory, experimental subjects responded more aggressively to songs composed of a single note than to variable ones. However, versatility at the between-song level had an opposite effect: high song-switching rates generated stronger responses than low ones. Given the lack of a statistical interaction between within-song versatility and switching rate, we conclude that these two parameters may serve independent purposes and possibly transmit different information. We discuss the possibility that the signal value of variation in vocal versatility lies in the mediation of territorial conflicts, the attraction of female partners, the mediation of conflicts over access to reproductive females, or some combination of these functions. /// A pesar de tener un repertorio vocal amplio y un estilo tpico al cantar altamente verstil, los sinsontes macho a veces cantan de manera muy repetitiva. Condujimos un experimento con playback para determinar la posible funcin comunicativa de diferentes patrones de presentacin de slabas en intrusiones territoriales simuladas de machos del Sinsonte Tropical (Mimus gilvus) falseando la hiptesis de que estilos de canto ms repetitivos son ms amenazantes y generan una respuesta ms agresiva. Las respuestas fueron medidas en trminos de comportamientos de aproximacin y canto y fueron analizadas utilizando el mtodo multivariado propuesto por MacGregor (1992). Introducimos tambin el uso del Anlisis de Supervivencia para el anlisis de variables en las que los sujetos no alcanzaron a realizar el comportamiento en cuestin en por lo menos una de las rplicas (conocidas como 'variables censuradas' en la literatura estadstica). Siguiendo la prediccin terica, los sujetos experimentales reaccionaron ms agresivamente a cantos compuestos por la repeticin de un solo tipo de nota que a cantos variables. An as, la versatilidad entre cantos tuvo un efecto contrario ya que tasas de cambio altas generaron respuestas ms fuertes que tasas de cambio bajas. Debido a la falta de interaccin estadstica entre la versatilidad dentro de y entre los cantos, concluimos que estos dos parmetros cumplen propsitos independientes y posiblemente transmiten informacin diferente. Discutimos la posibilidad de que el valor comunicativo de la variacin en versatilidad vocal yazca en la mediacin de conflictos territoriales, la atraccin de hembras y/o la mediacin de conflictos sobre el acceso a hembras en estado reproductivo.
10.2307/4085498|Intraspecific geographic variation in the "hoy" call of female Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) was studied. Twelve morphometric characters of sonograms of this call for 38 individuals, recorded in the field at the 4 extreme corners of the species' contiguous range in the U.S., were examined by univariate and multivariate statistical techniques. In spite of the absence of striking qualitative difference apparent dialects have been detected for the four populations.
10.2307/4089106| Cooperative breeding is rare in frugivorous birds, presumably because traits associated with frugivory do not favor permanent group living and helping behavior. We studied the Toucan Barbet (Semnornis ramphastinus) in southwestern Colombia to understand the possible benefits of group living and helping behavior in one of the few frugivorous birds exhibiting such behavior. Toucan Barbets lived in permanent groups, defended a territory year-round, roosted and nested in tree cavities built by themselves, and fed mostly on fruits. Toucan Barbet groups were composed of a breeding pair and their offspring; groups were significantly smaller during the breeding (x = 2.7 individuals) than during the nonbreeding season (x = 3.1 individuals). Sixty-two percent of pairs had helpers, which incubated eggs, brooded and fed nestlings, and defended nestlings against predators and cavity usurpers (mainly the Plate-billed Mountain-Toucan [Andigena laminirostris]). Pairs with helpers produced more fledglings (x = 1.3) than pairs without helpers (x = 0.5). We suggest that the increase in reproductive success of pairs with helpers explains why cooperative breeding is favored in this species. Furthermore, we suggest that frugivory by itself does not impede the evolution of delayed dispersal and helping behavior. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09158|Offspring provisioning constrains the foraging behavior of breeding seabirds temporally and spatially. In species whose foraging grounds overlap with commercial fisheries, quantifying the provisioning behavior of breeding adults throughout the season can illuminate the nature of interactions with the fisheries and, where seabird bycatch exists, contribute to development of mitigation measures. In 20042005, we studied the provisioning behavior of Flesh-footed Shearwaters (
auk.2012.11249|We assessed carry-over effects from winter location on timing of nest initiation and clutch size of Black Brant (
4090546| Parakeets in the genus Pyrrhura occur in Amazonia and in almost all other major Neotropical forests. Their uneven distribution (with some widespread and several geographically restricted endemic taxa) and complex patterns of plumage variation have long generated a confused taxonomy. Several taxonomically difficult polytypic species are usually recognized. Here, we present a mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) phylogenetic analysis of Pyrrhura, with emphasis on the especially problematic picta-leucotis complex, to provide a more robust basis for interpreting the systematics and historical biogeography of the group. Our main findings are that (1) Pyrrhura can be divided into three main evolutionary lineages, one comprising P. cruentata, an Atlantic Forest endemic, the second comprising the picta-leucotis complex, and the third comprising the remaining species; (2) the traditionally recognized species P. picta and P. leucotis are not monophyletic; and (3) most of the species recognized by Joseph (2000, 2002) are diagnosable as independent evolutionary units, with the exception of the following species pairs: P. snethlageae and P. amazonum, P. leucotis and P. griseipectus, and P. roseifrons and P. peruviana. Other than P. cruentata, the two clades that constitute Pyrrhura appear to have radiated and evolved their present mtDNA diversity over short periods during the Plio-Pleistocene. /// Los pericos del gnero Pyrrhura se encuentran en la Amazona y en la mayora de los dems bosques neotropicales principales. Su distribucin desigual (con algunos taxa de amplia distribucin y otros endmicos a regiones geogrficas estrechas) y los patrones complejos de variacin en el plumaje, han conducido a que la taxonoma del grupo sea confusa. Usualmente se reconocen varias especies politpicas y taxonmicamente difciles. Con el fin de proveer informacin bsica robusta para interpretar la sistemtica y la biogeografa histrica del grupo, en este estudio presentamos un anlisis filogentico de Pyrrhura con nfasis en el complejo de picta-leucotis basado en ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt). Encontramos que Pyrrhura puede dividirse en tres linajes evolutivos principales: P. cruentata (una especie endmica del bosque atlntico), el complejo de picta-leucotis y las especies restantes. Las especies reconocidas tradicionalmente como P. picta y P. leucotis no son monofilticas. La mayora de las especies reconocidas por Joseph (2000, 2002) pueden diagnosticarse como unidades evolutivas independientes, a excepcin de los siguientes pares de especies: P. snethlageae y P. amazonum, P. leucotis y P. griseipectus, y P. roseifrons y P. peruviana. Aparte de P. cruentata, los dos clados que conforman el gnero parecen haberse diversificado y haber evolucionado su diversidad actual en el ADNmt durante perodos cortos en el Plio-Pleistoceno. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10219|Unusual climatic events often lead to intense natural selection on organisms. Whether episodic selection events result in permanent microevolutionary changes or are reversed by opposing selection pressures at a later time is rarely known, because most studies do not last long enough to witness rare events and document their aftermath. In 1996, unusually cold and wet weather in southwestern Nebraska led to the deaths of thousands of Cliff Swallows (
10.2307/4090419| Food abundance influences various aspects of birds' breeding ecology, such as onset of laying, clutch size, and reproductive success. Here, we examine the effects of a natural superabundance of food-cockchafers (Melolontha melolontha, Coleoptera)-on nesting success of a monogamous long-distance migrant, the Lesser Gray Shrike (Lanius minor). In that species, cockchafers make up 88% of adult and 48% of nestling diet in years with cockchafer outbreaks. We compared timing of egg laying, clutch size, and fledging success in three years and chick development in two years with and without cockchafer outbreaks. In cockchafer years, laying date was advanced by about one day, clutch size increased by about one egg, and heavier chicks were produced. Fledging success, however, did not change (fledgling number in non-cockchafer years: 5.3  0.2, 5.0  0.2, and 4.0  0.5; in cockchafer years: 4.1  0.7, 5.4  0.2, and 4.2  0.5), because more eggs failed to hatch during cockchafer years. Thus, increased clutch size in periods of superabundant food do not always result in increased fledgling production. Limited incubation ability or intrinsic physical egg properties, resulting in inefficient incubation, are the most likely explanations for increased hatching failure in years of food superabundance in our study population of Lesser Gray Shrikes. /// La abundancia de alimento influye en diversos aspectos de la ecologa reproductora de las aves, tales como el comienzo y tamao de la puesta y el xito reproductor. En este trabajo examinamos los efectos de una superabundancia natural de alimento (escarabajo sanjuanero, Melolontha melolontha, Coleoptera) en el xito de nidificacin de Lanius minor, un ave mongama migrante de larga distancia. Los escarabajos sanjuaneros constituyen el 88% de la dieta de los adultos y el 48% de la dieta de los pollos de este ave. En este estudio se compara la fecha de comienzo de puesta, el tamao de puesta y el xito de los volantones en tres aos con superabundancia de escarabajos y en tres aos sin tal superabundancia. Tambin se analizan diferencias en el desarrollo de los pollos en dos aos con y sin superabundancia de escarabajos. En aos con superabundancia de escarabajos, la fecha de puesta se adelant aproximadamente un da, el tamao de puesta aument en aproximadamente un huevo y los pollos producidos fueron ms pesados. Sin embargo, el xito de los volantones no vari (nmero de volantones en aos sin superabundancia de escarabajos: 5.3  0.2, 5.0  0.2 y 4.0  0.5, en aos con superabundancia: 4.1  0.7, 5.4  0.2 y 4.2  0.5) ya que el fracaso en la eclosin fue mayor en aos con superabundancia de alimento. Por tanto, el incremento en el tamao de puesta durante periodos de superabundancia trfica no siempre resulta en un incremento concomitante en la produccin de volantones. Una incubacin ineficaz debida a una limitacin en la capacidad incubadora y/o propiedades fsicas intrnsecas al huevo son las explicaciones ms plausibles para el incremento en el fracaso de eclosin en Lanius minor. 
10.2307/4090203| We studied snag use for foraging by Black-backed Woodpeckers (Picoides arcticus) one year after a fire in an eastern black spruce (Picea mariana) boreal forest in Quebec, Canada. We searched for signs of foraging (bark flaking and excavation holes) by Black-backed Woodpeckers on 6,536 snags sampled in 56 plots located in portions of the burned forest that had not been salvage logged. A logistic regression model was developed based on the presence or absence of foraging signs. Results showed that Black-backed Woodpeckers used larger snags that were less deteriorated by fire (qualified as high-quality snags). Direct field observations of individuals foraging on 119 snags also indicated that used snags corresponded to those of high predicted quality. Finally, we assessed the relationship between food availability and snag characteristics by measuring the density of wood-boring beetle larvae holes on 30 snags of different size and deterioration classes. High-quality snags contained higher prey densities (wood-boring beetle holes) than smaller and more deteriorated snags. We recommend that forest blocks characterized by large and less deteriorated trees be preserved from salvage logging in recently burned boreal forests in northeastern North America. /// Nous avons tudi l'utilisation des chicots  des fins d'alimentation par le Pic  dos noir (Picoides arcticus) un an aprs feu dans une pessire noire (Picea mariana) de l'est de la fort borale au Qubec, Canada. Nous avons cherch des marques d'alimentation (corce souleve et trous d'excavation) de Pics  dos noir sur 6,536 chicots chantillonns dans 56 placettes situes dans des portions de forts brles prserves de la coupe de rcupration. Un modle de rgression logistique a t dvelopp bas sur la prsence ou l'absence de marques d'alimentation. Nos rsultats ont montr que les Pics  dos noir utilisaient les chicots de plus gros diamtre et moins dtriors par le feu (qualifis de chicots de haute qualit). Des observations directes d'individus s'alimentant sur 119 chicots ont galement montr que les caractristiques des arbres utiliss correspondaient  celles dtermines par le modle pour des chicots de haute qualit. Finalement, nous avons examin la relation entre la disponibilit alimentaire et les caractristiques des chicots en mesurant la densit de trous de larves de longicorne pour 30 chicots de diffrentes classes de diamtre et de dtrioration. Les chicots de haute qualit contenaient de plus fortes densits de proies (trous de longicornes) que les chicots de plus faible diamtre et plus dtriors. Nous recommandons que des blocs de forts contenant des chicots de large diamtre et moins dtriors par le feu soient prservs de la coupe de rcupration dans les forts borales rcemment brles du nord-est de l'Amrique du Nord. 
4090548| We describe a method for surveying birds in river habitats that allows for rapid assessment across broad spatial scales and estimation of detection probabilities. Our river survey approach incorporates a double-survey technique, whereby observers in two canoes simultaneously survey birds along a river reach. Data are in the form of a two-sample mark-recapture history, and covariates suspected of influencing detection probabilities can be included in the modeling process and evaluated using information-theoretic approaches. We provide an example using the method along the Madison and upper Missouri rivers in Montana. Overall, detection probabilities for each observer ranged from 57% to 89%, and combined detection probabilities (the likelihood of at least one observer detecting an individual) were consistently high (88% across all species). Detection probabilities across species were positively correlated with body mass. Detection probabilities for some species were influenced by observer, river conditions, and whether species were in groups or alone; groups were more detectable, and individuals in slow-flowing and wide sections of river were more detectable. Boat-based double surveys are a viable method for estimating detection probabilities of birds in river habitats, and double surveys should be considered in other aquatic systems. /// Describimos un mtodo para muestrear aves en hbitats de ro que permite realizar una determinacin rpida a travs de escalas espaciales amplias y que adems permite estimar las probabilidades de deteccin. Nuestra propuesta de muestreo en ros incorpora una tcnica de muestreo doble, en la que observadores ubicados en dos canoas muestrean simultneamente a las aves a lo largo de un ro. Los datos son tomados como registros de dos muestras de marcado y recaptura, y las covariables que podran influenciar la probabilidad de deteccin pueden ser incluidas en el modelo y evaluadas basndose en la teora de la informacin. Proveemos un ejemplo utilizando este mtodo a lo largo del ro Madison y en las partes superiores del ro Missouri en Montana. En general, las probabilidades de deteccin variaron entre un 57% y un 89% para cada observador, y las probabilidades de deteccin combinadas (probabilidad de que por lo menos un observador detecte un individuo) fueron constantemente altas (88% para todas las especies). Las probabilidades de deteccin de cada especie se correlacionaron con el tamao corporal de estas. Las probabilidades de deteccin para algunas especies estuvieron influenciadas por el observador, las condiciones del ro y si las especies se encontraban en grupos o solas. Los grupos y los individuos presentes en partes con flujo lento o en secciones anchas del ro fueron detectados con mayor facilidad. Los muestreos dobles en bote son un mtodo viable para estimar las probabilidades de deteccin de aves en hbitats de ro y este tipo de conteos dobles deberan ser considerados tambin en otros sistemas acuticos. 
4090638| In many birds, breeding males display bright colors, sing, and engage in active territory defense; whereas females are less conspicuous. Therefore, it is sometimes assumed that in the breeding season males suffer higher predation than females. Several studies have reported, however, higher female predation rates, which suggests that traits other than coloration and mate-acquisition behaviors are important in determining predation rates for the sexes. Theoretical and empirical work suggests that foraging behavior and foraging rate are major determinants of predation risk. Here, we examine this possibility in a study of breeding Eurasian Blackbirds (Turdus merula) and predation on them by Eurasian Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus). Female Eurasian Blackbirds foraged more than males and foraged closer to the ground, both early and late in the breeding season. On the basis of this observation, we predicted that females should suffer higher predation than males. Of 98 Eurasian Blackbirds taken in 33 Eurasian Sparrowhawk territories during four years, 56 were females and 42 males. On the basis of the male-biased sex ratio in the population, female Eurasian Blackbirds suffered higher predation risk than males. For breeding birds, these results indicate a trade-off between foraging effort and predation rate, which is of importance for sexual dichromatism (selection for female crypsis), population sex ratio, and behaviors of the sexes. /// Chez de nombreux oiseaux, les mles reproducteurs prsentent des couleurs vives, produisent des chants, et s'engagent dans une dfense active du territoire, alors que les femelles sont moins voyantes. Par consquent, il est parfois considr qu'au cours de la saison de reproduction, les mles sont plus affects par la prdation que les femelles. Nanmoins, plusieurs tudes ont rapport un taux de prdation plus lev chez les femelles, ce qui suggre que des traits autres que la coloration et le comportement d'acquisition d'un partenaire jouent un rle important dans la dtermination du taux de prdation pour chacun des sexes. Les travaux thoriques et empiriques suggrent que le comportement et le taux de qute alimentaire sont des lments cls en ce qui concerne le risque de prdation. Nous examinons cette possibilit dans une tude sur la reproduction de Turdus merula et sur leur prdation par Accipiter nisus. Les femelles Turdus merula consacrent plus de temps  la qute alimentaire que les mles et se tiennent  proximit du sol, que ce soit tt ou tard dans la saison de reproduction. En se basant sur cette observation, nous avons prdit que les femelles devraient tre moins affectes par la prdation que les mles. Parmi les 98 Turdus merula collects dans 33 territoires de Accipiter nisus au cours de 4 annes, 56 taient des femelles et 44 des mles. En se basant sur ce sex-ratio biais dans le sens des mles, les femelles Turdus merula taient plus affects par la prdation que les mles. Pour les oiseaux reproducteurs, ces rsultats indiquent un compromis entre les efforts de qute alimentaire et la taux de prdation, ce qui joue un rle important dans le dichromatisme sexuel (slection pour le camouflage de la femelle), le sex-ratio de la population, et les comportements des deux sexes. 
4088055|We examined temporal variation in abundance of understory birds and fruiting plants in young (5-7 yr) and old (25-35 yr) successional habitats and in intact, lowland rain forest at Estacion Biologica La Selva, Costa Rica, between January 1985 and May 1986. Fruit abundance varied seasonally in each habitat but was consistently greatest in the youngest site. Frugivores and nectarivores accounted for four (forest and older successional) or five (younger successional) of the five most frequently captured bird species in each habitat. Capture rates of arboreal frugivores and arboreal frugivore-insectivores were greatest in the youngest site and were not different between older habitats. Temporal variation in capture rates of frugivores resulted from habitat shifts by resident individuals and from arrival and departure of altitudinal and latitudinal migrants. Capture rates of frugivores correlated with fruit abundance in forest and the older successional habitat but not in the youngest site. Capture rates of nectarivores and insectivores varied over time and among habitats, but rates showed no correlation with capture rates of frugivores. The lack of positive correlations in seasonal capture rates among trophic groups and the correlation between frugivores and fruit abundance support the view that temporal and spatial variation in bird abundance in tropical bird communities is at least partially in response to variation in resource abundance.
10.2307/4090224| We determined prevalence and altitudinal distribution of forest birds infected with avian pox at 16 locations on Hawaii, from sea level to tree line in mesic and xeric habitats, during 1977-1980. Isolates from lesions were cultured in the laboratory for positive identification of Poxvirus avium. Infected birds from the wild were brought into the laboratory to assess differences in the course of infection in native versus introduced species. We also documented distributions and activity cycles of potential avian pox vectors. Native forest birds were (1) more susceptible to avian pox infection than were introduced species, (2) most likely to be infected during the wet season, and (3) found to have a higher prevalence in mesic when compared to xeric forests. Avian pox occurred in forest birds at all elevations, but highest levels were in the mid-elevational ranges (1,200 m) where vectors and native birds had the greatest overlap. Temporal and elevational differences in prevalence were apparent throughout the annual cycle. Avian pox probably did not reach epizootic proportions on Hawaii until after introduction of the mosquito and domestic birds in the early 1800s, and since then has had a negative effect on the population dynamics of native forest birds. Today, this introduced disease is an important factor that should be considered in future conservation efforts that are directed at the recovery of native forest birds in Hawaii. /// Determinamos la prevalencia y distribucin altitudinal de aves de bosque infectadas con viruela aviaria (Poxvirus avium) en 16 localidades de Hawai, desde el nivel del mar hasta la lnea de bosque en hbitats hmedos y secos, entre 1977 y 1980. Muestras de las lesiones fueron cultivadas en el laboratorio para confirmar la identificacin de Poxvirus avium. Las aves silvestres infectadas fueron llevadas al laboratorio para evaluar diferencias en el curso de la infeccin entre especies nativas e introducidas. Tambin documentamos las distribuciones y los ciclos de actividad de los vectores potenciales de Poxvirus avium. Las aves nativas del bosque (1) fueron ms susceptibles a infecciones con viruela aviaria que las aves introducidas, (2) presentaron mayor probabilidad de ser infectadas durante la estacin hmeda, y (3) tuvieron mayor prevalencia en bosques hmedos que en bosques secos. La viruela aviaria fue registrada en aves de bosque a todas las elevaciones, pero los niveles ms altos se registraron a elevaciones medias (1,200 m), donde los vectores y las aves nativas presentaron una mayor superposicin. Las diferencias temporales y de elevacin en prevalencia fueron evidentes a lo largo del ciclo anual. La viruela aviaria probablemente no alcanz proporciones epizoticas en Hawai hasta despus de la introduccin del mosquito y de aves domsticas a principios de 1800, y desde entonces ha tenido un efecto negativo en la dinmica poblacional de las aves nativas de bosque. Hoy en da, esta enfermedad introducida es un factor importante que debera ser considerado en futuros esfuerzos de conservacin dirigidos a recuperar las aves nativas de bosque en Hawai. 
10.2307/4090476| Avian species that persist in breeding in disturbed habitats are often thought to be less affected by disturbance than habitat specialists lost following disturbances, yet there is growing evidence that human-altered environments may negatively affect reproductive behavior and nest success of those generalists as well. We compared nest success of Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) in two adjacent habitats: a mature mixed-wood forest (undisturbed) and a forest regenerating after logging (disturbed). Despite similar breeding densities, proportion of nests that successfully fledged young was lower in the disturbed habitat than in the undisturbed habitat. Abandonment was the most common cause of nest failure. A within-habitat comparison of the social rank of birds revealed that low-ranking birds had lower nest success than high-ranking birds in the disturbed, but not in the undisturbed, habitat. Clutch size and brood size of nests that progressed to the point of hatch did not differ significantly between habitats. Average total number of fledglings produced per pair, though not significantly different, was suggestively lower in the disturbed habitat. Across habitats, nests situated in snags with lower amounts of internal decay were more successful. Successful nests were also located in sites with higher canopy height, low understory density below 1 m, and higher understory density between 2 and 3 m-all attributes generally associated with undisturbed, mature forests in the region. Our results provide evidence that disturbed habitats may represent poor-quality habitat for this forest generalist, and that habitat quality differentially affects individuals, depending on their dominance rank. /// Les espces aviennes qui persistent  se reproduire dans des habitats perturbs sont souvent considres comme moins affectes que les espces spcialistes en terme d'habitat. Nanmoins, il semble que les espces gnralistes puissent tre galement affectes dans leur comportement reproducteur et leur succs de nidification au sein d'un environnement perturb par l'Homme. Nous avons compar le succs de nidification de Msanges  tte noire (Poecile atricapillus) dans deux habitats adjacents: une fort mature mixte (non perturbe) et une fort en rgnration aprs coupe (perturbe). Malgr des densits de nidification semblables, la proportion de nids avec closion tait plus faible dans les habitats perturbs que dans les habitats non perturbs. L'abandon du nid tait la cause la plus courante pour expliquer les checs de nidification. Une comparaison intra-habitat du rang social des oiseaux a rvl que les oiseaux de bas-rang avaient un succs de nidification plus faible que ceux de haut-rang dans les habitats perturbs. Ce n'tait pas le cas dans les habitats non perturbs. Les tailles de ponte et de couve des nids avec closion ne diffraient pas de manire significative entre les habitats. Le nombre total moyen d'oisillons produit par couple, bien que non significativement diffrent, tait plus faible dans les habitats perturbs. Au sein des diffrents habitats, les nids situs dans les chicots les moins dcomposs taient les plus productifs. Les nids avec closion taient galement situs dans les sites avec une plus grande hauteur de canope, une plus faible densit de sous-couvert infrieure  1 m et une plus grande densit de sous-couvert entre 2 et 3 m. Des caractristiques qui sont gnralement associes aux forts matures et non perturbes de la rgion. Nos rsultats apportent la preuve que les habitats perturbs peuvent reprsenter des habitats de faible qualit pour les espces gnralistes. Par ailleurs, les individus sont affects de manire diffrentielle par la qualit de l'habitat selon leur rang de dominance. 
10.2307/4088634| In a study designed to determine seasonal patterns of body mass and torpor in Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus), birds were maintained for 12 months in the laboratory on a photoregime approximating that experienced by free-living birds. Ambient temperature cycled from 20C during the day to 5C at night. Body mass, torpor, and rates of nighttime oxygen consumption were measured under conditions of ad libitum feeding in LD 12:12 in autumn (when free-living birds are normally migrating south), LD 12:12 in spring (during molt), and LD 16:8 in summer. Both body mass and use of torpor were highest in autumn, suggesting that torpor is not reserved for immediate energy crises at this time, but may be important in maximizing energy savings and thus minimizing the time required for premigratory fattening. In spring, body mass was lowest; use of torpor, however, was significantly lower than in autumn, suggesting that torpor is used primarily for "energy emergencies" at this time of year. In summer, body mass was intermediate and use of torpor was also significantly lower than in autumn. Mass-specific rates of oxygen consumption during both normothermia and torpor were inversely related to body mass when data from all seasons were combined; large fat stores may contribute to lower metabolic rates by providing additional insulation, as well as by decreasing the proportion of highly metabolically active tissue in the body. Low fat stores also coincide with the molt, which itself may result in higher metabolic rates. Although the propensity for using torpor has a strong seasonal component that appears to reflect different energetic circumstances during such activities as migration and molt, Rufous Hummingbirds retain the ability to enter nocturnal torpor at all times of year, thus improving their chances of survival year-round. 
4087026|Plasma concentrations of prolactin, LH, and FSH were measured in free-living pairs of Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis throughout the natural breeding season, and during a photoperiodically induced cycle of gonadal development and regression in both sexes of captive Z. l. gambelii under controlled conditions. In free-living male Z. l. pugetensis plasma levels of FSH, which correlate well with changes in testicular weight reported previously, are higher than in females. Although only females of this species incubate, maximal levels of prolactin are observed in both sexes during late incubation. This is consistent with observations in other avian species and suggestive of a role for prolactin in incubation and associated parental behavior. The temporal association of elevated FSH with high levels of prolactin in females may represent a mechanism for maturation of ovarian follicles for the next clutch in this race, which typically raises as many as 3 broods per season. In the laboratory study on Z. l. gambelii, prolactin secretion in both sexes appears to have been induced photoperiodically in the absence of other environmental stimuli associated with incubation. The time course and magnitude of plasma prolactin levels were similar in both sexes, although levels were considerably lower than values obtained from incubating birds during the field study. Plasma levels of LH and FSH in females increased rapidly in response to photostimulation and began to decline after one week, whereas in males the pattern of increase and decrease of both gonadotropins was more gradual.
4087912|I studied Golden (Cleptornis marchei) and Bridled (Zosterops conspicillatus) white-eyes on Saipan in the Mariana Islands, Micronesia. I collected comparative data on social behavior and use of tree zones, foraging surfaces, foraging methods, perch sizes, and tree species in native limestone forest and tangantangan (Leucaena leucoephala) thickets. Unlike the flocking Bridled White-eyes, Golden White-eyes were territorial, but the species were aggressive interspecifically. Bridled and Golden white-eyes were similar in their use of limestone forest and tangantangan thickets as foraging habitats. Compared with Bridled White-eyes, however, Golden White-eyes were more generalized foragers (i.e. less specialized on the top outer forest strata, on live leaves as foraging substrates, and on gleaning as a foraging tactic). Golden White-eyes also preferred to forage among dead leaves, on branches, and on fruit, and they foraged by probing. Similarities by both species in their use of limestone forest and tangantangan thickets indicate that they did not alter their foraging strategies greatly to use the different habitats. This flexibility in habitat choice may explain in part why these species have persisted in the face of periodic typhoon damage and extensive human-caused habitat change. Despite the differences in foraging ecology between the species, interspecific aggression indicated that they competed for resources. In temperate communities, species can be ecologically very similar but rarely compete; in this tropical island community, species with only general ecological similarities may still compete for resources.
10.2307/4089884| The recording in 1992 of an unknown antbird loudsong initiated a journey of discovery that led to the resolution of the conflict between John Zimmer (1932) and Melvin Carriker (1934) regarding the taxonomic standing of the population of Myrmeciza hemimelaena, a widespread southern Amazonian antbird, that occurs in lower Andean elevations in San Martn, Peru. Zimmer had described a new subspecies, M. h. castanea, from the Moyobamba Valley, but Carriker, on the basis of specimens he collected at the same elevation in an adjoining valley, could not find morphological differences between his specimens and the widespread nominate form of M. hemimelaena. Both authors were correct. Two cryptic sister taxa coexist in the foothills of San Martn. Diagnostic vocal and morphological characters and syntopy confirm their status as distinct species. Myrmeciza hemimelaena castanea Zimmer is revived and raised to species status. Concurrently, analysis of the vocalizations and morphology of the lowland population north of the Ro Maran in Peru, the loudsong recording of which initiated the project, revealed that this population was closely related to M. castanea of which it is described as a subspecies, M. c. centunculorum, under the biological species concept. The discovery that there are two cryptic species in the Myrmeciza hemimelaena complex exemplifies the continuing need to pursue field knowledge and analysis of avian species limits in the Neotropics required for the development of conservation strategies as well as phylogenetic understanding. /// La grabacin de un canto fuerte (i.e., "loudsong") desconocido de una especie de Thamnophilidae en 1992 inici un camino de descubrimientos que llevara a la resolucin del conflicto entre John Zimmer (1932) y Melvin Carriker (1934) con respecto al estatus taxonmico de la poblacin de Myrmeciza hemimelaena (una especie de amplia distribucin en el sur de la Amazona) que se encuentra a bajas elevaciones en los Andes de San Martn, Per. Zimmer haba descrito una nueva subespecie (M. h. castanea) del Valle del Moyobamba, pero Carriker no encontr diferencias morfolgicas entre especmenes que l colect a la misma elevacin en un valle adyacente y la ampliamente distribuida forma nominal de M. hemimelaena. Los dos autores tenan razn, pues dos taxa hermanos crpticos coexisten en el piedemonte de San Martn. Caracteres vocales y morfolgicos diagnsticos y sus distribuciones sintpicas confirman su estatus como dos especies distintas. As, el taxon Myrmeciza hemimelaena castanea Zimmer es revivido y elevado al estatus de especie. Anlisis de las vocalizaciones y la morfologa de la poblacin de tierras bajas que se encuentra al norte del Ro Maran en Per (en donde se hizo la grabacin que inici este proyecto) indican que sta est estrechamente relacionada con la especie M. castanea, por lo que bajo el concepto biolgico de especie, se describe como una nueva subespecie (M. c. centunculorum). El descubrimiento de que existen dos especies crpticas en el complejo de Myrmeciza hemimelaena ejemplifica la necesidad de continuar acumulando conocimientos en el campo y analizando los lmites especficos entre las aves neotropicales. Esto es necesario para el desarrollo de estrategias de conservacin as como para mejorar el entendimiento de la filogenia. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09139|Fuel deposition rates of migrating birds may indicate the quality of habitat at stopover sites, yet little is known about how diet habits and food availability affect fat and protein metabolism in free-living songbirds at stopover sites. We compared plasma indicators of fat deposition (triglyceride), fat catabolism (B-hydroxybutyrate), and protein catabolism (uric acid) among passerine species that are frugivorous to a variable degree during autumn stopover on Block Island, Rhode Island. We also compared plasma lipid metabolites from 3 of these species that were captured at 2 stopover sites with different fruit abundance. The more frugivorous Hermit Thrushes (
40406708|Several bird species in the endemic New Guinean genus
4086540|We report two experiments designed to assess whether quality of color (and shades) influences food-aversion learning by Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). In Experiment 1, Red-wings were given food paired with one of two shades of red or green followed by toxicant-induced sickness. In subsequent tests for generalization of the learned aversions, avoidance of red was generalized broadly to other shades of red, whereas avoidance of green appeared to be relatively stimulus specific. In Experiment 2, we pre-exposed Red-wings to a single shade of red or green in a feeding context for 4 days. Then the birds were conditioned as in Experiment 1 and tested for expression of learned color aversions. Although pre-exposure weakened expression of aversions to both colors, such effects were more pronounced for green. The effects were greater for birds pre-exposed to the conditioning color in close association with the food than for birds pre-exposed to the conditioning color away from food. Generalization of conditioned aversions and resistance to the effects of pre-exposure may reflect adaptations of Red-wings for prey selection. It would appear adaptive for birds to generalize avoidance learning broadly for conspicuously colored, noxious prey and to exhibit such learning regardless of prior experience with the color. Conversely, because few cryptically colored (e.g. green) prey are noxious, it would be adaptive for learning to be specific for the noxious individuals alone. Finally, we believe that the generalization of learned aversions could serve as a useful criterion in selecting appropriate color stimuli for use in bird control (i.e. repellency) and that the methods presented here could provide one empirical means of assessing such generalizations.
10.2307/4090413| Covariation among factors that may affect nest success of dabbling ducks in the Prairie Pothole Region of North America (e.g. productivity of upland and wetland habitat related to climate variation, and duck and predator densities) often confounds efforts to interpret the effect of any individual factor. A comparison of nest success of dabbling ducks at sites with and without predator management provided an opportunity to separate the effect of predation pressure from other factors because predator management has occurred over a range of climatic conditions. We updated an existing study on temporal trends of nest success for prairie ducks in the Prairie Pothole Region of North America by compiling recent estimates of nest success for five species of dabbling ducks (Mallard [Anas platyhrynchos], Northern Pintail [A. acuta], Northern Shoveler [A. clypeata], Blue-winged Teal [A. discors], and Gadwall [A. strepera]). In addition, we compared trends of nest success at unmanaged sites and sites where nest predators were excluded or removed. We used pond density calculated from annual surveys for breeding waterfowl as an index of upland and wetland productivity and a correlate of predator and duck density. At unmanaged sites, the best approximating local regression model suggested that, rather than having undergone a monotonic decline, average nest success has fluctuated through time, although those changes do not appear to be associated with changes in pond density. At sites where predators were excluded, nest success did not vary with time but varied positively with pond density in the previous year, although that effect was tempered by high pond density in the year of observation. At sites where predators were removed but could emigrate back into study plots, nest success varied widely over time and we found no evidence of an effect of pond density. We show that nest success of dabbling ducks is higher under predator management than at sites without predator management, and that this relationship varies with climatic conditions, possibly related to complex interactions within and among duck species, their predators, and their prey. /// La covariacin entre los distintos factores que pueden afectar el xito de nidificacin de patos en las praderas centrales de Norteamrica (por ejemplo, productividad del hbitat terrestre y humedales relacionado a la variacin del clima, las densidades de patos y sus depredadores) a menudo confunde los esfuerzos de interpretar el efecto de algn factor individual. Un estudio que compar el xito de nidificacin de patos en sitios con y sin el manejo de depredadores proporcion una oportunidad para separar el efecto de la depredacin de otros factores, porque el manejo de depredadores ha ocurrido en un amplio rango de condiciones climticas. Actualizamos un estudio existente en tendencias temporales del xito de nidificacin para patos en las praderas centrales de Norteamrica agregando estimaciones recientes del xito de nidificacin para cinco especies de patos (Anas platyhrynchos, A. acuta, A. clypeata, A. discors, y A. strepera). Adems, comparamos las tendencias temporales del xito de nidificacin entre sitios testigos (sin manejo de depredadores) y sitios donde los depredadores. Utilizamos la densidad de humedales fueron calculada a partir de recuentos anuales para aves acuticas como un ndice de productividad de habitt terrestre y de humedales y como un indicador de la densidad de patos y sus depredadores. En sitios testigo, el mejor modelo de regresin local sugiri que, en vez de un descenso lineal como se entenda anteriormente, el xito de nidificacin fluctu a travs del tiempo, aunque estos cambios no se asociaron con cambios en la densidad de humedales. En los sitios donde se excluyeron los depredadores, el xito de nidificacin no vari con el tiempo, pero si vari en forma positiva con la densidad de humedales en el ao anterior de la observacin, aunque este efecto fue moderado por la densidad alta de humedales en el propio ao de observacin. En los sitios donde se removieron los depredadores, pero que podan emigrar al sitio de estudio, el xito de nidificacin vari extensamente con el tiempo, pero no se encontr evidencia de un efecto de la densidad de humedales. Se encontr que el xito del nido de patos es ms alto bajo el manejo de depredadores que en sitios testigo, y que esta relacin vara con condiciones climticas, posiblemente relacionado a interacciones complejas dentro de y entre las especies de pato, sus depredadores y sus presas. 
10.2307/4088982|Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) demography and cooperative breeding were measured from 1988 to 1993 at two sites (HC and T4) on John F. Kennedy Space Center along Florida's Atlantic coast. The results from HC and T4 sites were compared with published results from the Archbold Biological Station in central Florida. The T4 population increased because of reproductive success and immigration, resulting in a nearly equal nonbreeder sex ratio. Nearly all young Florida Scrub-Jays delayed breeding for at least two years after hatching at T4, similar to Archbold. The HC population decreased because of poor nesting success, and the nonbreeder sex ratio was biased towards males. During the first nesting season after hatching, nearly one of every five HC females bred. Pairs with nonbreeders (potential helpers) usually had greater reproductive success than pairs without nonbreeders at HC and Archbold, but not T4. Pairs with nonbreeders usually had greater survival than pairs without nonbreeders at Archbold, but not at HC or T4. Female breeder mortality was slightly higher than male breeder mortality at T4 and HC, but not at Archbold. Evidence suggested that predation contributed to differences in demographic patterns between study areas.
4090368| We investigated body-mass dynamics during incubation of Long-tailed Ducks (Clangula hyemalis) nesting in Canada's central Arctic, 1998-2003. Long-tailed Duck females (n = 37) lost 7% of pre-incubation body mass during incubation; on average, females weighed 618  15 g (mean  SE) at clutch completion and 575  11 g at hatch. Given the differences in body size, Long-tailed Ducks relied less on endogenous reserves than sympatric King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis), but lost less mass than similar-sized waterfowl species nesting in temperate climates. Preliminary data suggest that Long-tailed Ducks maintain similar or higher nest-attendance rates than temperate-nesting waterfowl of similar size, and we suggest that access to locally abundant, high-quality foods enable Long-tailed Duck females to maintain high incubation constancy without sacrificing female body condition. Nevertheless, Long-tailed Ducks appear to differ widely from most Arctic-nesting waterfowl in nutritional strategy for nesting. /// Nous avons tudi la dynamique de la masse corporelle au cours de l'incubation chez des hareldes kakawi (Clangula hyemalis) nichant dans l'Arctique canadien central entre 1998 et 2003. Les femelles d'Harelde kakawi (n = 37) ont perdu 7% de leur masse corporelle au cours de l'incubation. En moyenne, les femelles pesaient 618  15 g (moyenne  erreur-type) aprs avoir complt leur couve et 575  11 g  l'closion. tant donn les diffrences en termes de masse corporelle, l'Harelde kakawi dpend moins des rserves endognes que l'Eider  tte grise (Somateria spectabilis) qui niche en sympatrie, mais perdent moins de poids que d'autres espces de sauvagine de taille similaire nichant dans des climats temprs. Les donnes prliminaires suggrent que l'Harelde kakawi maintient un taux de prsence au nid similaire ou plus lev que les espces de sauvagine de taille similaire nichant dans des climats temprs. Nous suggrons galement que l'accs  la nourriture localement abondante et de haute qualit permet aux femelles d'Harelde kakawi de maintenir une grande constance d'incubation sans sacrifier leur condition corporelle. Nanmoins, en ce qui concerne la stratgie nutritionnelle au moment de l'incubation, l'Harelde kakawi semble diffrer grandement de la plupart des autres espces de sauvagine nichant dans l'Arctique. 
4085842| Nesting of Eastern Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) between 10-20N is irregular and occurs over prolonged periods, usually beginning in the late fall and lasting through June but occasionally lasting throughout the year. Nesting between 20-30N is on a winter-spring cycle, with only some irregularity. Colonies in the 30-35N region exhibit a definite annual periodicity, nesting in spring-summer. The time required by adults to nest successfully, and then to undergo molt, plus daylength fluctuations only partially explain the controls on the breeding seasons. Data for the most extensively studied colony of the species on Tarpon Key, Florida west coast indicate that freezing temperatures may control the timing of nesting, because earlier nesting occurs in the absence of cold temperatures. Selection against nesting during the hurricane season may have been an important factor determining the nesting chronology in this species. 
25150248|Songbirds typically have small-to-large repertoires of different song types used in complex patterns over a day or season, but what remains poorly understood are patterns of song use by songbirds that have a single, simple song. Here, on the basis of extensive field observations, we reveal how a male Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina) varies its simple, repetitive song to create a dynamic singing performance. During the day, and beginning shortly after males arrive on their territories, males typically sing long songs at a relatively slow rate from the tops of trees near the center of their territories. About two weeks after males have arrived, they begin to sing well before sunrise; during this dawn chorus, songs are brief and delivered rapidly, typically while males face each other on the ground at territorial boundaries. Each male sings this way during the dawn chorus throughout the breeding season, except when his female is fertile. By contrast, daytime singing essentially stops after a male pairs. The dawn chorus appears to mediate social interactions among territorial neighbors, whereas daytime songs function in long-distance territory advertisement, particularly for female attraction. /// Las aves canoras tpicamente tienen repertorios pequeos a grandes de distintos tipos de canto empleados en patrones complejos a lo largo del da o de la estacin, pero an se conoce muy poco sobre los patrones de uso de los cantos por parte de aves canoras que tienen un solo canto simple. Con base en observaciones de campo intensivas, en este estudio revelamos cmo un macho de Spizella passerina vara su canto simple y repetitivo para crear un despliegue de canto dinmico. Comenzando poco despus de que arriban a sus territorios, durante el da los machos tpicamente emiten cantos de larga duracin a una tasa relativamente lenta desde la parte alta de rboles ubicados cerca del centro de sus territorios. Aproximadamente dos semanas despus de su llegada, los machos comienzan a cantar bastante antes del amanecer. Durante este coro del amanecer, los cantos son breves y emitidos rpidamente, tpicamente mientras los machos se enfrentan entre s en el suelo cerca de los lmites de los territorios. Cada macho canta de este modo durante el coro del amanecer a lo largo de la poca reproductiva, excepto cuando su pareja est frtil. En contraste, el comportamiento de cantar durante el da esencialmente se suspende luego de que el macho adquiere una pareja. El coro del amanecer parece mediar en las interacciones sociales entre vecinos territoriales, mientras que los cantos emitidos durante el da funcionan como anuncios territoriales a grandes distancias, particulamente para atraer a las hembras.
10.2307/4089881| Understanding the mechanisms causing temporal variability in demographic parameters is essential to understanding fluctuations in populations. As part of a long-term demographic study, we evaluated influence of climate on Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida) annual survival and reproduction in two study areas, one in Arizona and one in New Mexico. Spotted Owl survival in New Mexico and reproductive output in both study areas were positively related to total amounts of precipitation from the previous year, previous winter, or monsoon season. For both study areas, temporal process variation in reproductive output (CV[R] = 51.2 and 75.2% for Arizona and New Mexico, respectively) was greater than that for survival (CV[] = 12.9 and 7.1% for Arizona and New Mexico, respectively). Precipitation from the previous year explained 73% of
40406716|
               
4087859| Populations of wintering Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) were studied from 1982-1988 at three sites in southern Veracruz, Mexico, with a combination of mist-netting, color banding, observation, and radio-tracking. We marked 335 thrushes, and attached radio transmitters to 61. Based on radio-tracking data and observations of behavior of banded individuals, the population was composed of two major categories, sedentary individuals and wanderers. Sedentary birds moved 150 m from point of capture during the tracking period; often they remained at the same site through an entire winter season and returned to that site in subsequent winters. Behavioral observations of sedentary individuals indicated that many were territorial, and defended their areas against intrusion by conspecifics. Wanderers moved >150 m from point of capture, often within a few hours after capture. They were not aggressive toward conspecifics, and groups of several such wanderers were occasionally seen foraging within a few meters of one another. Of 34 sedentary individuals radio-tracked, 2 died during the monitoring period while 7 of 27 wanderers died. All deaths were attributed to avian or mammalian predators. Mortality rates (deaths/tracking day) were 0.026 for wanderers and 0.004 for sedentary birds. 
10.2307/4090102|Cooperative breeding, in which more than two individuals live in a group and raise offspring, usually in a single nest, is found in only 3% of avian species. On the basis of a review of the literature, we found reports of groups (usually trios) at nest sites in 42 species of diurnal raptors. At least one example of cooperative breeding was found in 29% of genera and 14% of species, distributed in both Accipitridae and Falconidae. Given the difficulty of obtaining behavioral observations necessary to detect cooperative breeding in most raptor species, combined with the large number of species that have been poorly studied, cooperative breeding in diurnal raptors may be more common than our data indicate. However, when data on the sex of the extra bird(s) or relationships among group members were available, patterns were quite varied. For 7 of 13 species, groups primarily contained multiple adult males, though three of those species also had groups formed from offspring that had delayed dispersal; three species had a low, but regular, occurrence of multiple females (females of groups laid eggs in the same nest); and the remaining three species were characterized by having extra birds that were yearlings or subadults. In over half of species, groups did not appear to be composed of related individuals, contrary to many cooperatively breeding passerine species where groups are primarily composed of offspring that have delayed dispersal. Our review suggests that the evolution of group living in many raptors may be independent of delayed dispersal, and that the factors important in explaining the evolution of that behavior depend upon the benefits of group living. /// La cra cooperativa, en que ms de dos individuos viven en un grupo y cran progenie (generalmente en un solo nido), se observa en slo el 3% de las especies de aves. Con base en una revisin bibliogrfica, encontramos reportes de grupos (tros en su mayora) en los nidos de 42 especies de rapaces diurnas. Al menos un ejemplo de cra cooperativa se encontr en el 29% de los gneros y el 14% de las especies, tanto en Accipitridae como en Falconidae. Dada la dificultad de obtener las observaciones etolgicas necesarias para detectar cra cooperativa en la mayora de las aves de presa, adems del gran nmero de especies que no ha sido estudiado, pudiera ser que este fenmeno fuese ms comn de lo que sugiere nuestro estudio. Sin embargo, cuando se tuvo informacin sobre el sexo de las aves excedentes o sobre el parentesco entre los miembros del grupo, se detectaron una variedad de patrones. En 7 de las 13 especies, los grupos estuvieron conformados por machos adultos; 3 de esas especies tambin tuvieron grupos compuestos en su mayora por progenie que posterg su dispersin. En 3 especies hubo una presencia modesta, pero regular, de varias hembras (las hembras depositaron sus huevos en el mismo nido). Las 3 especies restantes se caracterizaron por tener aves de un ao o subadultos. En ms de la mitad de las especies, los grupos no parecan estar compuestos por individuos emparentados, contrario a lo que se observa en muchas aves paserinas que cran cooperativamente donde los grupos se conforman principalmente de progenie que ha postergado su dispersin. Nuestra revisin sugiere que en muchas rapaces la evolucin de la convivencia grupal puede ser independiente de la dispersin postergada, y que los factores ms importantes que explican la evolucin de este comportamiento dependen de los beneficios que ofrece la vida en grupo.
10.1525/auk.2012.12029|Climate change can cause mismatches between the breeding phenology and peak abundance of food resources of migratory species. Moreover, asynchronously changing climate regimes across their ranges may constrain the ability of migratory species to adapt to all the regimes they encounter. To understand the potential effect of asynchronous changes, I examined the influences of both large- and local-scale weather and climate on the timing of arrival of two disjunct breeding populations of Hudsonian Godwits (
10.2307/4089972| We observed courtship and copulatory behavior in two populations of Phainopeplas (Phainopepla nitens) with contrasting social systems and used multilocus DNA fingerprinting to assess rates of extrapair fertilization (EPF). Phainopeplas from both territorial and loosely colonial populations copulated infrequently (2 times per day). No extrapair copulations (EPCs) were observed in either population. We found no evidence of EPFs in 48 nestlings from 25 nests. Thus, Phainopeplas appear to be both socially and genetically monogamous. However, Phainopeplas are not monogamous over their lifetimes-they do not retain mates from year to year and appear to switch mates between breeding localities within the same year. Compressed breeding seasons, geographically shifting food resources, and widespread breeding failures may favor monogamy during any given breeding attempt while allowing opportunities to switch mates between breeding localities and years. /// Observamos el cortejo y comportamiento copulatorio en dos poblaciones de Phainopepla nitens con sistemas sociales contrastantes y utilizamos huellas dactilares genticas de mltiples loci para estimar las tasas de fertilizacin extra-pareja (FEP). Individuos de Phainopepla tanto de la poblacin territorial como de la poblacin colonial laxa copularon infrecuentemente (2 veces por da). No se registraron cpulas extra-pareja en ninguna de las poblaciones. No encontramos evidencia de FEP en 48 pichones provenientes de 25 nidos. Por lo tanto, Phainopepla parece ser una especie mongama tanto social como genticamente. Sin embargo, Phainopepla no es mongama durante toda la vida, pues los individuos no mantienen sus parejas de ao a ao y aparentemente cambian de pareja entre localidades de reproduccin dentro de un mismo ao. Las pocas reproductivas de duracin reducida, los cambios en la distribucin geogrfica de los recursos y el fracaso reproductivo generalizado, pueden favorecer la monogamia durante un determinado intento reproductivo permitiendo al mismo tiempo cambiar de pareja entre localidades reproductivas y entre aos. 
10.1525/auk.2011.09225|Energetic condition influences migratory decisions made by songbirds. Over-water or coastal flights are often the shortest routes but may be dangerous for landbirds because they may get caught over water where they are not able to rest and refuel. We investigated how various components of energetic condition were related to the likelihood that a migrant songbird in the Gulf of Maine region would initiate a migratory flight and the direction that it would choose. We used release tests and measurements of energy stores (fat score), plasma triglycerides, and within-day changes in body mass to investigate whether these measures of condition were related to the decisions migrants must make about when to resume migration and which direction they should go. Our results indicated that the amount of fat that a bird had at the time of release influenced the decision to initiate a flight, whereas directional decisions were influenced by both fat and within-day changes in body mass. Plasma triglyceride levels were higher in birds that initiated migratory flights; however, this does not appear to have influenced departure or directional decisions. These results indicate that migrant songbirds on stopover rely on cues about their energetic condition when making departure and orientation decisions and that the amount of fat a bird has may be the most relevant cue for these decisions.
10.2307/4089200|We developed a phylogeny for 34 taxa (species, species groups, or genera) in the Emberizidae, including all of those placed in the "first group" of the Emberizidae by Paynter and Storer (1970). Structural, plumage-related, behavioral, oological, and allozymic characters were employed. The lateroventral process of the laterosphenoid, a skeletal feature not previously used in comparative anatomy among passerines, also was included. Majority-rule, strict-consensus, and bootstrapped maximum-parsimony trees were constructed. Phylogenies uncovered were in fairly close agreement with previously published work that used molecular data, although the Old World bunting clade (Emberiza, Melophus, Plectrophenax, Calcarius, etc.) was basal to all other emberizid sparrows examined. The majority-rule and strict-consensus phylogenies supported the monophyly of all currently accepted genera (e.g. Aimophila, Ammodramus, Spizella, and Zonotrichia), provided that "Amphispiza" quinquestriata is placed in the genus Aimophila. In some cases, however, the monophyly was weak (e.g. Melospiza, especially M. melodia vs. Passerella), and for others (e.g. Ammodramus) more work is needed to establish fully the intrageneric relationships.
10.2307/4085272| The formation of crches was studied in the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) nesting at high density on Bicquette Island in the St. Lawrence River estuary. Aspects of social behavior relevant to crche formation are examined in detail. Data from 293 individually tagged females aided in elucidating the breeding history and in understanding the parental behavior of previously recognized categories of adult females ('B-Brooding,' 'A-Associate,' 'V-Visiting,' and 'N-Neutral'). Crches resulting from the encounter between two or more broods begin to form immediately after the nest exodus and last well into the rearing period (about 10 weeks). The encounters themselves may be stimulated by alarm or predation or may sometimes result from the mutual attraction of ducklings. Our figures reveal that the rate of fixation of such encounters into permanent crches decreases from a high of 88% in broods reaching the shore of the nesting island to a low of 0-6% in encounters between groups meeting during the latter half of the rearing period (between the 4th and the 10th weeks). Agonistic interactions among B-status females tending crches provoke a hitherto unexplained lowering of the ratio of females to ducklings in such groups. Instead of a loose system of cooperation between females rearing crches as was previously surmised, we found rather that the organization of these groups is based upon a hierarchical ranking of females involved in tending. The crche is thus seen as an accidentally expanded family. 
25488572|Certain contaminants alter normal physiological function, morphology, and behavior of exposed organisms through an endocrine mechanism. We evaluated how the herbicide linuron, an endocrine-active compound, affects physiological parameters and secondary sex characteristics of the American Goldfinch (
4090512| An expedition of representatives from the Myanmar Nature and Wildlife Conservation Division and the Smithsonian National Zoological Park's Conservation and Research Center visited the town of Naung Mung on the Nam Tisang River in the extreme northern portion of Kachin State, Myanmar, during February 2004. The town is located in the sub-Himalayan region of the country at 2729N, 9748E, elevation 540 m, 118 km south of the Tibetan border and 53 km west of the border with Yunnan Province, China. The purpose of the trip was to inventory the poorly known avifauna of the premontane temperate rainforest habitat at that site. On 6 February 2004, we captured two scimitar-babblers that appeared to be representatives of the genus Jabouilleia. An additional individual of the taxon was captured in the same vicinity on 8 February 2004. These were the first records for Jabouilleia from Myanmar, and subsequent investigation showed that these specimens were members of a previously undescribed species, which we designate Jabouilleia naungmungensis, the Naung Mung Scimitar-Babbler. /// Une expdition regroupant des reprsentants de la "Myanmar Nature and Wildlife Conservation Division" et du "Smithsonian National Zoological Park's Conservation and Research Center" ont visit la ville de Naung Mung sur la rivire Nam Tisang, tout au nord de l'tat de Kachin, Birmanie en fvrier 2004. La ville est situe dans la rgion sub-Himalayenne du pays, aux coordonnes 2729N, 9748E,  une altitude de 540 m,  118 km au sud de la frontire tibtaine et  53 km  l'ouest de la frontire avec la province de Yunnan, Chine. Ce voyage consistait  inventorier l'avifaune peu connue de la fort pluvieuse tempre pr-montagneuse prsente sur ce site. Le 6 fvrier 2004, nous avons captur deux oiseaux qui semblaient tre des reprsentants du genre Jabouilleia. Un autre individu de ce taxon a t captur aux alentours le 8 fvrier 2004. Ces individus constituaient les premires mentions de Jabouilleia en Birmanie. Des investigations subsquentes ont montr que ces spcimens appartenaient  espce inconnue prcdemment dcrite et que nous avons dnomm Jabouilleia naungmungensis, le "Naung Mung Scimitar-Babbler". 
10.1525/auk.2009.09136|Only one estimate of sex ratio at hatch exists for Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/4089710|A bush-warbler of the genus Bradypterus, known from the mountains of Taiwan since 1917, has never been formally named as a distinct taxon. Songs of the Taiwan population differ strikingly from those of its Asian congeners in being much clearer, sweeter, more piercing, and in having a very different structure of elements. Several subtle but consistent morphological differences exist between specimens from Taiwan and all named taxa, principally in bill size and shape, plumage color and reduced variability, pattern of undertail coverts, and wing formula. Therefore, the Taiwan population is best treated as a new species.
10.2307/4087753| I monitored incubation behavior and egg temperatures
4088684| The Isthmus of Tehuantepec in southern Mxico seems to cause a concentration of Nearctic-Neotropic migrant landbirds during migration. Despite its possible importance as an area for fat deposition, almost nothing is known about how this area is used by migrants. Of 11 small passerine species examined, 6 showed significant diurnal increases in body condition in relation to time of capture. All six showed gains suggesting low to moderate levels of fat deposition, concordant with the concept of the Isthmus as an important source of stopover resources. The area is not used in the same manner by all of these common species, however. The migrants at this site in autumn probably have not arrived via a long-distance, trans-Gulf migration. Comparison with data from other sources suggests that the energetic costs of molt are important at northerly stopover sites, and that modifications are needed in our concepts of Middle American migration routes. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11236|Multiple parasitism of host nests by generalist brood parasites reflects the decisions of laying females and may influence the development and behavior of parasitic young. We used microsatellite and mtDNA control-region haplotype data to examine the relatedness of Brown-headed Cowbird (
4087178| Female Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) were given oral doses of lipophilic and proteophilic dyes during their prelaying period. Yolk ring structure in freshly laid eggs was analyzed to determine the timing of yolk deposition using the dye-stained layer as a date marker within the yolk. Additional information from necropsies of five females killed at specific intervals during the formation of a replacement egg indicated that only a single follicle enlarges in the ovary during a reproductive event and this yolk requires about 8 days to complete rapid yolk deposition (RYD). Once RYD is completed, the egg is not laid for a period of 4.2  1.0 days, an interval termed the lag period (Astheimer et al. 1979). Albumen synthesis appears to begin at, or just before, completion of the yolk and continues until approximately 1 day before oviposition. During this time, however, the yolk remains in the follicle. Replacement eggs are laid 14.5  1.7 days following egg removal or natural loss. Combining the above information with egg composition data, the daily deposition of lipid and protein from the female into the egg was computed. Evidence from the size distribution of small (<5 mm) primordial follicles suggests that the auklet ovary undergoes a cycle of follicular growth and atresia before a single follicle is selected for RYD. Based on these findings, and the correlation between initiation of spring egg laying and decreased sea surface temperatures for Farallon Island auklets, I suggest that the onset of RYD is modulated by environmental conditions. 
4085216|Of 32 woodcock nests studied in northern Wisconsin, 29 were in forest stands dominated by aspen, and 3 were in northern hardwoods. Well-drained, upland nest sites near the brushy edges of poorly stocked poletimber stands were apparently preferred. More than 30 woody plant species were found at the 32 nest sites. Hazel was the most important shrub species noted.
10.1525/auk.2013.12228|We used light-level geolocators to describe the migratory geography of Swainson's Thrushes (
10.2307/4088975|Magpie Geese (Anseranus semipalmata) typically form nesting trios consisting of two females and one male, an uncommon breeding arrangement for waterfowl. To study aspects of their reproductive biology, 20 reproductively active adults representing seven reproductive groupings (broods) were scored for 106 polymorphic primer-specific RAPD bands. Genetic distances between all possible adult pairs were calculated, and these values were analyzed using the Mantel test. In the pairwise comparison of genetic distances, those between males were significantly less than those for other adult combinations (P < 0.05). Using the same analytical approach, we found that females that shared a nest were more like one another than were females that did not share a nest (P < 0.05). We suggest that a plausible hypothesis to account for the relative genetic homogeneity of the male population is that males seeking to enter the breeding population do so at their natal site. The females they recruit are more closely related to one another than are females in general.
10.2307/25150214|Most species of songbird possess repertoires of song types or variations that allow singers to vary how they present their songs. "Complexity," or the amount of variation in a singing performance, has several distinct components that include the number of song types used, variation within song types, and rate of switching between song types. Because singers can control each factor somewhat independently, different components may encode different kinds of information. In a series of interactive playbacks, I presented Banded Wrens (Thryothorus pleurostictus) with stimuli that altered song-type diversity and switching rates independently. My results show that switching rates affect males' aggressive approach responses, with lower switching rates eliciting stronger responses. By contrast, song-type diversity does not appear to affect males' approach responses when switching rates are held at a high and constant level. Although focal male switching rates and song-type diversity are not strongly influenced by playback type, males frequently respond to high-diversity playback with delayed matches. Delayed matching entails using one or more of the same song types from the playback, without immediate song-type matching. Although delayed matches occurred at levels above chance during high-diversity playbacks, focal males appeared to avoid them during other types of playback; immediate matches were rare and repertoire matches frequent for all playback treatments. Overall, males' responses to the three playback stimuli suggest that switching rate and song-type diversity encode different messages. /// La mayora de las aves canoras poseen repertorios con diferentes cantos o variaciones que les permiten variar la presentacin de sus cantos. La "complejidad" o la cantidad de variacin en un canto tiene varios componentes que incluyen el nmero de tipos de canto usados, la variacin dentro de los tipos de canto y la tasa de cambio entre tipos de canto. Debido a que las aves que cantan pueden controlar cada factor de manera relativamente independiente, cada componente podra codificar diferentes tipos de informacin. En una serie de reproducciones de canto interactivas, somet a individuos de Thryothorus pleurostictus a estmulos que alteraron de manera independiente la diversidad de los tipos de canto y sus tasas de cambio. Mis resultados muestran que las tasas de cambio afectan las respuestas de acercamiento agresivo, siendo las tasas de cambio ms bajas las que producen las respuestas ms fuertes. De modo contrario, la diversidad de tipos de canto no parece afectar las respuestas de acercamiento, al mantener las tasas de cambio altas y constantes. A pesar de que las tasas de cambio y diversidad de canto de los machos focales no estn influenciadas por el tipo de reproduccin, los machos respondieron frecuentemente a reproducciones de alta diversidad con cantos equivalentes desfasados. Los cantos equivalentes desfasados implican el uso de uno o ms de los mismos tipos de canto reproducidos en la grabacin, sin hacer coincidir el tipo de canto de manera inmediata. A pesar de que los cantos equivalentes desfasados ocurrieron ms de lo esperado por azar durante la reproduccin de cantos de alta diversidad, los machos focales parecieron evitarlos durante otro tipo de reproducciones. Las equivalencias inmediatas fueron raras y las equivalencias de repertorio fueron frecuentes para todos los tratamientos de reproduccin. En general, las respuestas de los machos a los tres estmulos reproducidos sugieren que las tasas de cambio y la diversidad de tipos de tipos de canto codifican diferentes mensajes.
10.2307/4088725|Petroleum fouling has many deleterious consequences for marine vertebrates, ranging from increased energy expenditure to the death of the organism. We measured circulating levels of reproductive and adrenocortical hormones in Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) that were partially covered with petroleum following a marine oil spill off the Patagonian coast, and in a non-oiled control group. Levels of luteinizing hormone, androgens and estradiol, but not progesterone, were lower in oiled penguins than non-oiled control birds. Corticosterone was higher in oiled than control females, but did not differ and was basal in males. Few of the pairs with an oiled partner later established nests with eggs. Even low levels of oil fouling in Magellanic Penguins appear sufficient to interfere with reproduction. Oiled penguins that were held captive for washing had elevated levels of corticosterone, and appeared to be stressed both by captivity and by the washing process.
10.2307/4089676|To test the hypothesis that island species exhibit lower genetic variability than mainland relatives, genetic data from three species of vireos endemic to Puerto Rico and Jamaica were compared with the White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus), a closely related species that breeds in North America. Variability was examined using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. The White-eyed Vireo had a significantly higher proportion of polymorphic bands (67% of 115 total bands) than the Puerto Rican Vireo (V. latimeri; 38% of 95 bands), Jamaican Vireo (V. modestus; 34% of 107 bands), or Blue Mountain Vireo of Jamaica (V. osburni; 32% of 111 bands). The mean genetic distance among conspecific individuals (Jaccard's index) was significantly higher in the White-eyed Vireo (0.293) than in any of the three endemic species (Puerto Rican Vireo, 0.115; Jamaican Vireo, 0.115; Blue Mountain Vireo, 0.106); mean genetic distance values did not differ among the three endemic species. Population substructuring assessed by analysis of molecular variance
4088233|We compared the behavior and food intake rate of parent, nonparent and juvenile wintering Common Cranes (Grus grus) to evaluate possible costs and benefits resulting from parental care. Time devoted to feeding and food intake rates were highest in autumn after arrival from the breeding areas, and decreased throughout the winter in all birds. This decrease was in part determined by a decrease in food availability, but also by satiation, as suggested by the increasing time devoted to resting and other nonforaging activities. Juveniles spent more time feeding and less time alert and preening than birds of both adult classes until February, but had achieved the same time budget as nonparent adults in March, when most juveniles were already independent from their parents. Increased feeding time allowed juveniles to obtain the same daily food intake as nonparent adults during the winter. Juveniles did not change their time budget when the family was in a flock, but the net intake rate of juveniles decreased due to interference from other birds. Parents spent less time feeding and resting, and more time scanning than nonparents. Parental vigilance effort was higher in isolated families than in flocks. However, parents seemed not to suffer from parental care, since their net and absolute intake rates were higher than those of nonparent adults.
10.2307/4090310| We investigated factors affecting nest success of songbirds in riparian forest and buffers in northeastern Missouri. We used an information-theoretic approach to determine support for hypotheses concerning effects of nest-site, habitat-patch, edge, and temporal factors on nest success of songbirds in three narrow (55-95 m) and three wide (400-530 m) riparian forests with adjacent grassland-shrub buffer strips and in three narrow and three wide riparian forests without adjacent grassland-shrub buffer strips. We predicted that temporal effects would have the most support and that habitat-patch and edge effects would have little support, because nest predation would be great across all sites in the highly fragmented, predominantly agricultural landscape. Interval nest success was 0.404, 0.227, 0.070, and 0.186, respectively, for Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis), Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), and forest interior species pooled (Acadian Flycatcher [Empidonax virescens], Wood Thrush [Hylocichla mustelina], Ovenbird [Seiurus aurocapillus], and Kentucky Warbler [Oporornis formosus]). The effect of nest stage on nest success had the most support; daily nest success for Gray Catbird and Indigo Bunting were lowest in the laying stage. We found strong support for greater nest success of Gray Catbird in riparian forests with adjacent buffer strips than in riparian forests without adjacent buffer strips. Patch width also occurred in the most-supported model for Gray Catbird, but with very limited support. The null model received the most support for Northern Cardinal. Riparian forests provided breeding habitat for area-sensitive forest species and grassland-shrub nesting species. Buffer strips provided additional breeding habitat for grassland-shrub nesting species. Interval nest success for Indigo Bunting and area-sensitive forest species pooled, however, fell well below the level that is likely necessary to balance juvenile and adult mortality, which suggests that when riparian forests are located within agricultural landscapes, the potential even for wide riparian forests with adjacent buffer strips to provide high-quality breeding habitat is severely diminished for some species. /// Investigamos los factores que afectan el xito de nidificacin de aves canoras en bosques riparios y franjas de amortiguamiento en el noreste de Missouri. Usamos un enfoque informativo-terico para evaluar las hiptesis concernientes a los efectos de la ubicacin del nido, el parche de hbitat, el borde y los factores temporales sobre el xito de nidificacin de aves canoras. Evaluamos estos efectos en tres bosques riparios estrechos (55-95 m) y tres bosques riparios anchos (400-530 m) con franjas de amortiguamiento adyacentes de pastizal-matorral, y en tres bosques riparios estrechos y tres anchos sin franjas de amortiguamiento adyacentes de pastizal-matorral. Predijimos que los efectos temporales seran los ms respaldados y que los efectos de parche de hbitat y de borde seran los menos respaldos, porque la depredacin de nidos sera importante en todos los sitios en un paisaje altamente fragmentado y predominantemente agrcola. El xito de nidificacin en intervalos fue de 0.404, 0.227, 0.070 y 0.186, respectivamente, para Dumetella carolinensis, Cardinalis cardinalis, Passerina cyanea y el conjunto de especies de interior de bosque (Empidonax virescens, Hylocichla mustelina, Seiurus aurocapillus y Oporornis formosus). El efecto de la etapa del nido sobre el xito de nidificacin tuvo el mayor respaldo; el xito de nidificacin diario para D. carolinensis y P. cyanea fue menor en la etapa de puesta de los huevos. Encontramos fuerte respaldo para un xito de nidificacin mayor en D. carolinensis en bosques riparios con franjas de amortiguamiento adyacentes que en bosques riparios sin franjas de amortiguamiento adyacentes. El ancho de los parches tambin apareci en el modelo con ms respaldo para D. carolinensis, pero con un respaldo muy limitado. El modelo nulo recibi el mayor respaldo para C. cardinalis. Los bosques riparios proporcionaron hbitat de nidificacin para especies sensibles al rea remanente de bosque y especies que nidifican en las reas de pastizal-matorral. Las franjas de amortiguamiento proporcionaron hbitat de nidificacin adicional para las especies que nidifican en las reas de pastizal-arbustal. El xito de nidificacin en intervalos para P. cyanea y para el conjunto de especies sensibles al rea remanente de bosque, sin embargo, cay bien por debajo del nivel que es probablemente necesario para balancear la mortalidad de juveniles y adultos. Esto sugiere que cuando los bosques riparios estn localizados dentro de paisajes agrcolas, el potencial de proveer hbitat de nidificacin de alta calidad, incluso de los bosques riparios anchos con franjas de amortiguamiento adyacentes, disminuye severamente para algunas especies. 
4087327|Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) often have their secondaries tipped with red waxlike appendages, but a plausible hypothesis for the function of these tips has not been presented. Both males and females may have such tips, but second-year birds normally have none or only a few. This appears to be the first described instance of a passerine species to show distinctive delayed plumage maturation in both sexes. We found that waxwings mated assortatively with respect to the number of tips on the secondaries of the birds. Pairs of older birds (with high tip index scores) tended to nest earlier than younger (low tip index) birds. Older birds also had larger clutch/brood sizes and fledged more young. We suggest that the waxlike tips function as signals of age and status and that some combination of mate choice and competition for mates results in the observed assortative mating. Of the hypotheses proposed to explain the adaptive significance of delayed plumage maturation, two (the female-mimicry and cryptic hypotheses) are not confirmed in the case of the Cedar Waxwing, while the status-signaling hypothesis appears to offer the best explanation for the occurrence of delayed plumage maturation in this species.
10.2307/4088095|We extracted fat from samples of two sympatric lark species resident in the Negev Desert of Israel. The Crested Lark (Galerida cristata), which fed on a wide range of seed sizes, exhibited within-day but not seasonal fluctuations in fat content and carried on average 12.9% fat (of lean dry mass). The Desert Lark (Ammomanes deserti), which fed on a narrower range of seed sizes, exhibited smaller within-day fluctuations in the amount of fat, and carried on average 8.9% fat. We propose that although the two larks occupy the same environment and are of the same feeding guild, these differences are adaptive. When food becomes periodically scarce, feeding specializations of the Desert Lark may often suffice to overcome shortage, but their absence in the generalist Crested Lark may make it more dependable on fat reserves.
10.2307/4085504|Variation in the water, lipid, and nonlipid dry matter of eggs and newly hatched chicks of the Laughing Gull and Japanese Quail was related to variation in the size of the egg. Egg contents of the two species were, on average, very similar. Yolk size varied in direct proportion to egg size, but in the quail large eggs contained disproportionately low levels of lipid and high levels of nonlipid dry matter. The composition of the newly hatched gull chick closely resembled that of the newly hatched quail. With increasing egg size, and thus chick size, water level increased and lipid level decreased in the gull chick, whereas lipid level increased in the quail chick. Among body organs, the integument of the gull exhibited a disproportionate increase with an increase in egg size, owing mostly to the accumulation of water; in the quail, the legs were the only organs to increase out of proportion to increase in body size. Disproportionate decreases in body proportion with increasing chick size appeared mostly in the head, stomach, and intestine components of both species. Variation in proportions of lipid and water in the chick related to egg size is discussed in terms of (1) ecological requirements of newly hatched chicks, (2) sibling competition within broods, and (3) stage of development of the young at hatching.
4086605|I studied chick growth, sibling rivalry, and chick production in a population of American Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) on Cleland Island, British Columbia from 1975 to 1978. For these birds, survival from hatching until time of first flight is the critical life-history stage. Chick growth varied with brood size, and heavier chicks had higher survival to the time of first flight. Once chicks could fly, however, their survival to 1 and 2 yr of age was not related to brood size or weight at time of first flight. Dominance hierarchies based on weight existed in two-chick broods, and dominant sibs could control access to parental feedings through sibling rivalry. Sibling rivalry probably increases the likelihood of some chick production in years when food is difficult to obtain.
90008547|Much current and historical research in ornithology employs catch-and-release methods, resulting in a variety of data and materials from birds for which whole-body specimens have not been collected. Often, a genetic specimen (e.g., blood or feathers) is collected along with media specimens such as images and/or sound recordings, providing a rich source of research material as well as an opportunity to use each type of specimen as a source of validation of the other. Despite the abundance of these datasets and their potential use in future research, the preservation of such data and associated materials is currently a task that each researcher must confront individually, which results in the loss of these research materials over time. To promote the long-term utility of information collected from the thousands of birds that are captured and released each year, we present a protocol and database template (OMBIRDS; the Online Museum of Bird Images, Recordings, and DNA Samples) for organizing and preserving images, recordings, and data associated with genetic samples. This protocol can be used by individual researchers and institutions to organize their own collections, and it also facilitates submission of records to international data repositories such as VertNet. By contributing OMBIRDS to the research community as a free database tool that can be downloaded and adapted by researchers and institutions, we hope to encourage the collection of media along with genetic samples and to facilitate the archiving of these materials for their use in future research.
4087446|An analysis of the effects of colored leg bands on Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, in a long-term field study, showed that males that wore red bands fledged significantly fewer young than males without red bands. Other colors were unrelated to fledging success. Band color had no detectable effect on the fledging success of adult females. The offspring sex ratio of breeding males wearing red bands was significantly female-biased. Offspring sex ratios were not related to the presence or absence of red bands on breeding females. Wearing a red band did not affect the probability of a male attracting a mate or the probability of switching mates. For both sexes, annual age-specific survival was independent of the presence or absence of a red band, but nestlings wearing red bands were less likely to be sighted as fledglings. Males with red bands fledged fewer young, consistent with both the species-recognition hypothesis and the coverable-badge hypothesis. The coverable-badge hypothesis, which predicts that the inability to conceal a voluntary social signal (the red cockade) can be detrimental, is the more parsimonious explanation of our results.
10.2307/4090480| We studied the frequency of intraspecific brood parasitism and physical transfer of eggs between nests in colonially nesting Cave Swallows (Petrochelidon fulva) and Cliff Swallows (P. pyrrhonota) in south Texas in 2001. Although the eggs of the two species look similar, frequency of brood parasitism in each species was unaffected by presence of the other species, which suggests that the parasitism we observed was largely by conspecifics. We detected brood parasitism in 4.6-5.0% of Cave Swallow nests and in 10.7-11.9% of Cliff Swallow nests. Brood parasitism was not significantly related to colony size in either species, to eventual success of the host nest, or to overall colony nesting success (a measure of environmental risk). We detected evidence of physical transfer of eggs in 0.7-2.0% of nests of these species. Cliff Swallows parasitized nests more often than Cave Swallows, but the frequencies of brood parasitism and egg transfer in the two species in south Texas appeared broadly comparable to those reported for Cliff Swallows in Nebraska, despite geographic differences in habitat, seasonality, breeding phenology, and levels of sociality between the populations. /// Estudiamos la frecuencia de parasitismo de nidada intraespecfico y de transferencia fsica de huevos en las golondrinas Petrochelidon fulva y P. pyrrhonota en el sur de Texas en 2001. A pesar de que los huevos de ambas especies son similares, la frecuencia de parasitismo en cada especie no se vi afectada por la presencia de la otra especie, lo que sugiere que en gran medida el parasitismo observado fue ocasionado por individuos coespecficos. Detectamos parasitismo de nidada en un 4.6-5.0% de los nidos de P. fulva y en un 10.7-11.9% de los nidos de P. pyrrhonota. El parasitismo de nidada no se correlacion con el tamao de la colonia, con el xito eventual del nido hospedero, ni con el xito de nidificacin general de la colonia (una medida de riesgo ambiental) en ninguna de las dos especies. P. pyrrhonota parasit nidos con mayor frecuencia que P. fulva, pero la frecuencia de parasitismo de nidada y de transferencia de huevos en las dos especies en el sur de Texas parecen ser comparables con las frecuencias reportadas para P. pyrrhonota en Nebraska, a pesar de las diferencias geogrficas en el hbitat, en la estacionalidad, en la fenologa de nidificacin y en los niveles de estructura social entre las poblaciones. 
10.1525/auk.2011.11085|For cavity-nesting birds, tree cavities often represent a critical, defendable, and limiting resource that is frequently under intense interspecific competition. However, the dynamics of interspecific conflict resolution, especially between species of similar size, are often unclear. We experimentally tested aggression and nest-defense behaviors in Gouldian Finches (
4090591| Artificial bird nests are often used in studying birds whose nests are difficult to find, such as those of many tropical species. Yet the underlying assumption that predation on artificial nests accurately estimates predation on real nests may be invalid. We compared rates at which contents of real and artificial nests were lost to predators in a Panamanian rainforest. We attempted to make artificial nests as realistic as possible by moving real, undamaged nests to species-typical nest sites in a study area where the same species were actively breeding. Characteristics of new sites for the moved nests were statistically similar to nest sites chosen by birds. We baited nests with two quail eggs and monitored them for species-specific incubation periods. Predation on real and artificial nests was dissimilar in three of four species, revealing that predation on artificial nests correlated poorly with predation on real nests. In a fourth species, artificial and real nests were lost at similar rates. The latter result may have occurred by chance, because depredated real nests rarely showed any sign of damage; whereas depredated artificial nests were torn, which suggests that real and artificial nests attracted different predators. Our results indicate that artificial nests, even when built by the species themselves and placed in realistic situations, are poor predictors of real nest success and we caution against their use in the tropics. /// Frecuentemente se utilizan nidos artificiales para estudiar especies de aves cuyos nidos son difciles de encontrar, como es el caso de muchas especies tropicales. Sin embargo, la suposicin subyacente de que la depredacin de nidos artificiales predice con exactitud la depredacin de nidos naturales puede ser invlida. Comparamos las tasas de prdida por depredacin del contenido de nidos artificiales y reales en un bosque lluvioso en Panam. Intentamos hacer los nidos artificiales de la forma ms realista posible, trasladando nidos reales y no daados a sitios de nidificacin tpicos de las especies estudiadas en un rea de estudio donde las especies se estaban reproduciendo. Las caractersticas de los nuevos sitios donde los nidos fueron trasladados fueron estadsticamente similares a las caractersticas de los sitios de nidificacin escogidos por las aves. Colocamos dos huevos de codorniz en los nidos artificiales y los monitoreamos durante los perodos de incubacin de cada especie. La depredacin sobre los nidos reales y artificiales fue desigual en tres de las cuatro especies estudiadas, revelando que la depredacin de nidos artificiales se correlaciona pobremente con la depredacin de nidos reales. En la cuarta especie, los nidos reales y artificiales fueron depredados a tasas similares. Este ltimo resultado puede haber ocurrido por azar, debido a que los nidos naturales depredados raramente presentaron signos de destruccin, mientras que los nidos artificiales fueron destrozados, lo que sugiere que los nidos reales y artificiales atrajeron depredadores diferentes. Nuestros resultados indican que los nidos artificiales, incluso cuado son construidos por las mismas especies y puestos en situaciones realistas, predicen pobremente el xito de los nidos naturales y recomendamos precaucin sobre el uso de nidos artificiales en los trpicos. 
10.2307/4088262| In the wild, male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) vary in plumage color from pale yellow to bright red. I investigated the proximate basis of this variation in plumage brightness, as well as the basis for variation in the extent of ventral carotenoid pigmentation. Regardless of their age or coloration in the wild, captive males converged on a similar appearance after completing prebasic molt on a standardized diet, with significantly less variance in coloration than is found among wild males. Captive males that were fed a diet deficient in carotenoid pigments grew pale yellow feathers; males fed a diet supplemented with -carotene grew pale orange feathers; and males fed a diet supplemented with canthaxanthin grew bright red feathers. Stored carotenoids did not appear to be an important source of feather pigments. Red males captured from the wild just prior to fall molt and fed a carotenoid-deficient diet did not grow more colorful feathers than males that had been held in captivity on a carotenoid-deficient diet for six to nine months prior to fall molt. In a wild House Finch population in southeastern Michigan, the mean plumage coloration of yearling males was significantly drabber than the mean coloration of older males, although both groups displayed approximately the same range of coloration. Wild males tended to become brighter between their first and second springs, but thereafter, males tended to display a similar plumage coloration between years. The extent of ventral carotenoid pigmentation (color-patch size) also was partly dependent on carotenoid intake. Captive males whose diet was supplemented with canthaxanthin produced significantly larger patches after captive molt than before captive molt, and canthaxanthin-supplemented males also expressed significantly larger patches than males in the carotenoid-deficient or -carotene-supplemented groups. Among wild males, there was a significant positive correlation between patch size and plumage brightness. 
4087079|The nesting success of the Pied Stilt (Himantopus himantopus leucocephalus) and the endangered Black Stilt (H. novaezealandiae) was studied for three consecutive breeding seasons (1977-1979) in New Zealand. Black Stilts had a breeding success of less than 1%, compared with over 8% for Pied Stilts. Predation by feral mammals was the main cause of nest failure for both species, but the impact was greater on Black Stilts. Direct and indirect evidence (including trapping predators) suggests that these introduced ground predators kill many chicks. Several factors made Black Stilts vulnerable, particularly their nesting along stream banks that were often frequented by predators; Pied Stilts nested in swamps where predators were few. Black Stilt chicks took up to 2 weeks longer to fledge and their foraging patterns made them more vulnerable than Pied Stilt chicks. Other factors that possibly increased predation risk of Black Stilts include nesting at times of high predator activity, solitary nesting, high site fidelity, ineffective distraction displays, and lack of a disruptive camouflage pattern in adults. Introduced ground predators probably have contributed greatly to the decline of Black Stilts. Pied Stilts have not been affected similarly, because their evolutionary past has included long exposure to ground predators.
10.1525/auk.2011.10142|Feather molt is recognized as an energetically costly activity for birds, and parasite infestation during molt has the potential to reduce host fitness because parasites sequester essential nutrients and stimulate the immune system. We manipulated the coccidian parasite load of captive male House Sparrows (
4087019|Manipulation of the diet of Zebra Finch (Poephila guttata) nestlings in the laboratory showed that a low-quality diet reduced growth rates of nine external morphological characters, while a high-quality diet increased growth rates. The growth of plumage characters was least affected by diet, while growth rates of tarsus and mass were most affected. The treatments also produced differences in the adult size of experimental birds, differences not evident in either their parents or their own offspring. Diet quality had the strongest impact on adult mass and tarsus length, while plumage and beak measurements were less affected. Analysis using principal components and character ratios showed that the shape of experimental birds was affected by the experimental diets, but to a minor extent compared with changes in overall size. Significant shape changes involved ratios between fast- and slow-growing characters. The ratios of characters that grow at similar, slow rates (e.g. beak shape) were not affected by the diets. Environmental sources of morphological variation should not be neglected in studies of phenotypic variation in birds.
10.1525/auk.2010.09093|The Bahama subspecies of the Yellow-throated Warbler (
10.2307/4090268| We describe a new species of drepanidine bird from a fossil found in a lava tube cave on the island of Hawaii. The bill of the new species combines a long, scimitar-like maxillary rostrum with a much shorter mandibular rostrum, giving the bird a most unusual appearance. The general bill form is shared with members of the drepanidine genus Hemignathus, to which the new species is referred, although it is quite distinct from other species of Hemignathus in aspects of its bill morphology and in its much larger body size. The scimitar-like maxilla appears to be adapted to probing in cracks or crevices and possibly to moving loose material, such as leaf detritus, to obtain invertebrate prey. The species became extinct <3,000 years ago. /// Se describe una nueva especie de ave drepnida sobre la base de un individuo fsil recobrado en una cueva (tubo) de lava en la isla de Hawaii. El pico de la nueva especie es una combinacin de maxilar largo en forma de cimitarra con un rostro mandibular mucho ms corto y recto, proporcionndole un aspecto muy particular al ave. Esta forma del pico es compartida con las especies del gnero drepnido Hemignathus, al cual es referida la nueva especie, que se diferencia de las dems por particularidades en la morfologa del pico y el tamao mucho mayor del cuerpo. La semejanza de la porcin rostral del maxilar a una cimitarra parece ser debida a una adaptacin para sondear en hendiduras o grietas, y posiblemente tambin para mover materia suelta, como son los detritos de hojas, en busca de invertebrados. La especie se extingui hace menos de 3,000 aos. 
10.2307/4089672|In the arid southwestern United States, many birds initiate breeding in the driest months of the year, March to May, long before the monsoon rains arrive in July and August. Although breeding success in these species is thought to be sensitive to precipitation, the relationships have not been rigorously described based on long-term study of a single species. We studied the relationships among reproductive success, precipitation, and temperature in Mexican Jays (Aphelocoma ultramarina) in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona. We identified three orthogonal factors that accounted for 85.8% of the variance in the 11 reproductive-success variables. Factor 1, the most important, was associated with production of young and with the fraction of females that were breeding. Because the Mexican Jay is a plural breeder (more than one breeding female per group), reproduction in the population can be influenced not only by the success of individual females, but also by the proportion of females in each flock that breed in a given year. This factor was positively related to the amount of precipitation both at the onset of breeding in March and April and during the previous eight months. Brood size at banding (14 to 15 days), which was strongly associated with Factor 2, was negatively related to the number of adult females per flock and relatively insensitive to yearly variation in climate. Success of the youngest females was associated with Factor 3 and depended on a different set of variables than that of older females. Although production of young was predictably depressed in drought years, the significant relationships between reproductive success and climate did not otherwise enable precise predictions based on climate alone. Because predation appears to be highly correlated with the number of nestlings per unit, the lack of strong predictability of reproductive success using climate variables alone may be caused by the independence of predation from climate variables.
10.2307/4090322| For point-count data to reliably index bird abundance or density, estimates must be corrected for variation in detection probabilities across species, observers, and environmental conditions. Removal and double-observer modeling are two recently developed statistical techniques for estimating detection probabilities and bird abundance. We collected point-count data in north-central Indiana and used a Huggins closed-capture model in MARK to directly compare those two methods. We found that when detection probabilities were relatively high for individual observers, the two methods yielded similar estimates of density for nearly all 17 species modeled. However, when true detection probabilities for observers were relatively low, removal estimates of detectability and density were biased high and low, respectively, perhaps because of the effect of low-detection probability on the removal estimator or smaller sample sizes associated with less-skilled observers. In general, we consider removal modeling a more desirable approach than double-observer modeling because it requires half as many observers, allows more sources of variation in detectability to be modeled, and estimates abundance or density of the true population of birds. By contrast, double-observer modeling estimates only the abundance of the "apparent" population (i.e. those birds that are visually or audibly conspicuous). For species that vocalize infrequently or are otherwise elusive, the apparent population may be significantly smaller than the true population. However, double-observer modeling is more robust to violations of the assumption of population closure and may outperform removal methods when data are collected by less-experienced observers. /// Para que los datos de conteos por punto reflejen de modo confiable la densidad o abundancia de las aves, las estimaciones deben ser corregidas por la variacin en las probabilidades de deteccin entre las especies, los observadores y las condiciones ambientales. Los modelos de remocin y de doble-observador son dos tcnicas estadsticas desarrolladas recientemente para estimar las probabilidades de deteccin y la abundancia de las aves. Colectamos datos de conteos por punto en el norte central de Indiana y usamos un modelo de captura cerrado de Huggins en el programa MARK para comparar directamente estos dos mtodos. Encontramos que cuando las probabilidades de deteccin fueron relativamente altas para cada observador de manera individual, los dos mtodos produjeron estimaciones similares de densidad para casi todas las 17 especies modeladas. Sin embargo, cuando las probabilidades verdaderas de deteccin de los observadores fueron relativamente bajas, las estimaciones de remocin de detectabilidad y densidad estuvieron sesgadas hacia arriba y hacia abajo, respectivamente. Esto se pudo deber tal vez al efecto de la baja probabilidad de deteccin sobre el estimador de remocin o al efecto de tamaos de muestreo menores asociados con observadores menos hbiles. En general, consideramos que la utilizacin del modelo de remocin es un enfoque ms deseable que el modelo de doble-observador debido a que el primero requiere la mitad de observadores, a que permite obtener ms fuentes de variacin de la detectabilidad para ser modeladas y a que estima la verdadera abundancia o densidad de la poblacin de aves. En contraste, el modelado de doble-observador slo estima la abundancia "aparente" de la poblacin (i.e. aquellas aves que son conspicuas de modo visual o auditivo). Para las especies que vocalizan de modo infrecuente o que son de otro modo elusivas, la poblacin aparente puede ser significativamente menor que la poblacin verdadera. Sin embargo, el modelo de doble-observador es ms robusto a las violaciones del supuesto de una poblacin cerrada y puede brindar mejores resultados que los mtodos de remocin cuando los datos son colectados por observadores menos experimentados. 
10.2307/4089337|We investigated among- and within-year community-level patterns in the phenology of wood-warblers (Parulidae) in old field/deciduous forest habitat in western Pennsylvania. The numbers of each of 29 species of warblers captured in mist nets were summed over six-day intervals from January 1981 to December 1985, and the data for spring and fall periods were analyzed separately by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). Despite substantial annual variation in species abundances, patterns and rates of species turnover were consistent across years. However, within-year patterns differed qualitatively between seasons; in fall, species turnover was unidirectional (species replaced each other in sequence), whereas in spring it was bi-directional (community composition in late spring came to resemble that earlier in the season). Timing of migration was also associated with the general regions in which species either bred or wintered. DCA proved to be a powerful tool for analysis of dynamic community patterns.
4085221| The incubation period of the Adlie Penguin was studied quantitatively to determine the behavioral requirements for successful reproduction. Incubation was divided into early, middle, and late periods to facilitate comparison between sexes and to evaluate activity in relation to stages of incubation. Analysis of time-lapse photo sequences showed that prone postures accounted for 87 to 95% of the nest time from clutch completion to hatching. Upright postures were most often comfort movements and were more frequent during the prelaying, laying, and late (hatching) periods than in early and middle incubation. Intensity of incubation was measured by the time an incubating bird spent in prone and upright positions. Prone postures were considered more intense. Intensity increased rapidly following clutch completion. Attentive periods increased in duration and decreased in number per day as the laying phase was completed. Incubation intensity remained stable from clutch completion to hatching. An increase in upright restless activity during hatching probably was a result of chick feeding and vocalization and response to the movement on nonincubating birds passing the nest. No statistical difference in incubation intensity between sexes was found. A diurnal rhythm of upright restless movements during incubation was shown. There was considerable variation in restlessness from day to day and between individuals, but when all birds were grouped, a cycle of activity emerged. Peak restless activity occurred at 1100 G.M.T. Two external factors, ambient air temperature and light intensity, were compared with upright restlessness. Light intensity and activity showed nearly identical cycles. Ambient air temperature showed no obvious relationship to restlessness. Social activity may influence restlessness during incubation. Egg temperatures were measured to determine incubation postures functional to heat maintenance and also to learn of changes during incubation. Collation of incubation events observed from a blind and recorded egg temperatures showed that eggs chilled rapidly when birds stood upright. A buildup in egg temperature from incubation day 12 to a maximum on day 21 occurred. A general trend of decreased upright restless movement corresponded to the buildup in egg temperatures and is probably responsible for it. Higher, more stable egg temperatures were shown for the middle period of incubation. Toward hatching egg temperatures fluctuated, but they did not drop drastically until after hatching. 
10.2307/4089017|Intraspecific kleptoparasitism among Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) was studied at four sites in the southwestern Cape Province of South Africa. Sites included: (1) undisturbed foraging habitats; (2) a sandy beach and a rocky shore; and (3) areas where supplementary food was available-a fishing harbor and a refuse dump. Simple food-choice experiments were used to test hypotheses generated from field observations. Among-site variation in the rate and success of kleptoparasitism was related to prey attributes, of which prey size and handling time were the most important. In food-choice experiments, gulls selected small prey with short handling times. Prey with long handling times were the most likely to be stolen and the rate of keptoparasitism was higher when prey were dispersed than when they were clumped. There were marked age-related differences in the rate, although not the success, of kleptoparasitism among Kelp Gulls. Juvenile (first-year) gulls attempted kleptoparasitism significantly more often than expected and adults significantly less often. Subadults kleptoparasitized in proportion to their abundance in the population. If an age-related dominance hierarchy exists, it mediates kleptoparasitic behavior in Kelp Gull assemblages through older birds avoiding kleptoparasitic attacks rather than initiating them. Simple mathematical models, based on data collected during field observations, were used to investigate the conditions explaining the rate of intraspecific kleptoparasitism within Kelp Gull populations. Either few individuals can kleptoparasitize relatively frequently, or many individuals can kleptoparasitize infrequently. Apparently, both mechanisms operate within Kelp Gull populations because individuals attempt kleptoparasitism relatively frequently when they are juveniles and inefficient hunters, but infrequently once they are adult and efficient hunters. The viability of facultative intraspecific kleptoparasitism as a foraging technique relies on stolen prey being larger on average than the prey captured by hunting.
4090350| Protandry, the earlier arrival of males than of females on breeding areas, occurs in many taxa, including many migratory birds. Numerous hypotheses have been generated to explain protandry. Using bird-banding records, I show that protogyny, the earlier migration of females, frequently occurs in the autumn, though it is less universal and less dramatic than spring protandry. In one species, it occurs in both hatch-year and adult birds. When (1) spring and autumn, (2) departures and arrivals, and (3) breeding and wintering ground conditions are considered, hypotheses generated only to explain spring protandry can be more thoroughly evaluated. Using that approach, the most parsimonious explanation of differential migration between the sexes explains earlier male arrival in spring and later male departure in autumn through either (1) indirect selection operating on intrasexual male competition for territories or (2) direct selection operating on intersexual relations requiring males to be present on breeding territories when females are present. In autumn-protogynous species, males may "play chicken," balancing the benefits of remaining longer than females and protecting territories for subsequent years against the costs of remaining in the north under deteriorating conditions and delaying the acquisition of a good winter territory. /// La protandrie, qui consiste en l'arrive plus htive des mles sur les aires de reproduction que les femelles, est observe dans plusieurs taxons, incluant beaucoup d'oiseaux migrateurs. De nombreuses hypothses ont t avances pour expliquer la protandrie. En utilisant les enregistrements de bagues d'oiseaux, je montre que la protogynie, la migration plus htive des femelles, se produit frquemment en automne, bien que ce phnomne soit moins courant et moins spectaculaire que la protandrie printanire. Chez une espce, cela se droule aussi bien chez les jeunes de l'anne que les adultes. Quand on considre (1) les dparts et arrives, (2) printanires et automnales ainsi que (3) les conditions sur les aires de nidification et d'hivernage, les hypothses qui ont t avances pour expliquer la protandrie printanire peuvent tre values plus en dtail. En utilisant un tel cheminement, l'approche la plus parcimonieuse d'une migration diffrentielle entre les sexes explique l'arrive htive des mles au printemps et leur dpart tardif en automne par l'intermdiaire (1) de la slection directe oprant sur la comptition intrasexuelle qui existe entre les mles pour un territoire ou (2) la slection directe oprant sur les relations intersexuelles qui ncessitent que les mles soient prsents sur les aires de reproduction quand les femelles y sont galement prsentes. Chez les espces protogynes automnales, les mles pourraient "jouer les dgonfls", en pesant les bnfices de rester plus longtemps que les femelles et de protger les territoires pour les annes subsquentes versus les cots de rester dans le Nord, dans des conditions qui se dtriorent, et retarder l'obtention d'un bon territoire d'hivernage. 
auk.2012.11064|In many bird species, survival can vary with the age of the nest, with the date a nest was initiated, or among years within the same nesting area. A literature review showed that patterns of survival vary in relation to nest age and date and are often contradictory. Inconsistencies could be a result of temporal variation in the environment or life-history differences among species. We examined patterns of nest survival in relation to nest age, date, and year for several duck and passerine species nesting at a single location in North Dakota during 19982003. We predicted that if environment shaped nest survival patterns, then temporal patterns in survival might be similar among three species of upland nesting ducks, and also among three species of grassland passerines nesting at the same site. We expected that survival patterns would differ between ducks and passerines because of relatively disparate life histories and differences in predators that prey on their nests. Nest survival was rarely constant among years, seasonally, or with age of the nest for species that we studied. As predicted, the pattern of survival was similar among duck species, driven mainly by differences in nest survival associated with nest initiation date. The pattern of survival also was similar among passerine species, but nest survival was more influenced by nest age than by date. Our findings suggest that some but not all variation in temporal patterns of nest survival in grassland birds reported in the literature can be explained on the basis of temporal environmental variation. Because patterns of survival were dissimilar among ducks and passerines, it is likely that mechanisms such as predation or brood parasitism have variable influences on productivity of ducks and passerines nesting in the same area. Our results indicate that biologists and managers should not assume that temporal environmental variations, especially factors that affect nest survival, act similarly on all grassland birds.
4087924|The Apparent estimator of nest success may be severely biased because unsuccessful nests are less likely to be found than are successful nests. The Mayfield estimator is a preferred alternative. The situation is somewhat different for nests in colonies or on islands because of greater visibility of nests, higher synchrony of nesting, and often higher hatch rates than dispersed mainland nests. Also, destruction is more likely to occur catastrophically, which violates an assumption of the Mayfield method that the mortality rate is constant. By simulation we investigated the performance of the Apparent and Mayfield estimators under a variety of circumstances. We found that when mortality rate was constant, the Mayfield estimator generally performed well regardless of whether or not nesting was synchronous or whether mortality was high or low. The Apparent estimator required more searches and higher detectability of nests. When mortality was mostly catastrophic, the Mayfield method performed poorly. The Apparent method was better, but high levels of detectability were needed for accurate estimates. We reached similar conclusions for attempts to estimate the number of nests initiated.
25488532|Niche overlap and resource partitioning have seldom been investigated in the marine habitats of seabirds but are obvious determinants of community and population status. We investigated interspecific differences in densities and spatial aggregations of seabirds during summer (JuneAugust) off southwest Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Two 300-m-wide parallel transects were sampled along 66.6 km of shoreline in 19931996, centered 200 m and 600 m from shore. Analysis focused on the threatened Marbled Murrelet (
10.2307/4090074| We analyzed habitat requirements and selection of Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) breeding at 68 colonies along 2,500 km of coastline in Patagonia, Argentina. Kelp Gulls use a wide range of nesting habitats that include areas with shrub, grass, and herbs which provide different degrees of cover; open ground of various substrate types; and slopes of widely different gradients, confirming the plasticity of the species with respect to habitat recorded elsewhere in the Southern Hemisphere. Eighty percent of the colonies were on islands, the probability of occupation of which increased with distance from mainland and availability of vegetation. Vegetation cover was a key component of nesting habitat for Kelp Gulls in Argentina. Gulls occupied areas with higher cover than random areas; but within vegetated areas, they showed preference for sparser cover that increased visibility and facilitated escape. Kelp Gulls often nested with other species of seabirds and seals and had a positive association with the Olrog's Gull (L. atlanticus). /// Analizamos los requerimientos y la seleccin de hbitat de gaviotas cocineras (Larus dominicanus) que reproducen en 68 colonias a lo largo de 2,500 km de costa en Patagonia, Argentina. La gaviota cocinera utiliza una amplia variedad de ambientes de nidificacin que incluyen reas con arbustos, pastos y hierbas que proporcionan diferentes grados de cobertura; sustratos de diferente composicin y pendiente. Esto confirma la gran plasticidad en cuanto a la seleccin de hbitat observada en otras regiones del Hemisferio Sur. El 80% de las colonias estuvieron ubicadas en islas, cuya probabilidad de ocupacin aument con la distancia al continente y la disponibilidad de vegetacin. La cobertura de la vegetacin represent un componente clave del hbitat de nidificacin para la gaviota cocinera en Argentina. Las gaviotas ocuparon reas con mayor cobertura que las reas elegidas al azar, sin embargo, dentro de las reas con vegetacin, mostraron preferencia por coberturas intermedias que incrementan la visibilidad y facilitan el escape. La gaviota cocinera nidific frecuentemente con otras especies de aves marinas y lobos marinos, y present una asociacin positiva con la Gaviota de Olrog (Larus atlanticus). 
4087920| I used helium-oxygen (heliox) gas mixtures (approximately 79.5% He: 20.5% O
4085209|The characters of the six commonly recognized forms of skuas, belonging to the three species Catharacta skua, C. chilensis, and C. maccormicki are outlined briefly. Particular attention is given to the South Polar Skua, its color phases, juvenal plumage, annual cycle, and identification. The occurrence of this species along the Pacific coast of North America as an uncommon but regular fall visitor to both California and Washington is documented; no valid evidence suggests that any other form has occurred. Thus C. (skua) chilensis, C. s. lonnbergi, and C. s. antarctica should be removed from the North American list and C. maccormicki added. The South Polar Skua is a regular transequatorial migrant in the Pacific; the movement perhaps includes mostly immatures. Some evidence suggests that this migration takes the shape of a clockwise loop in the North Pacific. Regular occurrence of the species in other seas of the Northern Hemisphere has not yet been well documented, but records exist for both the North Indian and North Atlantic oceans.
auk.2012.11259|We obtained the first DNA sequences from the extinct Carolina Parakeet (
90008165|The Channel Islands off the coast of southern California host .50 species of terrestrial vertebrates with varying degrees of phenotypic differentiation. However, most organisms that breed on the Channel Islands remain unstudied with respect to genetic differentiation from mainland populations. By comparing patterns of genetic variation between the Channel Islands and the mainland, we aimed to further our understanding of the role that the Channel Islands have played in diversification of the North American biota. We evaluated long-standing, untested hypotheses regarding colonization patterns and evolutionary relationships among western populations of the Horned Lark (
4086613|We describe parental feeding activities of Red-throated Loons (Gavia stellata) throughout the prefledging period at two freshwater nesting territories in coastal British Columbia. The nesting lake contained resident fish populations, but adult loons fed marine fish to their young, making an average of 11 flights per day (average duration 60 min per flight) to the ocean and returning each time with a single fish. Small shallow-bodied fish (Ammodytidae, Pholidae), which were easily swallowed by chicks, predominated in the diet during the 3 days following hatching. The total weight of fish fed to the chicks per day (8-194 g) increased over the prefledging period: adults returned fewer but larger fish (Embiotocidae) as the chick aged. Of the fish offered, 4% were too large for the chick to swallow.
4089552| Ratios of the stable carbon (
10.2307/4088983| We attempt to quantify the relationship between migration and latitude in the avifauna of eastern North America. Progressing northward up the east side of the continent, the proportion of breeding species that moves south for the winter increases steadily, from 12% at 25N (southern Florida) to 87% at 80N (Ellesmere Island), a mean increase of 1.4% for every degree of latitude. Conversely, the proportion of wintering species that moves north for the summer decreases with latitude, from 52% at 25N to none at 70N, a mean decrease of 1.1% for every degree of latitude. These relationships hold despite the fact that 24% of all species breeding in eastern North America leave the area completely in fall to winter south of 25N, mostly in Central and South America (including the Caribbean Islands). These trends are similar to those in western Europe, but at any given latitude an average of 17% more breeding species leave for the winter in eastern North America, and 10% more wintering species leave for the summer. This difference is attributed to climate, in that at any given latitude temperatures are cooler in eastern North America than in Europe. We argue that relationships between migration and latitude exist because latitude is a good surrogate measure of factors likely to more directly influence migration, such as climate and daylength, which in turn control the amplitude of seasonal changes in food supplies. 
10.2307/4090201| Most species of birds have a uropygial gland, also known as a preen gland, which produces oil that birds spread through their plumage when preening. The plumage of waterfowl deprived of uropygial oil becomes brittle and is subject to breakage. For other groups of birds, however, the importance of preen oil remains unclear. Previous workers have argued that preen oil may serve little or no function in Columbiforms (pigeons and doves). We tested that assertion by removing uropygial glands from Rock Doves (Columba livia) and assessing their plumage condition after several months. The results of that experiment showed significant degradation of plumage in the absence of oil. Our results are the first rigorous demonstration that preen oil is important for plumage condition in nonwaterfowl. We tested one possible function of preen oil-that it has insecticidal properties and that reduction in plumage condition on birds without glands is due to an increase in ectoparasites. We tested that hypothesis for feather-feeding lice (Phthiraptera:Ischnocera) using both in vitro and in vivo experiments. Lice raised in an incubator died more rapidly on feathers with preen oil than on feathers without oil, which suggests that preen oil may help combat lice. However, removal of the preen gland from captive birds had no significant effect on louse loads over the course of a four-month experiment. Although the results of our in vivo experiments suggest that preen oil may not be an important defense against lice, further experiments are needed. We also consider the possibility that preen oil may protect birds against other plumage-degrading organisms, such as bacteria and fungi. /// La mayora de las especies de aves tienen una glndula uropigial, la cual produce un aceite que las aves esparcen en su plumaje al acicalarse. Al privarse del aceite uropigial, el plumaje de las aves acuticas se debilita, hacindose quebradizo. Sin embargo, la importancia de la glndula uropigial en otros grupos de aves no es clara, e investigaciones previas han sugerido que el aceite podra ser poco o nada importante funcionalmente en Columbiformes. Pusimos a prueba esta aseveracin removiendo la glndula uropigial de palomas Columba livia, y evaluando la condicin de su plumaje luego de varios meses. Los resultados de este experimento mostraron una degradacin significativa del plumaje en ausencia del aceite uropigial, lo que constituye la primera demonstracin rigurosa de que ste es importante para la condicin del plumaje en aves no acuticas. Una posible funcin del aceite de acicalamiento es que tenga propiedades insecticidas y que el desmejoramiento de la condicin del plumaje de aves sin glndulas se deba a un incremento de los ectoparsitos. Pusimos a prueba esta hiptesis en piojos que se alimentan de plumas (Phthiraptera:Ischnocera) mediante experimentos in vitro e in vivo. Piojos criados en incubadoras en plumas con aceite uropigial murieron ms rpidamente que piojos criados en plumas sin aceite, lo que sugiere que ste podra ayudar a combatir los piojos. Sin embargo, la remocin de la glndula uropigial de aves en cautiverio no tuvo un efecto significativo sobre la carga de piojos a lo largo de un experimento de cuatro meses de duracin. Aunque los resultados de nuestros experimentos in vivo sugieren que el aceite de acicalamiento podra no ser una defensa importante contra los piojos, es necesario hacer ms experimentos. Tambin consideramos la posibilidad de que el aceite proteja a las aves de otros organismos que degradan el plumaje, como bacterias y hongos. 
25488577|Recent studies have suggested that bone alkaline phosphatase (ALP) may be a valuable indicator of skeletal development in wild birds. However, the information about age-related dynamics of ALP isoforms in passerines is very scanty. We examined age-related changes in the activity of bone ALP and liver ALP and tested the applicability of these isoenzymes as indicators of chick maturity in randomly selected nestlings of a small passerine bird, the Great Tit (
90008170|Nestlings of birds breeding in closed nests compete for food by both vocal begging and competing for a position near the nest entrance (locomotor activity). The latter strategy can be particularly effective in nests with long entrance tunnels, where nestlings can intercept feedings from incoming parents. However, little is known about whether the intensity of locomotor activity is related to food availability in the same way as the intensity of vocal begging. We hand-fed Bank Swallow nestlings (
10.2307/4088193|Mead and Morton (1985) suggested that asynchronous hatching for birds in which only the female incubates is caused by a hormonal surge associated with the ovulation of the last ovum. This hormonal surge is believed to inhibit further ovulation and simultaneously stimulate females to initiate full incubation. Thus, the advantages, if any, accrued from asynchronous hatching are merely epiphenomena. The hormonal hypothesis predicts that regardless of clutch size, full incubation is initiated with the laying of the penultimate egg. We also predict from the hypothesis that incubation attentiveness during egg laying will be similar in females tending either four- or five-egg clutches, especially on the day the penultimate and last eggs are laid, hatch spreads will be similar in four- and five-egg clutches, and the addition of eggs during egg laying will not induce increased incubation attentiveness. In a three-year study (1988-1990) on Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) nesting at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, we found that incubation attentiveness during egg laying was similar between females that produced four- and five-egg clutches, but full incubation was not initiated prior to the last egg being laid. Despite apparently similar incubation attentiveness during egg laying, hatch spreads differed significantly between four- and five-egg clutches. Incubation attentiveness was increased experimentally by adding eggs during early egg laying. We suggest that initiation of full incubation is not rigidly controlled by hormonal changes associated with the laying of the penultimate egg. Therefore, asynchronous hatching of the penultimate and, especially, the last egg does not require full incubation.
10.2307/4089897| We used capture-recapture methods to estimate adult survival rates for adult female Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans; hereafter "brant") from three colonies in Alaska, two on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and one on Alaska's Arctic coast. Costs of migration and reproductive effort varied among those colonies, enabling us to examine variation in survival in relation to variation in these other variables. We used the Barker model in program MARK to estimate true annual survival for brant from the three colonies. Models allowing for spatial variation in survival were among the most parsimonious models but were indistinguishable from a model with no spatial variation. Point estimates of annual survival were slightly higher for brant from the Arctic (0.90  0.036) than for brant from either Tutakoke River (0.85  0.004) or Kokechik Bay (0.86  0.011). Thus, our survival estimates do not support a hypothesis that the cost of longer migrations or harvest experienced by brant from the Arctic reduced their annual survival relative to brant from the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta. Spatial variation in survival provides weak support for life-history theory because brant from the region with lower reproductive investment had slightly higher survival. /// Usamos mtodos de captura-recaptura para estimar la tasa de supervivencia de hembras adultas de Branta bernicla nigricans en tres colonias en Alaska, dos en el delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim, y una en la costa rtica de Alaska. Los costos de migracin y esfuerzo reproductivo variaron entre estas colonias, permitindonos examinar estas variables en relacin a variaciones en la supervivencia. Usamos el modelo Barker del programa MARK para estimar la supervivencia anual verdadera de individuos de B. b. nigricans de tres colonias. Los modelos que consideran variacin espacial en la supervivencia estuvieron entre los ms parsimoniosos, pero fueron indistinguibles de un modelo que no considera variacin espacial. Las estimaciones puntuales de supervivencia anual fueron un poco mayores para B. b. nigricans del rtico (0.90  0.036) que para individuos provenientes del Ro Tutakoke (0.85  0.004) o de Baha Kokechik (0.86  0.011). De este modo, nuestras estimaciones de supervivencia no apoyan la hiptesis que los costos de migraciones ms largas o de cosecha experimentados por B. b. nigricans en el rtico reducen su supervivencia anual en relacin a individuos del delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim. La variacin espacial en la supervivencia sustenta slo parcialmente las teoras sobre historias de vida, ya que los individuos de B. b. nigricans de la regin con menor inversin reproductiva presentaron una supervivencia un poco mayor. 
4085217| This study describes the overt roosting and arousal behavior, associated environmental and biological variables, and possible selective factors experienced by a flock of about 80 color-marked Pion Jays in northern Arizona. Birds roosted in the same 70-ha pine forest on 22 occasions between October and March. Birds arrived on the roosting grounds 1-2 h before going to roost and roosted primarily on the southern sides of the trees facing south and west. Roost sites were possibly selected for thermal economy and predator protection. The dispersion of roosting jays was similar to that of the nests and specific roost sites were similar to sites where nests were built. Birds roosted either with the bill pointed forward or tucked under the scapulars. In a cage where birds most often roosted facing a slightly illuminated wall, the female always settled into the roosting posture before the male. Postroosting arousal was typified by vigorous calling and short rapid circling flights. The former may act to reassemble the flock and the latter to increase the birds' metabolic rate and body temperature. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09190|We studied growth in the Green-rumped Parrotlet (
4085901|Exclosures have been valuable tools in elucidating the role of predation in community structure. These have often been used without proper controls for the effects of the exclosures, however, and have not been designed to test the effects of different groups of predators. Here, I describe how the effects of shorebird predation on invertebrate prey in an intertidal mudflat were separated from those of fish predation by the use of an exclosure with floating sides. Also, by comparing the changes in prey density and substrate composition in a control exclosure with two sides and a top to an open area, I show that the exclosures themselves had no significant effects on the prey or the substrate.
4085453|We studied Glossy Ibis nesting success in New York during 1974 and New Jersey during 1975. The clutch size in New York (2.56) was significantly smaller than in New Jersey (2.93). Fewer eggs hatched in New York, due to higher rates of predation, nest abandonment, and perhaps egg infertility. Including only nests in which at least one egg hatched, however, the same number of eggs hatched in New York and New Jersey, but significantly fewer chicks fledged in New York. The third egg in a nest hatched at a significantly longer interval from the first egg in New York than in New Jersey. In New York, no third chicks fledged, while in New Jersey 37% fledged. Starvation and predation on all chicks were highest in New York. The daily weight of chicks up to 10 days of age was significantly lower on most days in New York, but the rate or length of feeding bouts did not differ from that in New Jersey. This suggests a lower food supply in New York, which may explain the lower clutch size, greater hatching asynchrony, and greater chick starvation in New York, but colder temperatures and rainfall on more days in New York undoubtedly also contributed. Feeding behavior appears not to be as adjustable to prevailing conditions as clutch size and asynchronous hatching.
10.1525/auk.2010.09211|Birds are generally unable to predict future changes in habitat condition when selecting nesting locations, and few studies have investigated the effect on birds of shifting habitat quality within nesting seasons. Anthropogenically influenced habitats such as agricultural landscapes are often associated with large shifts in quality that turn initially good habitat into poor habitat. We examined whether daily survival rates of Barn Owl (
10.2307/4089110| We estimated the range expansion of Barred Owls (Strix varia) in California and the potential negative effects this species may have on Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis). Barred Owl range expansion has been rapid over the past two decades. A total of 61 Barred Owls has been detected in 12 different California counties. Barred Owls were first sighted in California in 1981 in Del Norte and Trinity counties. They now have been detected as far south as Sonoma County in western California and Yuba County in the Sierra Nevada. The ratio of new Barred Owl sites found per new Spotted Owl territory has increased from one per 50 Spotted Owl territories in the 1980s to one per 10 to 20 new Spotted Owl territories in the mid 1990s. This suggests that the Barred Owl population in California is increasing. In addition, seven Barred Owl  Spotted Owl hybrids have been reported in California. Because of the potential for hybridization, competition for food and habitat, and predation, it appears that the Barred Owl could influence Spotted Owl populations negatively. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09244|The preferences that bird species exhibit for different sugar types may play a role in pollinator-mediated selection on plant nectar composition. How bird sugar-type preferences are affected by concentration is a fundamental question for research that aims to use those preferences to explain plant nectar composition. Such research has been done for several specialist avian nectarivores, and for a few passerine occasional nectarivores, but not, apparently, for any nonpasserine occasional nectarivore. We examined the effect of concentration of sugar solutions on sugar-type preferences of the Speckled Mousebird (
10.2307/4089799| Between 1996 and 1998, we compared pairing success of territorial male Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) in forest fragments created by forestry (n = 3) and agriculture (n = 10) to contiguous forest plots (n = 3) in the southern boreal mixedwood forest of central Saskatchewan. The percentage of Ovenbird males paired per site was lower in fragments created by agriculture (86  3%) and forestry (87  3%) than in contiguous forest (97  3%). At the individual level, second-year males (82%) were less likely to be paired than after-second-year males (94%), whereas males closer to edges were less likely to be paired than those in forest interiors. Although pairing success differed among landscapes, those differences were smaller than reported in studies conducted in eastern North America. The high density of birds in our study area may have resulted in intense intraspecific competition, which could have prevented unpaired individuals from maintaining territories. Removal experiments in 1997 and 1998 demonstrated floaters occurred in contiguous forest, but rarely occurred in fragments created by agriculture. The presence of floaters in contiguous forest suggests the ratio of breeding to nonbreeding males in forest fragments and contiguous forest may be similar, but that the strategy (i.e. floater vs. territorial) used by unpaired birds may differ among landscapes. 
10.2307/4089722|Partitioning of nest heights among co-occurring species in response to nest predation has been proposed as a process that helps to structure avian species assemblages. In the experiment reported here, we used artificial nests baited with Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs to test (1) whether both rate and final level of nest predation differed among nests placed at ground, shrub, and tree strata; and (2) whether vertical partitioning of nest sites among the three strata decreased nest predation. Although rates of nest predation increased from ground, to partitioned, to shrub, to tree strata, the only significant pairwise differences were between predation on ground nests versus all other treatments. The proportion of nests depredated at the conclusion of the experiment was lowest for the ground treatment, intermediate for the partitioned treatment, and highest for the shrub and tree treatments. Predation was significantly higher in 1988 than in 1989, and significant variation in predation occurred among five spatial replicates of the experimental treatments. Although the results show different susceptibilities to nest predation according to vegetative stratum, they show only a slight and nonsignificant reduction in nest predation as a consequence of vertical nest-site partitioning.
10.2307/4087998|Gray whales (Eschrichtius robustus) feeding in the northern Bering Sea produce prey-rich mud plumes that provide ephemeral foraging opportunities for seabirds. Approximately 67% of all gray whales were attended by birds. In four whale-associating bird species (Northern Fulmar, Fulmarus glacialis; Red Phalarope, Phalaropus fulicaria; Black-legged Kitti-wake, Rissa tridactyla; and Thick-billed Murre, Uria lomvia), from 17 to 87% of all individuals that we observed on the water or foraging were in the whales' mud plumes. The combined density of these same four species was strongly correlated with whale density over a broad range of spatial scales. The whale-associating seabirds exhibited species-specific patterns of foraging behavior at plumes, including differences in mean group size, mean residence time, and patterns of movement between plumes. Birds tended to form larger groups and to form more mixed-species flocks in association with whales. The association of marine birds with gray whales in the Bering Sea provides a model system for examining seabird interactions at fine-scale oceanographic patches and demonstrates the importance of these patches in shaping patterns of seabird distribution and behavior.
10.2307/4089190|The seeds of bird-dispersed fruits could impose significant costs on frugivores if seed bulk reduces the effective capacity of the gut and, hence, reduces the rate of nutrient intake. This has led to the notion that avian frugivores pass food through their digestive tracts rapidly to minimize the effects of seeds on nutrient acquisition. Consequently, avian frugivores are thought to utilize fruit sugars inefficiently, because this permits higher intake and sugar-assimilation rates from a supposedly energy-dilute food. I evaluated the influence of seed bulk on intake and absorption of sugars from chokecherry fruits (Prunus virginiana) by Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum), American Robins (Turdus migratorius), Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina), Gray-cheeked Thrushes (Catharus minimus), and Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus). I compared Cedar Waxwings with thrushes to determine if they differed in how seed bulk affects digestion of fruit. Cedar Waxwings have higher mass-specific intake rates of sugary fruits than do thrushes; because waxwings defecate all seeds, whereas thrushes regurgitate many seeds, the difference in intake of sugary fruits between waxwings and thrushes may result from ingestion/fruit-processing limitations associated with mode of seed processing. For all species, seeds did not reduce rates of intake and sugar absorption from chokecherry fruit pulp. All birds assimilated sugars from chokecherry fruits efficiently, and digestive processing of seeds did not reduce sugar absorption. Rates of fruit processing were closely tied to rates of sugar absorption, rather than to the physical composition of the diet. My results suggest that current models of digestive function in avian frugivores are seriously flawed. Because differences in intake rates of sugary fruits between waxwings and thrushes were independent of the presence of seeds, these difference were not due to different modes of seed processing.
90008553|Food availability is considered an important limiting factor in the breeding performance of marine birds, which exhibit restraint in reproductive life-history characteristics (e.g., delayed maturation, small clutch size, slow growth). Less well understood, however, is the extent to which taxonomic analogue species that breed in freshwater habitats are similarly regulated by food availability. Marsh-nesting Forsters Terns (
4086368|Food selection by and diet of Cackling Goose (Branta canadensis minima) goslings were studied in relation to the quality and availability of food during brood rearing, 1977-1979. Arrowgrass (Triglochin palustris) was the most important food in the diet of goslings before wing-molt of adults and sometimes during molt. Carex mackenziei was the most common sedge in the diet but was less important than arrowgrass. Leaves of other species were relatively unimportant during premolt. Arrowgrass declined, while Carex seeds and crowberries (Empetrum nigrum) increased, in the diet as brood rearing progressed. Arrowgrass was highly preferred, whereas other sedges and grasses (except C. mackenziei) were avoided in areas for which both availability and consumption were measured. Preference for arrowgrass was related to its higher protein and energy content and lower cell-wall content compared to other forage species. Thus, geese benefitted nutritionally from selecting their preferred diet. Seeds and berries contained high levels of lipids and carbohydrates relative to green leaves. Less arrowgrass was consumed in a year when brood densities were higher than in the other 2 years of the study. Arrowgrass availability declined as brood rearing progressed in another year. Thus, Cackling Geese may have been reducing the availability of their most nutritious food, at least at high brood densities. Food quality in breeding areas may be influencing population dynamics of geese despite the high overall availability of green plants.
10.2307/4089755| Previous studies have shown that natural abundance of deuterium (D), and to a lesser extent
4086709|I describe the diet of Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) chicks at three colonies in the low Arctic of eastern Canada. These are compared with diets described previously for Akpatok Island in the same area and Prince Leopold Island in the high Arctic. Diets varied more among colonies than among years at the same colony. Indices of similarity showed the diet of chicks at Hantzsch Island to be the most distinct. The diets of all low-arctic colonies were more diverse than those reported at Prince Leopold Island. Some factors governing differences among colonies are discussed.
10.2307/4089248|We collected 138 freshly laid Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) eggs from 13 nests to determine the effects of egg size, laying sequence, and skipped laying days on egg composition. All components except yolk ash and eggshell, both wet and dry, increased in direct proportion to fresh-egg mass. Egg size increased during the first half of laying and decreased thereafter. The effects of laying sequence were component-specific. Absolute levels of neutral lipids (comprising 65.6% of dry yolk) were near average until about 75% of the clutch was completed and then declined. Mass of albumen components tended to increase sharply with the first few eggs and then decrease as laying progressed. Fat indices (egg lipid/lean dry-egg content) tended to be highest in the first 40% of the clutch. We interpret laying-sequence effects on egg composition as adaptations that enable female Wood Ducks to initiate incubation before clutch completion and still allow for synchronous hatching without compromising the hatching success of first-laid eggs. Hens frequently skipped a laying day between the penultimate and ultimate egg, which tended to increase the mass of the yolk component in last-laid eggs compared with those that were laid the day following the penultimate egg.
10.2307/4089585| The Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus) is an endangered Neotropical migrant that breeds in isolated remnants of dense riparian habitat in the southwestern United States. We estimated genetic variation at 20 breeding sites of the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (290 individuals) using 38 amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Our results suggest that considerable genetic diversity exists within the subspecies and within local breeding sites. Statistical analyses of genetic variation revealed only slight, although significant, differentiation among breeding sites (Mantel's r = 0.0705, P < 0.0005;  = 0.0816, 95% CI = 0.0608 to 0.1034;
4087445|Recovery of cached sunflower seeds by Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) was observed in four laboratory experiments. Results of the first experiment were consistent with the hypothesis that chickadees use spatial memory to recover seeds cached 24 h earlier. The second experiment demonstrated that individuals have a high recovery rate for their own caches and a low recovery rate for caches made by another. The third and fourth experiments demonstrated that one chickadee observing another caching seeds provided no recovery benefit to the observer in comparison to its performance when recovering seeds hidden in its absence. This result held for 2-h and for 6-min delays between observation and attempted recovery. We believe that spatial memory is used by chickadees, that the individual carrying out the caching has a large recovery advantage over a conspecific that searches the same patch, and that the perceptual and motor experience involved in the act of traveling to a cache location may be necessary for the establishment of spatial memory.
10.2307/4087236|During a 5-year study of Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) in eastern California, displaying males abandoned territoriality throughout one breeding season and did so intermittently in three others. Abandonment followed a severe winter and was correlated with a change from location-dependent to hierarchical dominance relationships between males. Intermittent territorial breakdowns occurred when males left their territories to approach and, in 2 years, to mate with females off the lek. These observations imply that the social mechanisms of sexual selection may vary between leks in this species and suggest a novel function for lek territoriality: territories may act as rendezvous sites with females.
10.2307/4088980|Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) regularly peck and break eggs of conspecifics, presumably to drive conspecifics away and thereby reduce the potential for intraspecific competition. We hypothesized that egg-pecking behavior represents a strong selective force that should favor adaptations, such as structurally stronger eggs, that lower the effect of conspecific attacks on Marsh Wren reproductive success. We tested this hypothesis by investigating whether Marsh Wren eggs are structurally stronger than would be expected for their size. We compared the strength of Marsh Wren eggs with that of eggs of 10 other passerine species and found that Marsh Wren eggs tolerated 2.9 times greater pressure than would be expected for their size. To identify the structural mechanisms responsible for greater strength of Marsh Wren eggs, we conducted two analyses. First, we related variation in the strength of Marsh Wren eggs to variation in their volume, shape, and eggshell thickness. Eggshell thickness was the only significant predictor of the strength, explaining 30% of the variation. Second, we selected 101 passerine species that lay eggs of similar size and compared eggshell thickness and shape of their eggs with those of Marsh Wren eggs. Marsh Wren eggs had significantly thicker eggshells and rounder eggs than eggs of the other species, indicating that both characteristics contributed to their unusual strength. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that, in Marsh Wrens, conspecific egg destruction has led to the evolution of unusually strong eggs.
10.1525/auk.2012.12028|We describe a new species of wren in the genus
4085541|We develop a mechanistic approach to the study of resource competition among sunbirds in natural systems. Our emphasis is on the proximate impacts of actual nectar loss on the daily energy balance of nonbreeding sunbirds. We estimated nectar losses by monitoring visits to marked Leonotis nepetifolia flowers in Kenya during a season of low-resource availability and intense competition. Territorial Golden-winged Sunbirds (Nectarinia reichenowi) lost an average of 8% of the nectar encountered per flower to competing individuals. Nonterritorial males lost a minimum of 36% and a maximum of 46% of the potentially obtained nectar to other sunbirds. Females lost more than males. We calculate that territorial and nonterritorial males had to forage 17% and 72% more each day respectively to maintain a balanced energy budget as a result of these losses. These results support earlier models of the energetic economics of territoriality and provide some insights into the problem of exploitative competition for nectar, including the nonlinearity of the competitive effect on foraging time.
10.2307/4088898|In natural cavities, old nest material accumulates with successive use, thereby reducing the size of the cavity, and allowing the numbers of certain haematophagous ectoparasites to increase. For this reason and because researchers studying birds breeding in nest boxes typically remove old nests from boxes, the results of such studies have been questioned. The accumulation of old nest material might affect nest-site selection and nest building by hole-nesting birds, so we tested this hypothesis by manipulating the presence and amount of old nest material in nest boxes of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). Our experiment also allowed us to examine whether costs are incurred by females due to nest building in terms of their subsequent reproductive output. When a choice of boxes was available, swallows preferred empty and clean boxes, or those where the old material had been microwaved, over those with old, untouched material. Clean boxes and those with microwaved material had more space inside, so our experiments support two hypotheses: swallows avoid potentially high numbers of parasites in nests with old material; or they prefer large cavities. Empty boxes affected nest building. The mass and volume of nests built in clean boxes were greater than for nests built on old material. Females did not add more feathers to the nest lining in boxes with old material as compared with clean boxes. Correlation analyses suggested that females building large nests began egg laying earlier in both years. Otherwise, there were no associations between the sizes of nests built by females and subsequent reproductive output (e.g. clutch size) or nestling size (e.g. body-condition index). Our results show that the common habit of removing old nests from boxes can affect nest-site choice and nest-building behavior. Nest building does not influence reproductive output by Tree Swallows.
10.2307/4088104|We measured plasma levels of progesterone and prolactin in free-living adult breeders, adult-plumaged helpers, and juvenal-plumaged helpers of the cooperatively breeding Harris' Hawk, Parabuteo unicinctus, at different stages of the nesting cycle. Overall, progesterone levels did not vary significantly with sex, nest stage, or behavioral role, but they increased significantly with handling time. Progesterone levels were highest (2-4 ng/ml) in breeding females just before egg laying. Prolactin levels did not vary with handling time but were significantly elevated in breeding females during the nest-building stage (14.1 ng/ml) and in both breeding males (8.4 ng/ml) and females (25.5 ng/ml) during incubation. Both sexes of breeders incubate the eggs, but the females do the bulk of incubation and only they develop a brood patch. Prolactin levels in the breeders declined immediately after the eggs hatched, in contrast to the pattern seen in many other altricial species. Prolactin levels in the adult-plumaged male helpers rose significantly after the eggs hatched (9.1 ng/ml). At this time these birds bring more food items from group kills to the nestlings than any other group members. The elevated prolactin levels in the adult-plumaged helpers may facilitate the helping behavior that they exhibit toward the nestlings and fledglings.
40406717|Breeding seabirds are extreme central-place foragers, commuting long distances between colonies and feeding areas. Central-place foraging theory predicts that prey items close to the colony will be preferred over prey items distant from the colony, which can lead to prey depletion near the colony ("Storer-Ashmole's halo"). To investigate the relevance of these ideas to a single-prey loader, we equipped chick-rearing Thick-billed Murres (
10.2307/4086025|Proteins from 19 presumptive genetic loci in three populations of Trumpeter Swans (Olor buccinator) were compared by starch-gel electrophoresis. No significant differences were found among the populations in terms of mean heterozygosity or rare alleles. Trumpeter Swans have a low level of genetic variability when compared to other vertebrate taxa.
4088321| I studied nest-site selection and nesting success of White-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon lepturus) at nesting colonies located in coastal boulder talus on Cayo Lus Pea, in the Culebra National Wildlife Refuge, Puerto Rico, during 1983-1988. Twenty-nine to 38 pairs attempted to nest at each of two colonies, Punta Cruz and South Peninsula, in each season. Nests were distributed along different coastline distances: 170 m at Punta Cruz and up to 420 m at South Peninsula. Nearest-neighbor distances of nest sites were 2-4 m at Punta Cruz and 6-10 m at South Peninsula. Nests averaged 2 m from the forest edge, within 6 m of the waterline and 2 m above mean high tide. Temperatures in nest crevices fluctuated between 20C and 35C. Incubation times averaged 41 days (range: 40-43). Mean fledging times (SD) were 73  5.25 days in 1984, 71  2.65 days in 1985, and 71  1.57 days in 1986. Overall nesting success (laying through fledging), estimated by the Mayfield method, for the two colonies combined was low (0.15 in 1984 to 0.26 in 1986), although it was similar to that reported for White-tailed Tropicbirds at other colonies worldwide if estimated by the traditional method. Most nesting failures occurred early in the egg stage. The most important causes of nest failure at Punta Cruz were abandonment and agonistic encounters between conspecifics during the egg stage, including overt and severe fighting. In contrast, the most common cause of nesting failure at South Peninsula was predation. At South Peninsula, reduced predation by black rats (Rattus rattus) and increased hatching success were concurrent with intensive predator control efforts, especially the use of poisoned rat bait. 
4090632| Evolutionary hypotheses regarding longevity predict that life span should increase as extrinsic mortality rates decrease. Specifically, a decline in age-specific survival and fertility should evolve and decrease life span in proportion to the magnitude of the mortality risk. We examined these ideas using a new data set on maximum longevity, ecology, and life history of 162 parrot species (Psittaciformes). Parrots are generally long-lived but exhibit remarkable variation in life span between similar-sized genera, with particularly long-lived species occurring in the Cacatua, Calyptorhynchus, and Amazona. After controlling for both body size and phylogenetic ancestry using a phylogenetic supertree of all 352 parrot species, type of diet and communal roosting explain significant variation in parrot life span, but the influence of communal roosting is statistically dependent on an association with diet type. We suggest that extreme longevity in parrots has evolved in response to species-specific characteristics of diet, habitat, and behavior that influence extrinsic mortality rates. /// Las hiptesis evolutivas relacionadas con la longevidad predicen que la duracin de la vida debe incrementarse cuando las tasas de mortalidad extrnseca disminuyen. Especficamente, se esperara una disminucin evolutiva en la supervivencia y la fertilidad a edades especficas, causando una disminucin en la longevidad proporcional a la magnitud del riesgo de mortalidad. Examinamos estas ideas empleando una base de datos nueva sobre la longevidad mxima, la ecologa y las historias de vida de 162 especies de Psittaciformes. Los Psittaciformes son generalmente longevos pero existe amplia variacin en la longevidad entre gneros con especies de tamao corporal similar; las especies particularmente longevas pertenecen a los gneros Cacatua, Calyptorhynchus y Amazona. Luego de controlar por el tamao corporal y la ancestra filogentica empleando un superrbol filogentico de las 352 especies de Psittaciformes, el tipo de dieta y el uso de perchas comunales explicaron significativamente la variacin en la longevidad, pero la influencia del uso de perchas comunales depende estadsticamente de una asociacin con el tipo de dieta. Sugerimos que la extrema longevidad de los Psittaciformes ha evolucionado como respuesta a caractersticas de la dieta, el hbitat y el comportamiento especficas de las especies que influencian las tasas extrnsecas de mortalidad. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11273|Although first-category (Type I) songs of some wood-warblers (Parulidae) are structurally stable over time and range, we document a rapid change in the song of a population of Hermit Warblers (
25150305|Migration and reproductive strategies in waterbirds are tightly linked, with timing of arrival and onset of nesting having important consequences for reproductive success. Whether migratory waterbirds are capital or income breeders is predicated by their spring migration schedule, how long they are on breeding areas before nesting, and how adapted they are to exploiting early spring foods at northern breeding areas. However, for most species, we know little about individual migration schedules, arrival times, and duration of residence on breeding areas before nesting. To document these relationships in a northern nesting goose, we radiotracked winter-marked Tule Greater White-fronted Geese (Anseralbifrons elgasi; hereafter "Tule Geese"; n = 116) from the time of their arrival in Alaska through nesting. Tule Geese arrived on coastal feeding areas in mid-April and moved to nesting locations a week later. They initiated nests 15 days (range: 6-24 days) after arrival, a period roughly equivalent to the duration of rapid follicle growth. Tule Geese that arrived the earliest were more likely to nest than geese that arrived later; early arrivals also spent more time on the breeding grounds and nested earlier than geese that arrived later. The length of the prenesting period was comparable to that of other populations of this species, but longer than for goose species that initiate rapid follicle growth before arrival on the breeding grounds. We suggest that Tule Geese nesting in more temperate climates are more likely to delay breeding to exploit local food resources than Arctic-nesting species that may be constrained by short growing seasons. /// La migracin y las estrategias reproductivas de las aves acuticas estn ntimamente ligadas, ya que los momentos de arribo y de inicio de la nidificacin tienen importantes consecuencias en el xito reproductivo. Es posible predecir si las aves migratorias acuticas son reproductoras de capital o de ingresos de acuerdo a (1) su esquema de migracin de primavera, (2) cunto tiempo estn en las reas reproductivas antes de nidificar y (3) cun adaptadas estn para utilizar alimentos del inicio de la primavera en las reas reproductivas del norte. Sin embargo, para la mayora de las aves sabemos poco sobre los esquemas individuales de migracin, los tiempos de arribo y la duracin de la residencia en las reas de cra antes de nidificar. Para documentar estas relaciones en un ganso nidificante del norte, monitoreamos individuos de Anser albifrons elgasi marcados con radios en el invierno (n = 116) desde el momento de su llegada a Alaska hasta la nidificacin. Las aves llegaron a las reas costeras de alimentacin a mediados de abril y se trasladaron a las localidades de nidificacin una semana despus. Iniciaron los nidos 15 das despus de la llegada (rango: 6-24 das), un perodo ms o menos equivalente a la duracin del crecimiento rpido del folculo. Los individuos que llegaron primero tuvieron una probabilidad mayor de nidificar que los que llegaron ms tarde; los que arribaron temprano tambin pasaron ms tiempo en las reas de nidificacin y nidificaron ms temprano que los que llegaron ms tarde. El perodo previo a la nidificacin fue comparable con el de otras poblaciones de esta especie, pero fue ms largo que en las especies de gansos que inician el crecimiento rpido del folculo antes de la llegada a las reas reproductivas. Sugerimos que A. a. elgasi, al nidificar en climas ms templados, tiene una probabilidad mayor de demorar la reproduccin para aprovechar los recursos alimenticios locales que las especies que nidifican en el rtico, que pueden estar restringidas por estaciones de crecimiento cortas.
25150294|We examined population genetic structure in Gadwalls (Anas strepera) to test the prediction that female philopatry and fidelity to migratory flyways have contributed to the partitioning of mitochondrial variation across North America. Sequencing a 658-659 base-pair fragment of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region from 348 Gadwalls, we found two distinct clades that were broadly intermixed across both breeding and nonbreeding populations. Clade A was abundant in North America as well as among published sequences from Eurasia. Clade B was sequenced from 5.5% of North American Gadwalls and was more similar to Asian Falcated Duck (A. falcata) haplotypes than to clade A haplotypes. Maximum likelihood indicated that Gadwall clade B haplotypes were a monophyletic group nested within Falcated Duck haplotypes, which suggests mtDNA introgression of clade B into Gadwalls. However, that topology was weakly supported, and we could not reject topologies that were consistent with incomplete lineage-sorting as the cause of mitochondrial polyphyly. Migratory flyways did not contribute significantly to population structure and, in general, we found a lack of genetic structure among most populations. However, Gadwalls sampled in Alaska and Washington were well differentiated from other populations. Coalescent analyses supported a historical population expansion for clade A, and this expansion could have contributed to the high genetic similarity among some populations but the strong differentiation of others. Female-mediated gene flow, along with both historical and contemporary population and range expansions, has likely contributed to the overall weak mtDNA structure in North American Gadwalls. /// Examinamos la estructura gentica poblacional en Anas strepera para poner a prueba la prediccin de que la filopatra de las hembras y la fidelidad a los corredores de vuelo han contribuido a la particin de la variacin mitocondrial a travs de Norte Amrica. Secuenciamos un fragmento de la regin control del ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) de 658-659 pares de bases para 348 individuos, y encontramos dos clados distintos que se encontraron ampliamente distribuidos a travs de poblaciones reproductivas y no reproductivas. El clado A fue abundante en Norte Amrica, y tambin en secuencias publicadas de Eurasia. En el clado B se ubicaron el 5.5% de los individuos de Norte Amrica, y fue ms similar a haplotipos de A. falcata que a los haplotipos del clado A. De acuerdo a anlisis de mxima verosimilitud, los haplotipos de A. strepera presentes en el clado B forman un grupo monofiltico que se encuentra anidado dentro del clado de haplotipos de A. falcata, lo que sugiere que ha existido introgresin mitocondrial del clado B hacia A. strepera. Sin embargo, esa topologa no est bien respaldada, y no pudimos rechazar topologas consistentes con la hiptesis de que la polifilia mitocondrial sera el resultado de un proceso de separacin incompleta de linajes. Los corredores de vuelos migratorios no contribuyeron significativamente a la estructura poblacional y, en general, no encontramos estructura gentica entre la mayora de las poblaciones. Sin embargo, los individuos de A. strepera muestreados en Alaska y Washington estuvieron bien diferenciados de los de otras poblaciones. Anlisis de coalescencia apoyaron una hiptesis de expansin poblacional, y esta expansin podra haber contribuido a la alta similitud gentica entre algunas poblaciones y la marcada diferenciacin de otras. El flujo gentico mediado por las hembras, junto con expansiones poblacionales histricas y contemporneas, probablemente han contribuido a la estructura dbil del ADNmt entre las poblaciones norteamericanas de A. strepera.
40406713|Kleptoparasitism, in which an individual steals food from other individuals of the same or a different species, is frequent in birds and represents a form of direct competition that can potentially influence the structure of communities. We addressed this idea by analyzing the foraging behavior and the spatiotemporal patterns of use of a refuse dump by four species of corvids: the Rook (
25488684|I report on the evolutionary loss of the sternotrachealis muscle (ST) in a vocal bird, the tinamou Darwin's Nothura (
10.2307/4087755|I analyzed the search behavior of 6 Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) foraging on patchily distributed prey in a large aquarium. When searching for randomly placed food patches, Ruddy Ducks sampled previously profitable sites before investigating other areas more frequently than would be expected by chance. Revisiting previously profitable foraging sites may be important when exploiting a patchy food resource with prey densities that are likely to be quickly replenished after having been exploited. I also analyzed search paths of birds before and after they encountered prey and in low- (50 prey) and high- (250 prey) density patches. Search paths in food patches were longer in length and duration, had a lower velocity, and were more sinuous than in areas devoid of food. These search-path characteristics enable predators to locate and exploit patchily distributed food more efficiently than random search. Search-path length was similar in low- and high-density patches, but search-path duration was shorter in low-density patches in 5 of 6 birds. Search-path velocity was faster in low-density patches in 4 of 6 birds. Search-path sinuosity did not differ between low- and high-density patches. The differences in search-path characteristics between patches with different prey densities may be related to handling time of the food items.
10.2307/4088194|We describe a nonstereo, three-dimensional photographic technique to study the turning movements of flocks of semidomestic Rock Doves (Columba livia). The method permits sequential examination of an individual's position and flight path. The birds in flocks we studied with this technique did not maintain fixed positions. Birds continually repositioned themselves during a turn. Such repositioning of individuals may be more significant in the predator-evasion function of cluster flocks than for aerodynamics.
10.2307/4089590|I compared nesting intervals during three consecutive years in five species of temperate-nesting dabbling ducks (Mallard [Anas platyrhynchos], Northern Pintail [Anas acuta], Northern Shoveler [Anas clypeata], Blue-winged Teal [Anas discors], Gadwall [Anas strepera]) and assessed whether differences existed in timing of refractoriness. Most nesting by females of all five species ended by the summer solstice. Nesting ended earliest for Northern Shovelers and Northern Pintails and latest for Gadwalls. Some Mallards, Blue-winged Teal, and Gadwalls continued to nest into mid- and late summer, whereas Northern Shovelers and Northern Pintails did not. Mallards, Blue-winged Teal, and Gadwalls accounted for 99% (81 of 82) of flightless broods resulting from nests initiated during mid- or late summer in North Dakota and 98% (58 of 59) of flightless juveniles shot on or after 1 October by a random sample of duck hunters from across the United States. Early cessation of breeding by Northern Shovelers may have evolved in response to the species' limited flexibility in diet. Photorefractory mechanisms that limit most breeding to spring presumably evolved in response to severe constraints on reproductive success when nesting continued through summer (e.g. mortality of late-hatched young and molting females due to low temperatures). Interspecific differences in photosensitivity may account for variation in timing of cessation of nesting in late spring, but controlled experiments are needed to assess the possible role of non-photic influences. My results suggest that the refractory mechanisms controlling length of the breeding season in temperate-nesting dabbling ducks are more varied and complex than previously thought, with non-photic influences (e.g. water conditions, food availability, food quality) having a larger role than indicated by earlier research.
4085608|Sanderlings (Calidris alba) wintering near Bodega Bay, California move between outer coast sandy beaches and nearby harbor sandflats on a regular tidal schedule. Birds forage on outer beaches at high and mid-level tides, switching to the protected sandflats as the tide recedes; Sanderling density fluctuations measured along transects were complementary in these two habitats. The habitat time budget of the local Sanderling population varied between days with different tidal regimes, averaging 45% of daylight hours spent on beaches during November 1976. Some Sanderlings defended territories on the beaches, while others foraged in flocks; both groups moved to the lagoon tidal flats at low tide. The density of Sanderling prey in the two habitats changed through the tidal cycle in foraging sites used by Sanderlings. On harbor sandflats, energy density increased sharply with falling tide level. On outer beaches, energy density was highest at middle and upper tidal levels, decreasing at low and at very high tides. These results suggest that Sanderlings switch feeding sites on a tidal schedule to maximize foraging efficiency. We offer a simple graphical model based on tide-related changes in foraging efficiency to explain the shifts in habitat use. Sanderling behavior under seasonally varying prey conditions and behavioral comparisons of territorial and nonterritorial birds are consistent with the model.
4086174|When compared to adults, yearling female Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus) breed later in the season, and some may not breed at all. Movements of adults and yearlings in spring are strikingly different. Adult movements become restricted early, whereas yearlings continue to wander over large areas for a longer period. Gonadal development in yearlings begins soon after they have localized, and localization of yearlings occurs when movements of adults are restricted around nests. Aggressive calling begins when hens have localized and continues until incubation is initiated. We suggest that adults interact aggressively with yearlings, preventing them from settling until adults begin to nest.
10.1525/auk.2013.12244|Knowledge of breeding dispersal, defined as shifts in territory location between two successive breeding seasons, remains limited for migratory passerines. We investigated the relationship between two ecological factors, habitat structure and reproductive success, and 499 breeding dispersal events in a NearcticNeotropic migratory songbird, the Black-throated Blue Warbler (
25150385| Previous laboratory studies have shown that Red-necked Phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus), Wilson's Phalarope (P. tricolor), Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri), and Least Sandpiper (C. minutilla) use the surface tension of water surrounding a prey item to transport it from bill tip to mouth. Although such experimental work suggests that many species of shorebird may be capable of surface-tension feeding, no field studies have been done that examine this possibility. We studied the occurrence and interspecific variation in the performance of surface-tension transport (STT) in wild shorebirds feeding on identical prey items in shallow water. All shorebirds videotaped - Little Stint (C. minuta), Dunlin (C. alpina), Sanderling (C. alba), Curlew Sandpiper (C. ferruginea), Common Redshank (Tringa totanus), and Black-winged Stilt (Himantopus himantopus) - used STT to feed on small prey items. Individuals employing STT used one or several cycles of jaw spreading to transport the prey contained in a drop of water upward along the bill cavity, an action indicative of STT. Two distinct types of prey transport were observed: (1) use of STT in isolation by calidridine species following the description given in previous studies (i.e., an absence of other feeding mechanisms such as tongue movements, suction, or inertial transport), and (2) STT aided by inertial transport (head jerks) as seen in Common Redshank and Black-winged Stilt. Measured prey-transport variables (number of cycles, total time, and speed of transport) varied among species. The absence of significant relationships between these variables and measures of external morphology (bill length, bill length-to-width ratio, and bill length-to-depth ratio) suggests that some interspecific variations in STT performance may be attributable to differences in internal bill morphology. We show that STT is a common feeding mechanism in small or medium-sized shorebird species that feed on small prey items in shallow water. Birds using STT transported 3.6 faster than the theoretical value predicted by a previous model and can achieve high intake rates when foraging on high densities of available small prey items. /// Los estudios previos de laboratorio han mostrado que Phalaropus lobatus, P. tricolor, Calidris mauri y C. minutilla usan la tensin superficial del agua que rodea una presa para transportarla desde la punta del pico hasta la boca. Aunque estos trabajos experimentales sugieren que muchas especies de aves playeras pueden ser capaces de alimentarse mediante el uso de la tensin superficial, no se han realizado estudios de campo que analicen esta posibilidad. Estudiamos la ocurrencia y la variacin interespecfica del comportamiento del transporte por tensin superficial (TTS) en aves playeras silvestres que se alimentan de las mismas presas en aguas superficiales. Todas las aves filmadas - C. minuta, C. alpina, C. alba, C. ferruginea, Tringa totanus y Himantopus himantopus - usaron el TTS para alimentarse de pequeas presas. Los individuos que emplearon el TTS usaron uno o varios ciclos de movimiento de la mandbula para transportar la presa contenida en una gota de agua hacia arriba a lo largo de la cavidad del pico, una accin referida como TTS. Se observaron dos tipos diferentes de transporte de presas: (1) uso nico de TTS por las especies calidridine siguiendo la descripcin suministrada en estudios previos (i.e., ausencia de otros mecanismos alimenticios como los movimientos de la lengua, succin o transporte por inercia) y (2) TTS ayudado por la inercia del transporte (sacudidas de la cabeza) como se observa en T. totanus y en H. himantopus. Las variables del transporte de presas medidas (nmero de ciclos, tiempo total y velocidad de transporte) variaron entre las especies. La ausencia de relaciones significativas entre estas variables y las medidas de morfologa externa (largo del pico, relacin largo-ancho del pico y relacin largo-profundidad del pico) sugieren que parte de la variacin interespecfica en el rendimiento del TTS puede atribuirse a las diferencias en la morfologa interna del pico. Mostramos que el TTS es un mecanismo de alimentacin comn en las especies de aves playeras pequeas y medianas que se alimentan de presas pequeas en aguas someras. Las aves que usan el TTS transportaron en 3.6 ms rpido que el valor terico predicho por un modelo previo y pueden alcanzar altas tasas de ingestin cuando forrajean en sitios con altas densidades de presas pequeas. 
10.2307/4089456|Current species-level taxonomy of Neotropical birds is in need of reassessment but lacks objective methodology and criteria for the ranking of allopatric populations. Previously (Isler et al. 1998), through empirical analysis of pairs of syntopic species, we developed methods and standards for employing vocalizations in determining species limits in the family Thamnophilidae. Building on this study, we now propose procedures for integrating vocal characters with morphology and geographic distribution in making species determinations in thamnophilids. We applied this methodology to populations of antwrens in the Myrmotherula surinamensis complex (including three subspecies of M. surinamensis and M. cherriei). Four diagnostically differentiated populations were identified, all of which corresponded to named taxa. Each population (some of which are narrowly sympatric) was distinguished unambiguously by morphology and vocalizations. Under these objective and conservative standards, we recommend that Myrmotherula surinamensis, M. multostriata, M. pacifica, and M. cherriei be recognized as distinct species. The level of differentiation found between M. surinamensis and M. multostriata illustrates the minimum threshold recommended for species status of allopatric populations of thamnophilid antbirds and should provide a useful reference point for future considerations of species limits.
10.2307/4090305| The double-collared sunbirds of the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania and southeastern Kenya are characterized by regional variation in morphology and plumage. That variation has resulted in considerable dispute over their taxonomic status and delineation of range boundaries. It has been suggested that Moreau's Sunbird (Nectarinia moreaui) is an atypical phenotype that has arisen from a hybridization event between the more widely distributed Eastern Double-collared Sunbird (N. mediocris) and the narrowly distributed Loveridge's Sunbird (N. loveridgei). A discriminant analysis of six standard morphological characters indicates that Moreau's Sunbird is intermediate in shape and size between the Eastern Double-collared and Loveridge's sunbirds. There is greater overlap between female Moreau's and Eastern Double-collared sunbirds than between males; Loveridge's Sunbird shows little overlap with the other taxa. Discrete plumage characters separate all three taxa. Molecular analyses of 728 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA (NADH3 and control region) suggest that Moreau's Sunbird is a valid taxon and the sister species to Loveridge's Sunbird. Eastern Double-collared Sunbird haplotypes can be divided into three distinct clades, separated from each other by substantial genetic divergence (approximately 8-10% sequence divergence). We propose species status for each of those clades and suggest the following three taxa: N. mediocris Shelley 1855, N. usambarica Grte 1922, and N. fuelleborni Reichenow 1899. Finally, we propose a biogeographical hypothesis of speciation events within the N. mediocris species complex. /// Los nectarnidos de doble collar que habitan las montaas del arco oriental de Tanzania y el sureste de Kenia se caracterizan por presentar variacin regional en morfologa y plumaje. Esta variacin ha llevado a que existan considerables discusiones en cuanto a su estatus taxonmico y al delinamiento de los lmites de los rangos. Se ha sugerido que Nectarinia moreaui corresponde a un fenotipo atpico que ha surgido como producto de un evento de hibridacin entre la especie ampliamente distribuida N. mediocris y la de distribucin restringida N. loveridgei. Un anlisis discriminante de seis caracteres morfolgicos estndar indica que el taxn N. moreaui es intermedio en tamao y forma entre N. mediocris y N. loveridgei. Existe mayor superposicin entre N. moreaui y N. mediocris en las hembras que en los machos; N. loveridgei exhibe poca superposicin con los otros taxa. Existen caracteres discretos de plumaje que separan los tres taxa. Anlisis moleculares de 728 pares de bases de ADN mitocondrial (NADH3 y regin control) sugieren que N. moreaui es un taxn vlido, correspondiente a la especie hermana de N. loveridgei. Los haplotipos de N. mediocris pueden dividirse en tres clados distintivos separados uno del otro por diferencias genticas sustanciales (aproximadamente 8-10% de divergencia en las secuencias). Proponemos que se le confiera estatus de especie a cada uno de estos clados y sugerimos los siguientes tres taxa: N. mediocris Shelley 1855, N. usambarica Grte 1922 y N. fuelleborni Reichenow 1899. Finalmente, proponemos una hiptesis biogeogrfica de eventos de especiacin en el complejo de especies de N. mediocris. 
4085840|Female-female pairs constituted at least 10%, perhaps a substantially greater fraction, of the 1972-1978 breeding population of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) on Santa Barbara Island, California. In this population, the adult sex ratio was estimated to be 0.67 males per female. This appears to be the consequence of differential survival rates and may have a causal role in the formation of female-female pairs.
25488607|In dominance-structured animal societies, variation in individual fitness is often related to social status. Like many passerine birds, Black-capped Chickadees (
10.2307/4088721|Field estimates of incubation periods of brood parasitic cowbirds (Molothrus spp.) indicate that they are unusually short given the sizes of their eggs. As a consequence, cowbirds usually hatch before host young, even though cowbird eggs are frequently larger. Field-estimated incubation periods, however, have an inherent uncertainty because of intermittent attendance by incubating birds, and the mechanisms for early hatching are unknown. I report incubation periods of Shiny Cowbird (M. bonariensis) eggs under controlled conditions in the laboratory, and test the hypothesis that cowbirds exhibit accelerated rates of embryo development, by exploring two possible mechanisms for shortening the incubation period of cowbird eggs: (1) cowbird eggs may have a low energy content, which results in a short incubation period because yolk reserves are depleted earlier; or (2) cowbird embryos may have elevated growth rates, which would be reflected in their metabolic rates. Energy content of cowbird eggs was 23.8% lower than expected from egg mass. Mean incubation period in the laboratory was 11.7 days, which is 28.8% shorter than expected from egg mass, but close to the expected from energy content. Similarly, yolk-free, dry hatchling mass was lower than expected from egg mass, but not significantly different from the expected from egg energy content. These results support the hypothesis that cowbirds shorten incubation period by reducing the energy content of the egg, although it results in a slightly smaller hatchling. The hypothesis that cowbird embryos have elevated growth rates, in contrast, was not supported because embryos did not have higher metabolic rates than expected from their size. Although the evidence presented here is correlational, there is experimental evidence that reducing yolk reserves may act as a proximate cue for early hatching in other vertebrates.
4085702|The species richness and guild structure of the avifaunas of tropical forest undergrowth vary among tropical regions. Avifaunas of Central American forests are the richest, while those from Malaysia and Africa are less diverse. Dry, disturbed, and island forests in the tropics contain even fewer species. Neotropical samples contain the largest number of guilds. Guild "signatures" (distribution of species and individuals among guilds) are relatively similar among samples from the same geographic region but differ among regions. Presence, richness, and number of individuals vary from continent to continent among the guilds. The foliage-gleaning insectivore guild is invariably the most diverse guild. The irregularity of guild patterns among regions emphasizes the need to examine evolutionary pressures and their variation among guilds instead of their composite effects, which produce the entire community. Geographic proximity seems to be the primary factor producing similar guild signatures among samples, but climate (especially seasonal temperature and rainfall patterns) also produces similarities in species richness and guild composition. Nonconvergences among regions occur frequently and seem attributable to a variety of historical (e.g. Pleistocene) and biotic (e.g. coevolution, priority of arrival and diversification of several taxa) effects. Ecologists should devote at least as much effort to the explanation of the nonconvergence situations as to those demonstrating convergence. A preliminary conceptual model is proposed to help focus studies on the major variables that affect the evolution of avian communities. This model clearly demonstrates the folly of seeking a single factor as the sole determinant of avian community structure.
4090362| Breeding birds require high levels of energy and certain nutrients, such as calcium. The extent to which calcium limits reproduction in wild birds is unclear. We performed a supplementation experiment to determine whether calcium limits the reproductive output of free-ranging insectivorous Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), a species whose usual diet contains little calcium. Providing supplemental calcium in the form of crushed oyster shell did not affect clutch initiation date, but it caused birds that had not started constructing a nest when we first detected them on the study area to begin laying sooner, which suggests that calcium reduced the length of the prelaying period. Supplemented females produced larger eggs, and that effect was most pronounced among females in good body condition. There was a trend for supplemented birds to produce larger clutches, and their clutches had significantly greater total mass than those of control birds. Supplemented birds, in particular those breeding late in the season, also hatched significantly more eggs. Our results suggest that calcium availability may limit some aspects of avian reproduction, even in nonacidified landscapes like our study area, where levels of calcium in the soil are high. /// Durante la poca reproductiva, las aves requieren niveles altos de energa y de ciertos nutrientes como el calcio. La importancia del calcio como limitante de la reproduccin de las aves silvestres no est claramente establecida. En este estudio realizamos un experimento de suplementacin para determinar si el calcio limita el rendimiento reproductivo de golondrinas silvestres Tachycineta bicolor, una especie insectvora cuya dieta usual contiene poco calcio. La provisin de calcio suplementario en forma de conchas de ostra maceradas no afect la fecha de iniciacin de las nidadas, pero caus que aves que no haban empezado a construir un nido cuando las detectamos por primera vez empezaran a poner huevos ms temprano, lo que sugiere que el calcio redujo la duracin del perodo pre-postura. Las hembras que recibieron calcio suplementario produjeron huevos ms grandes, un efecto que fue ms pronunciado en las hembras con buena condicin corporal. Existi una tendencia a que las aves que recibieron calcio suplementario produjeran nidadas ms grandes y sus nidadas tuvieron una masa total significativamente mayor que las de las aves control. Las aves que recibieron el suplemento, en particular las que se reprodujeron tarde en la poca reproductiva, tambin presentaron significativamente ms huevos eclosionados. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la disponibilidad de calcio puede limitar algunos aspectos de la reproduccin de las aves, an en paisajes no acidificados como nuestra rea de estudio, donde los niveles de calcio en el suelo son altos. 
10.2307/4089762| The Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), a small, open-nesting Neotropical migrant, is a relatively common summer inhabitant of subalpine environments in the western and southwestern United States. Nestling growth and development of thermoregulation were studied in a population at Tioga Pass (3,000 m) in the eastern Sierra Nevada of California. Despite the selective advantages that might be expected from accelerating rates of growth and thermoregulatory development, in an environment where the season was relatively short and cold temperatures and inclement weather were common, there was little evidence of adaptive modification in either of those parameters; growth rates were comparable to those of other tyrant flycatchers. Feather eruption began around day 5, brushing in dorsal and ventral tracts began two days later, and brushing of the flight feathers around day 9. Asymptotic body masses were attained around day 12, but nestlings did not fledge for another 4 to 5 days. The physiological development of endothermy was closely correlated with increases in body mass and accompanying decreases in surface-area-to-volume ratio and age, but was not significantly correlated with changes in plumage development, when mass and age were statistically controlled. On exposure to ambient temperatures between -3 and 5C for 10 min (roughly twice as long as the average female bout of inattentiveness), individual nestlings were unable to prevent deep hypothermia until after day 7. Homeothermy, at 80% of adult levels, was not attained until after day 12, although broods of nestlings maintained relatively stable body temperatures as early as day 5. Whereas clutch sizes in this population generally ranged from two to four eggs, the most stable thermal environments were provided by broods of three or four chicks. Although broods of nestlings were generally able to maintain temperatures within 5C of adult levels, temperature profiles during storms indicated a remarkable capacity for nestlings to tolerate temperatures in the nest as low as 15C for periods as long as 4 h without apparent ill effect. 
4085900|The southward departure of migratory shorebirds (Charadrii) before the collapse of food supplies on the breeding grounds would seem to disprove the hypothesis that migratory timing is a trait actively maintained by selective pressures created by seasonal production of food supplies. In this study we looked at seasonal changes in the food supplies of shorebirds at a migratory stopover to see if dwindling food supplies here might explain early arrival from Arctic breeding grounds. For the three earliest migrants through Plymouth, Massachusetts we found substantial reductions of prey densities (7-90%) during migration (July-September). Reductions in prey density were not substantial before September for a later migrant. Caging experiments showed that the reductions in density of infaunal prey were due to predation. If these reductions are sufficient to cause energetic deficits among late arrivals, then competition may be an important selective agent in shaping migratory patterns.
10.1525/auk.2010.10111|The sudden appearance of a large cluster of animals with gross abnormalities may signal a significant change in an ecosystem. We describe an unusual concentration of beak deformities that appear to have arisen rapidly within Alaska and now extend southward along the Pacific Coast. In Alaska we have documented 2,160 Black-capped Chickadees (
25488679|Reliable information on demography is necessary for conservation of albatrosses, the most threatened family of pelagic birds. Albatross survival has been estimated using markrecapture data and the Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) model. However, albatross exhibit skipped breeding, violating assumptions of the CJS model. Multistate modeling integrating unobservable states is a promising tool for such situations. We applied multistate models to data on Grey-headed Albatross (
10.2307/4087619|I examined foraging by sympatrically breeding Roseate (Sterna dougallii) and Common (S. hirundo) terns to investigate whether habitat was partitioned, and whether use of foraging habitat was related to disparate population sizes between the species. Foraging Roseate Terns were associated with physical features such as shoals and drift lines more frequently than Common Terns were. Common Terns foraged under a wider range of habitat conditions than Roseate Terns did, and Common Terns were associated with predatory blue-fish (Pomatomus saltatrix) more often. Flocks in which proportions of Roseate Terns were higher than expected (based on the relative sizes of the breeding populations) were smaller and less dense than other foraging flocks, and they formed at sites which were shallower, closer to shore, and winder. Roseate Terns were more successful in flocks in which proportions of Roseate Terns were higher than expected than when in other flocks. Common Terns' foraging efficiency was lower in flocks in which proportions of Roseate Terns were higher than expected than in other flocks. Roseate Terns have a smaller area of preferred foraging habitat available than do Common Terns, and this may be reflected in their population sizes.
4087443|Plumage color is distributed clinally in the Gulf Coast population of the dimorphic Lesser Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens caerulescens); the white phase predominates in the west, and the blue phase in the east. A similar distribution occurs in the breeding colonies of this population. Historical evidence, stretching back to the mid-18th century, shows that the two phases were almost allopatric until the third decade of the 20th century. Allozyme variants at 6 loci also support the conclusion that the morphs were until recently two distinct taxa. The recent merging of the taxa probably is due to a change in winter feeding habits that allowed birds of both morphs to meet in the rice-growing areas of inland Texas and Louisiana. Because pair formation occurs at this time, this change permitted gene flow to occur between the morphs. There is no evidence of reduced fitness among mixed pairs, and interbreeding among the morphs is common. We know of no other case of a historically documented merging of two formerly allopatric taxa of birds where interbreeding is so widespread and where there is no evidence of reduced fitness of the hybrids.
10.2307/4089756|Area requirements of grassland birds have not been studied except in tallgrass prairie. We studied the relation between both species-occurrence and density and patch size by conducting 699 fixed-radius point counts of 15 bird species on 303 restored grassland areas in nine counties in four northern Great Plains states. Northern Harrier (Circus cyaneus), Sedge Wren (Cistothorus platensis), Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella pallida), Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii), Le Conte's Sparrow (Ammodramus leconteii), and Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) were shown to favor larger grassland patches in one or more counties. Evidence of area sensitivity was weak or ambivalent for Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus), Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) preferred larger patches in some counties, and smaller patches in others. Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) and Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) tended to favor smaller grassland patches. Three species showed greater area sensitivity in counties where each species was more common. Five species demonstrated some spatial pattern of area sensitivity, either north to south or east to west. This study demonstrates the importance of replication in space; results from one area may not apply to others because of differences in study design, analytical methods, location relative to range of the species, and surrounding landscapes.
10.2307/4089811|Eurasian Oystercatchers (Haematopus ostralegus) breeding on the salt marsh of Schiermonnikoog (Dutch Wadden Sea) lose many eggs to predators, mainly Herring (Larus argentatus) and Mew gulls (L. canus). We estimated that the probability for an egg to survive from laying until hatching was 69%. Daily egg mortality was higher during the laying period than during the incubation period. When researchers were present in the study area, oystercatchers spent more time at greater distances from the nest. We investigated whether human disturbance resulted in more eggs being lost to predators. Two experimental areas were in turn visited at high and at low frequency. From a preliminary analysis, we estimated higher daily egg mortality rates when nests were checked three times per day instead of once every other day. However, high-frequency nest checks provided more information on newly laid and lost eggs, especially during the laying period. After correcting for that extra information (by simply deleting it), the egg mortality rates were no longer different. We conclude that human disturbance did not increase egg loss, rather egg mortality rates were underestimated when nests were checked only once per two days.
25150306| Events during duckling growth can influence waterfowl population dynamics. To gain insight into King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) brood ecology, we monitored 111 and 46 individually marked ducklings from broods of 23 and 11 radiomarked King Eiders during 2000 and 2001, respectively. We used capture-mark-resight data to model apparent survival of King Eider ducklings and broods, and multistratum analysis to estimate probabilities of (1) movement among habitats and (2) apparent survival of ducklings that used various habitats. In addition, we recorded length of stay for 7 and 18 radiomarked females with failed nesting attempts during 2000 and 2001, respectively. Complete loss of individual broods accounted for 84% of all duckling mortality (106 of 126 mortalities), with most brood loss (74%; 17 of 23 broods lost) within the first two days after hatch. Estimated apparent survival of ducklings to 24 days of age was 0.10 (95% CI: 0.05 to 0.15). Apparent survival of broods was estimated to be 0.31 (95% CI: 0.13 to 0.50). Our data suggested an interaction between female size and hatch date, whereby larger females whose ducklings also hatched earlier raised more ducklings than either small females or those with ducklings that hatched later. Overland brood movements 1 km occurred in both years, and survival was greatest for ducklings on smaller ponds away from the central nesting area at Karrak Lake, Nunavut. Females that experienced nest failure and total brood loss left the study area earlier than females with surviving ducklings. /// Les vnements survenant au cours de la croissance des canetons peuvent influencer la dynamique des populations de sauvagine. Afin d'en savoir plus sur l'cologie d'levage des couves chez l'Eider  tte grise (Somateria spectabilis), nous avons suivi 111 et 46 canetons marqus individuellement et appartenant  23 et 11 femelles dotes d'metteurs en 2000 et 2001, respectivement. Nous avons utilis des donnes de capture-marquage-robservation afin de modliser la survie apparente des canetons et des couves d'Eider  tte grise. Une analyse en multistrates a aussi t ralise pour estimer les probabilits (1) de mouvement entre les habitats et (2) de survie apparente des canetons ayant utilis diffrents habitats. De plus, nous avons enregistr la dure de sjour de 7 et 18 femelles dotes d'metteurs et ayant chou la nidification en 2000 et 2001, respectivement. La perte totale des couves comptait pour 84% de toutes les mortalits de canetons (106 des 126 mortalits), la plupart survenant dans les deux premiers jours aprs l'closion (74%; 17 des 23 couves disparues). La survie apparente des canetons jusqu' l'ge de 24 jours a t estime  0.10 (95% CI: 0.05  0.15). La survie apparente des couves a t value  0.31 (95% CI: 0.13  0.50). Nos donnes suggrent une relation entre la taille de la femelle et la date d'closion: les femelles plus grosses dont les canetons ont clos tt en saison ont lev plus de canetons que les femelles plus petites ou dont les canetons ont clos plus tard. Les dplacements terrestres des couves sur 1 km se sont produits lors des deux annes. La survie tait plus grande pour les canetons sur les tangs plus petits, situs loin de l'aire principale de nidification du lac Karrak, au Nunavut. Les femelles ayant chou la nidification et celles ayant perdu la totalit de leurs couves ont quitt l'aire d'tude plus tt que les femelles dont les canetons ont survcu. 
4089549|We develop a statistical method that simultaneously estimates daily survival rate and observer effect. We used Monte Carlo simulation to (1) evaluate the performance of the model, (2) compare model performance with models that ignore observer effects, and (3) evaluate methods of choosing between competing models of survival. When observer effects were absent, all model produced unbiased estimates of daily survival rate. In the presence of observer effects, however, models that ignore these effects understimated daily survival rate. In such cases, estimates of nesting success were strongly affected even when observer effects were relatively small. In contrast, estimates of daily survival rate and nesting success produced by the model that considers observer effects consistently had little bias. However, estimates of daily survival rate from this model were less precise than those from the simpler model. Objective criteria for choosing between competing models did not perform well with sample sizes of 150 to 600 because subtle but important observer effects are difficult to detect. Likelihood-ratio tests had low power for rejecting the null hypothesis of no observer effect over a wide range of levels of observer effect and with sample sizes of 150 to 600. Estimates of daily survival rate from models selected based on Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) had higher bias than estimates from the model that estimates observer effect when observer effect was present. Estimates from AIC-selected models had lower mean squared error than estimates from the model that estimates observer effect when observer effects were small, but the pattern reversed as effects increased. We recommend that researchers estimate observer effects using the more complex model when observer effects are possible and decide whether to use estimates of daily survival from the simpler or more complex model based on analysis results and simulation or analytic results for relevant sample sizes, daily survival rates, and observer effects. To illustrate use of the analytical techniques, we analyzed field data from Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri) nests monitored during the nestling stage. The observer effect was estimated to be 1.003 (95% CI 0.866 to 1.162); thus, point estimates of daily survival were very similar from the simpler (0.971; 95% CI 0.957 to 0.985) and more complex model (0.970; 95% CI 0.925 to 1.000). In this case, analysis results and simulation results indicate that the simpler model is adequate and provides an estimate of daily survival rate with small potential bias and increased precision compared with an estimate from the more complex model.
10.2307/4089803| Present methods of surface coal-mine reclamation in the Midwest produce large grasslands, some of which exceed 2,000 ha in extent. Total "mine grassland" production in southwestern Indiana alone is well in excess of 70 square miles
25488529|We developed a spatially explicit population-viability-analysis (PVA) model to evaluate different management options for the endangered Florida Grasshopper Sparrow (
25488716|Dispersal is a key process in the metapopulation dynamics and genetic structure of spatially segregated populations. However, our knowledge of avian dispersal, particularly in migratory passerines, remains limited. We studied dispersal of Bobolinks (
4087719|I compared interisland variation in color and in length of wing, tarsus, and bill of the Lesser Antillean thrashers, Cinclocerthia and Ramphocinclus (Mimidae). Statistical analyses show that some early-taken specimens were missexed. I recognize two species of trembler, Cinclocerthia ruficauda (Brown Trembler) and C. gutturalis (Gray Trembler), and one of Ramphocinclus (White-breasted Thrasher). Brown Tremblers from Saba to Monserrat ("C. r. pavida") are not considered separable from those of Guadeloupe (C. r. tremula). I summarize foraging methods and give possible explanations for the smaller amount of sexual dimorphism in bill length in Cinclocerthia on islands where Ramphocinclus occurs.
4086541|In 1978 and 1979 we studied brood reduction in Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) on St. Paul Island, Alaska. In two-egg clutches, first-laid eggs were largest; they were incubated before second eggs were laid and consequently hatched first. Chicks from first-laid eggs begged more frequently, fed more frequently, grew faster, and were more aggressive than their sibs. These sibling differences frequently facilitated the ejection of younger siblings from the nest by first-hatched young. Lower feeding and growth rates and higher aggression levels occurred in broods in which the second chicks subsequently died than in broods in which both chicks fledged. Chick loss was most frequent during inclement weather. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that brood reduction is related to the amount of food that chicks receive.
10.2307/4089862|I recorded details of 231 copulations of American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and 39 copulations of Black-necked Stilts (Himantopus mexicanus) in northern Utah. Those data are presented as quantitative descriptions of the copulatory behavior of each species, complementing and clarifying qualitative descriptions in the literature. I observed no qualitative differences between copulatory behavior of avocets and stilts. Small quantitative differences may be related to differences in morphology and habitat preference. Across the family Recurvirostridae, the distinctive copulatory displays of avocets (Recurvirostra spp.) and stilts (Himantopus spp.) seem relatively uniform, but the behavior of the monotypic Banded Stilt (Cladorhynchus leucocephalus) of Australia appears to differ somewhat from typical recurvirostrid copulatory behavior. Attempted copulation with inanimate objects has been reported for at least 6 of the 10 recurvirostrid species.
10.2307/4089967| Routine silvicultural practices continue to alter the structure and composition of forests after logging by removing deciduous vegetation from regenerating coniferous forests. We identified nest trees and surveyed vegetation in a 5 m radius surrounding songbird nests (nest patch) and compared the nest patches to available habitat in nine 11-22 year old conifer plantations (22-47 ha) where 90-96% of deciduous stems were removed by two treatments: manual thinning, and manual thinning plus application of glyphosate (herbicide). The control and two treatments were replicated three times. We characterized the nest patches of five species: Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus), Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), American Robin (Turdus migratorius), and Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina). During three post-treatment years, areas treated with thinning plus herbicide remained depauperate of deciduous vegetation whereas thinned sites experienced deciduous regrowth. Despite variation in the density of deciduous trees and in the type of tree used for nesting in the control and treatments, nest patches were positively correlated with the amount of remaining deciduous vegetation, representing habitat that either escaped or recovered from silvicultural treatments. That relationship was stronger in areas with the fewest deciduous trees. Nests were more likely to be successful in areas with more willow. Within a mosaic of managed forest stands, birds appear to use the same proximate habitat cues for selecting a nest patch despite varying fitness consequences across different silviculture regimes. Although birds appeared to compensate for changes in stand habitat by finding patches of untreated vegetation or altering the type of tree they nested in, there was a reproductive cost for some species. /// Les pratiques habituelles de sylviculture continuent  altrer la structure et la composition des forts aprs leur exploitation en supprimant la vgtation dcidue des forts de conifres en rgnration. Nous avons identifi les arbres utiliss pour la nidification et avons chantillonn la vgtation dans un rayon de 5 m autour des nids d'oiseaux chanteurs (parcelles de nidification). Nous avons compar ces parcelles  l'habitat disponible dans neuf plantations de conifres (22-47 ha) ges de 11-22 ans o 90-96% des tiges dcidues taient supprimes par deux traitements: l'claircie forestire manuelle, et ce mme type d'claircie plus l'application de glyphosate (herbicide). Le contrle et les deux traitements ont t rpliqus trois fois. Nous avons caractris les parcelles de nidification pour cinq espces: le Viro mlodieux (Vireo gilvus), la Moucherolle sombre (Empidonax oberholseri), la Grive  dos olive (Catharus ustulatus), le Merle d'Amrique (Turdus migratorius), et le Bruant familier (Spizella passerina). Au cours de trois annes post-traitement, les zones qui ont connu des claircies forestires et un traitement  l'herbicide sont restes pauvres en vgtation dcidue alors que les sites avec claircies forestires seulement ont connu une rgnration de la vgtation dcidue. Malgr les variations de la densit d'arbres dcidus et du type d'arbre utilis pour la nidification dans le contrle et les traitements, les parcelles de nidification taient positivement corrles avec la quantit de vgtation dcidue restante, reprsentant des habitats qui ont chapp ou qui se sont rtablis des traitements de sylviculture. Cette relation tait plus forte dans les rgions o les arbres dcidus taient moins nombreux. Les nids avaient une plus grande chance de succs dans les zones plus riches en saules. Au sein d'une mosaque de forts amnages, les oiseaux semblent utiliser les mmes indices proximaux d'habitat pour slectionner une parcelle de nidification malgr les consquences des variations de fitness suivant les diffrents rgimes de sylviculture. Bien que les oiseaux semblaient pouvoir compenser pour les modifications dans l'habitat en trouvant des parcelles de vgtation non traites ou en changeant le type d'arbre dans lequel ils nichaient, il y avait un cot  la reproduction pour certaines espces. 
10.2307/4089758|A new species of tyrant flycatcher (Suiriri islerorum) is described from the cerrado region of Brazil and adjacent eastern Bolivia. The species previously had been confused with Suiriri suiriri affinis, with which it is syntopic at multiple sites. The new species was first identified by voice. Although cryptically similar to S. s. affinis in many respects, the new species is readily identified by all vocalizations, bill size, color pattern of the tail, and shape of the central rectrices. Most distinctive are the male-female duets, which are accompanied by dramatic wing-lifting displays not performed by any congeners. Reciprocal playback experiments of tape-recorded vocalizations demonstrated that the new species and S. s. affinis do not respond to one another's vocalizations. We provide information on the natural history of the new flycatcher, along with spectrograms of its various vocalizations. We also provide vocal analysis of all other named taxa in Suiriri, and discuss the various intrageneric relationships. In particular, S. s. affinis and S. s. bahiae, although distinct morphologically, are vocally and behaviorally similar, and respond to one another's vocalizations in playback experiments.
25150336|We quantified the extent of adaptive radiation in the evolution of the hindlimb in the bird-of-prey community on Tasmania. Assessments of the ecological capabilities of raptor species are often based on a visual inspection of their hindlimb structure, with little recourse to direct biomechanical or functional evidence. We examined the links between hindlimb structure and patterns of diet, foraging, and habitat use in raptors by analytically investigating tarsus, toe, and talon measurements. We identified groupings on the basis of dietary preference, hunting-killing technique, and phylogeny. We found that the bird-catching specialists, which possessed relatively long digits with short talons, were consistently separable. The large-mammal and fish specialists were equipped with relatively short and robust tarsi, and short digits with long and robust talons. The hindlimbs of medium-mammal specialists were characterized by long digits and a large digit 1 talon. However, the generalist group did not possess any specializations, because their structural elements were comparable to those of other dietary groups. An association was found between the ratio of toe to talon length and the selective pressures of prey capture and ease of killing. Morphological variation in this feature was consistent with phylogeny, because the Accipitridae were characterized by a larger ratio of toe to talon length on digits 1 and 2 than the Falconidae, and the diurnal raptors possessed an interdigital pattern of larger variation in ratio of toe to talon length than the nocturnal raptors. No link was found between dietary habit and tarsus length or robustness, because these features were apparently attributed to variations in hunting style. Our analysis highlights the interrelationship between the morphology of hindlimb structure and the functional pressures associated with predatory lifestyles. /// Nous avons quantifi l'tendue de la radiation adaptative dans l'volution des membres postrieurs dans la communaut d'oiseaux de proie de Tasmanie. Les valuations des aptitudes cologiques des espces d'oiseaux de proie sont souvent bases sur l'inspection visuelle de la structure de leurs membres postrieurs et ont peu recours aux preuves biomcaniques ou fonctionnelles directes. Nous avons examin les liens existants entre la structure des membres postrieurs et les habitudes alimentaires, les patrons de qute alimentaire et les patrons d'utilisation de l'habitat chez les rapaces en analysant les mesures du tarse, des orteils et des serres. Nous avons identifi des regroupements au niveau des prfrences alimentaires, des techniques de chasse et de la phylognie. Nous avons trouv que les rapaces spcialiss dans la capture d'oiseaux possdaient des orteils relativement longs avec de courtes serres et taient invariablement sparables. Les rapaces spcialistes des grands mammifres et des poissons taient quips de tarses relativement courts et robustes et d'orteils courts dots de serres longues et robustes. Les membres postrieurs des rapaces spcialiss dans la capture de mammifres de taille moyenne taient caractriss par de longs orteils et une longue serre sur le premier orteil. Toutefois, le groupe des gnralistes ne possdait aucune spcialisation car leurs lments structuraux taient comparables  ceux des autres groupes de rgime alimentaire. Une association a t trouve entre le rapport de la longueur de la serre sur la longueur de l'orteil et les pressions slectives de la capture de proies et de la facilit de tuer. La variation morphologique de cette caractristique tait consistante avec la phylognie car les Accipitridae taient caractriss par un rapport serre/orteil pour les orteils 1 et 2 plus lev que chez les Falconidae. De plus, les rapaces diurnes possdaient un patron interdigital plus variable en ce qui a trait au rapport serre/orteil que les rapaces nocturnes. Aucun lien n'a t trouv entre les habitudes alimentaires et la longueur du tarse ou sa robustesse puisque ces caractristiques semblaient attribues aux variations du type de chasse. Notre analyse met en vidence les relations entre la morphologie des membres postrieurs et les pressions fonctionnelles associes aux modes de vie des prdateurs.
4086463|I report specimens and sight records of 15 species new to Honduras: Mesembrinibis cayennensis, Falco femoralis, Anous minutus, Ara ambigua, Chalybura urochrysia, Baryphthengus martii, Myrmeciza exsul, Hylopezus perspicillatus, Conopias parva, Lophotriccus pileatus, Dacnis cayana, Vermivora ruficapilla, Tachyphonus delatrii, Pitylus grossus, and Sporophila schistacea. Twelve additional range extensions within Honduras are reported for species that reach their northern limit of distribution in the lowland forests of the Mosquitia region: Tigrisoma lineatum, Leucopternis semiplumbea, Ortalis cinereiceps, Ramphastos swainsonii, Myrmotherula fulviventris, Myrmotherula axillaris, Hylophylax naevioides, Phaenostictus mcleannani, Colonia colonus, Myiozetetes granadensis, Cyporhinus phaeocephalus, and Cacicus uropygialis. With the exception of Anous minutus, Falco femoralis, and Vermivora ruficapilla, all records are range extentions from the south. Some of the northward range extensions into the forests of eastern Honduras from the contiguous forests of Nicaragua were expected, but other records indicate notable range extensions. A list is provided of those species that currently reach their northernmost distribution in Nicaragua and whose presence may be expected in adjacent regions of Honduras. The extensive humid forests in the departments of Olancho and Gracias a Dios are the northernmost limits of numerous species, which may be prevented from further northward dispersal by biogeographic barriers.
25150387|Reconnecting forest patches, including those of floodplain forest, often involves the creation of long, narrow corridors that have the potential to act as ecological traps for wildlife. We examined the effect of forest width and habitat composition of the landscapes immediately around nest patches on survival and parasitism of 359 Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) nests in the Cache River Bioreserve in southern Illinois. Nests were distributed among 19 floodplain forest corridors along a small river system that is being restored and reconnected along its original floodplain. The corridors spanned a range of widths (80-3,170 m) and varied with the presence or absence of natural water-related habitats (beaver ponds, backwater swamps, and creeks). Although nest success varied slightly between stages of the breeding cycle, confidence intervals overlapped, which suggests constant nest success throughout the breeding cycle. Nest survival was relatively high by regional standards but did not vary significantly with any of the landscape variables measured. Contrary to predictions, probabilities of brood parasitism decreased with increasing proportions of anthropogenic habitats surrounding nests. Probabilities of brood parasitism also decreased, but only slightly, as the breeding season progressed. Finally, Acadina Flycatcher nests were located significantly more often near natural (forest-water interface) edges than expected at random. Narrow corridors such as those along floodplain restoration projects do not necessarily create ecological traps for all forest species. Acadian Flycathcers, however, are one of the only forest-nesting Neotropical migrants that nest in narrow corridors and, therefore, may be less vulnerable to negative effects of fragmentation. /// La reconexin de parches de bosque, incluso en bosques de planicies inundables, frecuentemente implica el establecimiento de corredores largos y angostos que potencialmente pueden actuar como trampas ecolgicas para la vida silvestre. Examinamos el efecto del ancho de los corredores y de la composicin del paisaje que circunda los parches sobre la supervivencia y el parasitismo de 359 nidos de Empidonax virescens en la Reserva Biolgica del Ro Cache, en el sur de Illinois. Los nidos se distribuyeron en 19 corredores de bosques de planicies inundables, adyacentes a un sistema fluvial pequeo que se encuentra bajo restauracin y manejo para ser reconectado a su planicie inundable original. Los corredores variaron en su ancho (80-3,170 m) y en la presencia y ausencia de hbitats naturales asociados a agua (presas de castores, pantanos de aguas estancadas y ros pequeos). A pesar de que el xito de nidificacin vari ligeramente entre las etapas del ciclo de nidificacin, los intervalos de confianza se superpusieron, lo cual sugiere la existencia de niveles constantes de xito reproductivo en todo el ciclo. La supervivencia de los nidos fue relativamente alta en comparacin con los estndares regionales, pero no vari significativamente como respuesta a ninguna de la variables de paisaje que se midieron. Contrariamente a nuestras predicciones, la probabilidad de parasitismo de los nidos disminuy con el incremento en la proporcin de hbitat antropognico alrededor de los nidos. Las probabilidades de parasitismo de los nidos tambin disminuyeron, pero slo ligeramente conforme progres la estacin de nidificacin. Finalmente, los nidos de E. virescens se localizaron significativamente con mayor frecuencia cerca de bordes naturales (interfase agua-tierra) que en comparacin con las expectativas de una distribucin aleatoria. Los corredores angostos tales como los que ocurren a lo largo de los proyectos de restauracin de planicies inundables no necesariamente generan trampas ecolgicas para todas las especies. Sin embargo, E. virescens es una de las pocas especies migratorias neotropicales que anidan en corredores angostos, y por lo tanto es probable que sea menos vulnerables a los efectos negativos de la fragmentacin.
4085816|From April 1975 through March 1977, the food habits and breeding seasonality of a population of Sharp-tailed Munias (Lonchura striata) were studied in northwestern peninsular Malaysia. The abundance of munias on the study area varied in accordance with the 6-month rice-growing cycle there. The population peaked in March and September when juvenile birds were most numerous and when rice was most plentiful. Field observations and stomach analyses showed that the munias ate rice and the green filamentous alga, Spirogyra, almost exclusively. The primary periods of algae eating occurred in January and June-August, coinciding with the munias' two peak periods of reproductive activity, as determined by gonadal examination. Apparently munias on the study area ate Spirogyra as a source of protein to enable them to become physiologically ready for breeding, much as othe tropical bird species eat insects. Thus, unlike other species, Sharp-tailed Munias' breeding seasonality is determined by manmade cycles of rice cultivation rather than by natural cycles of rain and insect abundance.
10.2307/4087497|I compared nesting success of polygynously and monogamously mated females in a population of the Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna). Clutch size, growth rates of nestlings, and mass at fledging of nestlings were not different in the two groups of females. Both hatching success and fledging success were significantly higher, however, for females mated with polygynous males than for those mated with monogamous males. Predation was the major cause of reproductive failure. I suggest that polygynous males are older males that provide better parental care when nest contents are faced with the risks of predation.
4090561| Since the 1950s, flipper bands have been used widely to mark penguins (Spheniscidae), but not without concerns regarding possible negative effects on survival and fitness. As part of a demographic study of Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) in the western Ross Sea, Antarctica, we investigated effects of flipper bands on foraging-trip duration and food loads, as well as apparent survival, during four breeding seasons (2000-2003), using mark-recapture and radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology. Foraging-trip durations were 8% (3.5 h) longer, on average, for banded compared with unbanded birds, but the effect varied among years. Food loads did not differ between banded and unbanded birds, but males carried heavier food loads than females. Flipper bands decreased apparent annual survival by 11-13% during 2000-2003, but over a longer time period (1996-2003) we observed high annual variability, including years of high survival for banded birds. Males had slightly higher survival than females in both banded and unbanded birds. Mechanisms resulting in band effects on foraging behavior and survival, the variable effect of bands by season, and the potential ameliorating effect of age or experience on the effects of bands need further investigation in Adlie and other penguin species. We recognize a need to understand and balance the negative consequences of flipper bands for penguins against the beneficial gains in information associated with their use. /// Depuis les annes 1950, le baguage  l'aileron a t largement utilis pour marquer les manchots, non sans soulever des inquitudes concernant d'ventuels effets ngatifs des bagues sur la survie et la valeur slective (" fitness "). C'est pourquoi, dans le cadre d'une tude dmographique du manchot Adlie (Pygoscelis adeliae) dans l'ouest de la mer de Ross, Antarctique, nous avons souhait examiner les effets du baguage  l'aileron sur la dure des voyages alimentaires, sur la masse des bols alimentaires et sur la survie apparente, durant 4 saisons de reproduction (2000-2003) en utilisant les techniques de capture-recapture et la technologie RFID (identification par frquence radio). Les voyages alimentaires sont en moyenne 8% (3,5h) plus longs chez les oiseaux bagus que chez les oiseaux non-bagus, mais l'effet varie selon les annes. La masse du bol alimentaire ne diffre pas entre oiseaux bagus et non-bagus, mais les mles rapportent des bols alimentaires plus lourds que les femelles. Durant la priode 2002-2003, les bagues  l'aileron diminuent la survie apparente annuelle de 11-13%, mais sur une plus longue priode, nous observons une forte variabilit inter-annuelle, incluant des annes de survie leve pour les oiseaux bagus. Les mles ont une survie lgrement meilleure que les femelles,  la fois chez les oiseaux bagus et non-bagus. Des tudes supplmentaires sont requises, chez le manchot Adlie comme chez d'autres espces de manchot, afin de mieux comprendre les mcanismes responsables de l'effet des bagues sur le comportement de recherche alimentaire et la survie, la variabilit de l'effet des bagues selon les annes, et le possible effet compensatoire de l'ge ou de l'exprience. Nous reconnaissons la ncessit de comprendre les consquences ngatives des bagues chez les manchots et de les mettre en regard des gains d'informations associs  leur utilisation. 
4086957|Thermal factors potentially important in the selection of nocturnal roosts by birds include shelter from wind, local increases in air temperature, and improvement in radiation balance. I analyze the relative importance of these three factors using data describing the thermal relations of Phainopepla nitens and the meteorological properties of winter roost sites selected by this species. Shelter from forced convection provides approximately 5 times more thermal benefit than improvement of radiation balance. Possible metabolic heating by the bird of air within the roost site is unimportant.
10.1525/auk.2011.11106|Despite mounting evidence of mercury accumulation in terrestrial ecosystems, few data exist on how environmental mercury exposure affects reproductive success in free-living songbirds. From 2007 through 2010, we monitored reproductive success of Carolina Wrens (
10.2307/4088939| Reconstruction of breeding habitat of North American Neotropical migrants 18,000 years ago and 9,000 years ago indicated major shifts in both location and composition of plant communities relative to present conditions. Increased vegetation in xeric areas may have compensated, at least in part, for the reduction in breeding habitat due to glaciation. Autumnal flights of Neotropical passerine migrants flying on constant headings from North America to Central and South America were simulated under present wind conditions and for winds during periods of glaciation at 18,000 and 9,000 years ago. The 155 average headings currently observed for Atlantic migrants were found to function well during periods of glaciation and may have been more generally useful during those times than at present. 
4085896| Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii overwinters from Washington State to central Mxico, and wintering populations are therefore subjected to large differences in climate and photoperiod that may affect the dynamics of winter fattening and vernal premigratory fattening. We measured body weights periodically from October to the onset of vernal migration in 14 sample populations ranging from 32N (southern Arizona) to 46N (southern Washington) and combined the results as four latitudinal averages. Contrary to an earlier hypothesis, all populations exhibited congruent and nearly equal cycles of winter fattening (weight increase), regardless of different thermal stresses associated with latitude. The rate of premigratory fattening (weight increase) was alike in all populations. The date of the abrupt onset of premigratory fattening was a linear or near-linear direct function of latitude, averaging 3.3 days later for each degree of latitude northward. This is exactly proportional to daylength between the winter solstice and the vernal equinox and is explicable as a neuroendocrine integration of daylength and elapsed days after the winter solstice. Alternative photoperiodic hypotheses are not successful in predicting the linear latitudinal cline. This, together with sparse experimental data, indicates that the photoperiodic response mechanism in Z. l. gambelii is not geographically differentiated. 
4088310|We presented cooperatively breeding Red-winged Fairy-wrens (Malurus elegans) in Western Australia with recorded songs of nonbreeding helpers in their own social group and of unfamiliar helpers from other groups. Breeding females responded more often and more intensely to song of unfamiliar birds than to song of familiar birds. They responded more strongly when they had only one or two helpers than when they had more helpers in their group. They responded to song of their own helpers regardless of matrilineal kinship. We conclude that recognition is based on location and familiarity, and responsiveness is conditional upon the size and composition of the breeding group. The stronger response to song of strangers than to familiar individuals, matched for sex, age, and status, suggests that strangers are perceived by breeding females as threats in competition for helpers or other resources.
10.1525/auk.2011.11016|Social mimicry was postulated as a possible evolutionary mechanism that would produce convergence in the characteristics of species that interact extensively and, thus, act as an opposing force to competition and character displacement. The examples for this hypothesis were drawn mostly from visual resemblances among bird species that flock together. We evaluated plumage mimicry among groups of birds, asking 31 raters to score the resemblances among 22 sets of putative mimicry postulated in the past four decades. The resemblance between the putative model and the mimic (if there was no one model hypothesized, we considered both species to be possible models for each other) was compared with that between the model and (1) a species closely related to the mimic and (2) another species that only occasionally associated with the mixed-species groups but lived in the same habitat. We found significant support for 14 of the cases. Our results emphasize the importance of assessing similarity by using multiple raters and that several mechanisms may drive phenotypic resemblance, some reflecting phylogenetic inertia or habitat constraints. Nevertheless, these mechanisms may be accentuated in groups of birds that interact extensively.
4085981|The feeding by adult Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) of nestlings in broods of 3, 4, or 5 young was studied during two breeding seasons on the forested dune ridge near Delta, Manitoba. Broods of 2-day-old young were selectively fed geometrid larvae by the adults, and broods of 8-day-old young were selectively fed chironomids and geometrid and other Lepidoptera larvae. The diet varied among broods of 3, 4, and 5 young at both ages, but this variation did not appear to affect the growth rates of the young. The total weight of items brought per half hour increased with brood size among broods of 2-day-old young. Broods of four 8-day-old young were fed the greatest amount of food. The diet of the nestlings is contrasted with the diet of adult Yellow Warblers observed in the same locality.
4085844| Woodpeckers and piculets (Picidae) exhibit a pronounced broadening of the first thoracic rib at the articulation between the vertebral and sternal portions of the rib. In addition, the last cervical rib is enlarged, as are the vertebral attachments of both these modified ribs. The mean ratio of the first sternal rib width to femur length (100) for 89 species ranges from 2.9 (Jynx torquilla) to 14.8 (Picoides tridactylus). The Jynginae have noticeably lower rib to femur ratios than the rest of the Picidae. Complexity in the musculature of the anterior ribs also increases from Jynx torquilla through Colaptes auratus to Picoides villosus. These increasing ratios parallel an increase in the specialization of skull structure for pounding behavior. A survey of the foraging modes employed by 61 species shows that genera containing species that excavate frequently have higher rib ratios than genera whose species primarily glean and probe. Woodpeckers that pound frequently and hard require a more highly developed musculature at the base of the neck to provide the strength needed to pull the neck forward and down in blow delivery and to stabilize the neck against the resulting impact. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09050|The risk of breeding failure often varies strongly over the breeding season. If birds optimize production of offspring accordingly, investment in reproduction should be lowest when food for young is scarce or nest predation risk is highest. Evidence for this hypothesis is mixed and stems mainly from studies on northern temperate birds, and it is unclear whether these patterns apply to southern temperate birds with slow life histories that resemble those of tropical birds. We studied seasonal variation in reproductive investment and nesting success in a Neotropical temperate suboscine, the Firewood-gatherer (
4088545|We report the discovery of a previously undescribed feeding mechanism in an avian planktivore, the Red-necked Phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus). We employed high-speed video to elucidate the kinematics of prey transport, and to test hypotheses generated by a model describing prey transport as a function of surface tension. Prey items are transported individually from the tip of the beak to the mouth by forces resulting from the surface tension of water surrounding prey. Experiments conducted with the beak of a dead bird demonstrate that surface tension is sufficient to explain prey transport in Red-necked Phalaropes without the use of suction or tongue motions. This feeding mechanism may be widespread among the shorebirds and represents a potential intermediate step in the evolution of filter feeding in birds.
4087917|Brown rice treated with 2-methoxy-3-methylpyrazine (one of a family of compounds reported to function as warning odors in nature) was not repellent to test groups of four Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). But, after pairing with methiocarb, an illness-inducing agent, the odor of methylpyrazine was an effective conditioned stimulus that reduced the birds' rice consumption. Furthermore, rice consumption remained suppressed even after pyrazine was no longer present. A combination of red dye plus pyrazine odor proved no more effective a conditioned stimulus than red dye alone. Furthermore, the color seemed to interfere with the birds' ability to use the odor as a conditioned stimulus. Consequently, there was no residual suppression of rice consumption by groups exposed to the methiocarb-color-pyrazine treatment as was demonstrated by the groups exposed to just methiocarb plus pyrazine.
10.1525/auk.2013.13069|Detailed descriptions of song structure are critical to understanding the ontogeny, evolution, and function of bird song, particularly for species with large song repertoires. We provide a first detailed characterization of song organization and variability in a migratory population of House Wrens (
25488640|Birds can save distance and time on their migratory journeys by following great circles rather than rhumblines, but great-circle routes require more complex orientation with changing courses. Flight directions at different places along the route and in relation to the destination can be used to test whether birds migrate along great circles or rhumblines. Such data have indicated great-circle migration among shorebirds at high latitudes, but no critical tests have been made for passerines. Using tracking radar on board the icebreaker
25150338|New specimens from Sinaloa, Mexico, as well as two older specimens, show that both adult and recently fledged Lucy's Warblers (Vermivora luciae) often move far south of their breeding grounds to molt in the tropical deciduous forests of northwestern Mexico. Remarkably, the first preformative (= first prebasic) molt is complete in Lucy's Warblers, including the replacement of flight feathers, primary coverts, and rectrices; thus, previous aging criteria based on the wear and appearance of these feathers are invalid. We suggest that the recent conclusion that Lucy's Warblers molt on their breeding grounds (Voelker and McFarland 2002) is an artifact of more collecting in the southwestern United States than in western Mexico during late summer. An index of relative collecting in Mexico and the United States, as well as data from constant-effort mist netting, suggest that most Lucy's Warblers move south to molt. /// Nuevos especmenes de Sinaloa, Mxico, y dos especimenes ms antiguos, muestran que tanto los adultos como los juveniles recin emplumados de Vermivora luciae se mueven frecuentemente hacia el sur de su rea de distribucin reproductiva para mudar en los bosques deciduous tropicales del noroeste de Mxico. Llamativamente, la primera muda preformativa (= primera prebsica) de V. luciae es completa, incluyendo el recambio de las plumas de vuelo, las cobertoras primarias y las rectrices. Por lo tanto, los criterios empleados en el pasado para estimar la edad, basados en el desgaste y la apariencia de estas plumas son invlidos. Sugerimos que la conclusin reciente de que V. luciae muda en sus reas reproductivas (Voelker and McFarland 2002) es un artefacto de una mayor colecta a fines del verano en los estados del suroeste de Estados Unidos que en el oeste de Mxico. Un ndice de colecta relativa en Mxico y Estados Unidos, as como datos de esfuerzo constante de captura con redes de niebla, sugieren que la mayora de los individuos de V. lucidae se mueven hacia el sur para mudar.
25488564|Summer breeding populations of Kittlitz's Murrelets (
10.2307/4089376| A new genus and species of trogon (order Trogoniformes, family Trogonidae) is described from the Middle Oligocene (approximately 33 million years ago) of Creste, France. The new taxon, Primotrogon wintersteini, is the oldest trogon that has been named so far and closely resembles living species; differences mainly concern proportions of the skull. The species most likely is the sister taxon of the extant trogons. In contrast to most of its recent relatives, Primotrogon wintersteini lived in an arid environment. 
4085925|The hypothesis that the time required to detect an approaching predator varies inversely with colony size was tested. Ninety-five attacks by Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) and American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) were simulated at six Cliff Swallow (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) colonies. Colony size, which ranged from 18 to 320 nests, did not explain a significant portion of the variance in the time it took to detect approaching predator models, even when effects due to wind velocity, breeding stage, nest exposure, and air temperature were removed. Only air temperature proved to be a significant predictor of detection time. To determine whether or not large colonies might reduce the relative amount of predation more effectively than small colonies, we conducted periodic predator censuses around each colony and observed actual predator attacks. Relative predator density increased only five-fold, while colony size increased by a factor of 20. Further, we found no relationship between attack rate and colony size. Consequently, we suggest that larger colonies may dilute the effect of local predators and thereby suffer less nestling predation on a per nest basis.
10.1525/auk.2011.10217|Cross-seasonal studies of avian movement establish links between geographically distinct wintering, breeding, and migratory stopover locations, or assess site fidelity and movement between distinct phases of the annual cycle. Far fewer studies have investigated individual movement patterns within and among seasons over an annual cycle. Within western Oregon's Willamette Valley throughout 2007, we quantified intra- and interseasonal movement patterns, fidelity (regional and local), and migratory patterns of 37 radiomarked Wilson's Snipe (
10.2307/4087540|The California Gull (Larus californicus), currently regarded as a monotypic species, is separable into a small, dark-mantled race (L. c. californicus) that breeds primarily in the Great Basin of the United States, and a larger, paler race (L. c. albertaensis) from the Great Plains of the north-central U.S. and south-central Canada. The breeding ranges of these two races, previously disjunct, have expanded recently, and a zone of secondary contact seems to be forming east of the Rocky Mountains in the northern United States.
10.2307/4089509|Rapid deposition of body fat in preparation for long-distance migration is assumed to be one of the crucial activities of shorebirds at migration staging areas. We tested the hypothesis that annual return rate of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) to a migration stopover site is related to fat levels at the time of migratory departure for a long flight over the Atlantic Ocean. Length of stay of color-marked individuals was used to estimate fat levels at departure based on a relationship established at the study site between length of stay and the increase in estimated levels of body fat. Our results support the hypothesis that fat levels at migratory departure are related to the annual return rate and also to annual survival. Individuals remaining long enough to accumulate excess body fat (i.e. the low-risk group) were nearly twice as likely to return as were those below theoretically sufficient fat levels (the high-risk group). Fat levels attained at departure may be an important factor in surviving a long migration flight. However, the fact that some individuals in the high-risk group returned (approximately 25% of individuals in two years) indicates that flight-range formulas may understimate flight capabilities. In the first year of the study 45%, and in the second year 32%, of individuals remained longer than necessary to accumulate theoretically sufficient fat levels, suggesting that some individuals were not operating on a time-selected migration schedule. Disturbance of shorebirds at staging areas may increase the mortality of these birds.
10.2307/4090277| Although some birds can detect wavelengths in the infrasound range, there has been little evidence that birds produce very low frequencies. We made nine recordings of a captive Dwarf Cassowary (Casuarius bennetti) and one recording of a wild Southern Cassowary (C. casuarius) near Crater Mountain, Papua New Guinea. Both species produced sounds near the floor of the human hearing range in their pulsed booming notes: down to 32 Hz for C. casuarius and 23 Hz in C. bennetti. Recordings of C. bennetti indicate four levels of harmonics with the 23 Hz fundamental frequency. Such low frequencies are probably ideal for communication among widely dispersed, solitary cassowaries in dense rainforest. The discovery of very low-frequency communication by cassowaries creates new possibilities for studying those extremely secretive birds and for learning more about the evolution of avian vocalizations. /// Aunque algunas aves pueden detectar longitudes de onda en el rango del infrasonido, existe poca evidencia de que las aves produzcan sonidos de muy baja frecuencia. Hicimos nueve grabaciones de un Casuarius bennetti cautivo y una grabacin de un C. casuarius silvestre cerca de Crater Mountain, Papua Nueva Guinea. Ambas especies produjeron sonidos cerca del umbral auditivo inferior humano en sus notas pulsadas de pujido: de 32 Hz en C. casuarius y 23 Hz en C. bennetti. Las grabaciones de C. bennetti indican cuatro niveles de harmnicos con una frecuencia fundamental de 23 Hz. Estas frecuencias tan bajas probablemente son ideales para la comunicacin en el bosque lluvioso denso entre individuos solitarios ampliamente dispersos. El descubrimiento de comunicacin mediante frecuencias muy bajas en casuarios crea nuevas posibilidades para estudiar estas aves extremadamente sigilosas y para aprender ms sobre la evolucin de las vocalizaciones de las aves. 
10.2307/4089024|I studied ecology and behavior of wintering Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) at three sites on Puerto Rico over four years. The site with tall mature forest and relatively few fruiting understory plants had warbler populations characterized by: a predominance of males; relatively early fall arrival of returning adults; high site fidelity; large home ranges; low density of sedentary birds; few wandering individuals; high overwinter persistence of sedentary birds; and an invertebrate-rich diet. In contrast, the shrubby second-growth site with an abundance of fruiting plants had warbler populations characterized by: a predominance of females; relatively late arrival of returning adults compared to juveniles; low site fidelity; small home ranges; high density of sedentary and wandering birds; low overwinter persistence of sedentary birds; and a nectar- and fruit-rich diet. At the third site, the population traits fell within these extremes. Some site variation is attributable to sex differences in site persistence, wandering, and home-range size, which appear as population differences only because sex ratios vary among sites. However, differences in abundance and seasonality of fruit and nectar may further contribute to site differences in overwinter persistence of sedentary birds, wandering, home-range size, and density.
4085152|There is a conspicuous gradient in the proportion of passerine breeding communities contributed by tropical migrants (PPM) in Europe, with communities located in the northernmost areas showing the greatest percentages and those located to the south the smallest. I used multiple stepwise regression and regression on principal components to investigate the effects of a set of ecological, climatic, and geographical variables on migrant percentages in a sample of 55 European censuses distributed from northern Fennoscandia through southern Spain. When the main habitat types are considered individually, this geographic pattern is still significant. The best single predictor of PPM as revealed by multiple regression analyses is latitude, but when this variable is removed, the temperature of the coldest month provides almost equivalent predictions of PPM. Habitat type per se apparently does not influence substantially the percent of migrants in European breeding passerine communities. These results contrast with those reported by MacArthur (1959) for North America, although they are consistent with some suggestions derived from the recent reanalysis of North American data carried out by Willson (1976). Intercontinental differences are perhaps due to sampling deficiencies in the North American areas studied, mainly derived from the restricted latitudinal range. To explain the European pattern of PPM, I suggest that the percentage of migrants in a community during the breeding season depends on both the harshness of adverse winter conditions faced by the resident populations and on the total resource availability during the breeding period. Carrying capacity of the habitat during the severe season will to some extent regulate the size of resident populations in the following breeding period, which in turn must affect the abundance of migrants that may successfully colonize the habitat. Very harsh winters coupled to very productive breeding seasons favor the largest percentage of migrants.
10.1525/auk.2011.10162|Neighbor visibility is thought to influence territory size and shape, and visual obstructions may allow for greater nesting density within a breeding colony. We studied the effects of neighbor visibility and neighbor proximity on settlement patterns in a colony of Barn Swallows (
10.2307/4090028| Extrapair copulations and fertilizations are common among birds, especially in passerines. So far, however, few studies have examined genetic mating systems in socially monogamous shorebirds. Here, we examine parentage in the Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri). Given that Western Sandpipers nest at high densities on the Arctic tundra, have separate nesting and feeding areas, and show high divorce rates between years, we expected extrapair paternity to be more common in this species compared to other monogamous shorebirds. However, DNA fingerprinting of 98 chicks from 40 families revealed that only 8% of broods contained young sired by extrapair males, and that 5% of all chicks were extrapair. All chicks were the genetic offspring of their social mothers. We found that males followed females more often than the reverse. Also, cuckolded males were separated from their mates for longer than those that did not lose paternity. Although these results suggest a role for male mate guarding, we propose that high potential costs in terms of reduced paternal care likely constrain female Western Sandpipers from seeking extrapair copulations. /// Las copulaciones y fertilizaciones extra-pareja son comunes entre las aves, especialmente las paserinas. Hasta ahora, sin embargo, pocos estudios han examinado la gentica de los sistemas de apareamiento en aves playeras sociales mongamas. Aqu examinamos relaciones de parentesco en Calidris mauri. Dado que C. mauri nidifica en altas densidades en la Tundra rtica, que presenta reas de nidificacin y forrajeo separadas, y que muestra altas tasas de divorcio entre aos, esperbamos que la paternidad extra-pareja fuera ms comn en esta especie comparada con otras aves playeras mongamas. Sin embrago, huellas dactilares genticas de 98 pichones provenientes de 40 familias revelaron que slo el 8% de las nidadas contenan jvenes engendrados por machos extra-pareja, y que slo el 5% de los pichones provenan de relaciones extra-pareja. Todos los pichones fueron los descendientes genticos de sus madres sociales. Encontramos que los machos siguieron a las hembras con mayor frecuencia que lo opuesto. Tambin encontramos que los machos de hembras adlteras estuvieron separados de sus compaeras por ms tiempo que aquellos machos que no perdieron la paternidad. Aunque estos resultados sugieren un rol de custodia para los machos de la pareja, proponemos que altos costos potenciales en trminos de cuidado parental reducido probablemente limitan a las hembras de C. mauri para buscar copulaciones extra-pareja. 
4085096|Describes variations in the forelimb muscles of the Drepanididae. These are few in number and generally minor in terms of structural variation. This basic uniformity is remarkable in view of the great adaptive radiation of feeding mechanisms in the family. The lack of significant variation in the locomotor apparatus attests the unity of the Drepanididae and supports the premise that the family evolved from a single ancestral species.
10.2307/4089805| Diversity patterns of breeding bird assemblages (exclusive of raptors and nocturnal species) of western North American oak and Australian eucalypt woodlands are derived from data recorded at 113 census sites distributed over four regions, two on each continent. Regional species richness varies by a factor of 2 among regions. The contribution to regional species totals by various diversity components is examined: -diversity (species richness within sites), -diversity (species turnover between sites related to differences in vegetation structure), and -diversity (turnover related to distance between sites, independent of habitat change). Mean -diversity is relatively constant among regions (mean 25.5 to 29.7 species). Variation in -diversity within regions is related to variation in vegetation structure, and bird-density variation is best predicted by a measure of vegetation density. The relationships between bird diversity and density and vegetation structure are similar in the four regions. With the influence of vegetation structure removed, there is no (Australia) or at best a modest (North America) latitudinal gradient in -diversity. Within regions, regression analysis shows that species turnover is significantly related to both vegetation structural differences (-diversity) and distance between sites (-diversity), with the latter accounting for a larger proportion of, and correlating strongly with, regional species totals. Identification of factors promoting species turnover between sites, beyond distance and vegetation effects, remains a major challenge to ecologists. 
10.2307/4089380|We report measures of annual reproductive success and survival probabilities of adult and offspring Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) associated with clutches of different sizes in southwestern Nebraska from 1982 to 1997. Clutch size 4 was the most common (47.6% of nests). Mean clutch size varied among years, mostly through differences in the proportions of clutch sizes 3 and 4. Temperature and rainfall during egg laying were unrelated to mean annual clutch size. Incubation period declined slightly with clutch size, suggesting no incubation costs associated with larger clutches. Fledging success increased with clutch size. Ectoparasites lowered fledging success significantly in clutch sizes 3 and 4 but not in smaller or larger clutch sizes. First-year survival probability was unaffected by clutch or brood size when ectoparasites were removed, but under natural conditions survival probabilities varied among years and differed significantly among birds reared in brood sizes 1 to 2, 3 to 4, and 5. Birds tending clutch size 4 produced the highest number of young recruited as breeders in four of eight years; in the remaining years, birds tending clutch size 5 apparently did best. Fitness associated with clutch size 5 varied significantly with temperature during brood rearing, being lowest in warm years. Averaged over all years, the highest fitness was conferred at clutch size 5. Parental survival did not differ among clutch or brood sizes for birds under natural levels of ectoparasitism. Body mass of nestlings at 10 days did not vary among clutch sizes in nonfumigated nests and was significantly higher for nestlings in fumigated nests only for the intermediate clutch sizes (2 to 4). Classical life-history tradeoffs probably cannot account for the observed distribution of clutch sizes in Cliff Swallows. Climate and ectoparasite load vary enough annually and are unpredictable enough that Cliff Swallows apparently pursue the risk-averse strategy of laying smaller clutches on average than they can sometimes raise. Ectoparasitism accounted for much of the risk associated with producing clutch size 5, but Cliff Swallows did not adjust their clutch sizes in response to levels of ectoparasitism. Clutch size in aerial insectivores such as swallows may also reflect energetic constraints associated with egg production early in the breeding season when food is often reduced by cold weather.
25150307|Brood parasitism represents a significant cost in reproduction; thus, natural selection should favor the evolution of host defenses, which in turn may favor evolution of more sophisticated techniques by the parasite to overcome host defenses. These host defenses include egg rejection, attacking parasites near the nest, and avoiding parasitism by concealing nest sites. In all these antiparasitism strategies, nest light environment may play an important role. In the present study, the risk of Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) parasitism for the Great Reed Warbler (Acrocephalus arundinaceus) was modeled in relation to the in situ nest light environment, from far ultraviolet (UV) to infrared (IR) radiation (280-1,100 nm), and nest situation and structure. The percentage of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) plus IR radiation (400-1,100 nm) falling on the nest, maximum nest width, and distance between the nest and the nearest active conspecific neighbor were significantly related to the risk of parasitism. Photosynthetically active radiation alone explained 65% of variation in parasitism risk in the final model. Although solar radiation levels in nests were low (<4% for UV-B and UV-A radiation, 5% for PAR, and 22% for PAR plus IR radiation when cloudless), UV-B, UV-A, and visible-plus-IR radiation levels were significantly lower in nonparasitized nests. These findings provide the first evidence of a relationship between parasitism risk and nest concealment related to microhabitat light environment, with brighter nests suffering a higher risk of parasitism. /// El parasitismo de nidada representa un costo de reproduccin significativo; por lo tanto, la seleccin natural debera favorecer la evolucin de defensas en el hospedero, lo cual a su vez debera favorecer la evolucin de tcnicas ms sofisticadas por parte del parsito para superar las defensas del hospedero. Estas defensas incluyen rechazar huevos, atacar a los parsitos cerca del nido y ocultar los sitios de nidificacin para evitar el parasitismo. En todas estas estrategias antiparasitarias, el ambiente lumnico en que se encuentra el nido podra jugar un rol importante. En este estudio, modelamos el riesgo de parasitismo de Cuculus canorus hacia Acrocephalus arundinaceus en relacin con la situacin del nido, la estructura y el ambiente lumnico in situ, desde la radiacin ultravioleta lejana (UV) a la radiacin infrarroja (IR) (280-1,100 nm). El porcentaje de radiacin fotosintticamente activa (RFA) ms la radiacin IR (400-1,100 nm) que llega al nido, el ancho mximo del nido y la distancia entre el nido y el vecino coespecfico activo ms cercano estuvieron significativamente relacionados con el riesgo de parasitismo. La radiacin fotosintticamente activa por s sola explic el 65% de la variacin en el riesgo de parasitismo en el modelo final. Aunque los niveles de radiacin solar en los nidos fueron bajos (<4% para radiacin UV-B y UV-A, 5% para RFA y 22% para RFA ms radiacin IR sin nubes), los niveles de radiacin UV-B, UV-A y visible ms IR fueron significativamente ms bajos en los nidos no parasitados. Estos resultados brindan la primera evidencia de la existencia de una relacin entre el riesgo de parasitismo y el ocultamiento de los nidos segn el ambiente lumnico del microhbitat, de modo que nidos ubicados en ambientes ms luminosos presentan mayores riesgos de parasitismo.
4085148|Interbreeding between Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) and Western Gulls (L. occidentalis) occurs extensively within a 180-km zone along the Washington coast, producing a high frequency of intermediate morphs in breeding populations. We conducted intensive studies on Destruction Island, Washington, in the midst of the zone of hybridization. There over half of the breeding birds were phenotypically intergrades between pure Glaucous-winged and Western gulls in characters of iris and eye-ring coloration, mantle shade, and wing tip pattern. Mating patterns of Destruction Island gulls were assortative, individuals pairing with mates similar to themselves. Pairs composed of pure Glaucous-winged or Western gulls hatched significantly fewer eggs than pairs containing at least one hybrid individual. The greater apparent reproductive success of the intergrades would seem to be countered by the assortative mating patterns, possibly providing conditions sufficient to maintain an equilibrium system containing both pure types as well as intergrades. These conditions are explored in a simulation model that considered immigration, density-dependent fecundity, pairing and reproduction, and mortality. A stable colony of mixed composition may be maintained by a regular but small influx of pure types into the colony.
10.1525/auk.2011.11011|Population genetic structure was characterized in Xantus's Murrelet (
10.2307/4089240|It is unclear whether female ducks select nest sites on the basis of microclimatic features. Therefore, we tested the nest microclimate selection hypothesis by concurrently monitoring temperature (T), solar insolation, and relative humidity (RH) at Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and Blue-winged Teal (A. discors) nest sites and nearby randomly selected "nonnest" sites (hereafter "adjacent" sites). Operative temperatures
4085408|Triangle Island, with approximately 360,000 breeding pairs, constitutes the largest Cassin's Auklet (Ptycoramphus aleuticus) colony in the world and contains 40% of the total breeding population of that species. Nesting habitat preferences were determined by stepwise multiple regression analyses. Cassin's Auklets preferred nesting in sparse shrubbery and short herbaceous vegetation on slopes and in the interior of the island. Their nesting densities ranged from 0.1 to 1.1 pairs per m
10.2307/4089324|New World blackbirds (Icteridae) have long served as model systems for studies of avian ecology, evolution, and behavior. However, this work has been conducted in the absence of a strong phylogenetic hypothesis for the group. We sequenced 890 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene for 28 of the 29 icterid genera and subgenera recognized by Blake (1968). We found strong evidence of five lineages of blackbirds: grackles and allies; caciques and oropendolas; orioles; meadowlarks and allies; and a monotypic cupnesting cacique lineage. However, we found little support for any further structure among these five lineages and no strong evidence supporting icterid monophyly. Our results set the stage for forthcoming work on relationships within lineages and for higher-level studies that address blackbird monophyly and relationships among lineages.
10.2307/4088103| We measured plasma levels of testosterone (T), estradiol 17 (E), corticosterone, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in adult breeders, adult-plumaged helpers, and juvenal-plumaged helpers of the cooperatively breeding Harris' Hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus) in southeastern Arizona. In the males, both adult breeders and most adult-plumaged helpers had elevated T and LH during February and March, when nest building occurs, whereas most juvenal-plumaged helpers showed no change in LH, T, or E throughout the year. Thus adult-plumaged helpers, usually not related to the breeders, are hormonally ready to breed in the spring. We suggest that these helpers attain breeding readiness because potential benefits they can derive from either occasional successful copulations or possible attainment of the breeding position make reproductive readiness advantageous. In contrast, most juvenal-plumaged helpers are aiding their own parents on their natal territory and are not hormonally ready to breed, and thus they physiologically avoid the potential for inbreeding. An exception to this was a juvenal-plumaged male helper with elevated testosterone levels who was not helping his parents. The female breeders we examined had elevated T, LH, and E during the nest-building period, whereas the helpers (both adult- and juvenal-plumaged) did not show elevations at any time of the year. During the early part of the nesting cycle, the adult-plumaged female helpers weighed significantly less (ca. 10%) than the breeders. It is possible that poor body condition, subordinate status to the breeding females, or both were related to their lack of breeding readiness. In all birds, corticosterone levels increased with handling time, and were higher during the nesting periods than during non-nesting periods, but showed no consistent relation with helper or breeder status. As in other species that are relatively social, maintain long-term pair bonds, or are tropical in distribution, plasma concentrations of LH and sex steroids in Harris' Hawks, even when elevated, were relatively low. 
10.2307/4085506|Cowbird nestlings show significant geographical variation in rictal flange color. Twenty-four cowbirds from the Southwest, where the race Molothrus ater obscurus breeds, had yellow flanges whereas 73 from the remainder of the United States and Canada, where the races artemisiae and ater breed, had white flanges. There is little or no intralocality variation. Nestling cowbirds with yellow and white flanges apparently are accepted and fed by hosts regardless of the color of the rictal flanges of the host's own young, but I hypothesize that the quality of host care received by a nestling cowbird is influenced by its rictal flange color and that host responses are the selective pressure responsible for the geographical variation. Character displacement in nestling coloration is suggested by the fact that M. a. obscurus is the only race of Molothrus ater that has yellow flanges and it is also the only race that is sympatric with another cowbird, Molothrus aeneus, a species that apparently has white flanges. Character displacement could be caused by competition for host species and is further indicated by other lines of evidence.
10.2307/4089670|We reviewed the tremendous architectural diversity of ovenbird (Furnariidae) nests based on literature, museum collections, and new field observations. With few exceptions, furnariids exhibited low intraspecific variation for the nest characters hypothesized, with the majority of variation being hierarchically distributed among taxa. We hypothesized nest homologies for 168 species in 41 genera (ca. 70% of all species and genera) and coded them as 24 derived characters. Forty-eight most-parsimonious trees (41 steps, CI = 0.98, RC = 0.97) resulted from a parsimony analysis of the equally weighted characters using PAUP, with the Dendrocolaptidae and Formicarioidea as successive outgroups. The strict-consensus topology based on these trees contained 15 clades representing both traditional taxa and novel phylogenetic groupings. Comparisons with the outgroups demonstrate that cavity nesting is plesiomorphic to the furnariids. In the two lineages where the primitive cavity nest has been lost, novel nest structures have evolved to enclose the nest contents: the clay oven of Furnarius and the domed vegetative nest of the synallaxine clade. Although our phylogenetic hypothesis should be considered as a heuristic prediction to be tested subsequently by additional character evidence, this first cladistic analysis of the furnariids demonstrates the general utility of nest characters in reconstruction of avian relationships, and it provides a test of monophyly for several furnariid taxa.
25150394|Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis) and Townsend's Warblers (D. townsendi) meet and hybridize in three replicate zones in Washington and Oregon. Using male specimens, we show that the ratio of hybrid to parental phenotypes varies systematically across these three zones: there were 60.4% hybrids among 96 males from the Olympic zone, 43.3% hybrids among 411 males from the Washington Cascade zone, and 27.8% hybrids among 209 males from the Oregon Cascade zone. We found no evidence of habitat or climatic factors driving these systematic differences in hybrid frequencies, and we argue that they are related to differences among these zones in the immigration of pure parentals and time since contact. Building on earlier hypotheses about massive movement of the coastal zones (Rohwer and Wood 1998), we can infer that the Olympic and Washington Cascade zones are old and of similar age. The Washington Cascade zone, but not the Olympic zone, receives Townsend's immigrants from the Rocky Mountains through the Okanogan high-lands, as shown by the linkage analyses in Rohwer et al. (2001). This immigration apparently accounts for the lower frequency of hybrids in the Washington Cascades. The Washington Cascade and Oregon Cascade zones are both situated adjacent to forest corridors that connect them to the Rocky Mountains to the east, so both of these zones should receive Townsend's immigrants from the east (linkage analyses have yet to be done for the Oregon Cascades because the mitochondrial DNA haplotypes for these specimens have not been determined). The Washington Cascade zone, however, is old, whereas the Oregon Cascade zone appears to have been established only recently in response to anthropogenic habitat changes, which accounts for its low frequency of hybrids. We are unaware of any other replicate set of hybrid zones where differences in time since contact and dispersal have been related to variation in hybrid frequencies. /// Dendroica occidentalis y D. townsendi se encuentran y forman hbridos en tres zonas replicadas en Washington y Oregon. Utilizando especmenes machos, mostramos que el cociente entre fenotipos hbridos y parentales vara sistemticamente entre las tres zonas. El 60.4% de 96 machos de la zona de las Montaas Olympic fueron hbridos, mientras que este porcentaje fue del 43.3% (de 411 machos) en la zona de las Montaas Cascade de Washington y del 27.8% (de 209 machos) en la zona de las Cascade de Oregon. No encontramos evidencia de que factores de hbitat o de clima podran estar causando las diferencias en la frecuencia de los hbridos, y aducimos que stas estn relacionadas con diferencias entre las zonas en la inmigracin de parentales puros y en el tiempo transcurrido desde el contacto entre las poblaciones. Construyendo sobre la base de hiptesis previas acerca del movimiento masivo de las zonas costeras (Rohwer and Wood 1998), podemos inferir que las zonas de las Olympic y las Cascade de Washington son antiguas y de la misma edad. La zona de las Cascade de Washington, pero no la de las Olympic, recibe inmigrantes de la especie D. townsendi desde las Montaas Rocallosas a travs de las tierras altas de Okanogan, como lo han demostrado los anlisis de ligamiento de Rohwer et al. (2001). Esta inmigracin aparentemente explica la frecuencia de hbridos ms baja en la zona de las Cascade de Washington. Las zonas de las Cascade de Washington y de Oregon estn situadas junto a corredores de bosque que las conectan con las Rocallosas, por lo que estas dos zonas deben recibir inmigrantes de la especie D. townsendi desde el este (an no se han hecho anlisis de ligamiento para la zona de Oregon porque los haplotipos de ADN mitocondrial de esos especmenes no han sido determinados). Sin embargo, la zona de las Cascade de Washington es antigua, mientras que la de las Cascade de Oregon parece haberse establecido recientemente como respuesta a cambios antropognicos en el hbitat, lo que permite explicar su baja frecuencia de hbridos. No conocemos otro conjunto de zonas de hibridacin replicadas en el que las diferencias en el tiempo transcurrido desde el contacto y la dispersin hayan sido relacionadas con la variacin en la frecuencia de los hbridos.
4087911|We quantified wing shape in migrant and wintering Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) from southwestern Pennsylvania to assess the relationship between wing shape and differential migration (with respect to distance) among age/sex classes. There were significant differences in wing length and primary distances (distances from the wing tip to the tip of each of the nine primaries) among age/sex classes. Adult juncos had longer wings, larger proximal and distal primary distances, and a wing tip shifted proximally relative to immatures. Males had longer wings and larger proximal primary distances than females, but the sexes did not differ in distal primary distances or wing-tip placement. Wing-shape differences between males and females persisted even after accounting for differences in body mass between the sexes. With few exceptions, wing shape was not correlated with body mass within age/sex classes. The traits usually associated with a pointed wing (the wing shape generally considered adaptive for longer migrations) were really two independent dimensions of wing-shape variation in juncos that did not covary among age/sex classes. Overall, our results are inconsistent with the hypothesis that wing "pointedness" covaries positively with distance migrated in juncos.
4090682| The "immunocompetence handicap" hypothesis predicts that reproductive hormones, in particular testosterone (T), are immunosuppressive and consequently increase susceptibility to diseases and parasite infections, but this prediction has not been evaluated in free-living birds and the factors mediating the immunosuppressive influence of T remain poorly known. To address these issues, we administered supplemental T via implants to free-ranging adult male Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) and characterized the effects of this treatment on infection with the two most prevalent hematozoan parasites in this species, Leucocytozoon fringillinarum and Trypanosoma avium. Males caught at the beginning of their breeding season (May) received T-filled, empty (control), or no Silastic capsules, and were recaptured five weeks later. Capsule implantation had, by itself, no effect on parasite infections, body mass, or size of an androgen-dependent secondary sexual characteristic, the cloacal protuberance. Testosterone treatment maintained physiologically high plasma levels of the steroid for the duration of the study, thus preventing the seasonal decline in these levels that occurred in control males. As predicted by the immunocompetence handicap hypothesis, the hormone treatment increased blood L. fringillinarum abundance. This increase was specific, in that implanted T did not affect (1) either the prevalence or the incidence of L. fringillinarum, (2) body mass, or (3) size of the cloacal protuberance. Trypanosoma avium prevalence was not influenced by T treatment either, but it increased between May and June, which suggests that it is regulated by factors other than the activity of the reproductive system. These findings provide the first demonstration in free-ranging birds that experimentally elevated physiological T levels increase hematozoan infection. /// La hiptesis de la desventaja de la inmuno-competencia predice que las hormonas reproductivas, en particular la testosterona (T), son inmuno-supresoras y consecuentemente incrementan la susceptibilidad a las enfermedades y a las infecciones de parsitos. Sin embargo, esta prediccin no ha sido evaluada en las aves silvestres y los factores que determinan la influencia inmuno-supresora de la T permanecen poco conocidos. Para evaluar estos puntos, administramos dosis suplementarias de T a travs de implantes a machos adultos silvestres de Junco hyemalis y caracterizamos los efectos de este tratamiento sobre la infeccin de dos de los parsitos protozoarios sanguneos ms comunes en esta especie, Leucocytozoon fringillinarum y Trypanosoma avium. Los machos capturados al comienzo de la estacin reproductiva (mayo) recibieron cpsulas llenas de T, cpsulas vacas (control) o cpsulas no hechas de silastic, y fueron recapturados cinco semanas ms tarde. El implante en s mismo no tuvo un efecto sobre las infecciones de los parsitos, ni sobre el peso corporal ni sobre el tamao de la protuberancia cloacal, una caracterstica sexual secundaria dependiente del andrgeno. El tratamiento de testosterona mantuvo niveles fisiolgicos altos de esteroides en el plasma durante la duracin del estudio, previniendo la disminucin estacional de estos niveles como ocurri en los machos control. Como predice la hiptesis de la desventaja de la inmuno-competencia, el tratamiento con hormonas increment la abundancia de L. fringillinarum en la sangre. Este incremento fue especfico, en el sentido de que los implantes de T no afectaron (1) la prevalencia o el incremento de la incidencia de L. fringillinarum, (2) el peso corporal, ni (3) el tamao de la protuberancia cloacal. La prevalencia de Trypanosoma avium tampoco estuvo influenciada por el tratamiento con T, pero si aument entre mayo y junio, lo que sugiere que es regulado por otros factores no relacionados con la actividad del sistema reproductivo. Estos resultados brindan la primera prueba de que los niveles fisiolgicos experimentalmente elevados de T incrementan la infeccin de protozoarios sanguneos en las aves silvestres. 
10.2307/4088515|Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis, Mimidae) and Purple-headed Glossy-Starlings (Lamprotornis purpureiceps, Sturnidae) showed depressed ingestion and increased fecal sugar contents when shifted from glucose and fructose to sucrose solutions. These species also exhibited no increases in plasma glucose after ingestion of sucrose, but an increase in plasma glucose after ingestion of equicaloric doses of a mixture of glucose and fructose. In vitro measurements of intestinal disaccharidase activities in D. carolinensis revealed insignificant sucrase activity, and low levels of maltase activities. These results support the hypothesis that sucrose intolerance is a shared-derived character of the monophyletic lineage that includes starlings, mimids, and thrushes, and indicate that sucrose intolerance in birds can be easily diagnosed with a combination of behavioral and nonlethal physiological measurements. We suggest that, in birds, low intestinal maltase activity is correlated with the lack of sucrase activity. We further hypothesize that sucrose-intolerant birds are poor at assimilating complex carbohydrates.
10.2307/4089383| During 1980 and 1981, I studied nest-site selection and reproductive success in Heermann's Gull (Larus heermanni) on Isla Rasa in the Gulf of California, Mexico. About 95% of the world population of this species nests on Isla Rasa. In 1980, about 130,240 nests were present within an area of
10.2307/4088159|We investigated fat deposition in transient, nocturnal, long-distance migrants at a wooded stopover site that is not near an ecological barrier (e.g. desert, large water body). The changes in body mass of recaptured birds have traditionally been used as a measure of mass gains at stopover sites. This technique ignores the majority of transients, however, possibly hindering the ability to answer species-level questions regarding stopover mass gain. We compare an analysis of recaptures with a technique that considers all captures and their condition by time of day. Eleven woodland-associated migrant species were analyzed, as well as a resident species (Black-capped Chickadee, Parus atricapillus) for comparison. Based on recapture data alone, our study site appears to be primarily a location of mass loss, rather than one of fat deposition. Conversely, the examination of condition by time of day suggests that individuals of several species have net daily gains greatly exceeding those of recaptured individuals. During autumn, however, several species exhibited net daily losses. Although some of these losses may be related to molt, it seems unlikely that molt is the only contributing factor. Differences among species in mass gains at our site suggest that various fat-deposition patterns (and, thus, migration strategies) may occur among migrants that are not approaching ecological barriers.
10.1525/auk.2011.10273|We used stable-isotope (D) measurements of primary feathers to demonstrate that Northern Rough-winged Swallows (
4086610|We review the methods used to study seabirds at sea from ships, discuss the problems posed in making reliable observations in relation to the design of research programs, and describe a method currently in use around the seas of Great Britain. We suggest a framework for future studies, incorporating features likely to stabilize bias. The key items in this recommendation are (1) the use of a band transect in order to provide density estimates, and (2) a method to correct for movement of flying birds in the band transect in order to minimize bias caused by such movement.
10.2307/4090315| A monogamous mating system that includes extrapair fertilization can potentially generate higher variability in male reproductive success than monogamy without extrapair fertilization. That increased variability could provide a correspondingly higher opportunity for sexual selection and, thus, for the origin and persistence of sexual dimorphism in monogamous species. To determine whether extrapair fertilization enhanced the opportunity for sexual selection in a sexually dimorphic, monogamous bird species, we used microsatellite DNA typing to assess the prevalence of extrapair fertilization and its effect on variation in male reproductive success in a population of Chestnut-sided Warblers (Dendroica pensylvanica). We found that the level of extrapair fertilization in our study population was at the upper end of the range reported for bird populations (47% of nestlings had extrapair fathers; 61% of broods contained extrapair offspring). We also discovered that almost all extrapair offspring were sired by paired males resident on nearby territories. In addition, we found that variation in male reproductive success was substantially higher than variation in female reproductive success, and that extrapair fertilizations made a significant contribution to variation in male reproductive success. Together, those findings suggest that extrapair fertilization creates an opportunity for sexual selection on male traits in this population. /// Un sistema de apareamiento mongamo que incluye fertilizacin extra-pareja puede potencialmente generar mayor variabilidad en el xito reproductivo de los machos que la monogamia sin fertilizacin extra-pareja. Este incremento en la variabilidad podra a su vez significar una mayor oportunidad para seleccin sexual y, por lo tanto, para el origen y la persistencia de dimorfismo sexual en las especies mongamas. Para determinar si la fertilizacin extra-pareja aumenta la oportunidad para seleccin sexual en una especie de ave mongama sexualmente dimrfica, usamos ADN microsatelital para determinar los genotipos y evaluar la predominancia de la fertilizacin extra-pareja y sus efectos en la variacin en el xito reproductivo de los machos en un poblacin de Dendroica pensylvanica. Encontramos que el nivel de fertilizacin extra-pareja en nuestra poblacin de estudio se ubic en el extremo superior del rango registrado para poblaciones de aves (47% de los pichones presentaron padres extra-pareja; 61% de las nidadas presentaron pichones extra-pareja). Tambin descubrimos quecasi todos los pichones extra-pareja fueron engendrados por machos en pareja y residentes en territorios vecinos. Adems, encontramos que la variacin en el xito reproductivo de los machos fue substancialmente mayor que la variacin en el xito reproductivo de las hembras, y que las fertilizaciones extra-pareja tuvieron una contribucin significativa a la variacin en el xito reproductivo de los machos. En conjunto, estos hallazgos sugieren que la fertilizacin extra-pareja crea una oportunidad para la seleccin sexual de los caracteres de los machos en esta poblacin. 
10.2307/4088419|Captive Red Knots (Calidris canutus) fed soft food pellets developed atrophied stomachs, and were reluctant to eat their usual hard-shelled mollusc prey. An interspecific comparison among shorebirds showed that wild Red Knots and other intact-mollusc-eating species have gizzards with relatively great mass but very small proventriculi. Within six different shorebird species, the heavier individuals usually had the heavier stomachs as well, but in Red Knots and Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica) we identified heavy premigrant individuals with reduced stomach masses, suggesting a reallocation of protein reserves before long-distance flights. In both species reduced stomach mass was associated with a relatively soft diet. We were unable to show that during adjustment of stomachs to hard-shelled prey, such prey are broken down to smaller fragments. We attribute this to the counteractive influence of the pylorus during adjustment. We summarize the suggested stomach/diet interactions as a network of causal relationships and feedback loops involving the type of diet and gizzard mass. We identify two basic modifiers of gizzard mass: one working via endurance training and disuse atrophy; and another involving endocrine and/or neural mechanisms. It is likely that, in the course of their annual cycle, shorebirds are prevented from achieving maximal digestive performance owing to seasonal changes in feeding habitats and diet enforced by their long-distance migrations.
4087723|Foam produced by the proctodeal gland of male Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) may help sperm transportation along the oviduct by inducing higher motility of the sperm via aeration. It is possible that foam can also suspend sperm in the proctodeum of the female to avoid sperm elimination by the egg as it travels down the oviduct. We demonstrated that when quail semen was mixed with foam in vitro, sperm motility was prolonged significantly. We labeled foam with Tc-99m sulfur colloid to demonstrate that foam deposited by the male through natural copulations may be retained by the female for more than 2 h and is not eliminated during oviposition. We concluded that the proctodeal gland of the male Japanese Quail may have evolved to produce a large amount of foam under domestication. This may allow the males to fertilize more females in competition with other males.
10.2307/4085494|Agonistic behavior of Gila Woodpeckers, including vocalizations, visual displays, and other related behaviors, is described. Interactions with both con- and heterospecifics were analyzed by stochastic processes, and it is shown that the timing of aggression toward a species coincided with the time during which that species was searching for nest sites or cavities. The behavior shown toward Flickers and Starlings appears to fulfill criteria for interspecific territoriality, and evidence is presented to support the contention that the function of this behavior is protection of nest sites and nest holes from competitors. The effects of intra- and interspecific territoriality on the distribution of the species involved were found to be significantly different. Simultaneous protection of different sized territories is discussed.
10.2307/4089883| Vocal dialects have presented a puzzle for evolutionary biologists for nearly 50 years. However, there is still a dearth of detailed description of variation in species with dialects, especially regarding acoustic characteristics that discriminate among dialects. In this study, I show that dialects occur in the "flight whistle" song type of the Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus). Dialects in this species occur at a very large scale, spanning hundreds of kilometers. A discriminant function analysis revealed that the initial element of the song shows greater differences among dialects than a major element in the final portion of the song. This quantitative analysis of the dialect system provides the basis for understanding how Bronzed Cowbirds recognize songs from different dialects. /// Los dialectos vocales han sido un misterio para los bilogos evolutivos por casi 50 aos. Sin embargo, an carecemos de descripciones detalladas sobre la variacin en especies con dialectos, especialmente en relacin a caractersticas acsticas que diferencian los dialectos. En este estudio muestro la presencia de dialectos en el canto tipo "silbido al vuelo" de Molothrus aeneus. Los dialectos en esta especie se presentan a grandes escalas, abarcando cientos de kilmetros. Un anlisis de funcin discriminante revel que el elemento inicial del canto muestra mayores diferencias entre dialectos que un elemento principal en la porcin final del canto. Este anlisis cuantitativo del sistema de dialectos provee la base para entender cmo M. aeneus reconoce los cantos de diferentes dialectos. 
25488520|Populations of the Red-winged Blackbird (
10.1525/auk.2011.11019|The phylogeny of spiderhunters (Nectariniidae:
10.2307/4090232| We quantified aspects of the breeding biology of Whiskered Auklets (Aethia pygmaea) at Buldir Island, western Aleutian Islands, Alaska, from 1993 to 1998 to provide a better understanding of this poorly known species' ecological relationship to other auklets (Aethia spp.). Whiskered Auklets nest in rock crevices in a range of habitats including talus slopes, cliffs, and beaches. No physical characteristic of nesting crevices predicted breeding success. Hatching dates varied among years; mean hatching dates averaged 20 June 6.8 days (range 16-27 June). Chicks remained in the nest for 39  2 days, with mean annual fledging from 27 to 29 July. Eggs were 44.1  1.6 mm in length and 31.1  1.61 mm in breadth, and varied significantly in size among years. Chicks weighed 17.4  2.4 g (15.6% of adult mass) within two days of hatching and gained
10.1525/auk.2012.12061|Recent changes in the timing of spring migration associated with climate change are occurring in hundreds of species of Northern Hemisphere birds. Much less is known about effects on autumn migration, especially for birds of prey. I studied simultaneous changes in spring and autumn phenology using data from 14 raptor species at two bird observatories on the shore of Lake Superior, North America. Median migration date advanced by 0.13 daysyear
4085445|A lightweight radiotelemetry system with a range of 80 km was used to monitor heart rate from free-ranging Herring Gulls on flights of up to 20 km. Heart rate varied from 130 beats/min in a resting bird to 625 beats/min for sustained flight. Soaring birds showed rates similar to those of birds sitting quietly on the ground. Simultaneous records of telemetered heart rate and intraspecific conflict on the nesting island revealed that cardiac acceleration preceded overt visual communication. Intensely aggressive behavior was accompanied by heart rates approaching those of sustained flight. Heart rate as a measure of metabolic cost indicates that the gull's behavioral adaptations for long-distance flight, food location and intraspecific communication result in major energy savings.
4088551| Male Blue-footed Boobies (Sula nebouxii) first nested at an age of two to six years (x = 4.7), and females a little earlier at one to six years (x = 3.6). Both sexes nested selectively close to the natal site in their first reproduction (males 24.1 m, females 28.3 m) and similarly close to the natal site in their second reproduction, despite displacement from first to second site. First sites of both sexes were similarly close to the natal site and the parents' current site, and parents dispersed only 26.2 m between hatching and first reproduction of their offspring. Throughout their lives, both sexes may tend to nest close to the natal site and, hence, close to kin. Nonetheless, given high nest density in the colony (0.0356
10.1525/auk.2012.11173|The ability to successfully colonize and persist in diverse environments likely requires broad morphological and behavioral plasticity and adaptability, and this may partly explain why the Peregrine Falcon (
25150292|Environmental correlates and geographic spacing of leks were compared for six species of manakins (Pipridae) on two 100-ha study plots in eastern Ecuador. The "hotspot" hypothesis of lek evolution suggests that males should aggregate where females are most likely to be encountered. For ecologically similar species that co-occur at a site, leks are predicted to be clustered in space and, thus, to overlap in macroscale environmental characteristics. The geographic spacing and environmental characteristics of lek sites we observed were inconsistent with the hotspot hypothesis for lek evolution. In general, little geographic overlap occurred among leks, and geographic spacing of leks among heterospecifics more closely fit a regular than a clumped pattern. Further, environmental conditions of leks varied among species with respect to elevation and topography. Leks of some species were more likely to occur on hilltops or ridge tops (e.g., Machaeropterus regulus, Pipra erythrocephala), whereas others appeared to prefer highly dissected drainages (e.g., P. pipra), relatively flat terrain near streams (e.g., Chiroxiphia pareola), or seasonally inundated forests (e.g., P. filicauda). Using randomly placed leks, we found evidence that certain lek environments may be limited, which is consistent with observed levels of population abundances on the two plots. Such environmental limits may constrain lek placement and size. Further study is needed to determine the reproductive implications of placing leks in apparently suboptimal environments, though such compromises may reflect males making the best of a bad situation. /// Se compararon los correlatos ambientales y el espaciamiento geogrfico para seis especies de saltarines (Pipridae) en dos parcelas de estudio de 100 ha en el oriente de Ecuador. La hiptesis de los "sitios calientes" para explicar la evolucin de las asambleas de cortejo ("leks") sugiere que los machos deberan agregarse en lugares en donde es ms pobable encontrar a las hembras. Para especies ecolgicamente similares que coexisten en un lugar, se predice que las asambleas deberan estar agregadas en el espacio, por lo que deberan superponerse en cuanto a sus caractersticas ambientales a una escala macro. El espaciamiento geogrfico y las caractersticas ambientales de los sitios donde se ubicaron las asambleas que observamos fueron inconsistentes con lo esperado de acuerdo a la hiptesis de los puntos calientes. En general, existi poca superposicin geogrfica entre las asambleas, y el espaciamiento geogrfico de asambleas heteroespecficas se ajust ms a un patrn regular que a uno agregado. Adems, las condiciones ambientales de los sitios de ubicacin de las asambleas variaron entre especies con respecto a la elevacin y la topografa. Las asambleas de algunas especies se encontraron ms en las cimas de colinas o en los filos (e.g., Machaeropterus regulus, Pipra erythrocephala), mientras que otras parecieron preferir cuencas fuertemente disectadas (e.g., P. pipra), terrenos relativamente planos cerca de quebradas (e.g., Chiroxiphia pareola) o bosques estacionalmente inundados (e.g., P. filicauda). Utilizando asambleas ubicadas aleatoriamente, encontramos evidencia de que ciertos ambientes usados por las asambleas podran estar limitados, lo que concuerda con los niveles de abundancia poblacional observados en las dos parcelas. Estas limitaciones ambientales podran restringir la ubicacin y el tamao de las asambleas. Es necesario realizar ms estudios para determinar las implicaciones reproductivas de ubicar las asambleas en ambientes aparentemente subptimos, aunque dichos compromisos podran reflejar que los machos sacan el mejor provecho posible de situaciones desfavorables.
25150399|From 1996 to 2001, researchers at 10 Appalachian study sites collected radiotracking data sufficient to delineate 1,054 seasonal home ranges of Ruffed Grouse "(Bonasa umbellus"; hereafter "grouse"). Using information-theoretic model selection and paired comparison of home ranges from individual grouse, we evaluated individual, local, and landscape factors hypothesized to affect grouse home-range size. Females and juvenile males occupied home ranges that averaged >2 larger than those of adult males, and home ranges of females averaged 2.6 larger during successful breeding seasons than during years of reproductive failure. Clearcuts and forest roads are considered high-quality covers, and both were more prevalent in smaller home ranges. Several factors operating at a regional and landscape scale were also important. Previous studies have reported that southern grouse use relatively large home ranges, and we observed a continuous decline in home-range size with increasing latitude across the 710-km range spanned by our study sites. Home-range size of males, particularly juvenile males, was positively related to an index of population density. Given the species' "dispersed lekking" mating system, we interpret this as evidence of competition for preferred display sites. As has been reported for other game birds, all sex and age classes of grouse used smaller home ranges following closure of sites to hunting. Grouse inhabiting oak-hickory forests used larger home ranges than conspecifics in mixed mesophytic forests, and other factors interacted with forest type. In oak-hickory forests, female home-range size was inversely related to use of mesic bottomlands, which support important forage plants, and home ranges of adult grouse increased 2.5 following poor hard-mast crops. By contrast, home ranges of grouse inhabiting mixed mesophytic forests were unrelated to use of bottomlands, and the influence of hard mast was reduced. This is in line with the view that in Appalachian oak-hickory forests, grouse are under strong nutritional constraint. However, this constraint is reduced in mixed mesophytic forests, likely because of the presence of high-quality alternative foods (e.g., cherry [Prunus spp.] and birch [Betula spp.]). /// De 1996  2001, des chercheurs posts  10 sites d'tude dans les Appalaches ont recueillis suffisamment de donnes tlmtriques pour dlimiter 1,054 domaines vitaux saisonniers de Bonasa umbellus (ci-aprs glinotte). En utilisant un modle de slection thorique et des comparaisons apparies des domaines vitaux de glinottes, nous avons valu les facteurs individuels, locaux et du paysage susceptibles d'influer sur la taille du domaine vital. Les femelles et les mles juvniles occupaient des domaines vitaux qui taient en moyenne plus de 2 fois plus grands que ceux des mles adultes. Les domaines vitaux des femelles taient en moyenne 2.6 fois plus grand durant les bonnes annes de reproduction par rapport aux mauvaises. Les coupes  blanc et les chemins forestiers sont considrs comme tant des couverts de protection de grande qualit et ils taient plus rpandus dans les domaines vitaux de plus petite taille. Plusieurs facteurs oprant  l'chelle rgionale et du paysage taient aussi importants. Des tudes ont rapport que les glinottes du sud utilisent des domaines vitaux relativement grands. Nous avons observ un dclin continu de la taille du domaine vital  mesure qu'augmentait la latitude sur les 710 km comprenant nos sites d'tude. La taille du domaine vital des mles, particulirement des mles juvniles, tait positivement li  un indice de la densit de population. tant donn le systme d'appariement de type leks disperss de l'espce, nous interprtons ceci comme une preuve de la comptition pour les sites de parade prfrs. Comme l'a t rapport pour d'autres oiseaux gibiers, les deux sexes et toutes les classes d'ge ont utilis de plus petits domaines vitaux suivant la fermeture des sites pour la chasse. Les glinottes habitant les forts de chnes et de noyers ont utilis des domaines vitaux plus grands que leurs congnres habitant les forts tempres mixtes. D'autres facteurs ont aussi interagit avec le type de fort. Dans les forts de chnes et de noyers, la taille du domaine vital des femelles tait inversement relie  l'utilisation des terres basses msiques, lesquelles supportent d'importantes plantes servant  l'alimentation, et les domaines vitaux des glinottes adultes ont augment de 2.5 fois suite  une mauvaise production d'aknes.  l'oppos, les domaines vitaux des glinottes habitant les forts tempres mixtes n'taient pas associs  l'utilisation des terres basses et l'influence des aknes y tait rduite. Ceci converge avec l'ide que dans les forts de chnes et de noyers des Appalaches, les glinottes subissent de fortes contraintes nutritionnelles. Nanmoins, ces contraintes sont rduites dans les forts tempres mixtes, probablement en raison de la prsence de nourritures alternatives de grande qualit (e.g. Prunus spp. et Betula spp.).
4088043|We compared Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) and Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) to determine possible explanations for the lack of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on Yellow-heads. Twenty-three cowbird eggs were cross-fostered from Red-winged Blackbird nests to Yellow-headed Blackbird nests. Eleven of the cross-fostered cowbird eggs hatched, and seven fledged. Of the four that hatched but failed to fledge, three disappeared and one starved as did all except one of its Yellow-headed Blackbird siblings. Of the 12 cowbird eggs that did not hatch, 8 were preyed upon and 4 were inviable. Cowbirds grew at the same rate in Yellow-headed and Red-winged blackbird nests. Differences in breeding characteristics between Yellow-headed and Red-winged blackbirds may help explain the lack of cowbird parasitism of Yellow-headed Blackbird nests. For Yellow-headed Blackbirds the breeding season had an earlier peak of nest initiation, the abandonment rate of active nests was dramatically higher at the end of the season, and nestlings were more heavily parasitized with mites than were Red-winged Blackbird nestlings.
4090560| Most studies of cooperatively breeding species have revealed that indirect fitness gains from helping are lower than benefits gained from direct reproduction. Exceptions to this "best of a bad job" strategy are rare. Brown Jays (Cyanocorax morio) in Monteverde, Costa Rica, live in large groups (mean = 10 individuals) and have never been observed to breed as unaided pairs. Helpers provide a substantial percentage (70%) of all nestling feedings. Together, these observations suggest that helping may be crucial for reproductive success in this population. We used multivariate models to examine the effect of helpers on offspring production using a long-term data set. Data on nest-site success and brood reduction suggested that predation was the major cause of nesting failure. Nesting in an isolated tree was the major determinant of successful nestling production, and our data indicate that small groups (less than 9 individuals) may not be able to acquire or defend territories that contain suitable nesting sites. The number of juveniles (young surviving 30 days after leaving the nest) and yearlings was positively related to group size, even after removing groups that nested only in non-isolated trees. Small groups were also more likely than large groups to have total reproductive failure in a season. Helpers may increase juvenile survival by reducing predation, increasing juvenile condition, or providing learning opportunities for foraging and antipredator behaviors. Helpers on their natal territories receive some indirect benefits, though these are low compared with independent breeding. Immigrant male helpers may benefit primarily by gaining future breeding opportunities. Delayed benefits related to territory inheritance and dispersal coalitions may be the best explanation for helping in this population. /// La mayora de los estudios sobre especies que presentan cra cooperativa han revelado que las ganancias indirectas sobre la adecuacin por la presencia de ayudantes son menores que los beneficios ganados por la reproduccin directa. Las excepciones a esta estrategia de "lo mejor de un mal trabajo" son raras. En Monteverde, Costa Rica, los individuos de Cyanocorax morio viven en grupos de gran tamao (media = 10 individuos) y nunca han sido observados reproducindose en parejas sin ayudantes. Los ayudantes proporcionan un porcentaje substancial (70%) del total de la alimentacin de los polluelos en el nido. En conjunto, estas observaciones sugieren que la ayuda puede ser crucial para el xito reproductivo en esta poblacin. Usamos modelos multivariados para examinar el efecto de los ayudantes sobre la produccin de progenie utilizando una base de datos de largo plazo. Los datos sobre el xito de sitios de nidificacin y reduccin de la nidada sugieren que la depredacin es la principal causa de fracaso en la nidificacin. La nidificacin en un rbol aislado fue la principal determinante de una produccin exitosa de polluelos, y nuestros datos indican que los grupos pequeos (de menos de 9 individuos) pueden no ser capaces de adquirir o defender territorios que contengan sitios de nidificacin adecuados. El nmero de juveniles (polluelos que sobreviven ms de 30 das luego de abandonar el nido) y de individuos de un ao de edad se relacionaron positivamente con el tamao del grupo, incluso despus de eliminar del anlisis a los grupos que anidaron slo en rboles no aislados. Adems, los grupos pequeos tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de tener un fracaso total de nidificacin en una estacin reproductiva que los grupos de mayor tamao. Los ayudantes pueden aumentar la supervivencia de los juveniles al reducir la depredacin, aumentar la condicin de los juveniles o al proveer oportunidades de aprendizaje de comportamientos de forrajeo o de comportamientos para evitar la depredacin. Aunque los individuos que se quedan como ayudantes en sus territorios natales reciben algunos beneficios indirectos, stos son bajos en comparacin con los de la reproduccin directa. Los ayudantes machos inmigrantes pueden beneficiarse principalmente al obtener oportunidades reproductivas futuras. Los beneficios futuros relacionados con la herencia de territorios y con coaliciones de dispersin podran ser las mejores explicaciones para la presencia de ayudantes en esta poblacin. 
4086535|Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) song has been demonstrated to function in the species' perennial territoriality. Data reported here suggest that this species' diverse song may also function intersexually in reproduction. Observations on the amount of song produced by identified males throughout the breeding season revealed a pronounced cyclicity in the occurrence of song. Further, song cyclicity was systematically associated with the nature of the breeding activity in progress. In each of six mated males, the amount of song increased substantially while the male was nest building. The amount of song decreased significantly during incubation and during the care of offspring. This relationship held even when the cycle of breeding activities was disrupted through nest loss; males resumed singing immediately, although losses often occurred during periods of very little song. Analyses indicated that the nest-building song burst did not result from the activities involved in nest construction itself but often preceded the first observed instance of nest building. Increased song during nest building cannot be explained by excess amounts of unoccupied singing time available to males not engaged in the care of offspring. The overall pattern of results indicates that Mockingbird song may function in reproductive as well as in territorial contexts. Further, the cyclic relationship between song and breeding activities suggests that song may constitute a mechanism by which the reproductive state of the female is rapidly reset in preparation for subsequent broods.
4085974|We conducted a study in 1978-1980 of the nesting ecology of Roseate Spoonbills (Ajaia ajaja) in a relatively polluted environment at Nueces Bay, Texas. For 154 marked nests, the average clutch size was 3.0 eggs; 73% of the eggs hatched, and 87% of the nests were successful (hatched at least 1 young). The average nest success rate (total fledglings:total eggs) was 50% or 1.5 fledglings per total nests. Incubation began the day after the first egg was laid, and the incubation period for each egg was 22 days. Eggs hatched in the order that they were laid; the first and second eggs hatched on consecutive days, and the second, third, and fourth eggs hatched every other day. Nest composition and size were highly consistent, but nest placement varied considerably and was dependent on the vegetative configuration of the dredge-material islands. Growth rate of nestlings conformed to a "standard" growth curve, where body weight of nestlings at fledging equaled that of adults. There was no difference in weight gain among siblings based on actual age. Nestlings fledged at about 6 weeks of age, when feather development was complete. At fledging, the bills of juveniles had almost reached adult width, but bill length was only 67% that of adults. In general, environmental pollutants were low (<2 ppm) in spoonbill eggs, though a few eggs contained elevated concentrations of DDE (up to 15 ppm, wet weight). Some eggshells were 5% thinner than those in museum collections, but the degree of thinning was not within the range known to cause population declines. We conclude that organochlorine pollutants are not adversely affecting spoonbill reproduction at Nueces Bay, Texas, though the area is surrounded by industries and agricultural lands. Apparently, spoonbills are less sensitive to these contaminants than are other aquatic species.
10.2307/4090273| Secondary cavity nesting birds have been predicted to switch their nesting location when the quality of the nest site declines such as from accumulation of soiled nest material and parasites. We hypothesized that nest-site switching in Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) should depend not only on the condition of the original nest, but also on quality of alternate nest cavities. We tested that hypothesis experimentally by providing Eastern Bluebirds with attractive and unattractive nest boxes (as determined from a choice experiment). In one experiment, bluebirds were forced to choose between their soiled box of the preferred type and a clean box of the less-preferred type. Faced with that decision, a significant proportion of pairs opted to reuse their nest cavity, despite the ectoparasitism costs of that option. When given the choice between their soiled box of the preferred type and an identical but clean box, a significant proportion switched to the clean box, which suggests that soiled nests present some cost. By manipulating box type, we were able to decrease and increase, respectively, the costs of nest-site fidelity. Thus, bluebirds do not simply operate under a rule of thumb "switch nest sites when nest quality falls below point x." Rather, they must weigh the declining quality of their current nest against the relative quality of all other available nest sites. /// Se ha predicho que las aves que anidan en cavidades secundarias deben cambiar su lugar de anidacin cuando la calidad del sitio del nido disminuye, como cuando se acumulan restos de nidos y parsitos. Nosotros planteamos la hiptesis de que el cambio de sitio de anidacin en Sialia sialis debera depender no slo de la condicin del nido original, sino tambin de la calidad de las cavidades de anidacin alternativas. Basndonos en los resultados de un experimento de escogencia, pusimos a prueba esta hiptesis experimentalmente suministrando cajas de anidacin atractivas y no atractivas. En un experimento, las aves fueron forzadas a escoger entre su caja sucia del tipo preferido y una caja limpia del tipo menos preferido. Enfrentadas a esta decisin, una proporcin significativa de las parejas opt por reutilizar su caja de anidacin, a pesar de los costos de esta opcin en trminos de ectoparasitismo. Cuando se les dio la opcin entre su caja sucia del tipo preferido y una caja idntica limpia, una proporcin significativa de las parejas cambi a esta ltima, lo que sugiere que usar las cajas sucias tiene algn costo. Mediante la manipulacin del tipo de caja estuvimos en condiciones de disminuir y aumentar, respectivamente, los costos de la fidelidad al sitio de anidacin. Por lo tanto, en S. sialis los individuos no operan simplemente bajo una regla de "cambiar de nido cuando la calidad caiga por debajo de un punto x". En cambio, deben poner en la balanza el costo de la disminucin en calidad de su nido y la calidad relativa de los dems sitios de anidacin disponibles. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09118|Multiple-observer point-count methods allow estimation of detection probability and have some advantages over other point-count methods. We introduce the unreconciled double-observer method, an independent double-observer method that does not require observers to match or otherwise reconcile individual observations. The modeling of the counts uses the repeated-counts model (
10.1525/auk.2010.10086|The relative allocation of endogenous- and exogenous-derived nutrients to reproductive investment in Arctic-nesting geese is affected by body size, migration distance, and proximate conditions on the wintering, staging, and breeding grounds prior to clutch initiation. We used 
10.2307/4088263|Bill-color variability has the identical range and similar distributions in free-living Australian Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) and their wild-type domesticated descendants. Individual differences in bill color exist among adults of both sexes, both in nature and captivity. In laboratory birds, bill color changed over the course of the five-week breeding cycle, with lowest bill-color scores expressed at the end of the cycle. Longer-term patterns included a gradual decline of bill color over the course of multiple clutch attempts, followed by a rapid increase when resources for breeding were withdrawn. Among laboratory males, survivorship was clearly independent of bill color. Among females, bill color changed more rapidly in birds that subsequently died than in those that survived a two-year breeding experiment. High rates of reproduction were significantly associated with decline of male bill score, but not female bill score. The bill-color scores of laboratory males maintained on supplemented and basic seed diets for eight weeks did not diverge. Crowding of laboratory birds was associated with decreased bill color. For birds in nature, bill color tended to decline over the breeding season. Bill color of captive wild birds became more red over a six-week period when birds were fed ad libitum on the laboratory diet. Data for both laboratory and wild birds indicate that reproduction is associated with a decline of bill color in both sexes. Results of diet experiments were inconclusive, but helped to establish that the range of bill colors displayed by domesticated birds is similar to that encountered in nature. Our results, when considered in light of previous findings, suggest the possibility that bill color has different costs and benefits for the sexes and that genetic and/or physiological constraints prevent optimal phenotypic expression of bill color in Zebra Finches.
10.1525/auk.2012.12109|The Great Lakes population of Piping Plovers (
90008594|In many species, individuals benefit from social associations, but they must balance these benefits with the costs of competition for resources. Understanding how these competing factors generate diversity in social systems is a major goal of behavioral ecology, but one that has been hampered by a lack of basic data quantifying many aspects of social structure and associations. Although parrots are generally assumed to have complex social groups, few studies have quantitatively examined these assumptions about parrot social structure. We critically assessed 4 assumptions about parrot socioecology using data from captive and wild groups of Monk Parakeets (
4087947|From analysis of external measurements of 949 museum study skins of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) taken in the breeding season throughout North America, we estimated the extent of geographic variation in size, shape, and color of plumage on the basis of 39 ecoregions. After we defined seven univariate size and six scale-free shape variables, we studied their variation and the extent of their allometric covariation. Because wing length is highly correlated with six other reasonable measures of general size but is simple and easy to visualize, we used wing length as a measure of general size. The smallest robins occur in the warm, humid eastern United States, and the largest occur in the high, cool, and dry Rocky Mountains, northern Great Plains, and northern deserts. Wing shape changes allometrically with size, becoming more pointed in larger birds, but wing shape in the Arctic is more pointed than would be predicted by this trend. Another exception to the allometric covariation of size and shape is that leg length as a proportion of general size is small in Mexico and large in the cool, humid forests along the Pacific coast. Robins in the cool maritime forests of Newfoundland have unusually long tarsi. This variation in leg length is accompanied by variation from pale plumage in Mexico, especially in Baja California, to dark plumage in Newfoundland. Bill length covaries with general size, except that robins with the longest bills occur in the isolated population in the mountains of southern Baja California. Univariate correlations among size and shape variables are useful for study of the complex nature of geographic variation in the robin, but graphic presentations of the results in maps and bivariate graphs are even more informative. They allow comparisons between specific aspects of morphometric variation, and they allow the identification of extreme cases. To understand the relationship among geographic variation in robins, climatic variation, and altitude, we analyzed correlations among these variables. The eight climate variables are mean noon dry- and wet-bulb temperature and relative and absolute humidity for April and for July. In the United States, the general size of robins varies not with dry-bulb temperature, as predicted by Mayr's definition of Bergmann's Rule, but with variables that are a function of both dry-bulb temperature and the evaporative power of the air. Multiple regression analysis using climate and altitude as predictors of the general size of robins shows that July absolute humidity alone has exceptionally high predictive power. When general size is viewed on a psychrometric chart in which ecoregions are located on the basis of their July climate, the relationships are clarified. The plumage of the robin is darkest not in the most humid regions, which are in the southeastern United States, as would be predicted by the most common definition of Gloger's Rule, but in cool areas where the percent saturation of the air is high. These trends of geographic variation in size and color are concordant with those reported in many other species. Whether parallelism among unrelated species in their patterns of geographic variation and its high correspondence with gradients in the physical environment are evidence of natural selection, either by physical factors or indirectly by their covariates, is unknown.
10.2307/4087537|Most male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) established their first territories by replacing territory holders that disappeared. These territories were significantly larger than those established either through subdivision of the vacated territory between two or three replacement males, or through insertion of a new territory through displacement of one or more resident males. Almost all returning male Red-wings settled on their former territories in consecutive years. Their territories remained similar in size and location between years. Strong territory tenacity apparently is favored by lower costs of territory defense because of reduced aggression between familiar neighbors and site dominance effects. The lower costs of territory defense presumably also allowed the site-tenacious males to establish larger territories in consecutive years. Strong territory tenacity by returning males could explain much of the settlement pattern of new males. As a result, the spatial arrangement of male territories in the study marsh (i.e. the location of territorial boundaries) was similar in consecutive years. Traditionalism in the male territorial system should influence Red-wing mating patterns.
4090586| Accurate assessment of color is essential in testing the adaptive significance of color variation in avian plumage. Over the past decade, use of objective methods for assessing color has increased, with particular emphasis on ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths. Researchers have used various source materials, most notably museum specimens, to extend or represent color measurements of individuals in natural populations. Here, we address whether the colors seen in museum specimens accurately represent the colors seen in natural populations. We focus on UV wavelengths and carotenoid-derived colors across 10 species of wood-warblers (Parulidae). Our results indicate an uneven decrease in brightness across the color spectrum, with greater relative decrease in shorter wavelengths in museum specimens. That decrease leads to differences in both hue and chroma between living and museum specimens. The difference from live specimens appears to increase with the museum specimen's age. Our results suggest that caution is needed when using data from museum specimens to test hypotheses on plumage coloration, particularly those involving communication. /// La determinacin exacta del color es esencial para probar la significancia adaptativa de la variacin del color en el plumaje de las aves. El uso de mtodos objetivos para determinar el color, con un nfasis en las longitudes de onda ultravioletas (UV), ha aumentado durante la ltima dcada. Los investigadores han utilizado una variedad de fuentes de material, en su gran mayora especmenes de museo, para expandir o representar las medidas de color de individuos de poblaciones naturales. En este estudio, determinamos si el color observado en especmenes de museo representa exactamente el color observado en individuos de poblaciones naturales. Nos enfocamos en las longitudes de onda UV y en los colores derivados de carotenoides en 10 especies de la familia Parulidae. Nuestros resultados indican una disminucin desigual en el brillo a travs del espectro de colores, con una disminucin relativamente mayor en las longitudes de onda ms cortas en especmenes de museo. Esta disminucin conduce a diferencias en el tono y la intensidad entre especmenes de museo y vivos. La diferencia con los especmenes vivos parece aumentar con la edad de los especmenes de museo. Nuestros resultados sugieren usar con precaucin los datos provenientes de especmenes de museo para probar hiptesis sobre los patrones de coloracin del plumaje, particularmente aquellas que se relacionan con la comunicacin. 
10.2307/4089675|Birds in the genus Pitohui carry the potent neurotoxin homobatrachotoxin in their skin and feathers. In this study, I tested whether homobatrachotoxin can repel or kill chewing lice (order Phthiraptera). When individual feather lice were offered a choice of two feathers on which to feed or take shelter, the lice preferred nontoxic feathers to feathers of the most toxic pitohui species, Pitohui dichrous. Moreover, the presence of toxic P. dichrous feathers significantly shortened the life span of captive feather lice. These results suggest that homobatrachotoxin repels and kills lice and may thus protect pitohuis against lice infestation.
4085699|The White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) was thought to be polymorphic in breeding plumage, having distinct white and tan phases that are bimodal in distribution and independent of sex. Vardy (1971), however, submitted evidence that plumage type is determined primarily by age, sex, and molt cycle. We reexamined this question by measuring plumage characteristics on a quantitative scale with the Munsell system of color notation. Using techniques of numerical taxonomy, we examined immature and adult birds before and after prenuptial molt. Winter plumages were basically unimodal and continuous in distribution, whereas spring plumages were bimodal, as the birds separated into two morphs independent of sex. Winter plumage was significantly more variable than spring plumage. We hypothesize that winter plumage variability could function to maintain stable social relationships in winter flocks.
4087282|Brood size in the Great Tit (Parus major) was manipulated (increased, decreased, or unchanged) when nestlings were 5 days old. Both the frequency of second clutches and the interbrood interval were affected. The number of nestlings and hatching date, but not nestling and female mass, differed between first broods followed and not followed by second clutches. Hatching date and the number of nestlings in the first brood explained most of the variation in interbrood interval, whereas female mass did not contribute. Feeding first-brood nestlings and fledglings is an energy-demanding process, and the female may have to allocate resources to brood-feeding at the expense of reproductive development. Furthermore, a larger brood requires a longer period of feeding than a smaller brood. These circumstances probably explain why the size of the first brood affects the timing of the second clutch. Female condition and food depletion of the territory do not seem to be important. Because late second clutches have a lower probability of fledgling survival than do earlier ones-and consequently are of lower value from the female's standpoint-a large first clutch may delay laying to the point that a second clutch is not worthwhile. We conclude that a female's decision whether to lay a second clutch is a strategic one based on the value of the second clutch; a female that "decides" to lay a second clutch starts as quickly as possible.
10.2307/4083294|In the Handbook of North American birds the description of egg sizes, and more particularly of egg shapes, proceeds on somewhat different lines from those of previous works. The present paper explains the methods of measuring and methods of "reducing" the observations. The elements actually measured are the conventional average length and breadth, plus the (unconventional) radii of the blunt and pointed ends. The standard deviations of each of these are estimated from the sample. From these measurements, all of which in effect are measurements of size, certain dimensionless quantities are derived hereinafter referred to as asymmetry, bicone, and elongation. These are specifications of shape independent of size. This paper sets forth the theory, modifies the theory to achieve maximum practical utility, and gives reasons for believing the results valid and adequate. In addition methods of sampling are discussed, and a new procedure of sampling is given for getting somewhat more representative results than heretofore.
10.1525/auk.2010.09144|Life-history theory suggests that long-lived bird species will adjust their nesting effort according to current conditions to balance the costs and benefits of current reproduction with their long-term needs for survival and future reproduction. However, responses to the same habitat conditions may differ between species, even within the same ecosystem, to produce different nesting and population patterns. We examined differences in the nesting ecology of two sympatric wading species, Great Egret (
10.2307/4089235|I monitored nests and reproduction of California Gnatcatchers (Polioptila californica californica) at Miramar Naval Air Station, California, in 1994 and 1995 to determine correlates of nest placement, life-history traits, and nest predation. One in four nests survived to fledging, with the majority of losses caused by predation. Predation rate over the entire nesting cycle did not change seasonally and was lower in nests with full clutch sizes than in those with submodal clutch sizes. When the nest sample was divided into thirds according to nest height and then according to rate of disturbance by investigators, the upper and lower thirds suffered greater rates of predation than the middle third, and nests disturbed most often by investigators suffered greater predation rates than those disturbed less frequently. Finally, the probability of incubation lasting the full period (at least 14 days) dropped seasonally from about 0.9 for nests initiated in mid-March to less than 0.2 for nest initiated in early July, despite there being no apparent relationship between incubation length and mean daily high or low temperatures over the laying and incubation stages. These results indicate that reproductive success is related to variation in nest-site selection and life-history traits, as well as to variation in environmental variables and investigator activity.
4087921| We examined roosting behavior of adult and juvenile Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) during the postfledging period using radiotelemetry. We located 1,107 screech-owl roost sites in 39 species of trees, shrubs, and vines. Nearly half (47.8%) were in eastern red cedar (Juniperus virginiana), shagbark hickory (Carya ovata), black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia), and black walnut (Juglans nigra). Owls used open limb roosts (46.4%), tangle roosts (36.2%), and conifer roosts (17.4%). Tree cavities were used rarely (n = 3). Open limb roosts were most common early in the postfledging period, whereas use of tangles for roosting increased later in the season. The mean roost site was 10.2  0.2 m high in a tree 14.2  0.2 m tall with a DBH (diameter at breast height) of 23.8  0.4 cm. Based on a random sample of 800 potential roost trees, screech-owls used significantly shorter trees than those available. However, we found no significant difference in mean DBH between used and available trees. On average, screech-owls roosted 252  5.3 m from their nests and moved 64  3.5 m between daily roost sites. Juvenile and adult owls differed little in selection of roost sites, although juveniles used a greater variety of trees. Paired adults did not differ in roost-site use. The mean distance between roost sites of young owls and their parents (both male and female) increased significantly after the fifth week postfledging. After this period, juvenile owls roosted unaccompanied by adults much more often, which suggests young gain some independence from adults. We noted significant differences among families for all roost-site variables, with most variation explained by differences in areas occupied by families. Entire families roosted together in the same tree 31  7.5% of the time (range: 16.7-51.5%). Coefficients of association at roost sites between adults and their young were similar for both members of a pair. We suggest that adult Eastern Screech-Owls do not divide their broods. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09017|Each year, hundreds of thousands of shorebirds use Delaware Bay, on the northeast coast of the United States, as a final stopover before migration to breeding areas. The bay provides them with abundant Horseshoe Crab (
4085353| Daily energy expenditures of two pairs of nesting Ferruginous Hawks were estimated from activity budgets, and were compared with energy intakes determined from observed prey captures. In 1974 and 1975 respectively, the adult males expended 330.9  37.8 (SD) and 374.3  18.1 kcal/day, whereas the adult females expended 265.3  28.3 and 294.6  34.5 kcal/day. The total daily energy expenditures of adults and young (approximately 995.8 and 967.1 kcal/day in 1974 and 1975, respectively) were more than balanced by their gross intakes (1,337.8  308.2 and 1,393.2  236.7 kcal/day, respectively). The adult males had foraging efficiencies (kcal gathered/kcal expended in hunting) estimated at 7.56  2.17 in the first year and 7.31  1.80 in the second. Estimates of energy intake and foraging efficiency are maxima due to the likely under-representation of small prey items in regurgitated pellets. 
4090354| We present a phylogenetic hypothesis for 40 species in the bird family Paridae, based on comparisons of nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene. Parids, including tits and chickadees, are an older group than their morphological stereotypy suggests. The longest cytochrome-b distances between species reach 12% in uncorrected divergence. With the exception of one thrasher-like terrestrial tit species of the Tibetan plateau (Pseudopodoces humilis), morphological and ecological stasis have prevailed since the initial parid radiation in the Old World during the mid-Tertiary. All trees support monophyly of the family Paridae, which includes Parus (sensu lato) and the monotypic Oriental genera Sylviparus, Melanochlora, and Pseudopodoces. Within the clade of chickadees and gray tits (Parus, subgenus Poecile), three Old World species, Parus lugubris of the eastern Mediterranean and Balkan regions, P. superciliosus of high elevations in the Himalayas of western China, and P. varius of the Orient are sisters to all other species. The Eurasian crested titmice (subgenus Lophophanes) and North American crested titmice (subgenus Baeolophus) are sister groups. Our data suggest two colonizations of the New World by parids in the late Tertiary. The ancestor of modern Baeolophus colonized North America 4 mya, and the ancestor of all North American chickadees colonized North America 3.5 mya. /// Nous prsentons une hypothse phylogntique pour 40 espces de la famille des Parids base sur des comparaisons de squences de nuclotides du gne mitocochodrial cytochrome-b. Les Parids constituent un groupe plus vieux que ce qui semble tre suggr par leur strotype morphologique. Les plus grandes distances de cytochrome-b entre les espces atteignent 12% en divergence non corrige.  l'exception d'une espce terrestre de msange provenant des plateaux tibtains (Pseudopodoces humilis), les stases morphologiques et cologiques ont prvalu depuis la radiation initiale des Parids dans l'ancien monde au cours du mi-tertiaire. Tous les arbres phylogntiques appuient la monophylie de la famille des Parids, qui inclut les Parus (sensu lato), les genres orientaux monotypiques Sylviparus, Melanochlora et Pseudopodoces. Dans le clade des msanges et des msanges "grises" (Parus, sous-genre Poecile), trois espces de l'ancien monde, Parus lugubris, de l'est des rgions mditerranennes et balkaniques, P. superciliosus, vivant en haute altitude dans la chane himalayenne, et P. varius, de l'orient, sont apparentes avec toutes les autres espces. Les msanges "huppes" eurasiennes (Lophophanes) et les msanges "huppes" de l'Amrique du Nord (Baeolophus) sont des groupes apparents. Nos donnes suggrent l'existence de deux colonisations de l'ancien monde par les Parids  la fin du tertiaire. L'anctre moderne de Baeolophus a colonis l'Amrique du Nord il y a environ 4 millions d'annes et l'anctre de toutes les msanges d'Amrique du Nord a colonis l'Amrique du Nord il y a environ 3.5 millions d'annes. 
auk.2012.11190|We used binomial distance-sampling models to estimate the effective detection radius (EDR) of point-count surveys across boreal Canada. We evaluated binomial models based on 050 m and >50 m distance categories for goodness-of-fit and sensitivities to variation in survey effort and habitats sampled. We also compared binomial EDRs to Partners in Flight's maximum detection distances (MDD) to determine differences in landbird population sizes derived from each. Binomial EDRs had a small positive bias (4%) averaged across 86 species and a large positive bias (3082%) for two species when compared with EDRs estimated using multinomial distance sampling. Patterns in binomial EDRs were consistent with how bird songs attenuate in relation to their frequencies and transmission through different habitats. EDR varied 12% among habitats and increased 17% when birds were counted to an unlimited distance, compared with a limited distance of 100 m. The EDR did not vary with the duration of surveys, and densities did not differ when using unlimited-distance versus truncated data. Estimated densities, however, increased 19% from 3- to 5-min counts and 25% from 5- to 10-min counts, possibly from increases in the availability, movement, or double counting of birds with longer counts. Thus, investigators should be cautious when comparing distance-sampling results among studies if methods vary. Population sizes estimated using EDR averaged 5 times (0.815 times) those estimated with MDD. Survey data from which to estimate binomial EDRs are widely available across North America and could be used as an alternative to MDD when estimating landbird population sizes.
10.1525/auk.2012.12090|Understanding avian responses to ungulate-induced habitat modification is important because deer populations are increasing across much of temperate Europe and North America. Our experimental study examined whether habitat quality for Blackcaps (
25488566|We examined the influence of ecological and behavioral factors on breeding success of Ruddy-capped Nightingale Thrushes (
4087086|The occurrence of birds in forest understory and tree-fall gaps during spring and fall migration periods was determined in an isolated woodlot. We used mist-net captures to test the hypothesis that birds are attracted to gaps because of higher resource levels. We captured 1,010 birds (74 species) in spring and 458 (44 species) in fall. Total captures and captures per net were higher (P < 0.001) in gaps during spring and fall. Mean number of species per net was higher in gaps (P < 0.001) during both seasons, but total species in gaps (69 spring, 43 fall) was not significantly higher than in forest understory (60 spring, 28 fall). Of 44 species represented by adequate sample sizes (n > 5) in spring, 9 were significantly (P < 0.05) more common in gaps and 2 were more common in forest understory. Nine of 17 species were captured more often (P < 0.05) in gaps during fall. During spring, flycatchers, ground insectivores, foliage insectivores, and granivore-omnivores were captured more frequently (P < 0.05) in gaps. Flycatchers showed no difference in fall, but other trophic groups, including frugivores, were captured more frequently (P < 0.05) in gaps than in forest understory sites. Bark foragers showed no statistical preference for gaps or forest understory in spring or fall. Total species per net and total captures per net correlated positively (P < 0.05) with density of foliage in the lower canopy and negatively with density of upper canopy foliage in both spring and fall. Total species and captures correlated positively (P < 0.05) with insect abundance in spring and with fruit abundance in fall. Foliage insectivores correlated positively with low canopy foliage and insect abundance in both spring and fall. Captures of frugivores correlated with fruit abundance in fall. These data support the hypothesis that birds are attracted to tree-fall gaps because of higher resource abundance and provide further evidence of the importance of habitat heterogeneity to the structure and composition of bird communities.
10.2307/4088766|I examined the effects of variation in growth rate on the time of fledging of nestling Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) on Pine Island, British Columbia, in 1989 and 1990. In both years, among unmanipulated nestlings, age at fledging was inversely related to growth rate, whereas mass at fledging was positively related to growth rate. The results of a supplementary feeding study in 1989 showed that food-supplemented chicks grew faster and fledged at a younger age and heavier mass than did unsupplemented chicks, replicating the patterns observed in unmanipulated nestlings. These results are consistent with the predictions of models that consider the fledging decision in alcids is made at the best time for the nestling to shift between two habitats (land and sea) with different fitness characteristics (growth and mortality). Interannual comparisons did not provide the same results. Chick growth rate was higher in 1989 than in 1990 and mass at fledging was correspondingly higher. Age at fledging, however, was the same in both years. I present several possible explanations for the discrepancy between the intra- and interannual comparisons.
25150256|The tody-tyrant and flatbill assemblage, sensu Lanyon (1988a), includes 12 genera of tyrant flycatchers known variously as "tody-tyrants" and "flatbills." Lanyon supported the monophyly of the group based on similar skull morphology and nest form, and built intergeneric relationships based on syringeal characters. However, these comparisons were made without a phylogenetic framework. A more recent study assessing relationships in the tyrant flycatchers using published morphological and behavioral data failed to recover monophyly of this assemblage (Birdsley 2002). Using DNA sequence data, we test for the monophyly of the tody-tyrant and flatbill assemblage and compare and contrast phylogenetic signals from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA character systems. We discuss our results in light of results from previous studies. We include representatives of the other major tyrant flycatcher assemblages for a total of 42 individuals (representing 27 tyrannid genera and 36 species). We sequenced 3,022 base pairs (bp) of three mitochondrial genes (ND2, ND3, and cytochrome b) and one nuclear intron (FIB5). Our results resolve many of the basal relationships of the tody-tyrant and flatbill phylogeny, but separate and combined analyses of data partitions are necessary to understand the nature of conflict among data sets. The tody-tyrants constitute a monophyletic clade, but the genera Hemitriccus and Lophotriccus are not monophyletic, and the limits of Oncostoma-Lophotriccus need to be revised with more complete sampling at the species level. The flatbills as defined by Lanyon are not monophyletic (Onychorhynchus and Platyrinchus are not true flatbills). Pseudotriccus and Corythopis are sister taxa and, together with Leptopogon and Mionectes, are allied to the tody-tyrant and flatbill clade. /// El grupo de los picochatos y mosquiteros, sensu Lanyon (1988a), incluye a 12 gneros de la familia Tyrannidae conocidos en general como mosquiteros y picochatos. Lanyon apoy la condicin monofiltica de este grupo basndose en la similitud de la morfologa de sus crneos y en la forma de sus nidos, y construy relaciones inter-genricas basndose en caracteres de la siringe. Sin embargo, estas comparaciones no fueron hechas en un contexto filogentico. Un estudio ms reciente, que determin las relaciones entre los Tyrannidae utilizando datos publicados de morfologa y comportamiento, no consigui detectar la condicin monofiltica de este grupo (Birdsley 2002). Utilizando datos de secuencia de ADN, probamos la condicin monofiltica del grupo de los picochatos y mosquiteros, y comparamos y contrastamos las seales filogenticas de sistemas de caracteres de ADN mitocondrial y nuclear. Discutimos nuestros resultados a la luz de los resultados encontrados en estudios anteriores. Incluimos representantes de los principales grupos de Tyrannidae por un total de 42 individuos (representando a 27 gneros y 36 especies). Secuenciamos 3,022 pares de bases (pb) de tres genes de ADN mitocondrial (ND2, ND3, y citocromo b) y un intrn nuclear (FIB5). Nuestros resultados resuelven muchas de las relaciones basales de la filogenia de los picochatos y mosquiteros. Sin embargo, se requieren anlisis por separado y en combinacin para entender la naturaleza del conflicto entre los sets de caracteres. Los mosquiteros constituyen un grupo monofiltico, pero los gneros Hemitriccus y Lophotriccus no son monofilticos y los lmites de Oncostoma-Lophotriccus deben ser revisados con un muestreo exhaustivo a nivel de especies. Los picochatos, como fueron definidos por Lanyon, no son un grupo monofiltico (Onychorhynchus y Platyrinchus no son picochatos verdaderos). Pseudotriccus y Corythopis son grupos hermanos y junto con Leptopogon y Mionectes estn aliados al clado de los picochatos y mosquiteros.
10.2307/4088417|During May to July 1982, we surveyed birds in primary forest and in different-aged groves of the exotic tree Albizia falcataria at Sabah Softwoods, a lowland tree plantation in Sabah, East Malaysia (formerly British North Borneo). We found that the Albizia was in general attractive to many native birds. About 60% of primary-forest species used the plantation, and the frequency at which individuals were observed in the oldest groves was almost twice that of nearby primary forest. The Albizia attracted birds because, as an extremely fast-growing legume with thin leaves, it permitted the rapid development of a well-structured secondary forest. It also was heavily infested with pest insects, which provided an abundant food source. Despite its apparent richness, however, the Albizia lacked several important features of natural forest (e.g. canopy fruits and nest holes). As a result, some primary-forest bird groups were poorly represented (e.g. large canopy frugivores and flycatchers) and others could make only limited use of the plantation (e.g. woodpeckers). In addition, the Albizia is expected to lose its diversity as the plantation as a whole ages. Many of the plantation birds were transients from nearby forest that visited daily to feed, and some probably had been displaced by intense logging. The number of daily transients should decrease as primary forest recedes due to logging and development. Refugee species diversity should suffer from attrition as the plantation is cropped and predation and age take their toll.
4085440|I studied the breeding biology of the Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis) on Kent Island, New Brunswick, Canada from 1964 through 1968. I estimated the breeding population to be 125-135 pairs
10.2307/4088267|We surveyed a Whooping Crane (Grus americana) genomic library enriched for repetitive clones, and isolated a clone whose insert hybridized stringently to a repeated-DNA family in the genomes of Whooping Cranes, but not Sandhill Cranes (G. canadensis). This tandem sequence, repeated approximately 500 times in the Whooping Crane genome, displays taxon-specific properties suggesting that the Common Crane (G. grus) is the Whooping Crane's nearest living relative. Low-stringency hybridizations with this repeat produced conserved patterns in all cranes except crowned-cranes (Balearica), which indicates an early divergence of the crowned-cranes and the remaining cranes. Sequence and DNA-hybridization analyses imply that this repeat is a satellite sequence of similar complexity and organization to the primate alphoid DNA-sequence family, which also has chromosome and species specificity.
4085706|Community organization of an oak woodland breeding avifauna was studied in Sonora, Mexico. Species were classified into guilds by quantifying foraging behavior, based on investigator-defined resource classes, and subjecting these data to cluster analysis. From this analysis five guilds were recognized: foliage gleaning, wood gleaning, wood probing, air sallying, and ground sallying. Within each resource class all guilds foraged in a significantly different manner, except for air and ground salliers. Species within guilds were most often separated by food-site and perch height. Use of height classes by the avian community was significantly different from the quantity of tree vegetation per height class. Differential height utilization generally resulted from gleaning and probing guilds foraging at upper heights and sallying guilds foraging at lower heights. Ecological separation within and among guilds is discussed and related to community organization in this oak woodland avifauna. When the guild structure of this community is compared to other oak woodland avifaunas, a decrease in foliage gleaners of nearly 2.5-fold and a 6.4-fold increase in salliers occur from Oregon to Sonora, Mexico. Utility of the guild approach is discussed in relation to some prominent questions raised by results of the above comparison concerning (1) foraging plasticity in species coexistence and (2) change in community structure over time and between geographic locations.
4090628| Resident tropical passerines that exhibit year-round territorial aggression do not fit well into the temperate-zone model, because testosterone does not increase substantially during the breeding season. We studied patterns of testosterone secretion in the White-bellied Antbird (Myrmeciza longipes), a resident tropical species in Panama that maintains territories year-round and is capable of aggression throughout the year, regardless of its stage of reproduction. Levels of plasma testosterone were low (mean = 0.30 ng mL
25150355| Juvenile survival and dispersal rates are important demographic parameters in predicting the viability of avian populations, but estimates are seldom available because mortality is usually confounded with permanent natal dispersal in analyses of live-encounter data. We used the Barker model for combined captures, recoveries, and resightings to estimate juvenile survival in fledgling Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) for the 6.5-to-10.5-month period between fledging at 28 days and 1 April the following year, on the central California coast, for a 16-year period, 1984-1999. By using a large body of year-round sighting data from throughout the species' Pacific-coast range, we estimated true survival and quantified natal dispersal rates and distances. Juvenile survival estimates varied annually between 0.283  0.028 (mean  SE) and 0.575  0.061 with no trend over the study, and paralleled higher adult survival in our most parsimonious models. In comparison, annual survival of banded chicks from hatching to fledging at age 28 days was 0.285-0.483 (x = 0.382  0.014 SE) for those 16 years. Males were more likely to disperse from Monterey Bay for winter and females were more likely to disperse for breeding. Dispersal distances to breeding sites were usually within 10 km of natal sites (64%) and seldom >50 km (16%). The present study provides the first estimate of true survival for a juvenile shorebird and new information on survival and dispersal rates that will be useful for modeling Snowy Plover population viability. Studies of local winter residents, focused on predator pressure and weather conditions, could further advance our understanding of factors determining Snowy Plover survival. /// La supervivencia y la tasa de dispersin de los juveniles son parmetros demogrficos importantes para la prediccin de la viabilidad de las poblaciones. Sin embargo las estimaciones de estos parmetros casi nunca estn disponibles debido a que en los anlisis de datos de avistamiento, la mortalidad es confundida con procesos de dispersin natal permanente. Utilizamos el modelo de Barker con datos de capturas combinadas, recapturas y avistamientos repetidos en la costa central de California para estimar la supervivencia de juveniles de Charadrius alexandrinus para un periodo de 6.5 a 10.5 meses entre el emplumamiento a los 28 das y el primer da de abril del ao siguiente, durante un periodo de 16 aos (1984-1999). Utilizando una gran base de datos de avistamientos en el rango de distribucin de esta especie a lo largo de la costa Pacfica, estimamos tanto las tasas de supervivencia verdaderas como las tasas y distancias de dispersin natal. Los estimados de supervivencia juvenil variaron anualmente entre 0.283  0.028 (media  EE) y 0.575  0.061, sin un patrn determinado durante el periodo estudiado, pero fluctuando de modo paralelo a las tasas de supervivencia ms altas de los adultos segn nuestros modelos ms parsimoniosos. Comparativamente, la tasa de supervivencia anual de los polluelos anillados, desde la eclosin hasta el emplumamiento a los 28 das, fue de 0.285-0.483 (= 0.382  0.014 EE) para los 16 aos de datos. Los machos presentaron una mayor probabilidad de dispersarse desde la Baha Monterrey para invernar, mientras que las hembras presentaron mayor probabilidad de dispersarse para reproducirse. Generalmente, la distancia de dispersin a los sitios de cra no fue ms de 10 km desde el lugar natal (64%) y raramente ms de 50 km (16%). Este estudio presenta la primera estimacin de supervivencia verdadera de juveniles de aves playeras as como informacin nueva sobre las tasas de supervivencia y dispersin, las cuales sern tiles para modelar la viabilidad de poblaciones de C. alexandrinus. Nuevos estudios sobre los individuos residentes de invierno enfocados en las presiones por parte de los depredadores y en las condiciones climticas podran contribuir an ms para el entendimiento de los factores que determinan la supervivencia de esta especie. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10252|The natural range extension and colonization of a new continent by a bird species is rare, and even more rarely is it observed and documented. In 1980, six pairs of Barn Swallows were found breeding in Argentina within the species' historical wintering range, and this South American population has since grown to thousands of pairs. We explored the genetic context and consequences of this natural trans-hemispheric colonization event via comparisons among the South American population and two North American populations. We tested for evidence of a genetic founder event by assessing allelic diversity at eight microsatellite loci and haplotype diversity of mitochondrial ND2 sequences. Contrary to our expectations, the recently established South American breeding population showed no evidence of a founder effect, with no difference in heterozygosity, allelic diversity, haplotype diversity, or population differentiation in comparison to the large North American populations. The genetic similarity of these populations suggests that this long-distance colonization event was not associated with a strong demographic bottleneck, perhaps because the South American population has been augmented by ongoing immigration from North America.
10.1525/auk.2012.11240|Stopover use by migrating shorebirds is affected by patch-level characteristics of habitat, but the relative influence of broad-scale factors is poorly understood. We conducted surveys of ten 10-km-radius landscapes in north-central Oklahoma from 2007 through 2009 to examine the influence of the amount and composition of wetland habitats and surrounding land cover on shorebird use during migration. We used generalized linear modeling and an information-theoretic framework to identify factors that best explained species richness, total abundance, and abundance of four groups of shorebirds classified by breeding status and migration distance. Total abundance and richness both increased with the area of wetland habitat within a landscape, regardless of the composition of semi-natural and developed land cover surrounding wetlands. Abundance of shorebird species with different migration strategies varied in relation to the composition of wetland types within a landscape. The amounts of various permanent and semi-permanent wetlands best explained abundance of resident species. Short-distance migrant abundance was best explained by the amount of permanent lacustrine wetlands. The amounts of temporary and semi-permanent floodwater habitats were important predictors for abundance of intermediate- and long-distance migrants, although permanent riverine habitats were also important for intermediate-distance migrants. Shorebird species richness was best explained by the amounts of floodwater habitats and permanent riverine wetlands. Broad-scale studies thus provide important insights on use of stopover habitats by migratory shorebirds. Within this region, conservation of riverine habitats with a large complement of ephemeral habitats is necessary to provide the stopover habitat for migrating shorebirds.
4086411|We report the results of a 6-yr study of two banded populations of sedentary White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli). All birds were banded and territory holders identified each year. We determined the outcome of 1,264 nests and located all nests of 186 pairs during a breeding season. Each pair produced an average of 2.5 fledglings in a season. Given the fact that a territorial bird has an expectancy of remaining on territory about 1.5 yr, the population seems to be at a stable level. The birds at one of the study locations, Twin Peaks, were less successful overall and more variable year to year than at the other, the Presidio. The differences between the two areas could be the result of severe weather changes that altered the characteristics of the vegetation. Only 0.34 of the total number of nests (978) were successful, predation being the greatest cause of nest failure. Of the total nests, 0.39 were lost to predation (0.13 to egg predation and 0.26 to nestling predation). Survival rates indicate that nest mortality is 0.0197 per day for the incubation stage, 0.0450 per day for the nestling stage, and 0.0366 per day for the total nesting period. Although it is possible that observer disturbance biased the results, the increased understanding of these birds that is derived from establishing natal sites, parentage, and kinship is of greater benefit than the probable cost of any such disturbance.
10.1525/auk.2011.10144|Reproductive schedules of Dusky Flycatchers (
10.2307/4088152|Redpolls (Carduelis flammea and C. hornemanni) are well known for their extensive phenotypic variability. Various explanations have been proposed for the phenomenon, ranging from extreme variability within a single inclusive taxon, to more modest variation within frequently hybridizing or strictly isolated taxa. The predominant view favors the recognition of two largely sympatric and only slightly differentiated species: the Common Redpoll (C. flammea), comprised of the four subspecies flammea, cabaret, islandica, and rostrata; and the Hoary Redpoll (C. hornemanni) comprised of the two subspecies hornemanni and exilipes. We investigated the possible existence of sympatric redpoll forms in a large sample (n = 209) of breeding individuals from Churchill, Manitoba, where the putative forms flammea and exilipes were reported to co-occur. Groups of individuals of specific age and sex were analyzed independently. The sample was not divided a priori into flammea and exilipes subgroups. The pattern of variation within each age-and-sex group is described, and the differences between these groups are analyzed. We show that several pigmentation characters in specific age-and-sex groups are not distributed normally, and that pale and dark subgroups of second-year (SY) and after-second-year (ASY) males can be identified in a principal-components analysis (PCA) of seven characters reflecting the extent of melanin and carotenoid pigmentation. The pink- and red-breasted subgroups of ASY males match almost perfectly the pale and dark groups found in the PCA analysis. Further, when ASY males of different breast color (pink vs. red) are analyzed independently, all plumage characters are distributed normally. The analyses of SY and ASY females failed to provide good evidence for a plumage polymorphism. Our results support the idea that two relatively distinct redpoll forms breed at Churchill, which differ in several plumage characteristics involving both melanin and carotenoid pigmentations. These forms are more clearly differentiated in males than in females. They may be specifically distinct (C. f. flammea and C. hornemanni exilipes), as has frequently been suggested, but they also could be the product of different types of intraspecific genetic or ecophenotypic polymorphisms. Preliminary observations are presented that support the idea that plumage variants are largely genetically determined, but experimental work is needed to confirm this suggestion.
90008593|Growing evidence indicates that producing eggs may constitute a considerable cost of reproduction. If female parental care, which in many species exceeds male performance, is added to these initial costs, it may be concluded that females contribute more to reproduction than males. However, this additional burden on females should reduce their survival and skew the usually equal sex ratio, but this is generally not the case. A resolution of this apparent paradox requires studies estimating the parental investments of both sexes at different stages of breeding, with particular focus on the initial reproductive stage. In the present study, egg composition and its energetic value was estimated in the Dovekie (or Little Auk,
10.2307/4087750|We induced infanticide experimentally in a free-living population of Wattled Jacanas (Jacana jacana). These tropical shorebirds have a polyandrous mating system and females compete among themselves for breeding opportunities with males. Severe fights occurred between females, leading to takeovers of male mates. Under these circumstances, infanticidal behavior (the killing of young of the previous female) by the replacement female would be adaptive if it led to more rapid reproduction with the usurped male. When opportunities for takeovers were created experimentally (by removal of resident females), replacement females killed or evicted three of four existing broods of chicks and sexually solicited four of five usurped males. These findings strengthen the hypothesis of sexually selected infanticide by extending its applicability to a species in which sex roles are reversed.
10.2307/4089934|We examined habitat selection by breeding Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) at three spatial scales in eastern Ontario over three years (1997-1999). Territories were characterized by well-spaced large trees, with high canopies and dense foliage cover at heights between 12-18 m. Nesting habitat additionally was characterized by dense foliage cover above 18 m. The results of our nest-patch (0.04 ha circle around nest) and nest-site (0.01 ha circle) analyses indicate that male Cerulean Warblers may take active roles in nest-site selection when selecting territories. We conclude from our nest-patch and nest-site selection analyses that territories likely contain multiple nest patches and sites and that male Cerulean Warblers may defend areas with multiple nest patches or sites, which may attract females to settle with them. Whether or not Cerulean Warbler females use nest-site availability as a mate- or territory-choice cue remains unknown. We also tested the validity of a commonly made assumption that a random sampling of habitat by researchers is representative of the habitat actually available to birds and found that, in our study area, the assumption was invalid. Taken together, our results point toward the need to maintain sizeable stands of mature, deciduous forest to ensure the persistence of Cerulean Warblers in eastern Ontario. Population characteristics such as lower minimum area requirements and a resilience to habitat disturbance may make that an easier job in eastern Ontario than elsewhere in this species' breeding range.
4087331|We investigated the factors determining dominance in aggressive encounters between female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) resident on territories of single males. Three male territories were observed, with harems of 5, 5, and 3 females. Feeding platforms were placed on the territories to increase the sample of observable encounters between residents. Order of settlement on the territory was strongly related to dominance; in 19 of 23 dyads the earlier settler won the majority of encounters. Proximity to the nest at the encounter site was also related to dominance; in 30 of 45 dyads the female closer to her nest won the majority of interactions. The effect of proximity on dominance also was shown experimentally by moving the platforms from near one nest to near another, which caused the dominance relationships between the pairs of females to reverse. In a partial correlation analysis, both order of settlement and proximity to nest correlated independently with the percentage of encounters won within dyads. Size, age, and nesting stage were not related to dominance.
25150356|We analyzed differences in wing morphology between sexes and among age classes of Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) to assess possible relationships with differential migration, acrobatic aerial displays, and potential vulnerability to predation, using size-constrained component analysis. Data on wing morphology of all four sex and age classes were available from birds spending the nonbreeding season in northwestern Mexico, and data on females were available from throughout the annual cycle. During the nonbreeding season, females had longer and more pointed wings than males. Within each sex, adults had longer and more pointed wings than immature birds. Throughout the annual cycle, adult females tended to have longer and more pointed wings than immature females. The longer and more pointed wings of females are consistent with selection on flight efficiency for longer migration distances. The shorter and rounder wings of males are consistent with stronger selection for agility in flight during acrobatic aerial displays, but also with weaker selection for flight efficiency because of shorter migration distances. The rounder wings of immature birds are most consistent with stronger selection for take-off performance as an antipredator adaptation, at a cost of lower flight efficiency during long-distance migratory flight. Considering intraspecific sex and age class differences in wing morphology of species with differential migration complements interspecific comparisons assessing the relative importance of selective agents acting on this character. /// Analizamos las diferencias en la morfologa del ala entre sexos y clases de edad de Calidris mauri para evaluar su relacin con la migracin diferencial, los vuelos acrobticos y el riesgo de depredacin, utilizando un anlisis de componentes de tamao restringido. Recolectamos datos sobre la morfologa del ala de ambos sexos y clases de edad durante la poca no-reproductiva en el noroeste de Mxico, y slo de hembras a travs del ciclo anual. Durante la poca no-reproductiva, las hembras tuvieron alas ms largas y puntiagudas que los machos. En cada sexo, los adultos tuvieron alas ms largas y puntiagudas que los inmaduros. A travs del ao, las hembras adultas tendieron a tener alas ms largas y puntiagudas que las hembras inmaduras. Las alas ms largas y puntiagudas de las hembras concuerdan con la mayor eficiencia requerida para vuelos migratorios largos. Las alas ms cortas y redondas de los machos concuerdan con la mayor agilidad requerida durante los vuelos acrobticos, pero tambin pueden relacionarse en cierto grado con la eficiencia de vuelo porque su distancia de migracin es ms corta. Las alas ms redondas de los inmaduros concuerdan con alas adaptadas para aumentar el desempeo durante el despegue y reducir el riesgo de depredacin, a pesar del bajo desempeo durante vuelos migratorios largos. Considerar las diferencias intraespecficas dadas por los sexos y la edad en la morfologa del ala en especies con migracin diferencial, complementa las comparaciones interespecficas que evalan la importancia relativa de los factores que determinan la morfologa del ala.
10.2307/4088001|We documented levels of genetic variability for two species of Hispaniolan palm-tanagers. Significant differences between age classes in levels of genetic heterozygosity were concordant with an age dimorphism in foraging behavior and morphology in Phaenicophilus palmarum; juveniles (H = 0.121) were almost twice as heterozygous as adults (H = 0.074). Phaenicophilus poliocephalus (H = 0.104) was not characterized by a distinct age dimorphism in any character examined. Although P. poliocephalus resembled juvenile P. palmarum in morphology and behavior, it was not significantly different from either adult or juvenile P. palmarum in levels of genetic variability. Both species of Phaenicophilus possess levels of genetic variability (9-10%) that are high for birds, and they differ in allele frequencies and presence of private alleles, although they are not characterized by fixed allelic differences. Phaenicophilus poliocephalus was probably derived from small founding populations (ca. 50,000-260,000 yr BP), composed mostly of juvenile P. palmarum that colonized the south island of Hispaniola formed during the Pleistocene. Rapid divergence between species is consistent with predictions from models of heterochrony by paedomorphosis and speciation by a founder event.
10.1525/auk.2009.09180|Although conservation theory argues for large habitat patches, most grasslands in the Midwest are small. To assess the influence of patch size and proximity to edges on nest survival, we monitored 816 nests of two grassland-nesting species, Dickcissel (
10.2307/4089504|Dramatic increases in population size and major extensions of winter range have occurred among midcontinent Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) in the last few decades. Agricultural landscapes within these range extensions provide winter foods that are distinctly different from those upon which most birds in this population subsisted until about 1970. I examined geographic variation in body and bill morphology of Lesser Snow Geese by comparing geese from: (1) traditionally used coastal brackish marshes contiguous to the Gulf of Mexico (n = 314), (2) agricultural landscapes centered around rice production and occurring up to 160 km inland from the coast (n = 200), and (3) agricultural landscapes with extensive corn production about 1,000 km north of the Gulf of Mexico (n = 125). Analyses of size and shape in body, head, and bill morphology were done on principal components of 10 metric variables. Geese from marsh habitats were largest in body size, those from rice prairies were intermediate but most variable, and those from the Missouri River valley farthest north were smallest. In addition, "marsh" geese had thicker bills, longer skulls, and longer culmens than "corn" geese. Five nonexclusive hypotheses (phenotypic selection, habitat selection, nutrition, fall migration endurance, and introgressive hybridization with Ross' Geese [Chen rossii]) are proposed to account for this geographic variation in external morphology. The interplay between winter range extension, habitat use, and morphology may have motivated large increases in continental population size and may be coupled with patterns of demographic and morphological change reported on breeding areas.
10.2307/4088867| We tested five hypotheses for facultative manipulation of sex ratios in a population of Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) studied for 13 years in California. Based on 2,187 nestlings from 549 broods, the overall mean ( SE) proportion of males was 51.9  1.1%, not significantly different from 50%. Sex ratios of nestlings were significantly biased in only 1 of 13 years, and we failed to detect any significant bias related to brood reduction, breeder female age, presence of helper males, first-egg date, condition of the breeder female, or annual differences in environmental conditions. These results allow us to reject all five hypotheses, including: (1) nestling size dimorphism and local resource competition, both of which predict a female-biased sex ratio; (2) local resource enhancement via the "repayment model" of Emlen et al. (1986), which predicts a more male-biased sex ratio than we observed; and (3) seasonal changes in either maternal condition or nestling condition, both of which predict shifts in sex ratios not observed in our data. These results prompt us to urge caution when reporting sex-ratio biases in natural populations and when interpreting published studies, many of which suffer from small sample sizes, post hoc analyses, and insufficiently conservative statistical tests. Sex-ratio biases in birds are uncommon, and considerable data will be necessary to determine which hypotheses (if any) are sufficiently robust to regularly select for avian sex ratios that deviate significantly from 50:50. 
90008588|How animals use space has fundamental behavioral and ecological implications. Utilization distributions are among the most common methods for quantifying space use and have advanced our knowledge of animal ecology in a variety of ways. However, until recently, they were limited to 2 spatial dimensions (2D), despite the fact that most taxa use their environments in all 3 dimensions (3D). We (1) created 3D utilization distributions via a multivariate kernel density estimator, (2) adapted 2 overlap indices for use with 3D data, (3) estimated the minimum sample sizes required for accurate estimation of territory size, and (4) assessed these methods using data from American Redstarts (
10.2307/4089124|We documented fat loads and abdominal organ sizes of Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica baueri) that died after colliding against a radar dome on the Alaska Peninsula, most likely just after takeoff on a trans-Pacific flight of 11,000 km, and of birds of the same subspecies just before northward departure from New Zealand. We compared these data with data on body composition of godwits of the smaller lapponica subspecies obtained during a northward stopover in The Netherlands. As a consequence of high amounts of subcutaneous and intraperitoneal fat, and very small fat-free mass, Bar-tailed Godwits from Alaska had relative fat loads that are among the highest ever recorded in birds (ca. 55% of fresh body mass). Compared with northbound godwits from New Zealand, the Alaskan birds had very small gizzards, livers, kidneys, and guts. This suggests that upon departure, long-distance migrants dispense with parts of their "metabolic machinery" that are not directly necessary during flight, and rebuild these organs upon arrival at the migratory destination.
10.1525/auk.2011.10158|Despite recent increases in the number of demographic studies of birds in urban environments, the postfledging period remains poorly understood. Because novel ecological factors, including changes in predator abundance and invasive exotic shrubs, are associated with urbanization, we asked (1) how does postfledging survivorship vary across a rural-to-urban landscape gradient and (2) to what extent does Amur Honeysuckle (
10.2307/4085502|In 1973 two Gyrfalcon pairs were studied in west-central Greenland by time-lapse photography and telescope observations. The role of each sex in brooding and feeding the young was quantified from the film. The female accomplished most of the brooding and feeding. Brooding by the female tapered off, but she did not begin to hunt immediately after brooding ceased. Instead she perched on the cliff, brooding nestlings during times of heat, cold, or precipitation. The male brooded while the female fed herself on food he had delivered to her. Feeding of the young took two forms: (1) active feeding and (2) food delivery. The female actively fed the young until they fledged, but the male began food-delivery visits as soon as they were able to tear up food items by themselves. At one eyrie a cooperative feeding behavior was filmed. Postbrooding visits to the nest were made only to feed the young and were of minimum duration, probably because of the young's aggressiveness. Hunting did not normally take place near the eyrie. The only method of hunting seen was from a perch.
4090626| The Gray Vireo (Vireo vicinior; hereafter "vireo") is a little-studied songbird with small breeding and wintering ranges. Because of uncertainty about vireo populations, conservationists are concerned about the future of this species. The goal of the present study was to provide new data on the ecology of the vireo to help determine its conservation status. During May and June 2001, I studied breeding habitat selection by vireos on the Colorado Plateau in northern Arizona and southern Utah. I surveyed for vireos and collected vegetation data on 31 transects in pinyon-juniper (Pinus edulis-Juniperus spp.) woodlands throughout this region. Estimated density of vireos was 0.064  0.011 (mean  SE) birds ha
10.2307/4088628|We identified 1,332 items belonging to 36 vertebrate species from prey remains collected near 65 Merlin (Falco columbarius) nests in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan from May to July 1987-1990. Principal prey of breeding Merlins was the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus). They along with the Horned Lark (Eremophilia alpestris) were usually taken more frequently than expected from their relative abundance. Other potential prey species were usually taken in proportion to their relative abundance, or less often than expected. Proportions of adult House Sparrows in the diet decreased while juveniles increased significantly as the Merlin breeding season progressed. During incubation and nestling phases, male and female House Sparrows were taken as expected. In the fledgling phase, Merlins took adult House Sparrows less often and juveniles more often than expected. The relative availability of different species positively correlated with that in the diet during the incubation and nestling phases. Merlins selected prey based on relative availability, independent of prey mass, but not independent of relative abundance. Our data supported the prediction that increase in absolute abundance of selected prey species increased the degree of prey selectivity.
10.2307/4089946| We analyze the use and functionality of ossuaries by the Bearded Vulture (Gypaetus barbatus) in the Pyrenees during the nestling period. In 71% of cases, the ossuary was used to prepare food for chicks, in 11% for storing food, and only in 18% for preparing the adults' own food. Pairs used an average of two ossuaries at a mean distance from the nest of 789 m (SE  377). The average time dedicate to breaking bone was 5.3 min (SE  4.2) and 4.5 throws (SE  5.8) for each session in the ossuarie (n = 86). The temporal variation found in the use of the ossuaries, with maximum frequencies between 31-90 days of age of chicks, may be due to a possible qualitative variation in chicks' diets. Ossuaries are also used to store food, this being a differentiating and advantageous trait with respect to feeding behavior developed by other meat scavengers. 
10.2307/4089894| European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) exhibit marked sex differences in behavior during spring. Song activity, nest-box occupation, the carrying of green nesting materials into a nest hole (typical mate-attraction behaviors), and aggression occur much more frequently in males who also have higher testosterone (T)-levels than females. Here, we examined whether male-like concentrations of T would activate these behaviors in female starlings. We treated females with implants that were either empty (C-females) or packed with T (T-females) during late December. Although elevated T-levels significantly increased song activity in females, the proportion of time spent singing was still much lower than in males. T-treatment in females also failed to induce singing behavior in the nest box, a typical male mate-attraction behavior. Those results suggest both activational and organizational effects of T on singing. Nest-box occupation, carrying of green nesting material into a nest hole, and aggressive behavior were not activated by elevated T-levels, indicating that sex differences in these behaviors are probably based on early organizational effects of steroid hormones. We also evaluated effects of increased T-concentrations on some physiological, morphological, and immunological parameters. T-treatment strongly suppressed tail feather regrowth after experimental plucking, and also delayed onset of molt of wing feathers and slowed its progress. T-implantation caused color of the bill to change from black to yellow, but did not affect body mass. Immune function was determined by using two indirect measures: blood composition (haematocrit and buffy coat values) and indications of infections. Although haematocrit and buffy coat values did not differ between C- and T-females, T-females were significantly more infected with Staphylococcus aureus than C-females at the end of the experiment. /// Durante la primavera, Sturnus vulgaris presenta diferencias marcadas en el comportamiento entre sexos. La actividad canora, la ocupacin de cajas de nidificacin, el transporte de material verde hacia los nidos (comportamientos tpicos para la atraccin de pareja) y el comportamiento agresivo ocurrieron con mayor frecuencia en los machos, los cuales presentaron adems mayores niveles de testosterona (T) que las hembras. Nosotros evaluamos si concentraciones de T equivalentes a las de los machos activaran este tipo de comportamiento en las hembras de S. vulgaris. A fines de diciembre, tratamos hembras con implantes vacos (hembras-C) y con implantes con testosterona (hembras-T). A pesar de que el incremento de los niveles de T aument significativamente la actividad canora en las hembras, la proporcin de tiempo asignada a esta actividad fue todava mucho menor que en los machos. El tratamiento con T no indujo comportamiento de canto en las cajas de nidificacin por parte de las hembras, un comportamiento tpico de los machos para atraer parejas. Estos resultados sugieren tanto un efecto de activacin como de organizacin de la T sobre el canto. La ocupacin de cajas de nidificacin, el transporte de material verde hacia los nidos y el comportamiento agresivo no fueron activados por el incremento en los niveles de T, lo que indica que las diferencias entre sexos en estos comportamientos estaran probablemente basadas en efectos de la organizacin temprana de las hormonas esteroides. Tambin evaluamos el efecto del incremento de los niveles de T sobre algunos parmetros fisiolgicos, morfolgicos e inmunolgicos. El tratamiento con T suprimi el crecimiento de plumas de la cola removidas previamente en forma experimental, y tambin retras el inicio de la muda de las plumas de las alas y desaceler su progreso. Los implantes de T causaron un cambio en el color del pico de negro a amarillo, pero no afectaron el peso corporal. La funcin inmunolgica fue determinada mediante dos medidas indirectas: la composicin sangunea (valores de hematocrito y de la capa leucocitaria) y la existencia de indicios de infecciones. Aunque los valores de hematocrito y de la capa leucocitaria no difirieron entre las hembras-C y las hembras-T, las hembras-T estuvieron significativamente ms infectadas con Staphylococcus aureus que las hembras-C al final del experimento. 
4084885|Parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird on the Gray Catbird, the Red-eyed Vireo, the Yellow Warbler, the Cardinal, and the Song Sparrow was studied at London, Ontario, in 1969 to test the hypothesis that no difference exists between the amounts of parasitism on catbirds and on other hosts known to be commonly parasitized. The incidence of observed parasitism on 16 catbird nests was 44%, and 85% on 27 nests of the other hosts. The frequency distribution of the numbers of cowbird eggs per parasitized catbird nest was significantly different from that on the other hosts. I concluded that the actual amount of parasitism was probably less for catbirds than for the other hosts. Egg loss attributable to removal by cowbirds was significantly less from all catbird nests than from all Cardinal nests. This suggests that cowbirds parasitize catbirds less than Cardinals or that cowbirds remove fewer eggs from catbird nests. Parasitized catbird nests lost relatively fewer eggs than parasitized Cardinal nests if cowbird eggs lost from Cardinal nests are included. Early in the laying phase catbirds seemed more attentive to their nests than were Cardinals. The differences between the effects of cowbirds on catbirds and on the other hosts were attributed to more effective guarding of their nest by catbirds, which reduces the opportunities for a female cowbird to make preliminary inspection visits, to lay, and to remove host eggs. The number of cowbird eggs in catbird nests was about 9% of the estimated number laid in the nests of all hosts studied. Parasitism on catbirds and other hosts that eject eggs may be an important cause of cowbird egg mortality.
25488560|Phylogenetic relationships among birds of prey in the subfamily Buteoninae are not fully established but are of particular interest because the Buteoninae constitute one of the largest accipitrid subgroups and include multiple species of conservation concern. Genera previously included within the Buteoninae are
25150344|We combined radiotelemetry, plasma metabolite analyses, and macro-invertebrate prey sampling to investigate variation in putative fattening rates (estimated as plasma triglyceride levels) at the flyway scale in Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) migrating between Punta Banda, Mexico (31N), and Hartney Bay, Alaska (60N), a distance of 4,240 km. Birds were caught at a wintering site (San Francisco Bay) and eight stopover sites along this Pacific Flyway. Body mass was higher in females than in males at six sites, but variation was not correlated with latitude for either sex, and the relationship of change in mass by date within sites was uninformative with regard to possible latitudinal variation in fattening rates. At San Francisco Bay, triglyceride levels were higher in the spring than in the winter. Mean plasma triglyceride varied among stopover sites, and there was a significant linear trend of increasing triglyceride levels with latitude as birds migrated north. At San Francisco Bay, length of stay was negatively related to triglyceride levels. However, plasma triglyceride levels at wintering or initial stopover sites (San Francisco and Punta Banda) did not predict individual variation in subsequent rates of travel during migration. We found no significant relationship between triglyceride levels and prey biomass at different stopover sites, which suggests that the latitudinal pattern is not explained by latitudinal changes in food availability. Rather, we suggest that differences in physiology of migratory birds at southern versus northern stopover sites or behavioral differences may allow birds to sustain higher fattening rates closer to the breeding grounds. /// Combinamos radiotelemetra, anlisis de metabolitos del plasma y muestreos de macroinvertebrados utilizados como presas, para investigar la variacin en las tasas aparentes de engorde (medidas como niveles de triglicridos en el plasma) a la escala de corredores de vuelo en individuos de la especie Calidris mauri que se encontraban migrando entre Punta Banda, Mxico (31N) y la baha de Hartney, Alaska (60N), una distancia de 4240 km. Las aves fueron capturadas en un sitio de invernada (la baha de San Francisco) y en ocho sitios de escala migratoria a lo largo de este corredor de vuelo del Pacfico. La masa corporal fue mayor en las hembras que en los machos en seis sitios, pero la variacin no se correlacion con la latitud en ningn sexo, y la relacin de cambio en la masa con el tiempo dentro de los sitios no fue informativa con respecto a una posible variacin latitudinal en las tasas de engorde. En la baha de San Francisco, los niveles de triglicridos fueron mayores en la primavera que en el invierno. El promedio de triglicridos en el plasma vari entre sitios de escala migratoria, y existi una tendencia lineal significativa de incrementos en los niveles de triglicridos con la latitud conforme las aves migraban hacia el norte. En la baha de San Francisco, la extensin del tiempo de permanencia se relacion negativamente con los niveles de triglicridos. Sin embargo, los niveles de triglicridos en el plasma en los sitios de invernada o durante las primeras escalas migratorias (San Francisco y Punta Banda) no permitieron predecir la variacin individual en las tasas subsecuentes de viaje durante la migracin. No encontramos una relacin significativa entre los niveles de triglicridos y la biomasa de presas en los distintos sitios de escala, lo que sugiere que el patrn latitudinal no se explica por cambios latitudinales en la abundancia de alimento. En cambio, sugerimos que las diferencias en fisiologa de las aves migratorias entre los sitios de escala migratoria ubicados al norte y al sur, o diferencias en el comportamiento, podran permitir que las aves presenten tasas de engorde mayores cuando se acercan a las reas de cra.
10.1525/auk.2010.10151|Previous microsatellite analysis (
4086530|No significant diurnal variation in mean weight was detected in trapped European Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus). Weights of males fluctuated rather little through the year, but were highest in March and lowest in August. During the breeding cycle, males lost weight slightly in the prelay/early laying periods, when they were feeding females in preparation for egg production, and in the late nestling/postfledging periods, when they were feeding large young. Weights of females fluctuated greatly during the year: they were highest in May at the time of egg laying and lowest in August at the end of breeding. Females increased in weight by 40-50 g (15%) in the 10-20 days before laying; lost about 20 g over the laying period, on average; maintained high weight through much of incubation; and lost weight during the nestling period. The main functions of the extra body reserve are probably to buffer the female against temporary food shortages during incubation and to enable her to feed the chicks preferentially in the nestling period. Females that did not lay eggs remained low in weight throughout the early part of the breeding season and were then significantly lighter than breeders. Moreover, females that laid large clutches were heavier throughout the prelaying and laying periods than were females that laid small clutches, and females that subsequently hatched their eggs started incubation at a significantly greater weight than did those that deserted their eggs. We suggest that clutch size and breeding success are dependent on the female being able to maintain high weight during the periods she is dependent on the male for food and, hence, on the hunting success of the male. First-year birds of both sexes weighed less than adults throughout the year and were especially light during their first 2 months of independent life. This was probably a period of high mortality, especially in males, in which a clear relationship emerged between weight and survival prospects.
4087722|Male Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) produce a thick foam from the proctodeal gland of the cloaca that is mixed with semen and inseminated into the female during copulation. We examined the effect of foam on fertility in natural copulations. In 2-male/5-female mating groups, fertility of intact males was 98% and fertility of males whose proctodeal glands were cauterized (non-foam-producing) was 26%. When an intact male competed with a non-foam-producing male, the intact males sired 99% of the progeny. We demonstrated that the presence of foam, whether artificially placed or naturally placed, extended the duration of fertility of those females fertilized. In copulations without foam, or with artificially placed foam, the proportion of females fertilized decreased significantly compared with copulations by intact males where foam was naturally placed in the proctodeum of the females (and not in the distal part of the oviduct as chicken males do when they inseminate hens). We believe that foam acts as a medium for sperm transport along the oviduct. Why foam exists in its present form and not as part of seminal fluid, and why the foam-semen mixture is deposited in the proctodeum and not in the distal oviduct, are questions that remain.
4088051|The effects of tannins and lipids on the metabolizable energy coefficient (MEC; i.e. energy ingested minus energy excreted, divided by energy ingested) of Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) fed acorn meal of known composition was determined by feeding trials on captive birds. Adding tannins decreased MEC, while adding acorn lipid increased it. Quebracho (a condensed tannin) had a stronger detrimental effect on MEC than did tannic acid (a hydrolyzable tannin). There was a significant interaction (associative digestion) between tannic acid and lipid, such that the detrimental effects of tannic acid were enhanced in the presence of increased lipid. Despite the detrimental effects of added tannin, MEC of acorns, which are naturally high in tannins, was similar to the MEC of crickets, which are low in tannins. The amount of energy Acorn Woodpeckers derived from acorns (net energy value) averaged 69.0% of their maximum estimated energetic content based on composition and 60.5% of their total gross energy based on bomb calorimetry. The study indicates that stored acorns are more important to Acorn Woodpeckers than previously estimated. On average, however, acorns supply only a small proportion of the energetic needs of this species during the winter in central coastal California.
4086231|To test the hypothesis that reduced survival of large males limits the extent to which sexual selection can increase male size, we examined mortality patterns in Redwinged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) subjected to a surfactant spray. Univariate comparisons of wing measurements did not support the predicted mortality patterns. Although principal component analysis revealed that mortality was nonrandom with respect to some morphological characters, there was again no evidence of the predicted patterns either of directional selection favoring smaller males or of stabilizing selection favoring intermediatesized females. This result led us to recognize that, like previous authors, we had made the incorrect assumption that large males should be more vulnerable to all mortality factors rather than the correct interpretation of the theory, that differential mortality should be seen as the net effect of all mortality factors. Only two published data sets are appropriate for testing the hypothesis, and neither shows differential mortality amongst males on the basis of size.
4087958|We examined territory density, percent laying, and breeding success in Eurasian Kestrel (Falco tinnunculus), Common Buzzard (Buteo buteo), and Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) pairs in relation to weather conditions during the preceding winters. In kestrels, density and percentage of laying pairs were related mostly to winter temperature and snow cover. The percentage of laying pairs also depended on vole availability in the spring. Density and percentage of laying pairs in buzzard and goshawk were unaffected by winter weather. Weather conditions of the preceding winter did not affect the production of young in any of the species. We attributed different reactions to severe winters in these species to different feeding ecology as well as different body mass and its consequences for thermoregulation.
4086609|We manipulated egg temperatures in nests of the Belding's Savannah Sparrow, (Passerculus sandwichensis beldingi), an open-nesting passerine of which only the female incubates. Females increased their attentiveness by 22.0% when we cooled their eggs and decreased their attentiveness by 28.4% when we warmed their eggs. The range of adjustment approximated the upper and lower limits of attentiveness observed for our population during one breeding season; adjustments were primarily made by changing the length of both attentive and inattentive periods. Our results indicate that these birds adjust their attentive time in direct response to fluctuations in egg temperature, independently of diurnal fluctuations in air temperature. They also support the hypothesis that attentiveness is ultimately controlled by an internal rhythm and is only modified by, but not completely explained by, responses to egg temperature.
10.2307/4090279| Effects of deployment of miniaturized transmitters and loggers have been well studied in penguins, but much less so in flying seabirds. We examined the effects of satellite tag (platform terminal transmitter, PTT) deployment in Black-browed (Thalassarche melanophris) and Gray-headed (T. chrysostoma) albatrosses at South Georgia and reviewed the recent literature for other albatrosses and petrels. In our study, although a few individuals may have slightly extended their foraging trips, overall there was no significant difference in trip duration, meal mass, breeding success, or rate of return in the next season between birds with PTTs and controls. By comparison, most other studies of albatrosses and petrels recorded extended trip durations and, in some cases, high rates of nest desertion following PTT attachment. That occurred particularly where transmitter loads exceeded 3% of adult mass. Extended trip durations may result from reduced flight efficiency, as well as the effect of capture and temporary restraint, but affected birds seem nonetheless to commute to representative foraging areas. To minimize device effects, we suggest that transmitter loads be reduced to a minimum, use of harnesses be avoided (particularly for breeding season deployments when tape attachment to feathers is an effective alternative), and careful attention be given to limiting handling times during incubation when some species are particularly sensitive to disturbance. /// El efecto de la utilizacin de transmisores en miniatura y registradores de datos se ha estudiado bien en pinginos, pero en menor frecuencia en aves marinas voladoras. Examinamos el efecto de la utilizacin de etiquetas satelitales (Transmisores de Plataforma Terminal; TPT) en albatros Thalassarche melanophris y T. chrysostoma en Georgia del Sur y revisamos la literatura reciente para otras especies de albatros y petreles. En nuestro estudio, a pesar de que unos pocos individuos pueden haber extendido un poco sus viajes de forrajeo, en general no hubo diferencias significativas en la duracin del viaje, el peso de las raciones alimenticias, el xito reproductivo ni la tasa de retorno en la siguiente temporada entre aves con TPTs y aves control. En comparacin, la mayora de los otros estudios con albatros y petreles registraron una prolongacin del viaje de forrajeo y en algunos casos, altas tasas de abandono de los nidos luego de fijar los TPTs sobre los individuos. Esto ocurri particularmente cuando el peso del transmisor excedi el 3% del peso del adulto. La prolongacin del viaje de forrajeo puede ser el resultado de reducciones en la eficacia del vuelo y tambin de la captura y retencin temporal. Sin embargo, las aves afectadas de todas formas parecen viajar hasta reas de forrajeo representativas. Para minimizar el efecto de los dispositivos, sugerimos que el peso de los transmisores se reduzca al mnimo, que se evite el uso de arneses (particularmente durante la poca reproductiva en que la adhesin de cinta sobre el plumaje es una buena alternativa) y que se ponga una cuidadosa atencin en reducir los tiempos de manipulacin durante la incubacin, cuando algunas especies son particularmente sensibles a los disturbios. 
4090633| The Henicorhina wood-wren complex consists of three taxonomic species. Two of these, the Gray-breasted Wood-Wren (Henicorhina leucophrys) and the White-breasted Wood-Wren (H. leucosticta), are widespread throughout Central America and northern South America, with leucophrys occurring at higher elevations in regions where both occur. A third, recently described, species-the Bar-winged Wood-Wren (H. leucoptera)-occurs only in several isolated cordilleras in southeastern Ecuador and northeastern Peru, where it replaces the Gray-breasted Wood-Wren at the highest elevations. We used mitochondrial DNA sequences to explore the phylogenetic relationships among populations of these taxa and to draw inferences about the evolutionary origins of elevational zonation. We found substantial mitochondrial diversity within both leucophrys and leucosticta. Differentiation across the Andes in leucophrys was negligible, but populations from Central America and from northwestern Ecuador showed substantial differentiation. Three highly differentiated haplotype groups were also present in leucosticta, corresponding to populations in the eastern Andean lowlands, Central America, and the Choc region of northwestern Ecuador; these populations may each warrant taxonomic species status. Bar-winged haplotypes nested within the mitochondrially diverse leucosticta group, where they were most closely allied to the geographically distant Choc haplotypes. This leucoptera-leucosticta affinity is not consistent with previous inferences, based on plumage and behavioral similarities, that grouped leucoptera and leucophrys as sister species. These reconstructions refute the hypothesis that elevational zonation in this clade originated from in situ speciation along an elevational gradient, and instead highlight the role of complex changes in geographic distributions in fostering phylogenetic and ecological diversification. /// El complejo de troglodtidos del gnero Henicorhina est compuesto por tres especies. Dos de ellas, H. leucophrys y H. leucosticta, estn ampliamente distribuidas a travs de Amrica Central y el norte de Sur Amrica, y leucophrys se encuentra a mayores elevaciones en las regiones donde se encuentran ambas especies. Una tercera especie recientemente descrita, H. leucoptera, se encuentra slo en varias cordilleras aisladas del sureste de Ecuador y el noreste de Per, donde reemplaza a leucophrys a elevaciones mayores. En este estudio empleamos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial para explorar las relaciones filogenticas entre poblaciones de estos taxa y para hacer inferencias sobre el origen evolutivo de los reemplazos altitudinales. Encontramos que existe considerable diversidad gentica tanto dentro de leucophrys como dentro de leucosticta. La diferenciacin a lo largo de los Andes en leucophrys es despreciable, pero las poblaciones de Amrica Central y del noroeste de Ecuador estn sustancialmente diferenciadas. Dentro de leucosticta existen tres grupos de haplotipos bien diferenciados, que corresponden a las poblaciones de las tierras bajas del este de los Andes, Amrica Central y la regin del Choc en el noroeste de Ecuador; estas tres poblaciones podran ser consideradas como especies diferentes. Los haplotipos de leucoptera estn anidados dentro del grupo de leucosticta, donde estn ms estrechamente relacionados con los haplotipos geogrficamente distantes de la regin del Choc. Esta afinidad entre leucoptera y leucosticta no es consistente con las inferencias previas basadas en similitudes en el plumaje y el comportamiento, que haban considerado a leucophrys y leucosticta como especies hermanas. Estas reconstrucciones permiten rechazar la hiptesis de que los reemplazos altitudinales en este clado se originaron luego del desarrollo de procesos de especiacin in situ a lo largo de gradientes de elevacin. En cambio, estas reconstrucciones resaltan el papel de los cambios complejos de las distribuciones geogrficas promoviendo la diversificacin filogentica y ecolgica. 
90008570|Several species of avian brood parasites have evolved egg mimicry, which can interfere with host egg rejection. Parasitic egg mimicry may select for decreased intraclutch variation in host egg appearance to facilitate the recognition and rejection of parasitic eggs. This hypothesis has received scant attention in hosts of the Brown-headed Cowbird (
4085930|Karyotypes of six species of blackbirds were prepared using in vivo techniques. Five species are karyotypically similar and may be more closely related than traditional morphological characters suggest. The Eastern Meadowlark (Sturnella magna), however, is very different in karyotype and may be more distantly related to the other species than has been previously thought. Karyotypic evidence is consistent with Beecher's hypothesis of a close relationship between emberizine finches and blackbirds.
25150381| Population dynamics of small songbirds are driven in part by fecundity and productivity (i.e., the number of young that fledge and survive the dependent stage, respectively, per adult female per year). Because of the challenges of obtaining empirical estimates for productivity or fecundity, some researchers predict fecundity using a three-factor model or more complex models such as those developed by Pease and Grzybowski (1995) or Farnsworth and Simons (2001, 2005). All these models generate a single prediction with no estimate of variability around the prediction. We developed an individual-based model that provides predictions of productivity and measurements of variability surrounding the predictions for simulated populations of Louisiana Waterthrushes (Seiurus motacilla) based on various aspects of their breeding cycle. Our empirical estimate of productivity in Louisiana Waterthrush (x  SD = 1.50  1.45) was similar to that provided by our individual-based model (1.07  1.24). On the basis of our model, productivity was most sensitive to and increased dramatically with increasing fledgling survival, daily nest survival, followed by nestling survival. The remaining four factors had weak, if any, effects on productivity. When compared with our individual-based model, the three-factor and Pease and Grzybowski (1995) models often produced higher predictions of fecundity, 2.1 additional young fledged per female. This is likely attributable to the addition of a renesting rate in our individual-based model. The Farnsworth and Simons model often produced predictions that were similar to those from our individual-based model. We believe that our individual-based model is an improvement over most existing songbird-fecundity models and can be generalized to accommodate other breeding factors, including brood parasitism and temporal variability. /// Las dinmicas poblacionales de las aves canoras pequeas estn dadas en parte por la fecundidad y la productividad (i.e., el nmero de juveniles que abandonan el nido y sobreviven la etapa dependiente, respectivamente, por hembra adulta por ao). Debido a las dificultades que presenta la obtencin de estimados empricos de la productividad o fecundidad, algunos investigadores predicen la fecundidad utilizando modelos de tres factores o modelos ms complejos como los desarrollados por Pease y Grzybowski (1995) o Farnsworth y Simons (2001, 2005). Todos estos modelos generan un valor nico sin una estimacin de la variabilidad asociada con el valor predicho. Desarrollamos un modelo basado en el individuo que provee predicciones para los valores de productividad y su variabilidad asociada para poblaciones simuladas de Seiurus motacilla basndonos en varios aspectos del ciclo reproductivo de esta especie. Nuestro estimado emprico de la productividad de S. motacilla (x  DE = 1.50  1.45) fue similar al calculado con nuestro modelo basado en el individuo (1.07  1.24). Con base en nuestro modelo, determinamos que la productividad present la mayor sensibilidad y aument dramticamente con el aumento de la supervivencia de los volantones, supervivencia diaria del nido y en menor grado por la supervivencia de los polluelos en el nido. Los cuatro factores restantes tuvieron poco o ningn efecto sobre la productividad. El modelo de tres factores y el modelo de Pease y Grzybowski (1995) frecuentemente generaron predicciones de fecundidad mayores que nuestro modelo, de 2.1 volantones adicionales por hembra. Esto puede ser atribuido a la adicin de una tasa de re-nidificacin en nuestro modelo. El modelo de Farnsworth y Simons generalmente gener predicciones similares a las de nuestro modelo. Creemos que nuestro modelo basado en el individuo es un modelo mejorado con relacin a la mayora de los modelos existentes de fecundidad para aves canoras y puede ser generalizado incorporando otros factores reproductivos como el parasitismo de cra y la variabilidad temporal. 
90008068|Differentiation, often leading to speciation, is common among island populations of birds. However, migratory species tend to differentiate less because increased movements often preclude the extended periods of allopatry thought to be required for speciation. This interaction of isolation and migrationgene flow is a complex issue in evolutionary biology. We examined the genetics of divergence in Northern Saw-whet Owls (
10.2307/4090327| The Eastern Spot-billed Duck (Anas zonorhyncha) historically was rare in the southern Russian Far East. However, during the last 60-70 years, its breeding range in East Asia has expanded northwest; Eastern Spot-billed Ducks are breeding increasingly within the range of Mallards (A. platyrhynchos). We collected 120 Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and Mallards from Primorye, Russia, and sequenced 666-667 base pairs (bp) of the maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region and 255 bp of the ornithine decarboxylase intron six (ODC-6). Control region and ODC-6 allele sequences revealed two divergent groups of haplotypes and alleles that differ by 1.5% and 2.0%, respectively, and correspond to Avise et al.'s (1990) group A and B mtDNA haplotypes. Group A mtDNA haplotypes occurred in 22 Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and 78 Asian Mallards, and group B haplotypes occurred in 14 Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and 4 Asian Mallards. Moreover, the group B haplotypes that we observed predominantly in Eastern Spot-billed Ducks (i.e. group SB) were monophyletic and diverged by 2-16 substitutions from group B haplotypes previously sequenced from 241 Mottled (A. fulvigula), American Black (A. rubripes), and Mexican ducks (A. diazi), and from North American Mallards. In contrast, type 1 and 2 ODC-6 allele frequencies for Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and Mallards did not differ, but heterozygosity for the former was greater than expected under Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Our analysis is the first to document the existence of two divergent haplotype and allele lineages (group A and B, type 1 and 2) in Asian mallard species and suggests that Eastern Spot-billed Ducks are more closely related to North America's Mottled, American Black, and Mexican ducks than they are to Mallards, which occur sympatrically in East Asia. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and Mallards have hybridized extensively in the Russian Far East. If so, apparent differences in group A and B mtDNA haplotype ratios, effective populations sizes, and migration rates indicate that many more male Eastern Spot-billed Ducks mated with female Mallards and more Eastern Spot-billed Ducks received ODC-6 alleles from Mallards than vice versa. We hypothesize that those differences reflect strong female natal-site fidelity and high levels of male dispersal, and that Mallards significantly outnumber Eastern Spot-billed Ducks in Primorye. Excess heterozygosity in Eastern Spot-billed Ducks (and in Mallards to a lesser extent) is probably maintained by ongoing emigration of Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and Mallards from areas of allopatry outside the Primorye region, where Eastern Spot-billed Ducks and Mallards are predicted to possesses genotypic frequencies historically diagnostic of each species. ///    (Anas zonorhyncha)        . ,   60-70         -,          (Anas platyrhynchos).  120    ,           667 ..     ()  255 ..    (D-6).   2      D-6,    1.5%  2.0%           . (Avise et al. 1990).     22   78  ,    - 14   4  .           2-16      ,   241 ,    ,    .  1  2   D-6        ,       .  ,     2     , a       ,         ,       .                .         ,       ,           ,      D-6 ,  . ,     ,            .     ,                  ,         "" . 
10.2307/4087538|Breeding male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) engage in territorial advertisement and agonistic displays that have ordered benefits. We studied the frequency of these behaviors in relation to thermoregulatory cost by comparing plots of activity vs. microclimate with plots of energy and water cost vs. microclimate, using standard operative temperature,
10.2307/4090184| Seasonal changes in food choice by migratory birds often reflect changes in relative food abundance and increased energetic demand. Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) in southeastern Louisiana are highly frugivorous during winter but forage exclusively on arthropods just prior to spring migration. We hypothesized that this switch to an exclusively arthropod diet would lead to an increase in fat reserves compared to a frugivorous diet, and that fat birds would initiate migration sooner and display more migratory activity than lean birds. We tested these hypotheses on captive Hermit Thrushes maintained on either an arthropod only diet or a mixed fruit and arthropod diet and measured changes in fat score, body mass, and nocturnal migratory activity (Zugunruhe) from February to April 2000. We found that the arthropod-only treatment led to greater body mass and greater amounts of subcutaneous fat than the mixed fruit and arthropod treatment by the third week of the experiment. Despite those differences, body mass was not correlated with intensity of Zugunruhe. We also did not find a significant difference in intensity or onset of Zugunruhe between treatments. We concluded that because Hermit Thrushes are short-distance migrants, large fat reserves are not crucial for their migration. Consequently, fruit and arthropods appear to be equivalent with respect to migratory behavior. /// Los cambios estacionales en la seleccin de alimento en aves migratorias generalmente reflejan los cambios en la abundancia relativa de los alimentos y el incremento de las demandas energticas. En el sur de Louisiana, Catharus guttatus es altamente frugvoro durante el invierno, pero se alimenta exclusivamente de artrpodos justo antes de iniciar la migracin en primavera. Pusimos a prueba si el cambio a una dieta compuesta exclusivamente por artrpodos conducira a un aumento en las reservas de grasa en comparacin con una dieta frugvora, y si aves con mayor contenido de grasa iniciaran la migracin ms temprano y mostraran una mayor actividad migratoria que aves ms magras. Probamos esta hiptesis en individuos de C. guttatus mantenidos en cautiverio que fueron alimentado con una dieta exclusiva de artrpodos o con una dieta mixta compuesta de artrpodos y frutos. Medimos los cambios en el contenido de grasa, el peso corporal y la actividad migratoria nocturna (Zugunruhe) de las aves desde febrero hasta abril de 2000. Encontramos que luego de cumplir la tercera semana del experimento, el tratamiento de slo artrpodos condujo a un mayor peso corporal y a una mayor cantidad de grasa subcutnea que el tratamiento mixto de artrpodos y frutos. A pesar de estas diferencias, el peso corporal no se correlacion con la intensidad de la Zugunruhe. Tampoco encontramos diferencias significativas entre tratamientos en la intensidad o inicio de la Zugunruhe. Concluimos que, debido a que C. guttatus es un ave migratoria de corta distancia, presentar grandes reservas de grasa no es crucial para la migracin. Consecuentemente, frutos y artrpodos parecen ser equivalentes con respecto al comportamiento migratorio en esta especie. 
4088050| The Dovekie (Alle alle) is an abundant seabird in the high Arctic. We studied Dovekie energetics by measurements of resting metabolic rate (RMR) in the laboratory and rates of CO
4085604| Otus marshalli, a new species of screech-owl, is described from the Andes of south-central Per. Its nearest relatives appear to be the Central American species O. barbarus and O. clarkii. It is one of four species of screech-owls in an elevationally replacing series distributed along a heavily forested slope rising 3,000 m from valley floor to cordilleran crest: Otus watsonii occurs in lowland rain forest, O. ingens in lower cloud forest, O. marshalli in mid-elevation cloud forest, and O. albogularis in upper montane forest. 
4088376|Female Bengalese Finches (Lonchura striata) stored sperm in sperm storage tubules and were capable of producing fertile eggs for a median of 8 days (maximum 16 days) following the last copulation. The age of stored sperm had no effect on the hatching success of eggs. More sperm were present in a female's sperm storage tubules after copulation that occurred before ovulation than after one that occurred after ovulation. On average only about 1% of the sperm transferred during copulation were stored in the sperm storage tubules. Similar "selection" of sperm in the female reproductive tract has been recorded in other vertebrates. Its mechanism and functional significance are discussed.
4087081|The chronology, pattern, and intensity of the molt following breeding in female Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) were studied from July through October 1981-1982 and in July 1984 in southwestern Manitoba. Nonbreeding females or females that were unsuccessful breeders began molt in mid-July, but females with broods delayed molt until August. The molt-intensity index was greatest during the flightless and postflightless periods. Molt persisted at low levels through the fall migratory period. Molt scores were most variable in the preflightless period. Molting began on the head, neck, and side and progressed to the belly, upper back, and chest; the lower back was the last area to molt. Feather replacement was most rapid in the wing and capital regions. The capital region and tail were the last areas in which molt was completed in fall-migratory scaup. Molt in postbreeding females probably is influenced by the length, timing, and success of breeding efforts. Individual and geographic differences in breeding chronology, habitat conditions, and postbreeding movements may contribute to variations in molt within a population of migratory scaup.
25488595|I investigated the relative importance of floristics and physiognomy in determining community organization of autumn-migrating landbirds in a riparian corridor in New Mexico invaded by Tamarisk (
10.2307/4090012| In uniparental intermittent incubators, incubating parents must simultaneously regulate both the temperature of the clutch and their own energy level. To examine energetic consequences of providing different thermal environments for clutches of different sizes, a dynamic model was constructed in which energy level of an incubating European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) and temperature of its clutch were simultaneously described. Adult energy balance after a day of incubation decreased as mean clutch temperature increased, such that the debt accrued while maintaining a clutch within the optimal developmental temperature range (36-39C) was predicted to be prohibitively high, despite the prediction that the mean basal metabolic rate (BMR) required to maintain this temperature was <2 BMR. Thus, this model can explain our observation that starlings maintained their eggs at 32-33C, well below the developmental optimum. Consistent with empirical studies, our model predicted that the metabolic demand of incubation increases with clutch size. That increase was predicted to affect adult energy balance and hence cost of incubation when starlings maintained their clutches at optimal temperatures, but not at the lower temperatures actually observed. Hence, clutch-size-dependent variation in incubation demands may be unlikely to influence optimal number of eggs that a starling should lay. However, exact relationship between clutch size and adult energy debt depended on the nature of the relationship between clutch size and clutch thermal properties and on mean incubation temperature. Thus, consequences of clutch size for the cost of incubation are not clearly predictable, and caution may be required when using experimental clutch enlargements to manipulate reproductive costs. /// Los incubadores uniparentales intermitentes deben regular simultneamente la temperatura de la nidada y su propio nivel de energa. Para examinar las consecuencias energticas de proveer diferentes ambientes trmicos para nidadas de diferentes tamaos, se construy un modelo dinmico en el que se describieron simultneamente el nivel energtico de un Sturnus vulgaris durante la incubacin y la temperatura de su nidada. El balance energtico del adulto luego de un da de incubacin disminuy mientras que la temperatura promedio de la nidada aument, de modo que la prediccin para la deuda acumulada mientras se mantiene una nidada dentro del rango de temperatura ptimo para el desarrollo (36-39C) result ser prohibitivamente alta, a pesar de la prediccin que estableca que la tasa metablica basal (TMB) requerida para mantener esta temperatura era de <2 TMB. As, este modelo puede explicar nuestra observacin que los estorninos mantuvieron sus huevos a 32-33C, bastante por debajo del ptimo para el desarrollo. De manera consistente con estudios empricos, nuestro modelo predijo que la demanda metablica de la incubacin se incrementa con el tamao de la nidada. Se predijo que este incremento afectara el balance energtico de los adultos y por lo tanto, el costo de incubacin cuando los estorninos mantuvieran sus nidadas a temperaturas ptimas, pero no a las temperaturas menores que se observaron. As, es poco probable que la variacin en las demandas energticas de la incubacin resultante del tamao de la nidada influencie el nmero ptimo de huevos que un estornino debera poner. Sin embargo, la relacin exacta entre el tamao de la nidada y la deuda energtica del adulto dependi de la naturaleza de la relacin entre el tamao de la nidada y sus propiedades trmicas y de la temperatura media de incubacin. Por tal motivo, las consecuencias del tamao de la nidada sobre el costo de incubacin no son claramente predecibles. Se debe tener cuidado al aumentar experimentalmente el tamao de la nidada para manipular los costos de la reproduccin. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12047|Grassland bird populations have shown persistent declines over the past four decades in North America. Possible explanations for the declines include decreased winter survival because of habitat deterioration. To address this hypothesis, we evaluated the relationship between habitat structure and winter survival of Vesper Sparrows (
10.2307/4090475| We studied the demography of an insular California Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) population in southern California for 12 years. We used model selection based on information theory to examine the relationship between weather and reproduction and survival. Mean annual fecundity was 0.139 (SE = 0.050) for subadult females and 0.345 (SE = 0.028) for adult females. Adult females had higher fecundity than subadult females during all years, and fecundity in both age classes was higher when a wet year preceded a dry spring (i.e. breeding season). A model incorporating these factors explained 100% of the estimated temporal process variation in fecundity. Mean apparent survival was 0.796 (SE = 0.012), 0.880 (SE = 0.041), 0.692 (SE = 0.062), and 0.368 (SE = 0.038) for adult, second-year subadult, first-year subadult, and juvenile (first-year) owls, respectively. We found no temporal process variation in survival. Using a Leslie projection matrix, we estimated the finite rate of population change to be 0.906 (SE = 0.018) over the entire period of study (1987-1998), which indicated that the population declined 9% per year during the study. That rate of decline was higher than a rate (
4087670|We describe changes in the mass of breeding Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) at Reef Island, British Columbia, during four breeding seasons. Changes are evaluated in the light of two hypotheses that concern mass loss by birds during breeding: that mass loss is a symptom of stress or that it is an adaptive response to optimize mass in relation to the changing demands of breeding activities. We found no differences between sexes in mass or mass changes, and hence samples were combined. Mass at the start of incubation varied significantly among years, but mass at colony departure (ca. 15% lower) did not. Our observations are not compatible with the idea that mass loss during incubation is caused by stress. There was a negative correlation between mean date of laying in a given year and the mean mass of breeders at clutch completion. In one year, there was a negative correlation between the date of laying of individual clutches and the mass of the parent when the chicks hatched. We conclude that variations in the availability of food do not cause the overall pattern of mass change during incubation, but they may be responsible for some inter-year and intra-year variation in adult mass.
4087448| Surveys of electrophoretic variation in proteins, and restriction site variation in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), were conducted to assess the resolving power of these molecular genetic techniques to distinguish four pairs of avian sibling taxa. Samples of rails (Rallus elegans and R. longirostris), dowitchers (Limnodromus scolopaceus and L. griseus), grackles (Quiscalus major and Q. mexicanus), and titmice (Parus bicolor bicolor and P. b. atricristatus) were assayed for allozymes encoded by 34-37 nuclear loci, and for an average of 77 mtDNA restriction sites per individual by 19 endonucleases. MtDNA's of the two rail species showed large-scale size polymorphism and individual heteroplasmy, the first such findings of these molecular features in an avian species. Genetic distances based on allozyme comparisons were small for all assayed taxa (Nei's D  0.063). The mtDNA assays offered consistently greater resolving power, providing at least five fixed restriction site differences for samples of any taxon pair. The Long-billed and Short-billed dowitchers were especially divergent, differing by at least 24 assayed mtDNA restriction sites and an estimated nucleotide sequence divergence of p = 0.082. We compared these results to previous reports of genetic distances within and among closely related bird species. The mtDNA divergence among dowitchers is near the high end of the scale of such estimates for avian congeners. The mtDNA distances between the pairs of rails (p = 0.006), titmice (p = 0.004), and grackles (p = 0.016) were typical for extremely closely related species, and overlap maximum values reported for some avian conspecifics. 
25488675|Despite the widespread use of stable isotopes in studies of avian movement, key assumptions on which the methodology is based remain unsubstantiated, including the assumption that measurements of stable hydrogen isotopes in feathers (D
4087381| Data collected from skin specimens of the 23 Recent species of Alcidae, skeletal material for Recent and fossil alcids, and published data on body mass and wing area were used to describe the morphometric characteristics of flightlessness in the Great Auk (Pinguinus impennis) and the fossil mancalline auks. A regression equation confirmed a body-mass estimate (5 kg) for P. impennis (Bdard 1969). The size and relatively small wings produced wing-loading of roughly 22 g cm
25488635|Several recent studies have investigated how different proximate mechanisms of color production contribute to sexual dichromatism. These studies suggest that carotenoid pigmentswhich are frequently subject to sexual selectionare more strongly associated with sexual dichromatism than melanins. This reasoning implicitly assumes that increased male elaboration leads to sexual dichromatism. However, sexual dichromatism can be generated through multiple evolutionary pathways, including decreases in female elaboration. We examined whether evolutionary changes in carotenoid- and melanin-based plumage were correlated within New World orioles (
4088454|We studied relationships among species of the Neotropical flycatcher genus Leptopogon (Tyrannidae), which have modern-day distributions that include a lowland-tropical-zone member, an upper-tropical-zone member, and two subtropical-zone members. Along the eastern slope of the eastern Andes, species inhabiting the different elevational zones occur parapatrically to one another. Both allozymes and restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms of mitochondrial DNA suggest the same phylogenetic hypothesis: the lowland-tropical-zone species (L. amaurocephalus) is the basal member of the clade, and the upper-tropical-zone species (L. superciliaris) is the sister taxon of the two subtropical-zone species, L. taczanowskii and L. rufipectus. These data are consistent with diversification into successively higher-elevation habitats in the Andes. The biochemical data also suggest that this genus is substantially differentiated from the genera near it in traditional classifications (Mionectes, Phyllomyias, Lophotriccus).
4085552|The existence of wild, blue-phase Ross' Geese (Chen rossii) and blue-phase geese intermediate in size and other characteristics between Ross' and Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) was verified by collection. Winter populations of Ross' and Lesser Snow Geese in California contained less than 0.02% blue-phase birds. Of these blue-phase geese, 8% were Ross', 77% were Lesser Snow, and 15% were intermediate in size. Intermediate blue-phase geese are probably the result of hybridization. Blue-phase Ross' Geese could originate from back-crossing of hybrids and/or recurrent mutation. Genes for blue feather color were probably eliminated from ancestral populations of Ross' Geese and may presently be prevented from reestablishment in the gene pool by hunter and/or predator selection.
4088357|We investigated the relationship between age and dominance in the Satin Bowebird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) to understand why young males delay maturation. Testosterone implants were used to experimentally advance the expression of adult characteristics in juvenile-plumaged males. Testosterone implants increased both aggression and dominance among juvenile-plumaged males. In the year following implantation, treated males molted into full adult plumage and maintained their dominance over controls at feeding sites even though their implants were probably empty. Despite the changes in circulating androgens, aggression, and plumage brought on by the testosterone treatment of juvenile-plumaged males, age-related differences remained in aggression and social dominance between the treated and untreated birds. These age effects are consistent with the hypothesis that male experience in male aggressive encounters plays an important role in determining dominance relationships and, ultimately, affects the development of male adult-plumaged characters.
25488639|Brood parasitism and predation are two factors that limit seasonal fecundity in grassland songbirds. We removed Brown-headed Cowbirds (
10.2307/4090151| Ultraviolet (UV) structural colors of avian feathers are produced by the spongy medullary keratin of feather barbs, but various physical mechanisms have been hypothesized to produce those colors, including Rayleigh scattering, Mie scattering, and coherent scattering (i.e. constructive interference). We used two-dimensional Fourier analysis of transmission electron micrographs of the medullary keratin of UV-colored feather barbs of the Blue Whistling Thrush (Myiophonus caeruleus) (Turdidae) to test the alternative hypotheses for production of those UV structural hues. The two-dimensional Fourier power spectra of the tissue reveal a ring-like distribution of peak periodicity at intermediate spatial frequencies
4088456|I compared the energetics of Arctic Tern (Sterna paradisaea) chicks from Spitsbergen and The Netherlands, Common Tern (S. hirundo) chicks and Sandwich Tern (S. sandvicensis) chicks from The Netherlands, and Antarctic Tern (S. vittata) chicks from King George Island. Daily energy expenditure (DEE), measured using doubly-labeled water, was only slightly higher in the chicks from the polar environments, despite the higher levels of basal metabolism (BMR) and higher costs for thermoregulation. Apparently, thermoregulatory cost as part of the DEE of the chick is only a minor item thanks to parental brooding, which may account for energy savings ranging from 40 to 80%. A simple model indicates that the magnitude of these savings is dictated by the parental time budget (i.e. the minimal foraging time needed to meet age-dependent energy requirements of chick). Basal metabolic rate in chicks of the six available studies increased with latitude. The differences could relate to a higher capacity to produce heat, which is necessary in polar environments. The basal-metabolic-rate levels in adult terns, however, do not match this latitudinal pattern for the growing chicks. Ontogenetic studies over a longer time scale would be required to clarify these discrepancies in latitudinal pattern of BMR, for which a functional explanation is given in terms of differences in migratory biology.
10.2307/4089451|Male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) in southern California show a large range of plumage variation, with individuals varying along a continuum from yellow to orange to red. This extreme variation is largely unrelated to age and is likely to have fitness consequences (e.g. Hill 1990, 1991; Belthoff 1994; Thompson et al. 1997). New analyses based on museum specimens, a literature review, and recently captured individuals indicate that the high level of variation is a new phenomenon because most males were red prior to the 1950s, whereas half or more are currently orange or yellow. The change toward orange and yellow plumage may be related to a high incidence of avian pox that was first noted in the early 1970s but probably began earlier. In addition to a temporal link between pox and plumage variation in California, there is also a geographic link. Pox is very common in Hawaii, where most males are orange or yellow, but rare or absent on San Nicolas Island off the coast of southern California and in eastern North America. At least 90% of the males are red in each of these two latter areas. The link between pox and plumage color may occur as an effect of physiological condition, pathogen virulence, or host resistance among populations, or from a combination of these factors.
25488599|Ossuaries, or bone-breaking sites, are used by Bearded Vultures (
4087715|We studied the diurnal activity budgets of adult female Great Basin Canada Geese (Branta canadensis moffitti) and their broods during the rearing seasons of 1983-1984 on the Columbia River in south-central Washington. During the prefledging period, broods and adult females spent ca. 50% of daylight hours foraging. The activity budgets of both adult females and their broods changed dramatically at fledging. Time spent resting and preening increased, while movement and foraging activities decreased. The habitat type used seemed to influence the activity budgets of Canada Geese. Broods that foraged in a fertilized pasture spent less time moving and more time resting than did broods that used only native plant communities. These differences might be related to the increased time required for broods in native habitats to search for adequate foraging sites. However, total time spent foraging and growth rates of broods in the two habitats were similar.
10.2307/4089767|Differences within a species in rates of growth of nestlings can be used as indicators of the quality of parental care, environmental conditions, and future success of offspring, whereas comparisons among different species may reflect a history of different ecological conditions or life-history strategies. The presesnt study examines the patterns of variation in growth in nestling Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) from across the species' range and compares Tree Swallows to other species. Growth of Tree Swallows was typical of other species in the family Hirundinidae. As a family, the Hirundinidae have slower growth than typical for passerines. Growth rate of species of Hirundinidae was not correlated with adult body mass or average brood size. Contrary to predictions, species that are double-brooded did not have higher growth rates, but swallow species living at higher latitudes did have higher growth rates than tropical species. Substantial variation in growth rates was observed among populations of Tree Swallows, yet the amount of variation observed between breeding colonies only a few kilometers apart, or from the same colony in different years, was as great as that seen in populations separated by hundreds of kilometers. Within a population, differences in growth among years were correlated with temperature and food supply when nestlings were being raised. No correlation between climate and growth was seen when comparing different populations. Differences between populations were not explained by local habitat, nor were large-scale geographic patterns evident. I used both experimental and observational evidence to evaluate the implications of short-term reduction in growth for subsequent growth and survival. Nestlings were slow to recover from even very short periods of delayed growth that occur early in the nestling phase. Return of nestlings with experimentally or naturally induced delayed growth was reduced, which suggests that short interruptions in growth may have long term effects on postfledging survival, even though mass at fledging is not affected.
10.2307/4086021|Territorial characteristics and behavioral correlates of reproductive success were examined in a population of Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus). Territories were defended from the preincubation through the postfledging periods, and 53% of the territories under observation increased in size following chick hatching. Territorial adults displayed significantly more high-level agonistic behavior toward non-neighboring intruders than they did toward neighboring intruders. Most agonistic interactions, however, occurred between adjacent territorial neighbors, and only small segments of territorial boundaries were consistent sites of intense agonistic interaction. Chick mortality was not related to percent vegetative cover, nearest-neighbor distance, territory size, or intrusion pressure. Chick mortality was positively correlated, however, with both the number of contiguous territories and the frequency of agonistic interactions of male gulls. Both post-hatch frequencies of neighbor intrusions and intrusions by non-neighboring conspecifics were positively correlated with the number of contiguous territories, but were not related to territory size. Finally, the time that adults left their territories abandoned during the posthatch period was negatively correlated with the frequency of intrusions (by both neighboring and non-neighboring conspecifics) and positively correlated with the number of chicks fledged.
10.2307/4088727|The sexually dichromatic and endangered Island of Hawaii subspecies of Akepa (Loxops coccineus coccineus) is a 10- to 12-g Hawaiian honeycreeper that shows remarkable variation in male plumage coloration, ranging from dull gray to bright orange. We found that this variation is primarily due to a two-year delay in plumage maturation by young males. Second-year males possess a mainly grayish-green plumage that is similar to that of females, and rarely try to breed. Third-year males have a partially orange plumage that is intermediate between that of females and adult males, and competently breed in small numbers. In addition, there are variations within age classes that reflect alternative life histories and perhaps diet. The existence of both femalelike and malelike subadult plumage in a population is unlike North American passerines with delayed plumage maturation, especially cardueline finches, which are considered to be the closest relatives of the Hawaiian honeycreepers. The extreme delay is associated with high survivorship, strong philopatry, and a varied prebreeding competition among males that includes group displays and which lasts for six months or more each year. These characteristics are common in lekking or cooperatively breeding species, but are unusual for a small, monogamous passerine with biparental care.
4090365| Because of the difficulty of following female songbirds through an entire breeding season, field ornithologists are seldom able to directly measure seasonal fecundity (defined as number of offspring produced per female during an entire breeding season). Instead, it is more commonly inferred from some measure of nest-productivity data (e.g. average number of offspring fledged per nesting attempt) using algorithms that make assumptions about the propensity of females to renest after a nest failure or after successfully fledging a brood. Recent analyses have often assumed set maximum numbers of nesting attempts and successful broods, and that all females breed up to those maxima. However, whereas data from songbirds intensively followed for an entire breeding season show that they are capable of up to 4-8 nesting attempts, many authors, in estimating seasonal fecundity, assume a maximum of only 1-4 nesting attempts. We applied a model to a Prairie Warbler (Dendroica discolor) data set (Nolan 1978) that allowed direct comparisons of (1) seasonal-fecundity estimates obtained assuming fixed maximum numbers of renestings and broods with (2) estimates obtained assuming that numbers of renesting attempts and successful nests are constrained only indirectly by length of breeding season. Although results under the latter assumption are concordant with Nolan's (1978) direct empirical measure of Prairie Warbler seasonal fecundity, estimates under assumptions of fixed maxima of renestings or broods are in serious error for many parameter choices. As such, our analyses disclose that essentially all estimates of seasonal fecundity in the literature derived by assuming a limited maximum number of nesting attempts or of successful broods are biased. Most commonly, when nest mortality is high, seasonal fecundity is underestimated; in some cases where nest mortality is low, seasonal fecundity is overestimated. We recommend that researchers estimating seasonal fecundity from nest-productivity data use a model that explicitly sets breeding-season length and thereby only indirectly constrains the possible number of nesting attempts and successful broods. /// Debido a la dificultad de seguir aves canoras hembras a lo largo de una estacin reproductiva completa, pocas veces los ornitlogos de campo estn en condiciones de medir directamente la fecundidad estacional (definida como el nmero de cras producidas por hembra durante una estacin reproductiva completa). En cambio, la fecundidad estacional es ms comnmente inferida a partir de alguna medida de productividad del nido (e.g. el nmero promedio de cras que llegaron a dejar el nido por evento de nidificacin) usando algoritmos que hacen suposiciones en cuanto a la disponibilidad de las hembras a nidificar nuevamente luego de que un nido fracasa o de que cran exitosamente una nidada. Anlisis recientes han supuesto generalmente que existe un nmero fijo mximo de intentos de nidificacin y de nidadas exitosas y que todas las hembras se reproducen para alcanzar dichos mximos. Sin embargo, mientras que los datos provenientes de aves canoras que han sido seguidas intensamente a lo largo de una estacin reproductiva completa muestran que son capaces de emprender hasta 4 a 8 intentos de nidificacin, al estimar la fecundidad estacional muchos autores suponen un mximo de slo 1 a 4 intentos de nidificacin. Aplicamos un modelo a un conjunto de datos de Dendroica discolor (Nolan 1978) que nos permiti hacer comparaciones directas de (1) las estimaciones de fecundidad estacional obtenidas suponiendo nmeros mximos fijos de nidificaciones repetidas y nidadas con (2) las estimaciones obtenidas suponiendo que los nmeros de intentos de nidificaciones repetidas y de nidos exitosos estn limitados slo indirectamente por la duracin de la estacin reproductiva. Aunque los resultados basados en este ltimo supuesto concuerdan con la medida emprica directa de la fecundidad estacional de D. discolor de Nolan (1978), las estimaciones basadas en los supuestos de un mximo fijo de nidificaciones repetidas o de nidadas presentan errores serios en la seleccin de mltiples parmetros. De este modo, nuestros anlisis revelan esencialmente que todas las estimaciones de fecundidad estacional presentes en la literatura que han supuesto un nmero mximo limitado de intentos de nidificacin o de nidadas exitosas estn sesgadas. Ms comnmente, cuando la mortalidad de los nidos es alta, se subestima la fecundidad estacional; en algunos casos en los que la mortalidad de los nidos es baja, se sobrestima la fecundidad estacional. Recomendamos que los investigadores que estiman la fecundidad estacional a partir de datos de productividad de nidos usen un modelo que determine explcitamente la duracin de la estacin reproductiva y por ende que limite slo de modo indirecto el nmero posible de intentos de nidificacin y de nidadas exitosas. 
10.2307/4087491| I used simulation models to analyze the effect of different suites of life-history traits and mating rules on the correlation between ages of paired birds. If pair stability is high, the correlation between ages of mates may be strong even in the absence of active mate selection on the basis of age or experience. Even a low frequency of dissolved pairs substantially reduces the correlation between ages. For 9 species with known life-history traits, I simulated the extent of active mate selection required to produce the observed patterns of ages of mates. In only 1 species could the pattern of ages be explained in the absence of any active mate selection on the basis of the experience of the mate. In 5 species the results suggested there was strong active selection of experienced breeders. With the exception of the Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) and the Blue-eyed Shag (Phalacrocorax atriceps), observed patterns of ages of mates could be reproduced by simulation models assuming only that birds can distinguish experienced from inexperienced breeders. 
10.2307/4090190| In birds, large egg size often enhances subsequent offspring survival, but most previous studies have been unable to separate effects of egg size from other maternal influences. Therefore, we first evaluated variance components of egg size both within and among individual female Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis), and then tested for egg-size-dependent survival of ducklings in the wild by switching complete broods among females. Forty broods consisting of 244 individually color-marked, day-old ducklings of known egg size were given to foster mothers, and survival was monitored to one month. Analysis of mark-resighting data showed that offspring survival was best modeled to include effects of egg size and hatching date; survival probability increased with egg size, but declined with advancing hatching date. Duckling body mass, body size, and body condition measured at hatching were positively correlated with egg size. Unlike most other duck species, and for reasons that are speculative, egg sizes varied within clutches nearly as much as they did among clutches. Selective mortality of small egg phenotypes during the first weeks after hatching likely is the result of smaller duckling size and reduced energy reserves, characteristics that must be particularly unfavorable in adverse environments. /// Chez les oiseaux, les ufs de grande taille amliorent souvent la survie des couves qui en sont issues, mais la plupart des tudes prcdentes ont t incapables de sparer les effets de la taille de l'uf des autres influences maternelles. Par consquent, nous avons tout d'abord valu les variations de la taille de l'uf  l'intrieur d'une mme couve et parmi diffrentes couves pour des femelles d'rismature rousse (Oxyura jamaicensis). Ensuite, nous avons test l'effet de la taille de l'uf sur la survie des canetons en milieu naturel par change de couves compltes entre diffrentes femelles. Quarante couves reprsentant 244 canetons ont t utilises dans le cadre de cette tude. Les canetons, gs d'un jour et issus d'ufs de taille connue, ont reu un marquage de couleur individuel. Ces canetons ont t placs avec des mres adoptives et ont t suivis pendant un mois pour valuer leur chance de survie. L'analyse des donnes de marquage-recapture a montr que la taille de l'uf et la date de ponte taient les effets retenus dans la modlisation de la survie des canetons. La probabilit de survie de ces derniers augmentait avec la taille de l'uf, mais dclinait pour des dates de ponte prcoces. La masse, la taille et la condition corporelle des canetons mesures  l'closion taient positivement corrles avec la taille de l'uf.  la diffrence de la plupart des autres espces de canards, et pour des raison spculatives, les tailles d'ufs variaient autant au sein d'une mme couve qu'entre les couves. Au cours des premires semaines aprs l'closion, la mortalit slective des phnotypes reprsentant les petits ufs tait probablement lie  l'obtention de canetons de plus petites tailles avec des rserves nergtiques rduites, caractristiques qui doivent tre particulirement dfavorables dans des environnements difficiles. 
10.2307/4088593|Olfactory foraging, although very rare among birds, is frequently found in members of the Procellariiformes; this finding is based on a small number of field studies using a standardized method (i.e. raft tests). Reactions of seven species previously tested under artificial conditions were tested again under natural feeding conditions (fish-oil slicks) to check validity. Concurrently, we compared the flight behavior of two groups of species (with and without olfactory capacities) when approaching an odor source. A large-scale experiment was then conducted in pelagic waters to test the reaction of a community of procellariiforms (15 species) to a food-related odor diffusing within a principal feeding area. We observed the same reactions (attraction or indifference) to oil slicks as to test rafts in all species evaluated. Results obtained with the standardized method thus hold under natural conditions. Species guided by olfaction approached the odor source by flying against the wind very close to (<1 m) the surface, whereas other species approached from a direction independent of wind direction and from a greater height (>6 m). Thus, specific searching behavior is associated with olfactory foraging and we found it to be closely related to direction, height, and speed of odor diffusion by wind. Reaction to the odor test varied according to families or subfamilies, some taxa showing consistent responses (attraction or indifference) to several experiments and some taxa showing conflicting reactions. We obtained some evidence that olfactory behavior may differ before and after locating odor sources, as well as vary according to oceanic zones (coastal vs. pelagic). We discuss the hypothesis that certain species rely mainly on visual cues, recognizing and following species that are tracking foodrelated odors. Finally, we propose some new ideas about the evolution of olfaction in birds.
10.2307/4088502|In 1989, 1990, and 1991, we conducted experiments on 30 circular 1.0-ha sites to assess whether human intrusions during a 10-week period influenced the occurrence and consistency of primary song in breeding subalpine birds. Using only those weekly censuses during which a species was present at a site, we computed song occurrence as the percentage of censuses during which a species sang, and we calculated singing consistency as the maximum number of consecutive censuses during which a species sang. An intrusion bout involved one person who walked through a site for 1 or 2 h. We used a priori contrasts, involving habitat covariates when appropriate, to assess differences in song occurrence and singing consistency between control and intruded sites and between sites at which the inner 25% of the site was disturbed (S25) and those at which 100% of the site was disturbed (S100). Singing by a number of species did not appear to be influenced by intrusion. For several species, however, song occurrence and singing consistency were higher on control sites than on intruded sites, indicating intrusion reduced singing activity. Song occurrence was higher on S100 relative to S25 sites as well. This latter pattern may have emerged because all of the individuals using the S100 sites were able to observe us during repeated intrusions and discern that we were not predators, whereas most of the individuals using the S25 sites likely did not have this opportunity. Thus, some of the individuals using S25 sites may have reduced their singing to avoid detection by us. Because song is essential in territory defense, mate acquisition, and in other reproductive activities, levels of intrusion that alter normal singing behavior have the potential to lower the reproductive fitness of males that are sensitive to this form of disturbance.
10.2307/4089677|We investigated fish abundance and habitat characteristics at 32 lakes occupied by Madagascar Fish-Eagles (Haliaeetus vociferoides) and 32 randomly selected unoccupied lakes between Morondava and Boriziny in western Madagascar from May to November 1995. We measured lake and shoreline habitat characteristics and used gill nets to sample fish populations. Compared with unoccupied lakes, lakes occupied by fish-eagles were deeper and clearer, had more shoreline perch trees, and yielded gill-net catches with more fish, a higher total fish mass, and more fish species. A logistic regression model with number of shoreline perch trees and number of fish species caught in gill nets as independent variables correctly classified fish-eagle use for 76.6% of the lakes in the study. A model with number of shoreline perch trees alone was 71.9% accurate, suggesting that perch-tree availability is the most important factor limiting populations of Madagascar Fish-Eagles. The results indicate that Madagascar Fish-Eagles require bodies of water with large shoreline trees and ample populations of fish.
25488524|Asynchronous hatching creates a size hierarchy among siblings and a survival disadvantage for last-hatched nestlings. Female birds can influence this disadvantage by differentially investing maternal resources, such as carotenoids, across the laying sequence. We studied intraclutch variation in carotenoid concentrations in Yellow-headed Blackbirds (
4086417|We played degraded and undegraded song types to territorial Great Tits. Each bird was tested with degraded and undegraded renditions of a song type in its repertoire and of a song not in its repertoire. The birds responded less strongly to degraded than to undegraded songs, and the difference was significant only if the test song was of the same type as, or similar to, one in the bird's repertoire. These results are consistent with Richards' (1981) hypothesis that degradation cues are used to judge distance and Morton's (1982) idea that degradation may be judged by comparison with a standard consisting of the bird's own rendition of the song. We also found that birds are better able to discriminate between undegraded and degraded song types if their neighbors sing the song. The results are discussed in relation to hypotheses concerning song matching and neighbor-stranger discrimination.
40406075|The "spring condition" hypothesis (SCH) states that nutrition during spring migration affects survival, reproductive success, and, ultimately, population size of migratory birds. The North American population of Lesser Scaup (
4090511| Rupelramphastoides knopfi, a new genus and species of the Pici (barbets, woodpeckers, and allies), is described from Frauenweiler, a Lower Oligocene (30-34 mya) fossil site in Germany. The disarticulated skeleton of the new species constitutes the first associated remains of a fossil member of the Pici and is the smallest known species and earliest substantial fossil record of this taxon. Despite an overall resemblance to modern Ramphastidae, R. knopfi appears to be distinguished from crown group Pici by several plesiomorphic characteristics. It is classified "family incertae sedis," pending discovery of additional, better-preserved specimens. The fossil record and geographic occurrence of the basal lineages within the crown group are in concordance with an Old World origin of the Pici. The reasons that led to extinction of tiny Pici in Europe remain uncertain, but food competition with passeriform birds during periods of limited food availability may have played a major role. /// Rupelramphastoides knopfi, eine neue Gattung und Art der Pici (Bartvgel, Spechte und Verwandte), wird aus dem Unteroligozn (vor 30-34 Millionen Jahren) der Fossilfundstelle Frauenweiler in Deutschland beschrieben. Das disartikulierte Skelett der neuen Art stellt die ersten zusammenhngenden Reste eines fossilen Vertreters der Pici dar, und ist die kleinste bekannte Art und der lteste Fossilnachweis dieses Taxons. Trotz einer Gesamthnlichkeit zu modernen Ramphastidae, unterscheidet sich R. knopfi von den Krongruppen-Pici in einigen plesiomorphen Merkmalen. Vorbehaltlich der Entdeckung weiterer, besser erhaltener Skelette, wird die neue Art daher in Familie incertae sedis klassifiziert. Der Fossilnachweis und die geographische Verbreitung der basalen Linien innerhalb Krongruppen-Pici stehen im Einklang mit einem altweltlichen Ursprung der Pici. Die Grnde, welchen zum Aussterben sehr kleiner Vertreter dieser Gruppe in Europa fhrten, sind unbekannt, aber Nahrungskonkurrenz mit Singvgeln whrend Zeiten beschrnkten Nahrungsangebotes knnte eine wichtige Rolle gespielt haben. 
10.2307/4090092|At regular intervals throughout 2001, a unit from the Phelps Ornithological Collection assisted a biological survey along the Ro Caroni in Venezuela, north and downstream of the Embalse de Guri. One of the expeditions was to Isla Carrizal at 0754N, 6304W, a large uninhabited island thickly covered with groves of spiney Guadua latifolia and Ripidocladus sp. bamboos, mixed with semideciduous forest and patches of savanna. On two occasions, three specimens of an unknown blue seedeater (Amaurospiza) were collected. Those were the first records for an Amaurospiza for northern South America, and subsequent investigation showed it to be a hitherto undescribed species. /// A intervalos regulares durante 2001, un grupo de la Coleccin Ornitolgica Phelps particip en un inventario biolgico a lo largo del Ro Caron, en direccin norte y aguas abajo del Embalse de Guri, Venezuela. Una de las expediciones fue a la isla Carrizal (0754N, 6304W), una isla grande y deshabitada cubierta por rodales de bambes espinosos Guadua latifolia y Ripidocladus sp. entremezclados con bosques semicaducifolios y parches de sabana. En dos ocasiones se colectaron tres especmenes de un semillero desconocido de color azul (Amaurospiza). Estos especmenes representaron los primeros registros de un Amaurospiza para el norte de Sur Amrica, e investigaciones posteriores mostraron que correspondan a un taxn no descrito hasta ahora.
10.2307/4089415|We examined diet, microhabitat, and feeding method of Gadwalls (Anas strepera) and American Coots (Fulica americana) and their relationships to food abundance during winter to test several hypotheses relative to niche breadth and overlap. Mass of aquatic vegetation declined over time, and interspecific differences in diet and microhabitat generally occurred only when food abundance was low. Diet and feeding-method niche breadths were negatively related to food abundance, as predicted by niche theory. However, microhabitat niche breadth was not related to food abundance. Overlaps in diet, microhabitat, and feeding-method niches were positively related to food abundance, which is consistent with niche partitioning between potentially competing species. Divergence in foraging niches with declining food abundance was related primarily to behavioral differences between Gadwalls and coots. Both species fed predominantly at the surface in areas dominated by Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum) in early winter when food was abundant. Most of the Gadwalls left the reservoir when food abundance declined in late winter. Those that remained kleptoparasitized diving coots, or flew to relatively isolated habitats where filamentous algae grew at the surface. Coots, on the other hand, remained in deep-water habitats where they fed by diving for milfoil.
25150350|Material extracted from inside the shells of nine purported Labrador Duck (Camptorhynchus labradorius) eggs was subjected to DNA extraction and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. For each egg, partial sequences of one to three mitochondrial genes (12S, ND2, and control region) were compared with sequences derived from a Labrador Duck specimen and representatives of several other waterfowl species. Sequences from six eggs were consistent with those of the Red-breasted Merganser (Mergus serrator), whereas the sequences from one egg was most consistent with that of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima). The remaining two eggs yielded sequences consistent with that of the Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) or a domestic duck. Regrettably, none of the eggs provided additional information about the breeding grounds of the extinct Labrador Duck. To our knowledge, this is the first report of DNA extraction and amplification from old eggshells of birds. /// Le matriel extrait de la paroi intrieure des coquilles de neuf oeufs prsums provenir de Camptorhynchus labradorius a t soumis  l'extraction d'ADN et  l'amplification en chane par polymrase (PCR). Pour chacun des oeufs, des squences partielles d'un  trois gnes mitochondriaux (12S, ND2 et rgion de contrle) ont t compares avec des squences drives d'un spcimen de Camptorhynchus labradorius et des reprsentants de plusieurs autres espces de sauvagine. Les squences de six oeufs correspondaient  celles de Mergus serrator, alors que les squences de l'un des oeufs correspondaient davantage  celles de Somateria mollissima. Les deux oeufs restants ont produit des squences correspondant  celles d'Anas platyrhynchos ou d'un canard domestique. Malheureusement, aucun des oeufs n'a fourni d'information additionnelle sur les aires de reproduction de Camptorhynchus labradorius, une espce maintenant disparue. D'aprs nos connaissances, ceci est la premire mention de l'extraction et l'amplification d'ADN  partir de vieilles coquilles d'oiseaux.
4086465|Previous studies have shown age-related differences in feeding success for a number of bird species, particularly those found in marine environments. We compared the foraging success of adult and immature Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) feeding along the Playa Miramar northwest of Manzanillo, Colima, Mexico. On many of the feeding dives, Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) were attracted to pelicans and often behaved aggressively in attempts to obtain food from them. Adult Brown Pelicans were significantly more successful than immatures. Laughing Gulls were attracted to successful pelicans regardless of the age of the pelican. The proportion of unsuccessful immature pelicans not attracting gulls was higher than that of unsuccessful adult pelicans. Particularly inept immature pelicans are probably easily identified by gulls and ignored completely. Although we found no differences in the frequency of pelican-gull physical contact (which we used as a measure of gull aggressiveness) between immature and adult pelicans, such behavior was directed almost exclusively toward successful pelicans. Gull aggression was also more intense when pelicans were attacked by groups of gulls.
4088235| Nest boxes of Blue Tits (Parus caeruleus) were heated from the time that nests were completed and lined (a few days before the first egg appeared) until several days after the completion of the clutch. Night-light candles placed underneath the box increased the temperature of the air in the nest box by an average of 6C. The calculated energy savings for an average Blue Tit roosting one night in a heated nest was 0.768 Kcal, which is estimated to be equivalent to 35% of the cost of producing an egg. The percentage of nests that showed an interruption in the laying sequence was significantly lower in heated nests than in control nests. Minimum ambient temperature four and five days before these interruptions occurred was a significant factor in explaining their frequency, indicating that this is a critical period in egg production. In addition, five of six interruptions in heated nests occurred after a night when the candle was extinguished by wind, suggesting that unpredicted low temperatures on the night before laying also may affect egg laying. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09143|Recruitment is an essential component of the life history and population dynamics of bird species. We provide comprehensive information on the determinants of territorial recruitment in populations of the endangered Bonelli's Eagle (
10.2307/4086899|This paper is a survey of applications of electrophoretic techniques in ornithology, with an emphasis on post-1970 publications. The majority of electrophoretic studies of birds have been limited in a variety of ways. Many have dealt with "domesticated" species or have been limited to the examination of blood and/or egg-white proteins. Problems in comparing results from different studies have arisen because of: (1) dissimilar electrophoretic techniques; (2) varying numbers of taxa; (3) nonstandardized enzyme and locus nomenclature; and, especially, (4) different methods of data analysis. These methodological problems must be addressed in order to broaden the utility of electrophoretic data in avian systematics. I suggest that the enzyme names recognized by the International Union of Biochemistry be used exclusively and that a standardized locus nomenclature, comparable with that used in other vertebrate classes, be developed. The predominating use of allozyme characters can be supplemented by "isozyme characters" (e.g. different numbers of genes, heteropolymer assembly, and regulation of expression sensu Buth in press), which possibly could be applied to a determination of systematic relationships of higher-level taxonomic ranks. Allozyme and/or isozyme data should be retained in particulate form (i.e. not summarized as genetic distances). The use of outgroups to assign evolutionary direction is encouraged.
10.2307/4089161|We studied nutritional characteristics of plants in the diets of three closely related, highly frugivorous turacos that inhabit a tropical montane forest in Rwanda: the Great Blue Turaco (Corythaeola cristata), the Ruwenzori Turaco (Musophaga johnstoni), and the Black-billed Turaco (Tauraco schuettii). The first two species also consume leaves. We compared the physical properties and nutrient contents of fruits and leaves eaten by turacos with those of common but uneaten plant species. Concentrations of hexose sugars were higher in fruits eaten by turacos than in those not eaten. In contrast, concentrations of nitrogen and fatty acids were lower in fruits eaten by turacos than in those not eaten. Leaves of plant species eaten by turacos did not differ significantly in either nitrogen or fiber content from those uneaten. Factors other than nitrogen and fiber, perhaps including secondary defensive compounds, are likely to affect leaf choice by turacos. The Great Blue Turaco ate aquatic plants containing high levels of sodium. We hypothesize that the Great Blue Turaco (which is the most folivorous of the three species) eats aquatic plants with high levels of sodium to help detoxify plant secondary compounds.
4086180|Ninety migrant White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys leucophrys) recaptured over a short term on stopover in Brunswick, Maine had a mean weight gain of 2.5 g, a mean minimum stopover length of 4.5 days, and a mean rate of weight gain of 0.6 g/day. The amount of fat deposited and length of stopover were both significantly related to the amount of fat upon arrival: lean birds gained more weight and stayed longer than fat birds. The pattern of weight gain was similar to that of Z. l. gambelii in a simulated stopover experiment, although the rate of gain was slower. The birds gained weight immediately after the first capture. This differs from the pattern of an initial weight loss followed by weight gain that has been observed for other species. The length of stopover and rate of weight gain did not differ between the spring and fall migrations, which suggests that the rate of migration is similar in the spring and fall. Comparative data for other species, however, show a slower fall migration rate.
4085556|Among woodpeckers of eastern North America, the pair bonds of Pileated Woodpeckers (Dryocopus pileatus) appear to be among the strongest on a year-round basis. This report describes the courtship behavior of these birds as seen through the nesting period, chiefly at times of changeovers at the nest. While tapping was the most frequent method of intrapair communication early in the nesting period, woicks, given predominantly by the female, were more prevalent later on. Drums and high calls were forms of long distance communication. Although males did most of the excavating, females worked harder and did a larger share than is the case for smaller picines. Among other features of behavior described are the aberrant behavior of one male at times of excavating and copulating, the entrance of both birds into the nest at time of egg-laying, a greater interest in nest defense displayed by a female than her mate, and a revival of courtship after the cessation of brooding.
10.1525/auk.2010.10057|Variation in the appearance of eggs within a clutch has been hypothesized to decrease the likelihood of rejection of brood-parasite eggs, but tests of the hypothesis have produced mixed results among cuckoo (
10.2307/4089463|Recent studies of sperm competition have shown that the timing of copulations can be crucial to fertilization success. For example, in some birds copulations that occur near the time of laying are less likely to fertilize eggs than copulations that occur at other times. Thus, it was surprising to find that in Australian Brush-turkeys (Alectura lathami), most within-pair copulations (61.2%) occurred less than 1 h before laying, typically providing only 25 to 40 min for sperm to reach storage organs before potentially being flushed out by the descending egg. Brush-turkeys incubate their eggs in large mounds constructed by males; females lay an egg every few days and bury it within a chosen mound. Females usually solicited a copulation within 2 to 3 min after arriving at a mound to lay, but some males still forced copulations, particularly during the latter portion of laying visits. The unusual prevalence of copulations before laying probably results from males having little information about or control over female copulation behavior except when females need to lay in a males' mound. The prevalence of forced copulations during the latter part of laying visits may indicate conflict between the sexes over what constitutes adequate "payment" by females for use of a male's incubation mound. Neither sex showed any interest in copulating immediately after an egg was laid. This observation does not support the idea of a "fertilization window" after laying, but instead indicates that copulations at this time are probably ineffective in fertilizing eggs. Females also frequently made nonlaying visits to incubation mounds. The 38.8% of within-pair copulations that occurred during nonlaying visits may have been more likely to fertilize eggs, but the timing of these visits was controlled by females, who were probably less likely to be subject to male control when not laying.
90008551|Oceans represent extreme ecological barriers for land birds. Yet the Northern Wheatear (
10.1525/auk.2011.11058|The introduction of the Great-tailed Grackle (
4090671| In the coevolutionary "arms race" between Common Cuckoos (Cuculus canorus) and their hosts, several adaptations and counter-adaptations have evolved. Here, we investigated natural parasitism and host sensitivity to egg rejection in Marsh Warblers (Acrocephalus palustris) in Bulgaria. The level of Common Cuckoo parasitism was high (28%), and average mimicry of Common Cuckoo eggs was good. Experimental parasitism with four egg-types that showed various degrees of mimicry of the host eggs revealed a generally high rejection rate of foreign eggs (37.5-100%). In addition, naturally laid Common Cuckoo eggs were rejected at a moderate rate (50%). The Marsh Warbler's ability to reject foreign eggs was strongly dependent on the degree of mimicry of the parasite egg but apparently not on differences in size between host and foreign eggs. Furthermore, intraclutch variation in host egg appearance was not related to the probability of egg rejection. The Marsh Warbler's highly developed egg-recognition ability and the good mimicry of Common Cuckoo eggs suggests that this poorly known host-parasite arms race has reached an advanced stage. The present study provides new insight into variables that are important for egg rejection in a heavily parasitized host population. /// En la carrera coevolutiva entre Cuculus canorus y sus hospederos han evolucionado varias adaptaciones y contra adaptaciones. Aqu investigamos el parasitismo natural y la sensibilidad al rechazo de huevos de Acrocephalus palustris en Bulgaria. El nivel de parasitismo de C. canorus fue elevado (28%) y el mimetismo promedio de los huevos de C. canorus fue bueno. El parasitismo experimental con cuatro tipos de huevos que mostraron varios niveles de mimetismo con el huevo del hospedero revelaron una tasa de rechazo de los huevos forneos generalmente elevada (37.5-100%). Adems, los huevos puestos naturalmente por C. canorus fueron rechazados a una tasa moderada (50%). La habilidad de A. palustris de rechazar los huevos forneos dependi fuertemente del grado de mimetismo de los huevos parasitados, pero aparentemente no dependi de las diferencias en tamao entre los huevos del hospedero y los huevos forneos. Ms an, la variacin intra-nidada en la apariencia de los huevos del hospedero no se relacion con la probabilidad de rechazo de los huevos. El alto desarrollo de la habilidad de A. palustris de reconocer huevos y el buen mimetismo de los huevos de C. canorus sugieren que esta carrera poco conocida entre hospedero y parsito ha alcanzado un estado avanzado. El presente estudio brinda nuevos aportes sobre las variables que son importantes para el rechazo de los huevos en una poblacin hospedera fuertemente parasitada. 
10.2307/4086817|The Red-breasted Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus ruber daggetti) and Red-naped Sapsucker (S. nuchalis) are sympatric and hybridize in south-central Oregon, northeastern California, along the California-Nevada border, and in southern Nevada. We examined the overlapping distribution, nature of hybridization, and mate preference in these two taxa. Using a "hybrid index" system, we identified 13 phenotypic classes that represent the range of variation seen in typical parental types and their hybrids. Variation of parental forms in regions of allopatry was used to distinguish parental phenotypes from hybrids in the zone of overlap and hybridization. The percentage representation of various categories of mating (conspecific, 75.8%; backcross, 16.6%; hybrid, 1.4%; and interspecific, 6.2%) shown by 145 nesting pairs in the zone of overlap was used to infer the relative fitness of F
40406711|Invasive insects pose a significant threat to biodiversity, often affecting entire communities through the destruction of foundation species. Eastern Hemlock (
10.2307/4089112|We examined the degree that growth in Fork-tailed Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma furcata) chicks varies among individuals and years. Data on wing chord length and body mass were collected on 10 or more chicks per year on the Barren Islands, Alaska, during seven years over two decades. In contrast to the apparently uniform growth rates in other storm-petrels (e.g. Leach's Storm-Petrel [Oceanodroma leucorhoa] and British Storm-Petrel [Hydrobates pelagicus]), Fork-tailed Storm-Petrel chicks on the Barren Islands displayed a two-fold variation in both wing growth and mass gain. Variation in growth rate was apparent both within and among years. Correlations between wing growth and mass gain were significant in only four of seven years, a finding we interpret as indicative of the importance of changes in food quality and quantity on growth. The decadal changes in growth rate of this species between the 1980s and 1990s are consistent with the regulating role that environmental variation appears to play in the growth and survival of storm-petrels. We suggest that the wide range of observed growth rates among individuals, years, and between decades is a response to environmental variability.
10.1525/auk.2011.11026|Hybrid zones between different plumage morphs are common in birds. These zones can be maintained by (1) divergent selection pressures on either side of the zone or (2) some restriction to mating between the forms that limits gene flow from one side to the other. In eastern Australia, there is a distinct hybrid zone between two plumage forms of the Australian Magpie (
10.2307/4090154| If Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) defend feeding territories was investigated by examining home-range overlap, social interactions at foraging sites, and the predictability and subsequent defendability of their main food source, ants. Flickers did not defend feeding territories, foraging with conspecifics in 29% of observations without visible aggressive behavior. Mean (SD) percent cumulative home-range overlap between radiotagged individuals was 50  32%; competitor density was positively related to overlap. Rain and temperature extremes reduced surface activity of potential ant prey. Simulated foraging over time decreased the number of active anthills in plots when compared to controls. Food predictability and competitive pressure may act together to make territories uneconomical for flickers to defend. /// Nous avons cherch  comprendre si le Pic flamboyant (Colaptes auratus) dfendait un territoire d'alimentation en examinant les interactions sociales issues de la superposition de domaines vitaux  des sites d'alimentation, ainsi que la prdictibilit et la dfense subsquente de leur principale source de nourriture, les fourmis. Les pics ne dfendaient pas de territoires et cherchaient de la nourriture en compagnie d'autres congnres sans comportement d'agressivit visible dans 29% des observations. Le pourcentage cumulatif moyen (SD) de superposition des domaines vitaux des individus munis d'metteurs radio tait de 50  32%. La densit des comptiteurs tait positivement corrle  la superposition. La pluie et les tempratures extrmes rduisaient les activits de surface des proies potentielles (fourmis). Les qutes de nourriture simules au cours du temps diminuaient le nombre de fourmilires actives situes dans nos parcelles exprimentales comparativement aux tmoins. La prdictibilit de la disponibilit en nourriture et la pression comptitive pourraient agir ensemble pour rendre la dfense des territoires non profitables par les pics. 
4086461|Partially migratory behavior, the occurrence of resident and migratory individuals in a population, has been reported in free-living birds. I examined this behavior in the European Robin (Erithacus rubecula) under controlled experimental conditions. In an offspring group from a partially migratory field population, 36 (78%) individuals exhibited migratory restlessness (migrants), whereas 10 did not (residents). There were more migrants (89%) in an offspring group from exclusively migratory parents and fewer migrants (53%) from an offspring group from mostly resident parents than there were in the field population. A heritability value of 0.52 was found under the experimental conditions. A connection between the genetic determination of migratory behavior and unpredictable winter weather in the breeding area is discussed.
10.2307/4089718|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) may provide a direct test of whether sexual selection via "arbitrary traits" or "good genes" is responsible for the evolution of epigamic traits, because FA is an epigenetic measure of stress during development. However, tests of the FA hypothesis have yielded equivocal results, and the debate between arbitrary traits and good genes continues. The FA hypothesis predicts a negative relationship between ornament size and asymmetry. In non-ornamental traits, a U-shaped relationship between trait size and asymmetry is expected. We tested these predictions in the Red-collared Widowbird (Euplectes ardens) by examining the relationship between size and asymmetry in the length of the tail, tarsus, and wing. We found no significant linear or second-order polynomial relationships between trait size and asymmetry. Furthermore, no relationship existed between asymmetry and two indices of body condition. This suggests that the tail is not a reliable signal of male quality in the Red-collared Widowbird. However, we argue that the assumptions of the FA hypothesis are too simplistic for this conclusion to be drawn with a high degree of confidence.
10.2307/4088913|I investigated foraging behavior and competition for food between Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) and Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) in southern Texas. Turkey Vultures usually located carcasses first, but often were displaced by later-arriving Black Vultures, which used local enhancement to locate the carcasses. Turkey Vultures occurred equally frequently at carcasses of all sizes, but Black Vultures were more likely to visit large carcasses (>5 kg) than small ones. In addition, at very large carcasses (>100 kg), Black Vultures outnumbered Turkey Vultures. Turkey Vultures apparently depend primarily on small items, which they can consume quickly before Black Vultures usurp them. Both vulture species roost communally and it has been suggested that their roosts may function as information centers. However, because recent research indicates that the information-center hypothesis is unlikely to be a sufficient explanation for communal roosting in vultures, I explored other possible foraging benefits of communal roosting. Specifically, I incorporated field data collected on the foraging behavior of vultures into two simulation models designed to evaluate the possibility that communal roosting facilitates the use of local enhancement by roost members, either by promoting the formation of foraging groups (the assembly-point hypothesis) or by concentrating birds in space (the spatial-concentration hypothesis). I conclude that birds depending on spatial-concentration effects occasionally may forage more successfully than noncommunally roosting individuals, but those that form foraging groups do best. Thus, communal roosting may be advantageous because it facilitates the formation of foraging groups.
4087725|We used tritium-labeled glycerol triether as a nonabsorbable lipid-phase marker and carbon-14 labeled polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable aqueous-phase marker to examine gastrointestinal transit of a homogenized fish meal fed to 4-week-old chicks of Antarctic Giant-Petrels (Macronectes giganteus) and Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua). Both aqueous-phase and lipid-phase markers passed through the gastrointestinal tract without being metabolized. Label recoveries from the two species were statistically indistinguishable. Mean retention time was significantly longer for lipid-phase components than for aqueous-phase components in both species. In the petrel, mean retention time for lipid-phase and for aqueous-phase was significantly longer than in the penguin. Interspecific differences in retention were largely the result of differing rates of gastric emptying. Both markers emptied rapidly from the proventriculus and gizzard of the penguins, while in giant-petrels the lipid-phase was retained for extended periods in the stomach. Differential transit of lipid and aqueous phases coupled with the lower rate of gastric emptying in giant-petrel chicks provides a physiological basis for accumulation of dietary lipids in the proventriculus. The large, distensible proventriculus and the ventral position of the pyloric valve relative to the gizzard and proventriculus are morphological traits which enhance the formation and retention of stomach oils.
10.2307/4088161|We studied the flight display of the Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) to determine if it functions as a signal of male quality. We tested the hypothesis that flight display is an honest signal of male quality limited by its energetic costs. Male Bobolinks' display durations positively correlated with condition, and with the number of young fledged. To increase variation in display durations, we handicapped some males by wing clipping. Mating success, male condition, and fledging success were used as possible measures of male quality to compare clipped with unclipped birds. Males with clipped wings had shorter display durations and acquired fewer mates. The evidence supports the hypothesis that the Bobolink's flight display could be used as a reliable signal of male quality.
10.2307/4090316| Annual fecundity is a demographic parameter that is elemental to population biology, but accurate measures of fecundity are rarely obtained. We used radiotelemetry to follow female Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) throughout the 1999-2000 breeding seasons in southeastern Illinois to estimate their annual fecundity and assess if the outcome of initial nesting attempts affected site selection for subsequent nests. Thirty-four females built 52 nests (1.53  0.12 nests female
4087289|There are diverse relations among ecological, morphological, and life-history traits in North American woodpeckers (family Picidae). Within the family as a whole, clutch size does not correlate with body size. However, clutch size increases with body size within the genus Melanerpes and decreases with size in Picoides. In the family as a whole, species that specialize on wood-boring larvae have small clutches. Such species use pecking as a major foraging technique, and pecking is associated with a wide suite of morphological specializations, including relatively wide first ribs, long pygostyle disks, short tibia, wide crania, wide maxillae, long mandibular symphyses, less cranial kinesis, and greater culmen sexual dimorphism. Hence, these morphological characters also correlate with clutch size, in two cases (length of the mandibular symphysis and cranial kinesis) even after controlling for both body size and generic effects. The observed correlations between clutch size and morphology are probably the result of dietary influences. These correlations, however, may at least in part be due to morphological constraints. Morphological design may thus constrain life-history evolution at the intrafamilial and intrageneric levels as well as at higher taxonomic levels.
10.1525/auk.2012.11171|Long-term bird-banding programs provide knowledge of the demographic rates of avian populations, but we currently lack information on demographic rates of most bird populations in species-rich tropical ecosystems. Banding in tropical regions is typically conducted with protracted or irregular sampling occasions that make the choice of the proper capturemarkrecapture (CMR) model difficult. Here, we address common challenges related to collecting and analyzing data to estimate survival rates of resident Neotropical birds using 20 years of banding efforts in Mexico as a case study. We applied Cormack-Jolly-Seber and Barker models to estimate apparent survival and recapture probabilities of species with sufficient data for survival analyses. We were able to analyze 6 resident species of 136 total species; apparent survival probabilities ranged from 0.30 to 0.77, and recapture probabilities from 0.11 to 0.52. For monitoring programs with existing data collected at continuous, uneven, or irregular intervals, we recommend the application of the Barker model over other models because it was more efficient in the use of available banding data and less often violated CMR assumptions. We recommend that monitoring programs last >10 years and provide additional protocol suggestions for primary and secondary sampling occasions, as well as the number of nets, potential net configurations, and the extent of the spatial scale. These baseline recommendations are likely to foster an increase in our knowledge of avian survival rates in tropical ecosystems, which is imperative for managing tropical bird populations under changing environmental conditions.
10.2307/4090202| One function of territorial defense may be to facilitate mate guarding by resident males. To assess the importance of mate guarding in territoriality, we examined the spatial pattern of intrusions by male Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) on the territories of other males and we compared use of territorial space by paired and bachelor males. Because intruding males tended to remain near territorial boundaries of other males more than expected by chance, we expected paired males to avoid areas near boundaries, where the chances of the female encountering another male would be higher. We found that before females had settled onto territories, all resident males used boundary areas of their territories extensively. After females settled, however, paired males remained almost exclusively in the cores of their territories, whereas bachelor males continued to use primarily the edges of their territories. Those patterns of space use suggest that the benefits of having more exclusive access to a mate may be one of the selective forces driving territorial behavior in this species. /// La protection du partenaire par les mles rsidents pourrait tre une des fonctions de l'utilisation d'un territoire. Pour valuer l'importance de ce phnomne sur la territorialit, nous avons examin le patron spatial des intrusions de mles de Lagopdes des saules (Lagopus lagopus) dans le territoire d'autres mles. Nous avons galement compar l'utilisation spatiale du territoire entre des mles dj en couple et des mles clibataires. Les mles qui tendaient  s'introduire sur les territoires voisins restaient  proximit des limites de ces derniers plus souvent qu' la normale. Par consquent, nous nous attendions  ce que les mles dj en couple vitent de se tenir  proximit des limites de territoire, o les chances pour une femelle de rencontrer un autre mle seraient plus grandes. Nous avons trouv que tous les mles rsidents occupaient intensivement les limites de leur territoire avant que les femelles ne s'tablissent. Nanmoins, aprs l'tablissement de ces dernires, les mles concerns sont rests presque exclusivement dans le centre de leur territoire, alors que les mles clibataires continuaient  utiliser principalement les limites de leur territoire. Ces patrons d'utilisation suggrent que les bnfices retirs d'un accs plus exclusif  un partenaire pourrait tre une des forces slectives agissant sur le comportement territorial chez cette espce. 
4087802|We examined relationships of circulating plasma levels of testosterone (T) and corticosterone (B) to territory ownership, breeding density, parental care, and reproductive success in polygynously breeding male Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus). Testosterone levels of territory owners remained relatively high during the first 8 weeks of the breeding season. This period corresponded to the time when most males established territories, and most females initiated clutches. The temporal pattern of testosterone levels for adult floaters was very similar to that of territory owners because floaters competed for territories during the major portion of the breeding season. Plasma levels of corticosterone in adult males were low during the early part of the breeding season, but they rose sharply when females arrived in the study area and started to breed. Circulating testosterone in breeding males declined significantly by the time they fed nestlings. Males with territories in a very high-density breeding site had significantly higher testosterone levels during the main territory establishment period than males at low-density sites. There was no clear relationship between circulating levels of hormones and breeding success.
4087326|The frequency of nest reuse and the costs and benefits of this behavior were investigated in a population of Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, during 1984-1986. Slightly less than half the clutches were laid in old nests, and this proportion did not change seasonally except in one late year when old nests were preferred by late-nesting pairs. The delay between nest and clutch initiation was greater for new vs. old nests, but only significantly so in June and July. Parasites (hematophagous mites) were common in old nests that had been used the previous year and significantly reduced chick survival. Swallows appeared to be able to assess parasite load and selected unparasitized old nests for the first nesting attempt. Nest instability did not appear to be a cost of nest reuse. The mean reproductive success per pair was equal for swallows using old vs. new nests, suggesting that birds can assess the costs and benefits of particular nests and nest sites. Nest reuse was, however, considerably less frequent than in other studies, presumably because the costs and benefits of this behavior vary geographically. In particular, the breeding season at Delta Marsh is extended, and the time delay caused by building a new nest is therefore less important than elsewhere. More birds have the option of avoiding the parasite costs of nest reuse while still successfully rearing two broods. Thus, individuals apparently maximize their reproductive success by adjusting their nesting strategy to account for the local costs and benefits of the two nesting options.
10.2307/4090320| Previous interspecific studies have shown that migratory birds have a higher prevalence of blood parasites than nonmigratory birds. It is thought that birds that move greater distances are exposed to a larger parasite fauna, because of uneven distribution of vectors that carry such parasites. Current hypotheses also suggest that the stress of migration may allow parasites to persist, by weakening the immune system and allowing latent infections to recur. We captured migrating hatching-year Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) in New Mexico and estimated natal latitudes of each individual by analyzing stable-hydrogen isotope ratios of feathers. That enabled us to estimate distances traveled up to point of capture. We also collected blood to quantify hematozoan infection prevalence and intensity. We related distance traveled to prevalence and intensity of hematozoan infections. Contrary to previous hypotheses, our results show no relationship between distance traveled by migrants and prevalence and intensity of hematozoan infections. Of 75 individuals examined, 24% were infected with Leucocytozoon toddi, 37% with Haemoproteus elani, and 5% with H. janovyi. To our knowledge, this is the first documented occurrence of H. janovyi in North America and in Sharp-shinned Hawks. Our stable-hydrogen isotope analyses indicated that H. janovyi was detected only in birds that originated in southwestern North America, which may be of significance in regard to biogeography of that parasite species. /// Estudios previos a nivel interespecfico han mostrado que las aves migratorias tienen una mayor prevalencia de parsitos sanguneos que las aves no migratorias. Se piensa que debido a la distribucin desigual de los vectores que transportan los parsitos, las aves que se mueven mayores distancias estn expuestas a una mayor fauna de parsitos. Las hiptesis actuales tambin sugieren que el estrs producido por la migracin puede permitir la persistencia de los parsitos, debido a la debilitacin del sistema inmunolgico y permitiendo que infecciones latentes vuelvan a ocurrir. En Nuevo Mxico capturamos halcones de la especie Accipiter striatus que eclosionaron en el ao y que se encontraban migrando. Estimamos la latitud natal de cada individuo analizando el cociente de istopos estables de hidrgeno en las plumas, lo que nos permiti estimar las distancias viajadas hasta el punto de captura. Tambin colectamos sangre para cuantificar la prevalencia e intensidad de la infeccin por hematozoos. Relacionamos la distancia viajada con la prevalencia e intensidad de la infeccin por hematozoos. De manera contraria a las hiptesis previas, nuestros resultados no mostraron relacin entre la distancia viajada por los migrantes y la prevalencia e intensidad de las infecciones por hematozoos. De un total de 75 individuos examinados, el 24% estuvo infectado por Leucocytozoon toddi, el 37% por Haemoproteus elani y el 5% por H. janovyi. Segn nuestro conocimiento esta es la primera documentacin de la presencia de H. janovyi en Norte Amrica y en el halcn A. striatus. Nuestros anlisis de istopos estables de hidrgeno indicaron que H. janovyi fue detectado slo en aves originarias del suroeste de Norte Amrica, lo que puede ser significativo con relacin a la biogeografa de esta especie parsita. 
10.2307/4087231|I studied the foraging ecology and mating behavior of the Buff-tailed Sicklebill (Epimachus albertisi) on Mount Missim, Papua New Guinea, from August 1978 to November 1980. Eighty-nine percent of the feeding records were of insectivory. Birds foraged in the middle levels of the forest primarily by bark gleaning, but also by using their long decurved bill for probing knot holes and dead leaves. On rare occasions the sicklebill took fruit. Of more than 1,000 fruit-foraging records by birds of paradise for this study site, only 7 were by the sicklebill. A single focal male held an exclusive, year-round territory of ca. 14 ha. A single radio-tracked female was observed to travel over a 43-ha range in eight sample days, but spent most time in a 9-ha core area abutting the male's territory. Although the female was silent, the territory-holding male sang daily for more than 6 months each year. The male performed an inverted nuptial display on a sapling near his regular song perch. This species exhibited a court-based mating system typical of many polygynous birds of paradise. This is the first record of non-pair-bonded, court-based polygynous breeding behavior in a forest insectivore.
4090556| Although most habitat characteristics are known to be continuously variable in space, practicality dictates that most habitat-selection studies at the spatial scale of the territory treat within-territory habitat as essentially homogeneous. However, the limitations associated with such a compromise have remained largely unexamined. Male Cerulean Warblers (Dendroica cerulea) exhibit nonrandom space-use patterns within their territories, in that all territories contain areas of intensive use or core areas. In addition to documenting territory-wide habitat and behavioral use patterns in this species, we asked two specific questions about core-area structure and function. (1) Are core-area habitats distinct in their vegetative composition and structure from the rest of the territory? (2) What behavioral mechanisms underlie the nonrandom space-use patterns? On a territory-wide basis, males used trees in proportion to their availability; however, core areas were predominantly composed of bitternut hickory (Carya cordiformis), which was a highly preferred song-post tree. Core areas were not consistently associated with any other habitat feature, including canopy gaps. Core areas were singing centers; song-post densities within core areas were 10 higher than in noncore areas. In our study area, bitternut hickories have significant delayed leaf-out patterns, potentially offering minimal acoustic hindrance to song transmission until late in the breeding season. These singing centers may be strategically placed to simultaneously maintain vigilance over social nests and maximize communication with conspecifics. Core areas are potentially as important to males as nesting habitat is to females, and their provision should be taken into account when implementing conservation or management strategies. /// Aunque se sabe que buena parte de las caractersticas de los hbitats varan de forma continua en el espacio, la mayora de estudios sobre seleccin de hbitat a la escala de territorios consideran el hbitat que se encuentra dentro de los territorios como homogneo por razones prcticas. Sin embargo, las limitaciones asociadas con este compromiso no han sido examinadas. Los machos de Dendroica cerulea presentan patrones no aleatorios de uso del espacio dentro de sus territorios en cuanto a que todos los territorios incluyen reas de uso intensivo, o reas ncleo. Adems de documentar el hbitat a travs de los terrirorios y los patrones de comportamiento de uso del hbitat en esta especie, abordamos dos preguntas especficas sobre la estructura y funcin de las reas ncleo. (1) Son los ambientes de las reas ncleo distintivos en cuanto a la composicin de la vegetacin con respecto al resto del territorio? (2) Qu mecanismos de comportamiento subyacen a los patrones no aleatorios de uso del espacio? A nivel de los territorios, los machos usaron los rboles en proporcin a su disponibilidad. Sin embargo, las reas ncleo estuvieron compuestas predominantemente por Carya cordiformis, un rbol que fue marcadamente preferido como percha para cantar. Las reas ncleo no se asociaron consistentemente con ninguna otra caracterstica del hbitat, ni siquiera con los claros del dosel. Las reas ncleo fueron centros de canto: las densidades de las perchas de canto fueron diez veces mayores en las reas ncleo que en otras partes de los territorios. En nuestro sitio de estudio, C. cordiformis presenta un patrn retardado en la expansin de sus hojas, lo que potencialmente ofrece una interferencia acstica mnima para la transmisin de los cantos hasta bien entrada la poca reproductiva. Estos centros de canto podran estar ubicados estratgicamente para vigilar los nidos sociales y para maximizar la comunicacin con individuos coespecficos simultneamente. Las reas ncleo son potencialmente tan importantes para los machos como el ambiente de nidificacin lo es para las hembras, por lo que es importante que estas reas sean consideradas al implementar estrategias de conservacin o de manejo. 
4087123|The different ways birds searched for food in an Australian Eucalyptus forest led them to detect and capture different kinds of prey. Five major searching modes were identified among 23 common, mostly insectivorous bird species. These were distinguished largely by the rates, distances, and angles moved by birds while foraging and by their prey-capture behavior. Some bird species typically moved slowly, visually examining substrates at relatively long distances, and then took flight to capture prey (e.g. whistlers, flycatchers, muscicapid robins, cuckoos). Others moved at more rapid rates and either gleaned small prey from nearby substrates (e.g. thornbills, treecreepers) or flushed insects that were then pursued (e.g. fantails). Two species (Eastern Shrike-Tit, Falcunculus frontatus; White-eared Honeyeater, Meliphaga leucotis) were specialized substrate-restricted searchers, seeking invertebrate and carbohydrate foods among the exfoliating bark of Eucalyptus. The search tactics of birds in this south temperate Australian forest were similar to those of birds in a north temperate forest in New Hampshire, USA, previously reported by Robinson and Holmes (1982). The differences in food-searching behavior between these phylogenetically distinct avifaunas (e.g. search flight and prey-attack flight lengths, hop/flight ratios, foraging rates) reflect the effects of unique foliage structures (e.g. spacing of branches, arrangements of leaves) and food resources at each site. These findings support the hypothesis that habitat structure and food availability provide opportunities and constraints on how birds search for and capture food in forest habitats. These in turn are postulated to affect the success of particular bird species exploiting those habitats and thus influence bird community patterns.
10.2307/4087606|I investigated sex and age dimorphism and the possible effect of body size on mate choice in a northern Utah population of the Barn Owl (Tyto alba). In all characters measured (body mass; length of body, tarsus, foot, tail, and wing; and wing area), females averaged larger than males, but the ranges of these values overlapped considerably. Females were significantly larger than males in all characters except wing chord and tail length. Males had significantly lower wing loading than females. Lower wing loading could contribute to more efficient foraging by males and thus support hypotheses that partitioning of reproductive duties between the sexes may play an important role in reversed sexual dimorphism. Adults and immatures did not differ in size. I found no evidence to support the hypothesis that females choose small males as mates.
10.1525/auk.2009.09117|Birds that forage by probing must often use senses other than vision to find their prey. Remote touch is a sense based on the interception of vibrations produced by moving prey in the substrate or on the evaluation of pressure patterns produced by hard-shelled sessile prey. In probing birds, this system is mediated by an organ made up of clusters of mechanoreceptors housed within pits in the bone of the bill-tips. This bill-tip organ was first described in probing shorebirds (Scolopacidae), and more recently in kiwi (Apterygidae). Here, we describe this bill-tip organ in a third family of probing birds, the ibises (Threskiornithidae). We examined the bill morphology of 11 species of ibis from 8 genera. We found bill-tip organs in species in a wide range of habitat types, from predominantly terrestrial to predominantly aquatic, which suggests that ibises may use remote touch when foraging both in water and in granular substrates. Our data imply a link between bill-tip morphology and habitat usea pattern that we believe warrants further investigation.
10.2307/4089459|Molecular data and variation in syringeal morphology were used to infer a phylogeny for the family Falconidae and to address three issues currently of interest in systematics: (1) the treatment of multiple data sets in phylogenetic analysis, (2) a priori analysis and differential weighting of molecular data, and (3) the reliability of molecular versus morphological data in phylogenetic analysis. Problems in recovering phylogenetic signal caused by rapidly changing sites in the molecular data were not solved by combining data sets. Differentially weighting saturated partitions of the sequence data, prior to phylogenetic analysis, provided a phylogeny congruent with morphological analysis. Molecular data provide substantially more informative characters than morphological data. However, morphological data provide a higher proportion of unreversed synapomorphies. A reclassification of the family based on the phylogeny results in two subfamilies: (1) the Herpetotherinae, (forest-falcons [Micrastur] and Laughing Falcon [Herpetotheres cachinnans]); and (2) the Falconinae, which includes the tribes Falconini (Spot-winged Falconet [Spiziapteryx circumcinctus], pygmy-falcons [Polihierax], falconets [Microhierax], and the genus Falco) and Caracarini (caracaras). The phylogeny also indicates that two genera, Daptrius and Polihierax, are polyphyletic, and these two are split. Finally, a biogeographic hypothesis derived from the phylogeny implies that the origin and early diversification of the family occurred in South America.
4086653|Cliff Swallow (Hirundo pyrrhonota) chicks were played calls of parents and unrelated (control) adults at 9 and 18 days of age. Younger chicks showed no difference in the frequency of their antiphonal begging calls to parental vs. control calls. The older, near-fledging chicks, however, responded significantly more to parental calls than to control calls: 78% of their total antiphonal calls were in response to parental playback calls. In these older chicks, the degree of preference correlated with the measured acoustic differences between the parent and control calls. The results indicate that Cliff Swallow chicks are able to recognize their parents by voice before they leave the nest. Offspring recognition of parents is discussed as it relates to the evolution of parent-offspring recognition systems in general.
4086456|The endemic dove Zenaida graysoni of Socorro Island, an oceanic island in the Pacific south of Baja California, became extirpated between 1958 and 1978, and the endemic mockingbird Mimodes graysoni diminished during the same years and was approaching extinction by 1981. The mainland Mourning Dove Z. macroura became established on Socorro between (probably) 1971 and 1978, and the mainland Northern Mockingbird Mimus polyglottos between 1978 and 1981. Superficially an instance of replacement of island endemics by mainland relatives through competitive exclusion, the case is actually more complicated. We argue that extermination of the endemics was probably caused by predation by feral cats introduced in 1957 or later. There is no evidence of any actual competition between the pairs of species, and their preferred habitats overlap only slightly. We attribute the nearly concurrent establishment of the two invading species, known to have occurred frequently as casual visitors to Socorro and other islands, largely to the provision of fresh water made available as a result of human settlement. Our data show that simple comparison of island species lists compiled at intervals is an inadequate base for theories of island species turnover.
4087852|Subsequent to feeding, territorial Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) curtailed hunting for short periods. I evaluated hypotheses for this behavior based upon resource depression, oxygen debt, satiation, or processing constraints. Lengths of inactive periods after prey consumption were uncorrelated with foraging time prior to prey capture, contrary to expectations if harriers had either depressed prey populations or incurred oxygen debts from their hunting activity. In contrast, lengths of inactive periods after prey consumption were highly correlated with time to consume prey. Presumably, harriers ceased hunting because of either a processing constraint or satiation. Because the regressions between lengths of inactive periods following meals and eating times did not change between the first and second meals of the day, harriers' inactivity following meals was probably due to a processing constraint.
25488725|We tested female Common Canaries' (
10.2307/4088629|The Osprey (Pandion haliaetus), although studied extensively, is relatively unknown with respect to its behavior, especially communication. We conducted a two-year study on a resident Osprey population in Corsica, and describe the communicative behavior of this species. The behavioral repertoire of Ospreys included 11 visual displays (resting, upright, alarm low and high, solicitation low and high, defense, protection, nest protecting, attack, and sky dance) and eight acoustic signals (alarm, solicitation low, high and very high, guard, excited, screaming, and copulation calls). The meaning of each of the displays and calls was inferred from the analysis of behavioral sequences. The communication system of the Osprey consisted of sexual behaviors (between partners), such as solicitation and sky dance, and agonistic behaviors (between breeders and nonbreeders), such as nest-protecting and defense postures. We also analyzed Osprey relationships with other species (including man), and found that there was a gradation within alarm displays and alarm calls according to stimulus distance. In the last section, we try to account for several peculiarities of Osprey behaviors, namely their complexity, the behavioral sexual dimorphism, and the importance of motivational displays. We suggest that all these characters may be related to the life-history traits shown by this species: semicoloniality, breeding strategy, and predation risk (on eggs and chicks).
10.2307/25150221| Post-hatch brood movements to high-quality foraging sites are common in precocial birds but may entail costs for young. We assessed effects of over-land movements of broods between the nesting and rearing areas in Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica) breeding on Bylot Island, Nunavut, Canada, to determine whether these movements affected gosling survival and growth. We monitored 51 radiomarked females over five years to quantify movement distance, movement duration, and gosling survival. Gosling growth was compared over four years using a sample of web-tagged broods recaptured shortly before fledging among adults that (1) nested and reared their young in a dense colony, (2) left the colony and moved 30 km to reach the main brood-rearing area, or (3) nested and reared their young in the main brood-rearing area. Brood movements by radio-marked birds were highly variable (2.6-52.5 km, depending on rearing areas used) and fairly rapid (6 days after hatch for 72% of the females). Gosling survival was not related to distance moved between nesting and brood-rearing areas. However, gosling growth was influenced by areas used and whether or not they had to move to reach their brood-rearing area. Geese nesting at the main brood-rearing area generally reared heavier and larger goslings than those that moved 30 km from the main nesting colony to rear their brood at the main brood-rearing area. On the other hand, goslings leaving the nesting colony after hatch were heavier and larger than those that stayed there throughout brood rearing in one of two years. Although brood movements allow goslings access to high-quality habitats, they entail some costs. Thus, minimizing such movements through nest-site selection should provide a selective advantage by allowing goslings to maximize their growth. /// Le dplacement des familles vers les sites d'alimentation de haute qualit aprs l'closion est rpandu chez les oiseaux nidifuges, mais peut comporter des cots pour les jeunes. Nous avons valu l'effet de ces dplacements entre les sites de nidification et d'levage sur la survie et la croissance des oisons chez Chen caerulescens atlantica nichant  l'le Bylot, Nunavut, Canada. Durant cinq ans, nous avons suivi le dplacement de 51 femelles munies de radio-metteurs afin de quantifier la longueur et la dure de leurs dplacements, ainsi que la survie de leur couve. La croissance des oisons a t value durant quatre annes  partir de recaptures effectue peu avant la priode d'envol de jeunes marqus  l'closion. Nous avons compar la croissance des oisons entre des familles qui (1) ont nich et lev leur couve dans la colonie principale  densit leve, (2) ont nich  la colonie principale et se sont dplaces sur 30 km aprs l'closion vers le site d'levage principal ou (3) ont nich et lev leur couve au site d'levage principal. Les dplacements des familles suivies par tlmtrie taient hautement variables (2.6-52.5 km selon le site d'levage utilis) et rapides (6 jours aprs l'closion pour 72% des femelles). La survie des oisons n'tait pas affecte par la distance parcourue entre les sites de nidification et d'levage. Cependant, leur croissance tait influence par les sites utiliss et le fait de quitter ou non le site de nidification pour atteindre le site d'levage. Les oisons des familles nichant au site d'levage principal avaient gnralement une masse et une taille corporelle plus leves que ceux des familles nichant  la colonie principale et ayant parcouru 30 km pour atteindre le site d'levage principal. Par contre, pour une anne sur deux o la comparaison tait possible, les oisons des familles qui ont quitt la colonie principale ont connu une meilleure croissance que ceux qui y sont demeurs. Ainsi, bien que les dplacements des familles puissent permettre aux oisons d'avoir accs  des habitats de haute qualit, ils comportent galement des cots. Minimiser ces dplacements par le choix du site de nidification devrait donc procurer un avantage slectif en permettant de maximiser la croissance des oisons. 
4087128|We censused American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) in the three vegetation communities representative of north-central Florida (pine flatwoods, sandhills, and agriculture/mixed hardwoods) along 24 16-km roadside transects. The winter kestrel population included resident F. s. paulus and migrant F. s. sparverius. Eighty-four percent of the 1,433 kestrels were sighted in winter, reflecting a significant influx of migrant F. s. sparverius, and were primarily females (65%). Significant (P < 0.05) sexual differences in winter habitat use were attributed to the large numbers of migrants. Males preferred closed habitats and smaller-sized open areas, and females preferred open habitats and larger open areas. Wintering kestrels were most abundant (P < 0.05) in the agriculture/mixed-hardwoods community (51%) and least abundant in the pine-flatwoods community (13%). Seventy-one percent of the 233 kestrels seen during summer were identified as F. s. paulus. Males and females were observed in approximately equal numbers and exhibited no differences in habitat preference. Falco s. paulus preferred the sandhill community (79%) to the agriculture/mixed hardwoods and pine flatwoods. Within the sandhill community, resident kestrels significantly increased their use of the pine/oak woodlands during summer.
4086961|Observations of marked individuals in a partially marked population of Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) show that immediate family members maintain close contact throughout the year. Associations between mates and between parents and offspring are primarily responsible for this. Mutual allopreening, feedings, and intercessions in fights occur almost exclusively within families. Adults known to breed within the study area (neighbors) associate more strongly than nonneighbors, although not as strongly as mates. Certain families associate preferentially with certain other families. Strength of interfamily associations is not related to distance between nest sites within the study area. I argue, therefore, that birds actively seek particular individuals as associates. Further knowledge of breeding dispersal of young of known parentage will provide clues to relatedness of highly associated neighbors. Strong associations among related individuals can help explain the use of avian communal roosts as information centers.
4085977|Despite similarities in winter distribution, habitat selection, and food choice, Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) and Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea) differ in the extent to which they store fat during winter, with juncos accumulating greater stores. Anticipating that Tree Sparrows might have some means of conserving energy during fasting and thus suffer no disadvantage when weather prevents feeding, we compared the species for weight loss, body temperature, and locomotor activity during fasting and noted relative fasting endurance. Because both species exhibit geographic variation in sex ratio during winter, we also made sexual comparisons, anticipating that males would be able to fast longer than females. The species responded similarly to fasting by (a) lowering body temperature, especially at night, and (b) becoming hyperactive, progressively more so as fasting time increased. Tree Sparrows did not exhibit these responses to a greater degree (although they became hyperactive sooner) and were not able to fast as long as juncos. No sexual differences in fasting ability were observed. Because the species-specific difference in tendency toward fat accumulation cannot be attributed to differences in energy expenditure while fasting, at least in the laboratory, other explanations are considered.
90008161|Although the ability to recognize related offspring is essential in the evolution of social behavior, the cues that birds use to identify their own offspring are not fully understood. The Cliff Swallow (
10.2307/4085500|During 1971, 1972, and 1973 the mobility of breeding Pintails (Anas acuta) was studied in the pothole region of central North Dakota. A total of 5 unpaired males, 8 paired males, and 15 females were marked and followed for periods long enough to enable home range estimation. The mean home range sizes for unpaired males, paired males, and paired females were 579 ha, 896 ha, and 480 ha, respectively. Males were generally more mobile than females at all stages of the reproductive cycle. Mobility was found to vary with reproductive chronology, usually decreasing from the prenesting to the nesting period. Seven pair ranges that included both the prenesting and nesting period averaged 509 ha, while four pair ranges that included only the nesting period averaged 167 ha. Female mobility was found to be greatest during the period preceding laying, and home range estimates for the prenesting period were significantly larger than home ranges calculated for the laying period. Females that renested were found to have reduced mobility throughout the renest interval. Home range estimates for breeding Pintails are generally larger than those previously recorded for other Anas species. Interspecific variation in breeding home range size is apparent, and reflects differences in social behavior and feeding ecology.
10.1525/auk.2010.10029|Streaked Shearwaters (
10.2307/4087484|We used allozyme electrophoresis to estimate the level of genetic variability and differentiation of allopatric and sympatric populations of the Willow (Empidonax traillii) and Alder (E. alnorum) flycatchers from southeastern Canada. We reasoned that, if hybridization occurs, sympatric populations should be more variable and interspecifically less differentiated than allopatric populations. These predictions were not supported by our results. Therefore, we concluded that in the surveyed region the two species are reproductively isolated. This conclusion is weakened by the fact that sample sizes were relatively small and that genetic differentiation of the two species is low. These conditions render interbreeding difficult to detect if it occurs at a low frequency.
4085846|Weight loss during flight was estimated for 10 species of passerines of body weight 8-32 g, using a refinement of the method described by Hussell (1969). Analysis of 2,226 migrants, weighed after they were attracted to the Long Point lighthouse, Ontario during nocturnal flight, yielded a mean weight loss of 0.70% of body weight/h. Excluding the Blackpoll Warbler, which had a substantially lower rate of weight loss than any other species, mean weight loss was 0.91% of body weight/h. In this reduced group of 9 species, weight loss averaged about 62% of the rate of fat utilization predicted by Berger and Hart's (1974) flight metabolism data.
10.2307/4089938|We investigated sex-related differences in habitat use in wintering American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) at two scales: within a 10 m radius and within a 100 m radius of perch sites. Female kestrels used areas containing a higher percentage of short vegetation (<0.25 m high) suitable for foraging than did males at both scales (100 m radius females 80%, males 69%; 10 m radius females 80%, males 73%). At both scales, females had more pasture (a high-quality foraging substrate) available than did males; areas within a 100 m radius of male perch sites contained more woodlot than did female perch sites. Logistic regression models indicated greater overlap between male and female habitat use on a 10 m radius scale than on a 100 m radius scale, suggesting that males may preferentially select smaller areas devoid of woody vegetation relative to what is available within 100 m radius of perch sites. Our results suggest that males may be constrained to winter in areas with lower overall foraging opportunities and possibly higher predation risk than areas used by females. Our work supports the hypothesis that males and females kestrels prefer open areas as wintering habitat.
10.2307/4089989| Numerous explanations exist for the evolution of reversed size dimorphism in raptorial species. A recent study concluded that reversed size dimorphism in skuas and jaegers was probably not attributable to breeding-role specialization, but that there was evidence for sexual selection, and in particular intrasexual competition by females for males. Our study tested the applicability of those conclusions for Southern (or Brown) Skuas (Stercorarius skua lonnbergi) breeding in South Georgia. Clutch volume was related positively to size and condition of females and negatively to condition of males, but there was no evidence of assortative mating for size or condition within pairs. Potential explanations for the discrepancy between this and previous studies are that size is less closely correlated with individual quality because of highly diverse foraging strategies, territory quality is a confounding factor, or because lower aggression in Southern Skuas reduces the necessity for small females to avoid large males. /// Existen varias explicaciones para la evolucin del dimorfismo sexual reverso del tamao corporal en las aves rapaces. Un estudio reciente concluy que el dimorfismo sexual reverso del tamao corporal en los Stercorariidae probablemente no es atribuible a especializaciones relacionadas con la anidacin. En cambio, existe evidencia de seleccin sexual, especficamente de competencia entre hembras por machos. Nuestro estudio puso a prueba la aplicabilidad de estas conclusiones para los individuos de Stercorarius skua lonnbergi que se reproducen en el sur de Georgia. El volumen de la nidada estuvo relacionado positivamente con el tamao y la condicin de las hembras y negativamente con la condicin de los machos, pero no hubo evidencia de apareamiento concordante en trminos de tamao o condicin dentro de las parejas. Algunas explicaciones potenciales para la discrepancia entre ste y otros estudios son que el tamao corporal est menos estrechamente correlacionado con la calidad de los individuos debido a la alta diversidad de estrategias de forrajeo, que la calidad del territorio es un factor importante no considerado, o que los bajos niveles de agresin en S. s. lonnbergi reducen la necesidad de evitar machos grandes para las hembras pequeas. 
4087387|We studied egg destruction by conspecifics in colonial Cliff Swallows (Hirundo pyrrhonota) in southwestern Nebraska. Between 8.5% and 19.6% of all nests lost at least 1 egg to an intruding conspecific. Egg destruction occurred when nests were left momentarily unattended, often during colony alarm responses. Birds that destroyed eggs maintained nests of their own, and usually nested within 75 cm of their victims. Egg destruction was not related to attempts to usurp nests. Over a third of perpetrators of egg destruction lost eggs from their own nests to conspecifics. Egg destruction occurred more often in nests initiated early in the nesting season and in nests with large clutch sizes. Egg destruction usually occurred during a victim's egg-laying or early during incubation and declined in frequency as incubation proceeded. Breeding in a colony's peak period of nesting did not afford an advantage to potential victims by diluting their chances of being victimized. Cliff Swallows seldom destroyed all of the eggs in a neighbor's clutch, usually destroying only 1 egg at a time even though other eggs were present. There was little direct evidence that egg destruction was associated with parasitic egg-laying by Cliff Swallows, but nests with egg destruction were over 3 times more likely than nests in general to have an egg physically transferred into them. The costs of egg destruction to victims were obvious, but the benefits to destroyers of eggs were not. Egg destruction is possibly a prelude to physical transfer of eggs, reducing host clutch sizes and ultimately within-brood competition among host and parasitic nestlings. Males may also benefit by destroying a female's eggs during laying, thereby causing her to continue laying and remain sexually receptive to forced extrapair copulations. Incidence of egg destruction by conspecifics increased with Cliff Swallow colony size and thus, for potential victims, represents a definite cost of coloniality.
4088558|Phylogenetic analysis of syringeal morphology and two osteological characters indicates that the broadbills (Eurylaimidae) are not monophyletic, but consist of four clades with successively closer relationships to the Madagascan asities (Philepittidae). An analysis of these data combined with hindlimb myology characters described by Raikow (1987) yields the same result. The sister group to Philepitta and Neodrepanis is the African broadbill Pseudocalyptomena. The sister group to this clade includes all of the Asian broadbills, except the monophyletic genus Calyptomena. The African genus Smithornis is the sister group to all other broadbills and asities. A biogeographic analysis indicates that the Madagascan endemics share a most-recent biogeographic connection with the central African genus Pseudocalyptomena. Phylogenetic associations between transitions in bill morphology and diet indicate that bill morphologies have evolved both in association with evolution of frugivory and nectarivory, and in apparent response to intrinsic factors within the context of frugivorous and insectivorous diets. A phylogenetic classification of the broadbills and asities is proposed in which all broadbills and asities are placed in five subfamilies of the Eurylaimidae, and the separate family Philepittidae is abandoned.
4090678| Natal dispersal in vagile species such as songbirds can shape a population's range and structure. Although effective conservation practices depend on knowledge of the scale and frequency of natal dispersal, these issues remain poorly understood because of methodological gaps. In this exploratory study, we assessed whether element signatures within natal feathers might be used to identify the geographic birth site of first-year breeders. We used two related techniques, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and inductively coupled plasma with optical emission spectrometry (ICP-AES), to quantify element levels in natal feather samples from 7 species at 27 sites across the eastern United States. The techniques differed in the manner in which elements were quantified and in their detection limits. Our goal was to determine whether element analyses of feathers could discriminate (1) different species within a site and (2) different sites within a species. Additionally, because spatial autocorrelation of element levels is needed for element analysis to be an effective tool in assessing natal dispersal, we also evaluated the spatial autocorrelation of ICP-AES samples at 18 sites across the eastern United States. Both ICP-MS and ICP-AES analyses separated species within a site with fairly high accuracy, though the discriminating elements varied with site. However, within a species, natal feather locations were not identified with high accuracy on the basis of feather elements. We were not able to determine whether there is spatial correlation among individual elements or a principal component analysis (PCA) score that described the elemental makeup of a feather. A kriging model was fit to the semivariogram of PCA scores to produce a base-map of element signatures across the eastern United States. This map was ineffective at predicting feather-element values at sample sites. Whether elemental analyses can identify natal dispersal distances requires further study. We suggest that future studies evaluate elements with ICP-MS methodologies on a single, box-nesting species that is sampled more intensively at smaller geographic scale, or on species that occur in very discrete populations. Additionally, this methodology should be evaluated in concert with stable-isotope analyses of feathers and, potentially, genetic analyses. /// La dispersion natale chez les espces vagiles comme les passereaux peut modeler la porte et la structure d'une population. Bien que les pratiques de conservation efficaces dpendent des connaissances acquises sur l'chelle et la frquence de la dispersion natale, ces questions demeurent peu comprises en raison de lacunes mthodologiques. Dans cette tude exploratoire, nous avons cherch  savoir si la signature des lments contenus dans les plumes natales pourrait tre utilise afin d'identifier le site gographique de naissance des reproducteurs de premire anne. Nous avons utilis deux techniques semblables, l'ICP-MS (inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry) et l'ICP-AES (inductively coupled plasma with optical emission spectrometry), pour quantifier les niveaux d'lments dans les plumes natales issues de 7 espces dans 27 sites  travers l'est des tats-Unis. Les techniques diffraient dans la manire avec laquelle les lments taient quantifis et leurs limites de dtection. Notre but tait de dterminer si les lments analyss dans les plumes pouvaient discriminer (1) diffrentes espces  l'intrieur d'un mme site (2) diffrents sites  l'intrieur d'une mme espce. L'autocorrlation spatiale des niveaux d'lments est ncessaire  leur analyse, et ce dans le but de constituer un outil efficace pour l'valuation de la dispersion natale. Par consquent, nous avons galement valu l'autocorrlation spatiale d'chantillons ICP-AES provenant de 18 sites  travers l'est des tats-Unis. Les analyses ICP-MS et ICP-AES ont spar les espces  l'intrieur d'un mme site avec une relativement bonne prcision, bien que les lments discriminants ont vari avec les sites. Nanmoins, pour une mme espce, la localisation des plumes natales n'a pas t identifie avec une grande prcision  partir des caractristiques des lments. Nous n'avons pas t capables de dterminer s'il y avait une corrlation spatiale parmi les lments individuels ou un score d'analyse en composante principale (ACP) qui dcrivaient l'assemblage des lments dans une plume. Un modle "kriging" a t ajust au semi-variogramme des scores d'APC afin de produire une carte de base des signatures d'lments  travers l'est des tats-Unis. Cette carte s'est avre inefficace pour prdire les valeurs des lments contenus dans les plumes aux sites d'chantillonnage. D'autres tudes seront ncessaires pour dterminer si les analyses d'lments permettent d'identifier les distances de dispersion natale. Nous suggrons que des tudes futures puissent valuer les lments avec la mthodologie ICP-MS pour une seule espce qui utilise des nichoirs et qui pourrait tre chantillonne plus intensivement et  plus petite chelle, ou encore sur des espces appartenant  des populations trs distinctes. De plus, cette mthode devrait tre value en concert avec des analyses isotopiques stables des plumes et, potentiellement, des analyses gntiques. 
10.1525/auk.2010.10002|Examination of contact zones between closely related species is important for understanding speciation, because the interactions in such zones may change the evolutionary direction of one or both taxa. To expose the composition and dynamics of a contact zone between two dove species,
4086648|The antarctic krill Euphausia superba forms abundant, well-organized schools in the waters off the Antarctic Peninsula. Mean avian density is 2.6 times greater in waters where krill schools are present than in waters without krill schools. Seabird density is a good predictor of the presence of krill. Seabird density did not correlate with krill density or krill school depth. Disoriented krill routinely were observed swimming near the surface above submerged schools, providing potential prey for surface-feeding birds. Responses of seabird species to the distribution of krill schools varied. The small to medium-size procellariiform species were the best indicators of krill schools; large procellariiforms and coastal species were poor indicators. Pygoscelis penguins occurred at high densities only in the presence of krill schools. These responses are consistent with the constraints imposed by the metabolic requirements and reproductive strategies of each of these groups. Krill schools were detected near the sea surface throughout the day. Correlations between seabird density and the presence of krill during daylight hours suggest that diurnal foraging is important to the seabirds of this region.
10.2307/4088733|Key assumptions and components of biophysical models of hummingbird licking that are central to current interpretations of plant-pollinator coevolution have not previously been verified. To test the realism of the models, I measured fine-scale parameters of a Rufous Hummingbird's (Selasphorus rufus) licking, including licking frequency and volume extracted per lick, with a photodetector array that monitored movement of the tongue and the nectar-pool meniscus. Both licking frequency and volume per lick decreased with increasing concentration, contradicting previous suggestions that hummingbirds may maintain constant licking frequency or volume per lick at all concentrations. At three nectar-pool volumes, energy-intake rates were significantly higher at 25 to 35% sucrose than at higher concentrations, supporting the models' qualitative prediction that optimal nectar concentration is low when energy-intake rate is averaged over the time scale of licking.
90008168|A growing collection of mtDNA genetic information from waterfowl species across North America suggests that largerbodied cavity-nesting species exhibit greater levels of population differentiation than smaller-bodied congeners. Although little is known about nest-cavity availability for these species, one hypothesis to explain differences in population structure is reduced dispersal tendency of larger-bodied cavity-nesting species due to limited abundance of large cavities. To investigate this hypothesis, we examined population structure of three cavity-nesting waterfowl species distributed across much of North America: Barrows Goldeneye (
10.2307/4088944|A critical assumption of many of the current discussions of parent-offspring conflict and sibling competition is that the begging behavior of nestling birds is costly, either in terms of energetics or increased risk of predation. I measured the energetic expenditures associated with the begging of nestling birds using closed-chamber respirometry and found this cost to be surprisingly low. Active metabolic rate (AMR) while begging was 1.05 times the resting metabolic rate (RMR) in European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and 1.27 times the resting metabolic rate in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). The cost of 1 s of begging was 0.001 J/g in European Starlings and 0.008 J/g in Tree Swallows; this cost increased with age for all nestlings. Results of measurements on five other species are consistent with these values. The ratio of AMR:RMR did not change with ambient temperature for either Tree Swallows or European Starlings, but data for all seven species pooled did show a significant decrease in energetic costs with temperature. The amount of time spent begging had a negligible effect on cost for both Tree Swallows and European Starlings. Likewise, the intensity of the begging display had no effect on the AMR:RMR ratio in either species alone, but was positively correlated for the seven species pooled. Compared to the energy requirements for other avian behaviors, the cost of begging is low. Most discussions of the evolution of begging behavior in nestling birds have assumed that begging is costly. Based on my results, the assumption that begging is energetically costly needs to be reexamined and, until then, conclusions of models dependent on this assumption should be considered tentative.
4086276|I observed 15 pairs of Painted Snipes (Rostratula benghalensis) in Japan for 24-h periods in order to compare the nest attendance behavior of males and females and to document changes in their behavior during the laying period. From a few days before the laying of the first egg until the day the second egg was laid, the male and female consorted with each other (stayed within 5 m of each other) more than 90% of the observation time. They visited the nest repeatedly on the first and second days of laying. On the third day, the consorting ratio decreased to 58.5%, and the male typically started to incubate. He continued to incubate that night. After laying the third egg, the female usually did not visit the nest except to lay the fourth and last egg. The male continued incubation, and the female met her mate only when she laid the last egg. The absence of female incubation and the early termination of consorting behavior are consistent with the possibility that Painted Snipe females are polyandrous.
4088675|Nest-site characteristics of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) and Common Terns (S. hirundo) in mixed and unmixed colonies were examined at a number of sites in the Azores archipelago using discriminant analysis. Colonies were stratified and points located in a systematic way. Physical parameters, nearest-neighbor distance, vegetation cover, and density of nests were measured. Measured nest-site parameters were compared between species and with habitat points selected in the colony. Significant interspecific differences in nesting sites were found. Roseate Terns nested in areas with high relief and/or tall vegetation and with higher nesting densities. Common Terns selected more-open areas. There was considerable variability in nest-site selection of both tern species among colonies. Roseate Terns were more specialized as their nest sites differed more significantly than those of Common Terns from the available habitats. In contrast to findings of studies in North America, nest concealment by Roseate Terns did not influence hatching success. Competition may be important in nest resource partitioning in individual mixed colonies depending on colony size and habitat structure. The need to maintain/create optimal nesting areas for Roseate Terns is stressed. As habitat descriminators varied greatly between colonies, management should be planned on a colony-by-colony basis.
90008577|Understanding how distributions of species change through time allows evaluation of hypotheses about factors shaping biogeographic patterns and evolutionary trajectories of genetic lineages. Ideally, such studies would assess whether population genetic processes are associated with geographic distribution shifts, loss or gain of distributional area through time, or fragmentation of distributional areas, information that can now be derived via ecological niche modeling. We examined the distributional changes through time in lineages and populations of Brown Creeper (
10.2307/4089464|In January 1997, an estimated 35,000 Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis), about 3% of the population that stages at Great Salt Lake, Utah, were downed by snowstorms while migrating between Great Salt Lake and Mexico. Another 920 grebes crashed on the north-bound migration in late March 1997. We examined 1,500 carcasses to determine the characteristics of the population during fall versus spring migration with regard to age and sex ratios, body mass, plumage abnormalities, presence of parasites, and morphological defects. In many cases, large samples derived from mass downings provide a reasonable index of the composition of birds aloft. However, we found important differences in sex ratios between two samples derived from the same flight, which indicates that assumptions regarding unbiased sampling require testing. The possibility that regular catastrophic events in central and southern Utah have influenced the evolution of migration routes in Eared Grebes deserves further consideration.
10.2307/25150213|Detailed descriptions of behavior patterns are a major objective of ethology, because they serve as the basis for identifying the elements that constitute the behavioral component of the phenotype. In regard to avian courtship displays, the lack of detailed studies has limited the scope of modern ethological investigations. Recent advances in video technology have greatly improved the ability to analyze complex avian behaviors. I examined the ethology of courtship and mating in Carola's Parotia (Parotia carolae) using a modern approach intended to facilitate incorporation into existing bioinformatics databases. The questions addressed are as follows. (1) What are the courtship and mating behaviors of wild Carola's Parotias? (2) How are these behaviors structured? And (3) what are the units that constitute complex patterns of behavior? I used digital video to thoroughly characterize two wild populations of Carola's Parotias in Papua New Guinea. The results present a detailed picture of the species' complex courtship ethology, including description of 20 behaviors and the lower-level structure (or "anatomy") of male displays, which alone comprise 58 distinct elements. The modular nature of displays is demonstrated through instances in which various units and subunits are used recurrently, differentially employed, and added or deleted. /// Realizar descripciones detalladas de los patrones de comportamiento es uno de los objetivos principales de la etologa, pues estas descripciones pueden servir como base para identificar los elementos que constituyen el componente conductual del fenotipo. Con respecto a los despliegues de cortejo de las aves, la carencia de estudios detallados ha limitado el enfoque de las investigaciones etolgicas modernas. Los avances recientes en la tecnologa de video han mejorado sustancialmente nuestra habilidad para analizar comportamientos complejos de las aves. En este estudio, examin la etologa de cortejo y apareamiento de Parotia carolae empleando un enfoque moderno diseado para facilitar la incorporacin de informacin existente en bases de datos bioinformticas. Las preguntas abordadas fueron las siguientes: (1) Cules son los comportamientos de cortejo y apareamiento de individuos silvestres de las especie P. carolae? (2) Cmo estn estructurados esos comportamientos? (3) Cules son las unidades que constituyen los patrones complejos de comportamiento? Utilic videos digitales para caracterizar exhaustivamente dos poblaciones silvestres de P. carolae en Papua Nueva Guinea. Los resultados presentan una descripcin detallada de la compleja etologa de esta especie, incluyendo descripciones de 20 comportamientos y la estructura a un nivel fino (o "anatoma") de los despliegues de los machos, que por s solos comprenden 58 elementos distintos. La naturaleza modular de los despliegues es demostrada mediante instancias en las que varias unidades y subunidades son empleadas de forma recurrente, empleadas diferencialmente y aadidas o eliminadas.
10.2307/4089892| Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) in Manitoba breed in dense colonies in cattail marshes. Their reproductive success is affected mainly by predation. The most important predator on blackbird nests is the Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), which breaks blackbird eggs and kills small nestlings. We examined whether colonial nesting in Yellow-headed Blackbirds may represent an adaptation to reduce Marsh Wren predation. Marsh Wren predation may be reduced by (1) mutual nest defense by adult blackbirds, (2) predator satiation or dilution, or (3) selfish-herd effects. We tested these hypotheses using experimental nests and found that their safety increased with decreasing distance to the nearest blackbird nest and with increasing density of simultaneously active blackbird nests located nearby. Safety also was higher for nests placed inside a blackbird colony rather than outside. These findings support the nest-defense hypothesis. We also found that Marsh Wrens are capable of destroying a whole blackbird colony in a few days, and that colony size is not correlated with nest safety. These results suggest that the satiation or dilution benefits are negligible. Finally, we found that central nests are safer than peripheral nests in a blackbird colony, but not in an artificial colony, providing weak support for the selfish-herd hypothesis. We conclude that nest predation is reduced mainly by mutual nest defense of adult birds and may represent an important selective force favoring colonial nesting in this species. /// Les Carouges  tte jaune (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) du Manitoba nichent en colonies denses dans les marais  quenouilles. Leur succs de reproduction est principalement affect par la prdation. Le plus important prdateur des nids de Carouge est le Troglodyte des marais (Cistothorus palustris), qui cassent les ufs de Carouge et tuent les petits oisillons. Nous avons examin si la nidification en colonie chez le Carouge  tte jaune pouvait tre une adaptation pour rduire la prdation par le Troglodyte des marais. La prdation par le Troglodyte des marais pourrait tre rduit par (1) dfense mutuelle du nid par les Carouges adultes; (2) rassasiement et dilution du prdateur; ou (3) effets du "groupe goste". Nous avons test ces hypothses en utilisant des nids exprimentaux et nous avons trouv que leur scurit augmentait avec une diminution de la distance au nid de Carouge le plus proche et avec une augmentation de la densit de nids de Carouge actifs simultanment et situs  proximit. La scurit tait plus grande pour les nids placs  l'intrieur de la colonie de Carouge que ceux placs  l'extrieur. Ces conclusions confirment l'hypothse de la dfense de nid. Nous avons galement trouv que les Troglodytes des marais sont capables de dtruire une colonie entire en quelques jours, et que la taille de la colonie n'est pas corrle avec la scurit du nid. Ces rsultats suggrent que les bnfices du rassasiement et de la dilution sont ngligeables. Enfin, nous avons trouv que les nids situs au entre d'une colonie de Carouge sont plus scuritaires que les nids situs en priphrie, mais ce qui n'tait pas le cas dans les colonies artificielles, fournissant ainsi un faible support  l'hypothse du "groupe goste". Nous concluons que la prdation des nids est principalement rduite par la dfense mutuelle des nids par les oiseaux adultes, ce qui pourrait reprsenter une force slective importante favorisant la nidification en colonie chez cette espce. 
10.2307/4085497|We measured tarsal and body temperatures of four species of large falcons in relation to rising ambient temperature and found that the tarsus has an apparent thermoregulatory function. Statistical efforts to separate the birds into ecological or plumage types yielded mixed results. An index of tarsal surface area per unit body weight was correlated with the temperature regimens of the birds, with species from the hottest climates having the greatest tarsal index values.
10.2307/4089795| We describe a new species of tody-tyrant of the genus Poecilotriccus, isolated in midelevation forests of the Cordillera de Coln and nearby mountains to the east in the northeastern Andes of Peru. The new species is allopatric from, and forms a probable superspecies with, the Rufous-crowned Tody-Tyrant (P. ruficeps), the nearest known populations of which inhabit the Cerro Chinguela of northern Peru. The geographic ranges of those sister taxa are divided by the North Peruvian Low, occupied by the Ro Maran, the major break in east-slope Andean forest between Venezuela and Bolivia. The new species and its allospecies, P. ruficeps are identical in color of the back and in lightness and hue of the crown, but are 100% separable in lightness, chroma, and hue of the belly; in color and pattern of the face; and in song. We infer that differences in vocalizations and facial markings would serve as premating reproductive isolating mechanisms should the two forms become sympatric. 
10.1525/auk.2011.11117|Many birds have colorful plumage ornaments that utilize carotenoid pigments, and these are often displayed in signaling contexts. Researchers in behavioral ecology have focused on examining carotenoids in general, and red carotenoids in particular, because they may be an honest index of individual condition or quality. However, few studies have examined the evolutionary changes in carotenoid-based coloration across a phylogeny. We used reflectance spectrometry to examine carotenoid-based coloration across the New World blackbirds (Icteridae). We scored discrete character states based on these measurements and mapped them onto the icterid phylogeny. Our results indicate that red coloration has been gained six times in the blackbirds from a common ancestor that exhibited yellow ornamentation. This result was supported by both parsimony and likelihood methods of ancestral state reconstruction and by each of three different scoring methods. Thus, multiple lineages of icterids have convergently evolved red patches from a common ancestor that most likely used yellow. Several other studies have observed repeated gains of red coloration, which suggests that our observations may reflect a directional trend common among avian clades.
4086361|In a series of playback experiments with Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus), each with 25-43 song types, I tested the effect of song repertoires on habituation in simulated long-range countersinging between territorial neighbors by playing back songs 75 m or 100 m outside the territorial boundary of each subject. One experiment tested differences in response to six repertoire sizes during 15-min continuous playbacks. A second experiment tested habituation to four different repertoire sizes over 2 h of intermittent playbacks. In both experiments birds sang more in response to playbacks than to controls. The response to playbacks of single song types did not decline over time. The subjects did not respond different to large repertoires compared to single songs, nor did different sizes of repertoires affect the changes in the birds' responses over time. The results provide no evidence for an effect of song repertoires in reducing habituation to neighboring intruders. Species like the Carolina Wren, in which individuals communicate over long distances by repeating the same song, might in fact evolve resistance to habituation to acoustically simple, repeated signals.
25488644|The yellow-breasted meadowlarks have endured more than a century of debate over species limits and patterns of diversity, ending with the current recognition of two species, the Eastern and Western meadowlarks (
4086471|Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) breeding densities in the prairie pothole habitat of eastern North Dakota during 1961-1980 varied from 2.28
4087718| We studied energy requirements of Arctic Tern chicks (Sterna paradisaea) in Ny lesund, Svalbard (79N, 12W) with special emphasis on thermoregulatory and activity costs. We used doubly labeled water to estimate energy expenditure in the field
4088362|In many species of altricial birds, eggs hatch asynchronously and the last nestling to hatch may starve to death or be killed by its older and larger siblings. Lack (1947) suggested that hatching asynchrony was adaptive because it facilitated the reduction of brood size if food was scarce after hatching, but there are many other hypotheses to explain hatching asynchrony. All adaptive hypotheses rely on the assumption that adults can control the degree of hatching asynchrony of their broods through their incubation behavior; starting incubation before laying is complete should produce asynchronous hatching. Parents potentially could enhance size hierarchies by laying a smaller egg as the last of the clutch, or reduce size hierarchies by laying a large last egg, so it has been suggested that intraclutch variation in egg mass could be adaptive by modifying hatching hierarchies. In this paper on the Blackbird (Turdus merula), I test the assumption that incubating females can control the hatching asynchrony of their broods, and assess the relative importance of hatching asynchrony and egg mass in the establishment of hatching hierarchies. Within clutches, the first egg tended to be the lightest and the penultimate egg the heaviest, but the last-laid egg was similar to the mean for the clutch. Incubation often started before the last egg was laid and, generally, eggs hatched in the order in which they were laid. Females started incubation earlier with respect to the last-laid egg as clutch size increased and the breeding season progressed, causing an increase in hatching asynchrony with clutch size and, in one year, laying date. Incubation apparently increased gradually through the laying sequence, rather than starting abruptly with the laying of a specific egg. Hatching asynchrony explained up to 77% of the variation in mass among siblings, while egg mass never accounted for more than 9%. Thus, hatching hierarchies primarily reflect hatching asynchrony, not egg mass. There was no effect of egg mass on the incubation period, so that egg mass did not influence hatching asynchrony. I conclude that in the Blackbird, females control the hatching asynchrony of their broods, and hatching asynchrony is far important than egg mass in establishing hatching size hierarchies. Overall, variation in hatching asynchrony in the Blackbird is consistent with Lack's hypothesis of adaptive brood reduction, but cannot disprove other adaptive hypotheses.
10.2307/4088164|We analyzed variation in egg size of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) in relation to clutch size, laying date, female age, year, and position in the laying sequence. A total of 3,478 eggs was measured over three years. Egg size increased with clutch size and female age, and decreased with laying date, year, and position in the laying sequence. We did not detect a negative phenotypic correlation between clutch size and egg size. However, overlap in total clutch volumes for clutches of different sizes indicated trade offs occurred among individuals with comparable investments in their clutches.
4085455|Foraging rates of birds wintering in an Ohio woodlot were dependent on proximate weather conditions. Increased wind velocity and decreased temperature resulted in increased time stationary (s/min), increased number of stops/min, and decreased distance travelled (m/min) for the Downy Woodpecker, Carolina Chickadee, Tufted Titmouse, and White-breasted Nuthatch. Wind velocity effects were heightened as temperature decreased. Analyses of avian community structure based on foraging behavior below the critical thermal environment are now suspect. Future studies of competition in winter must consider the impact of weather.
25488686|We studied 19 color-banded groups of the cooperatively breeding Superb Fairy-wren (
10.2307/4089457|Recent research suggests that foods eaten during laying and incubation play a greater role in supplying energy and nutrients to arctic-nesting geese than previously believed. We conducted food-supplementation experiments with Ross's Geese (Chen rossii) and Lesser Snow Geese (C. caerulescens) geese to evaluate: (1) if supplemental food was consumed by laying and incubating geese, (2) how food consumption influenced mass dynamics of somatic tissues of breeding geese, (3) if patterns of mass loss were consistent with fasting adaptations, and (4) whether energetic constraints would cause smaller Ross's Geese to consume more food relative to their body size than would larger Snow Geese. Quantity of supplemental food eaten by both species during laying and incubation was highly variable among individuals. Consumption of supplemental food during laying resulted in differences in overall body composition between control and treatment females. Treatment female Ross's Geese completed laying at a higher mass and with more abdominal fat than controls, whereas treatment female Snow Geese completed laying with heavier breast muscles and hearts. Overall body composition did not differ between control and treatment geese (both sexes and species) at the end of incubation, but treatment geese had heavier hearts than control geese. This suggests that treatment females did not rely to the same extent on metabolic adaptations associated with anorexia to meet energetic costs of incubation as did controls. Stable-nitrogen isotope analysis revealed patterns of protein maintenance during incubation consistent with metabolic adaptations to prolonged fasting. Our prediction that energetic constraints would cause smaller Ross's Geese to consume more food relative to their size than would Snow Geese was not supported. Mass-specific food consumption by Ross's Geese was 30% lower than that of Snow Geese during laying and 48% higher during incubation.
4086606|The breeding phenology of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) on Squab Island, Aialik Bay, Alaska in 1979 was identical to that in 1980, but clutch sizes and later reproductive performance differed markedly. In 1979, clutch sizes were small, but chick growth rates and survivorship were high. In contrast, clutch sizes were large in 1980, but chick growth rates were slow, and chick survivorship was extremely low. The different patterns of reproductive success appear to be related primarily to annual differences in foods utilized by adults. When adults fed primarily on blue mussels (Mytilus edulis), reproductive performance suffered, i.e. at the time of egg laying in 1979 and during the chick period in 1980. A switch to mussels from other prey types thus probably indicates a lack of availability of more suitable or preferred foods. Reproductive success at this colony appears to be strongly food limited; the timing of such limitation is not confined to a particular stage of reproduction.
10.2307/4089793| Second growth has replaced lowland forest in many of the Neotropics, providing valuable habitat for many resident and migrant bird species. Given the prevalence of such habitats and the potential benefit for conservation of biodiversity, it is important to understand patterns of diversity in second growth and old growth. Descriptions of species-distribution patterns may depend, however, on method(s) used to sample birds. We used data from mist nets and point counts to (1) describe species diversity and community composition in second-growth (young and old) and old-growth forests at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica; and (2) to evaluate perspectives on community composition provided by the two methods. We recorded 249 species from 39 families, including 196 species captured in mist nets (10,019 captures) and 215 recorded during point counts (15,577 observations), which represents 78% of the terrestrial avifauna known from La Selva (excluding accidentals and birds characteristic of aquatic or aerial habitats). There were 32 threatened species, 22 elevational migrants, and 40 latitudinal migrants. Species richness (based on rarefaction analyses of capture and count data) was greatest in the youngest site. Latitudinal migrants were particularly common in second growth; elevational migrants were present in both young and old forest, but were more important in old-growth forest. Several threatened species common in second growth were not found in old-growth forests. Trophic composition varied less among sites than did species composition. Mist nets and point counts differed in numbers and types of species detected. Counts detected more species than nets in old-growth forest, but not in young second growth. Mist nets detected 62% of the terrestrial avifauna, and point counts detected 68%. Fifty-three species were observed but not captured, and 34 species were captured but not observed. Six families were not represented by mist-net captures. Data from mist nets and point counts both support the conclusion that second-growth vegetation provides habitat for many species. 
4085312| A census of three flamingo species (Phoenicoparrus jamesi, P. andinus, Phoenicopterus chilensis) on 28 high-elevation lakes (2,300-4,500 m) in the central Andes (17-27S) was conducted during November and December 1975. Phoenicoparrus jamesi was observed at Salar de Pedernales, Chile (2622S), and, on a later expedition, at Laguna Parinacochas, Peru (1518S). These observations extend the known distribution of P. jamesi along the Andes by about 530 km. An additional nesting locality of this species is reported: Salar de Chalviri, Bolivia (2231S). All flamingos were absent from deep lakes and lakes with indurated sediments. The majority of lakes possessed all three species. Average densities (total birds/total lake area) were 0.24/ha for P. chilensis, 0.45/ha for P. andinus, and 3.1/ha for P. jamesi. Phoenicoparrus jamesi was the species most uniformly distributed over the lake area available, and P. andinus was the most patchily distributed. Between-lake distributional overlap was greatest between P. chilensis and P. andinus and least between P. chilensis and P. jamesi. Within-lake distributional overlap probably was greatest for P. andinus and P. jamesi. The absolute degree of interspecific crowding was least for P. chilensis on P. jamesi (0.2/ha) and greatest for P. jamesi on P. andinus (4.7/ha). 
10.2307/4089837| We studied relationships of five extant members of the endemic Malagasy family Brachypteraciidae, the ground rollers, using several mitochondrial genes (cytochrome-b, NADH dehydrogenase 2, 12S ribosomal RNA, and cytochrome oxidase I). As out-groups, we used other coraciiforms including the Cuckoo Roller (Family Leptosomatidae, Leptosomus discolor), several true rollers (Corcaciidae) and a tody (Todidae). Partial sequences of the Long-tailed Ground Roller (Uratelornis chimaera) were obtained from toe pad samples taken off museum specimens. For a combined data set of all genes, Kimura two-parameter distances between sequences of the five ground roller species were high, averaging 11% divergence. For several species, samples were available from widely separated geographic regions and intraspecific sequence divergence was low (0.8%). Unweighted and weighted parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses consistently recovered monophyly of the family, a sister relationship between Brachypteraciidae and Coraciidae, and monophyly of one of three currently recognized ground roller genera (Atelornis). At the base of the Brachypteraciidae clade, we could not fully resolve relationships between Uratelornis and two species currently placed in Brachypteracias. Because of the uncertainty of basal nodes in our phylogenetic reconstructions, we recommend returning B. squamigera to the monotypic genus Geobiastes. High levels of divergence among ground rollers are similar to levels found in other avian groups endemic to Madagascar. However, we suggest that molecular divergences appear far too low to be consistent with mid-Eocene fossils attributed to the family. 
10.2307/4088505|Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) defend long-term feeding territories during the nonbreeding season. Experimental removals of territory owners early in the fall in Mexico resulted in rapid replacement by nonterritorial individuals ("floaters"). The sex ratio of replacement birds was similar to that of territory owners in the same habitat, but virtually all replacements were hatching-year (HY) birds. Females were able to acquire and defend territories in the presence of male floaters. Loss of wintering habitat would likely increase the proportion of nonterritorial birds and, therefore, increase overwinter mortality rates, especially of HY birds. The extent of malelike coloration of females was not correlated with habitat, indicating that dark females were not more likely to obtain territories in forested habitat where males predominate. Furthermore, the aggressive response of male territory owners toward models did not depend on intruder color. These results suggest that malelike coloration in females does not function in competitive interactions with males. Intense competition for winter territories coupled with reduced survivorship of winter floaters could constrain breeding strategies if young produced late in the summer have little chance of obtaining winter territories.
4085607|We report a series of experiments designed to identify parental influences on the growth of young European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Growth curves were fitted by logistic equations whose parameters are the asymptote, or final weight plateau (A), and growth rate (K). The latter is inversely related to the length of the growth period. We calculated variances in A and K among natural and fostered siblings in nests whose eggs or chicks were switched at the beginning of incubation (experiment II) or just after hatching (experiment I) and in unswitched nests. In unmanipulated nests, 30-60% of the variance in A and K was attributable to differences among nests. In experiment II, effects due to genotypic covariance among natural siblings and to variation in egg quality among females were too small to be detected, whereas foster parents exerted significant effects on growth (26% of the variance in A and 77% in K). Experiment I demonstrated that foster-parent effects were exerted during both the incubation period (14% of A and 18% of K) and the nestling period (28% of A and 27% of K). Furthermore, in experiment II, the foster nest had a significant effect on the length of the incubation period, whereas the natural nest did not, and the incubation period and asymptote were positively correlated. These experiments indicate that heritability for growth rate is low in Starlings, but that qualities associated with different nests exert strong effects on postnatal growth. These qualities may reflect aspects of parental care, physical attributes of the nest boxes, or the location of boxes with respect to suitable feeding areas. Additional experiments, which involve switching of eggs and nestlings and which control for various aspects of parental care, are needed.
10.2307/4088273|Previous studies of mitochondrial-DNA (mtDNA) variation in the polytypic Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) have not found geographic structure of haplotype distributions. We used restriction-fragment analysis of mtDNA to analyze geographic variation of Song Sparrows in Alaska, where phenotypic differentiation between populations is greatest. We examined 42 individuals, representing five subspecies, from island and mainland localities. In addition, we examined two specimens each from Washington and California. An average of 55 sites per individual distinguished 12 mtDNA haplotypes, which were all closely related (d = 0.001-0.008). Geographic structure was evident in the distribution of haplotype frequencies, but not in their phylogenetic affinities.
4086414|I investigated the migration of Village Weaverbirds (Ploceus cucullatus) in southwestern Nigeria in order to determine the sources of birds causing crop damage. I observed banded adult, juvenile, and nestling weaverbirds at their colonies, roosts, and feeding grounds. Over a 21-month period, 6 birds were recaptured at the point of ringing and another 6 at a maximum distance of 1.5 km from the point of ringing. This and other observations indicate that Village Weaverbirds do not undertake long-distance migrations and that local bird populations cause the damage to local crops. Some Village Weaverbirds roost on shrubs and grasses throughout the year, some breed and sleep in colonies in villages from January to early August and from October to early December, and some roost in tall trees near human dwellings from late December to April. The birds roosting on shrubs and grasses are more accessible than the birds roosting in tall trees, and their elimination would provide a more effective means of control than does the present method of scaring the birds from a particular area.
10.2307/4087239|To evaluate hypotheses explaining intraspecific variation in migratory behavior in partial migrants, a local population of Blue Tits (Parus caeruleus) was studied in southern Sweden. Birds born in the study area and recaptured there in winter were compared with birds recaptured at a nearby bird station where a large number of migrant Blue Tits were passing. By comparing sex ratios among migrants and residents, we concluded that, among juveniles, more than 40% of the females and a significant proportion of the males migrated, while considerably fewer adult females and virtually no adult males did so. Migrant and resident Blue Tits did not differ in size as nestlings, but more late- than early-hatched males migrated. No differences in hatching date were determined for females, presumably because most of them migrated. Our findings are consistent with the "dominance hypothesis" as an explanation of partial migration, i.e. that the individuals lowest in rank migrate. The fitness gain that leads dominants to stay as residents may be lower winter mortality or a higher probability of establishing a territory in spring. In either case, keener competition for breeding territories among males than among females as a cause for higher residency cannot be excluded.
4085757|Cooperative mating among Rio Grande Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) brothers on the Welder Wildlife Refuge in southern Texas (Watts and Stokes 1971) is often cited as an example of kin selection. The genetic relatedness of the cooperating birds, however, was never known. We reject the hypothesis (P < 0.01) that "sibling groups" of the number and size described contained only brothers. We suggest instead that kin selection could produce cooperative mating by males and cooperative rearing of young by females among birds that are siblings or more distantly related. Several lines of evidence, however, lead us to question whether kin selection occurs at all in Rio Grande Turkeys. We present alternative explanations of the observed behavior without invoking kin selection.
4085743|At 7 days of age, nestling "Ipswich Sparrows" (Passerculus sandwichensis princeps) had attained 79% of the weight of breeding adults. Their weight at 7 days was uncorrelated (r = 0.02) with the exponential rate of weight gain during the period 0-7 days but negatively correlated (r = -0.40) with the rate at which this weight gain is damped. Nestling weight varied inversely with brood size and showed a midsummer minimum, especially with large brood sizes. Nestling tarsus length, growth rate, and damping rate each varied directly with brood size and had a midsummer maximum. Yearling adults raised nestlings with lower damping rates and higher weights than did older adults. Variation in nestling weight is thought to be influenced by sibling competition for food and the amount of time and energy invested by parents in nestlings at the expense of subsequent broods. The thermal consequences of brood size may contribute to the variation in tarsus length.
10.2307/4089369|Overwinter survival of female Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) depends in part on the rank of their mates. We investigated whether females also gain reproductive benefits by pairing with high-ranking males. We assessed breeding success in 1993 to 1995 and 1997 by comparing clutch size, proportion of eggs hatched, hatching date, and predation rates on nests of females mated to either high-ranking or low-ranking males. We also compared feeding rates of males to incubating females and to offspring during the early nestling period in 1994 and 1995. High-ranking and low-ranking males did not differ in feeding rates during early incubation or early nestling stages. Females mated to high-ranking males incubated for longer periods than females mated to low-ranking males. Younger males and females mated to low-ranking males fed nestlings at a higher rate than did older males and females mated to high-ranking males, respectively. Females mated to high-ranking males had larger clutches, hatched a significantly greater proportion of their eggs, and suffered lower nest predation than females mated to low-ranking males. In 1995 and 1997, where the ranks and ages of both members of 23 pairs were known, female rank was strongly correlated with mate rank and age but was only weakly associated with female age. Female rank accounted for significant variation only in clutch size, and male rank accounted for a greater proportion of variation in clutch size and fledging success than did the female's own rank.
10.2307/4089197|Communication signals can be divided into two functional classes: long-range signals and short-range signals. The study of bird song has concentrated almost exclusively on long-range songs. Because bird song often is used as a model system for studying learning, mate choice, and territoriality, this lack of attention to short-range songs may have misrepresented our understanding of communication systems. Short-range songs are expected to differ acoustically and functionally from those broadcast over long distances. Male Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) produce two classes of song that appear to function as long-range and short-range signals, respectively. These two classes differ markedly in frequency and syntax as well as in repertoire size. In terms of use, rates of short-range song production were highest in conjunction with courtship displays, when males were within close proximity to fertile mates, and during interactions with other males. In contrast, production of long-range song was not associated with courtship displays, did not vary significantly with the reproductive state of females, and was produced when males were relatively far from conspecifics.
4087126|Accessory birds were absent at the nests of Green Jays (Cyanocorax yncas). However, young stayed in the family flock for one year. After the young from the following year fledged, the 1-yr-old young were forced from their natal territory by the breeding male. These young either dispersed into adjacent habitat or became floaters within their former territories until, possibly, a breeding position opened up in a family flock. The yearlings provided a significant amount of territorial defense, which freed the breeders of much of the energetic costs inflicted on them by the stringent territoriality required in south Texas habitat. I propose that south Texas Green Jays represent an early stage in the evolutionary sequence of development of cooperative breeding as a response to environmental factors. The retention of young on the natal territory without helping at the nest represents an evolutionary early step, heretofore only hypothesized, that may lead to a more complex cooperative system that includes helpers at the nest.
10.2307/4089817|In this study we conducted a multiple logistic regression analysis of factors hypothesized to influence the risk of Reed Warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus) brood parasitism by the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) on study sites in the south-eastern part of the Czech Republic. We collected data from Common Cuckoo nesting sites surrounding two fishponds. Our logistic regression models were based on the dichotomous dependent variable, parasitism of the Reed Warbler nest, and seven independent variables. Our first model used all data available across sites and years and resulted in a final model in which the only significant contributor was the independent variable "cuckoo view," the view of host nests from the cuckoo's vantage point in a tree. A second model was developed using data limited to sites and years with the largest sample sizes and expected to yield the most reliable results. The model resulted in three significant contributors: site, cuckoo view, and neighborhood view. In both data sets, the odds of nest parasitism were shown to increase as the view of the host nest became more direct. However, a direct view of the focal nest raised the risk of parasitism to a much greater degree than did a direct view of the neighborhood of nests. Our results provide support for a nest-exposure hypothesis of brood parasitism risk. Although our models have identified nest exposure to be the best predictor of nest parasitism in this system, work remains to unravel the potentially complex relationship among Common Cuckoos, habitat structure, and Reed Warbler hosts.
4088468|Population declines have been reported for nearly one-third of all Nearctic migrant birds that winter in the Neotropics. Speculative explanations for these reports have been presented emphasizing the importance of events occurring during one portion of the annual cycle versus another. These explanations are difficult to test directly. However, certain predictions can be made regarding the characteristics of populations controlled by breeding-ground factors as opposed to those associated with migration or wintering-ground phenomena. These characteristics can be measured for and tested experimentally on a species-by-species basis. We present 14 such predictions, and review data currently available to assess their relevance to observed declines. Based on these data, populations of many species of Nearctic migrants appear to be controlled by wintering-ground events.
10.2307/4086818| Philopatry, site tenacity, and mate fidelity were examined in a 5-yr study of a population of male-territorial, monogamous Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) breeding at La Prouse Bay, near Churchill, Manitoba. There was no sex bias in natal philopatry and no significant difference in adult philopatry, although males tended to return to the breeding area at higher frequencies than females. However, males nested significantly closer to previous nests than did females. Pairs that had reunited did not move as far from their previous nest site as birds that had changed mates, and this effect was more pronounced in females. Birds that had nested successfully the previous year returned at higher rates than those that had been unsuccessful. However, there was no significant difference in distance moved from a previously successful vs. unsuccessful nest. There also was no significant difference in site tenacity when distances one and two years or two and three years apart were compared. However, nest distances increased significantly when three years had elapsed between utilization of sites. Each year approximately 50% of the marked birds in the study area had reunited with their mate of the previous year. If both members of the pair returned, close to 80% remained paired. There was no tendency for birds that had "divorced" to have been less successful nesters in the previous year, compared to pairs that had reunited. Subsequent nesting success was not significantly different between birds that had changed or retained mates. However, in 1 of 4 yr, nests of pairs that had changed mates hatched significantly later than did those of remated pairs. 
4088464|The distribution of migratory shorebirds within Delaware Bay, New Jersey, was examined relative to prey abundance and the physical characteristics of the intertidal beaches. Red Knots (Calidris canutus), Sanderlings (C. alba), Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres), and "peeps" comprised nearly 100% of the shorebirds on seven study beaches from mid-May to early June in both 1990 and 1991. The most abundant food item on these beaches was horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus) eggs, and there were few other available macroinvertebrates. Beaches preferred by shorebirds had higher numbers of crab eggs; the density of eggs in some surface (0-5 cm) sediments exceeded
4085897| I observed the foraging behavior of four warbler species (Dendroica petechia, Oporornis tolmiei, Geothlypis trichas, and Wilsonia pusilla) in the summer in Wyoming and in the winter in Nayarit, Mxico. Of six variables (absolute foraging height, relative foraging height, vegetation density, horizontal foraging position, feeding method, and foraging substrate) believed to be potentially important in distinguishing the warbler species ecologically, the two foraging-height variables provided the greatest separation of the four species in both summer and winter. An analysis of the behavioral similarity of each species from summer to winter revealed that feeding method was the least changed behavior and that absolute foraging height involved the greatest behavioral flexibility. The behaviors that are most flexible are possibly the least well tied to the birds' morphology and are also the ones that have been shown by other workers to reveal the effects of competitors through "niche shifts." Therefore, ecological relationships among coexisting species (in terms of overlaps or positions in niche space) may never be fully derivable from morphological information alone. 
10.2307/4089373|Songbird species differ in how their songs vary geographically, and the vocal behavior of Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) exhibits an especially intriguing pattern of variation. Throughout most of their range (i.e. from Nova Scotia to British Columbia), males sing a simple two-tone "fee-bee-ee" (with the "fee" slightly higher in frequency than the "bee-ee" and an amplitude break between the "bee" and "ee"), and each male shifts the pitch of his single song type over a range of about 800 Hz. Birds sing differently, however, on the islands of Martha's Vineyard, Chappaquiddick, and Nantucket off Massachusetts. Island singing differs from mainland singing in four ways: (1) most island songs are monotonal, with the two whistles on the same frequency; (2) island songs exhibit much greater structural diversity than mainland songs; amplitude breaks may occur in the first, second, or both main whistles; (3) island males typically have repertoires of two or more different songs; and (4) song dialects occur both between and within the islands (even on Chappaquiddick, which is only 6 km wide). Song dialects and repertoires of different songs also occur in some Black-capped Chickadee populations in Oregon and Washington. The distinctive singing of birds on Massachusetts' offshore islands, and of birds in Oregon and Washington, may have arisen because these populations are sedentary and isolated. In mainland populations, young chickadees often migrate or irrupt, and the considerable movement of these young birds could promote uniform behavior from coast to coast among mixing populations. Geographic uniformity of song among mainland males is perhaps also maintained by young males learning an "average" song from their sound environment. In contrast, isolated groups of males (as has been shown for young birds of typical fee-bee-ee populations in the laboratory) may express divergent songs and singing behavior.
10.2307/4088203|I analyzed two patterns of bird distribution in subtropical South America. The first was the disjunct distribution of pairs of species and subspecies between the southern Yungas and the Paranense forests, which are separated by 700 km of xerophytic Chaco woodland. Forest birds penetrate up to 200 km into the Chaco along gallery forests, but do not cross the rest of the Chaco, which constitutes an effective barrier. The second pattern involved several zones of secondary contact located in the Chaco lowland, where several woodland and grassland species and subspecies interact. I conclude that both bird-distribution patterns were produced by forest expansions along the Bermejo and Pilcomayo rivers that connected the southern Yungas to the Paranense region and interrupted the arid vegetation in the center of the Chaco. Vegetational fluctuations probably occurred several times during the Quaternary and produced phenotypic differentiation of sister taxa, both in the now-disjunct forests and in the currently continuous Chaco.
4090593| We explored the relationship between wing morphology and flight behavior with respect to sex and age in five species of North American hummingbirds. We first measured the length, chord or "width," and area of entire hummingbird wing planforms. We then calculated additional parameters of wing shape and size, including aspect and shape ratios, degree of taper or "pointedness," wing loading, and wing disc loading (WDL). Wings of adult males are not only shorter but also more narrow and tapered than those of adult or immature females; immature males have larger wings and lower WDL, more like those of females. A proposed relationship between WDL and territorial behavior and dominance is not supported, given that adult and immature males show similar feeding territoriality outside the breeding season but females rarely do. The more extreme and divergent wings of adult males probably reflect sexual selection in connection with aerial displays that include species-specific sound effects given during the breeding season. North American species are unusual among hummingbirds in showing reversed sexual size-dimorphism (males smaller, with relatively shorter wings), a feature shared with some other small hummingbirds, notably the "Pygmornis" hermits. Attempts to explain hummingbird foraging and territorial behavior on the basis of differences in WDL have failed because many aspects of wing morphology, physiology, and flight behavior were not taken into account. Several wing parameters appear more related to other modes of flight than to strategies of nectar exploitation, and the morphology of any given wing represents a compromise between the often conflicting aerodynamic demands of different flight modes. Understanding hummingbird flight will require broad comparative studies of wing morphology and wingbeat kinematics in relation to flight behavior, and new theoretical models and experimental data will be needed to elucidate physiological and aerodynamic mechanisms underlying forward flight and maneuvering. /// Exploramos la relacin entre la morfologa del ala y el comportamiento de vuelo con respecto al sexo y la edad en cinco especies de colibres norteamericanos. Primero medimos el largo, la cuerda o "ancho" y el rea de una planforma de cada ala, luego calculamos varios parmetros del tamao y la forma de cada ala incluyendo las razones de forma y aspecto, el grado de "puntiagudeza", la carga alar y la carga del disco alar (wing disc loading o WDL). Las alas de los machos adultos son ms cortas, angostas y puntiagudas que las de las hembras adultas y inmaturas; machos inmaturos tienen alas ms grandes con WDL ms bajas, ms similares a las de las hembras. Estos datos no corroboran una supuesta relacin entre WDL, comportamiento territorial y dominancia, puesto que machos adultos e inmaturos muestran comportamiento territorial similar fuera de la poca reproductiva mientras las hembras rara vez defienden flores. Las alas ms extremas y divergentes de los machos adultos probablemente reflejan la seleccin sexual sobre despliegues areos que incluyen sonidos propios de cada especie, producidos por las alas. Los colibres norteamericanos son excepcionales entre la familia Trochilidae en su dimorfismo sexual invertido (machos ms pequeos, hembras ms grandes excepto en Calypte anna), una caracterstica compartida con algunos otros colibres pequeos, especialmente los ermitaos "Pygmornis"). Los intentos de explicar diferencias en comportamiento de forrajeo y territorialismo con base en WDL fracasaron porque no se tomaron en cuenta muchos otros aspectos de la morfologa alar, fisiologa y comportamiento de vuelo. Varios parmetros alares parecen ser ms relacionados con otros tipos de vuelo que con estrategias de explotacin de nctar floral. La morfologa de cualquier ala representa un compromiso entre las demandas a veces contrapuestas de diferentes modos de vuelo. Para entender el vuelo de los colibres sera preciso llevar a cabo estudios comparativos amplios sobre la morfologa alar y la cinemtica de los aleteos en relacin con el comportamiento de vuelo. Se requieren tanto nuevos modelos tericos como datos experimentales para entender los mecanismos subyacentes del vuelo hacia adelante y las capacidades de maniobra de los colibres. 
25488561|Estimating age-specific vital rates and determining which of them have the greatest influence on population trajectory is very useful for conservation and management of at-risk species. We created multistate capturerecapture models to provide estimates of age-specific variation in survival, recruitment, breeding propensity, and breeding success of Common Murres (
10.2307/4086774|Female Blue Grouse (Dengragapus obscurus) on Stuart Island, Washington were found to interact aggressively with female dummies in the prelaying period when a taped cackle call was played. Interactions included: tail fanning, wing dragging, everting the white patagium feathers to display a shoulder patch, head bobbing, neck stretching, jump attacking, pecking, and diving attacks. Threatening and aggressive calls included: cackling calls with inflections, a Nee-uk call, and attack and scream whinny calls. The frequency of aggressive interactions was greatest in the latter half of April, a period when hens were selecting nesting sites. The prelaying ranges of 12 hens were mostly mutually exclusive and showed a dispersed distribution relative to each other. However, there were interspaces sufficient for other grouse to nest. We suggest that aggressive behavior and mutual avoidance of females resulted in a dispersed distribution of nest sites. Such spacing should enhance the reproductive fitness of females by reducing predation rates on hens, eggs, and young.
4086717|Radiotelemetry observations on 15 adult European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) during two roosting seasons (June-November) in central New Jersey indicate that individuals are more faithful to their "diurnal activity centers" (DACs) than to their communal roosting sites. Our findings contrast sharply with the model of stable roosts and ephemeral patches central to many current explanations of communal roosting. For the 3-4-month life of their transmitters, 13 of 15 starlings commuted to their individual DACs from 1-5 different communal roosts. Some evidence suggests that nonmigratory, adult starlings use DACs as year-round bases of operation for both feeding and nesting and that they join major roosts (>2,000 birds) on a temporary basis to exploit rich sources of supplement food near those roosts.
4085543| In June 1975, we made the first dry (winter) season observations of puna birds in the Province of Azngaro, Department of Puno, southern Peru, adding nine species to the avifaunal list for the area. We observed no trochilids although they are known to be numerous during the wet (summer) season. Nesting of the Golden-spotted Ground-Dove (Metriopelia aymara) is described for the first time from Peru, and we report the breeding on the puna of two puna species that have been recorded on the coast in the dry season. We discuss altitudinal migration to the Pacific coast during the dry season, and include a species list for this puna region. 
4086224|Despite considerable evidence that juvenile shorebirds experience significantly higher annual mortality rates than adults, identification and quantification of the sources of mortality have received little attention. We found that the proportion of juvenile Dunlins (Calidris alpina) in the kills of a Merlin (Falco columbarius) one winter at Bolinas Lagoon, California was greater than the proportion of juveniles in the lagoon's winter population. This is evidence that raptor predation may be one of the factors contributing to the age differences in annual mortality rates of shorebirds. We suggest that the greater vulnerability of juveniles to predation by the Merlin may be caused by age-related differences in Dunlin flocking behavior.
4085447|Experimental nests, each containing two Japanese Quail eggs, were systematically distributed in 10 ha of old-field habitat near Oxford, Ohio, to analyze the effect of human visits, vegetation type, concealment, and normal parental nesting behavior on the likelihood that predators will discover open nests. Each week for 12 weeks, 20 varying nest sites were selected and used. From 4 May to 26 July 1975 we exposed these nests for 6 days apiece in 240 locations. We made daily visits to 10 nests each week, none to the other 10. Seasonal rates of predation of experimental nests followed the pattern observed for natural nests in other old-fields. Daily visits did not affect the likelihood that predators would discover experimental nests. Well concealed experimental nests were no less likely to suffer predation than poorly concealed ones. Type of vegetation chosen for the experimental nest site was not related to predation rate. Comparison of survival of natural and experimental nests revealed no significant differences in numbers succumbing to predators or in the duration of survival of nests preyed upon. These experimental results indicate that visits to nests by investigators do not appear to affect success or failure.
4085450|I studied the nesting of Red-tailed Hawks in the Sonoran Desert of Arizona in 1969-1976, emphasizing its ecology relative to the Harris' Hawk, a species that I have found to be sometimes polyandrous and have nest helpers. Red-tails averaged 2.32 eggs per clutch (59 nests) and Harris' Hawks 2.96 (50 nests). The clutch size distributions of the two species were significantly different. Nest success was 81% for Red-tails and 68% for Harris' Hawks, but may actually be slightly lower because a nest was considered successful if a chick was raised to an age of at least 28 days but not always to fledging. For Red-tails, the average number of chicks produced was 1.55 per nest attempt (42 nests) and for Harris' Hawks 1.60 (50 nests). Red-tails nested exclusively in saguaro cacti, but the more agile Harris' Hawks used not only easily accessible saguaro sites but enclosed tree sites as well. Nest site availability seemed to have no significant role in population regulation. The nesting cycle of the Red-tailed Hawk, from egg laying to fledging, was from February to June; for Harris' Hawks it was from February to early December (because of second broods). Optimum habitat and greater hunting versatility in the Harris' Hawk may allow it a less restricted breeding season in saguaro-palo verde desert than the Red-tail by providing essential food resources. These two factors, and nest helping if it is common, probably contribute to maximizing the productivity of Harris' Hawks in an arid environment with variable food resources.
25488715|We evaluated hypotheses explaining risk of predation by American Black Bear (
10.2307/4087608|I examined parental care patterns of the Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger) and the Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) to determine correlates of sexual size dimorphism and parental care. In both species, the sexes had quantitatively different parental roles, particularly during the chick-feeding period. Females were generally more involved in parental activities at the nest site than males. Caspian Tern males provided greater numbers and total mass of prey than their mates. Black Skimmer males fed chicks less frequently than did their mates (especially when the broods were very young), but males delivered substantially larger prey and thus contributed greater prey-mass, particularly as broods aged. The sexually dimorphic skimmer pattern of parental roles may have increased the feeding efficiency and reduced predation risks to the young. No overt behavioral manifestations of sexual conflict were observed between paired Caspian Terns or Black Skimmers.
90008574|Of the 13 taxa composing the Mallard complex, 4 occur in North America: the sexually monochromatic American Black Duck (
10.2307/4088408|The Red-throated Loon (Gavia stellata) nests on the shores of freshwater ponds of the Arctic tundra and forages in nearby marine waters. We examined the effects of distance of the nest from foraging waters and of microclimate at the nest site on the loon's reproductive success. As distance from the ocean increased, both density and nesting success decreased. Although hatching success did not vary with distance, success in rearing both chicks was significantly lower at distances greater than 9 km from the ocean. Loons with nests further from the ocean fed chicks less often and spent more time on foraging flights than did loons nesting within 9 km of the ocean. Brood reduction in nests far from the ocean presumably resulted from nestling starvation, and possibly also from higher predation due to less effective nest defense. We suggest that the higher density of breeding loons in areas near the ocean reflects preference of these birds for nesting grounds that are closer to their foraging areas. Microclimatic conditions also influenced reproductive success. In areas available for nesting earlier in the year, the loons initiated nesting earlier, but the probability of their reproductive failure due to predation was higher. However, successful pairs in these areas raised larger broods (two chicks) more often than those in areas where birds started breeding later.
4087278|The jaw articulation of most endemic New World jays (Corvidae) has a condyle of the quadrate and an opposing cotyla of the lower jaw not found in other birds. They also have well-developed meatic articular facets of the quadrate and cranium. The tip of the rhamphotheca of the lower mandible is chisel shaped. These and other features constitute a functional unit, the buttress complex, that braces the partially opened lower jaw and enhances its use as a chisel. The buttress complex stabilizes the lower jaw by anchoring the jaw on the quadrate and reducing torque on the quadrate during pounding. A hypothesis of pounding with the lower mandible was confirmed by field observations of Aphelocoma coerulescens coerulescens, which stabs acorns with the lower mandible and then tears off the shell using both mandibles. This may be an unusually effective method of peeling acorns, and it differs from the techniques used by Garrulus and Pica. The origin of the complex may not be associated with acorn eating. A slight modification of the jaw articulation in Cyanolyca probably represents the evolutionary precursor of the buttress complex. The distribution of the complex in the Corvidae suggests that Cyanolyca is the sister group of other endemic New World jays. Gymnorhinus is related to the New World jays, not to Nucifraga. An example of convergent evolution is provided by Hemignathus wilsoni (Drepanidinae).
10.2307/4089838|Potential source populations of forest-breeding Neotropical migrant birds may be threatened by anthropogenic changes that increase brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and nest predation in heavily forested breeding areas. In south-central Indiana, corridors of agriculture and rural development, ranging from <50 m to several thousand meters in width, penetrate interior portions of the heavily forested landscape. These corridors provide habitat for cowbirds and nest predators. We monitored breeding success of six species of Neotropical migrants and one resident species near an agricultural corridor and in interior forest. We found that nest survival was lower near the agricultural corridor for most of the species in the nestling stage, but no consistent difference in nest survival was detected during the egg stage. Levels of cowbird parasitism were generally elevated near the agricultural corridor. Estimates of the number of fledglings per nesting attempt indicated that seasonal productivity was lower near the agricultural corridor for six of the seven species. Status of populations of birds in south-central Indiana as sources in the Midwest may be compromised by extensive intrusion of agricultural corridors within the contiguous, heavily forested landscape.
10.1525/auk.2009.09056|The North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) is an annual roadside survey used to estimate population change in >420 species of birds that breed in North America. Roadside sampling has been criticized, in part because traffic noise can interfere with bird counts. Since 1997, data have been collected on the numbers of vehicles that pass during counts at each stop. We assessed the effect of traffic by modeling total vehicles as a covariate of counts in hierarchical Poisson regression models used to estimate population change. We selected species for analysis that represent birds detected at low and high abundance and birds with songs of low and high frequencies. Increases in vehicle counts were associated with decreases in bird counts in most of the species examined. The size and direction of these effects remained relatively constant between two alternative models that we analyzed. Although this analysis indicated only a small effect of incorporating traffic effects when modeling roadside counts of birds, we suggest that continued evaluation of changes in traffic at BBS stops should be a component of future BBS analyses. Received 6 April 2009, accepted 23 September 2009.
10.2307/4090055| Data on spacing behavior of the Eurasian Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus) are rare, and systematic observations are lacking. I used homing technique (>90%) and triangulation to document range use of 28 radiotagged birds in an alpine mountain forest in southeastern Germany between 1994 and 2000. Common home range of a pair (x  SE, n = 10) identified by the adaptive kernel method (95% use distribution) during the nesting period averaged 86.4  23.4 ha and varied a great deal between pairs (range 33.9-287.4 ha). Although ranges of females (69.4  15.4 ha, n = 14) appeared larger than those of males (45.7  10.3 ha, n = 10), the difference was not significant. Prior to nesting and during the postnesting period, both sexes used seemingly larger home ranges than during nesting (381.7 ha); but again, the difference was not significant. Home ranges of mates (n = 20) during the nesting period overlapped an average of 66.5  5.7% (100.0%); female ranges and core areas overlapped male ranges to a significantly greater extent than male ranges overlapped those of females. Nearly all home ranges bordered or overlapped those of their neighbors. Ranges of neighboring male-female combinations (n = 11) overlapped by 17.63.9% during the nesting period, with an increasing tendency to overlap toward the end of the breeding season. Because areas used by Eurasian Three-toed Woodpeckers remained stable over the breeding season, I propose consideration of home ranges during nesting as a reliable estimate of species area requirements for use in management plans. /// Existen pocos datos sobre el comportamiento espacial del carpintero Picoides tridactylus y no existen observaciones sistemticas al respecto. En este estudio emple una tcnica de ubicacin de la fuente de seales de radio (i.e. "homing"; >90%) y triangulacin para documentar el uso del espacio por parte de 28 aves marcadas con transmisores en un bosque montano alpino en el sudeste de Alemania entre 1994 y 2000. El rango de hogar comn de una pareja (x  EE, n = 10) identificado por el mtodo del "kernel" adaptativo (95% de distribucin de uso) durante el perodo de anidacin promedi 86.4  23.4 ha, y vari substancialmente entre parejas (rango 33.9-287.4 ha). Aunque los rangos de las hembras (69.4  15.4 ha, n = 14) parecieron ser ms grandes que los de los machos (45.7  10.3 ha, n = 10), la diferencia no fue significativa. Antes de anidar y en el perodo posterior a la anidacin, ambos sexos utilizaron rangos aparentemente ms grandes que en la poca de anidacin (381.7 ha), pero, de nuevo, la diferencia no fue significativa. Los rangos de hogar de los miembros de las parejas (n = 20) durante el perodo de anidacin se superpusieron en promedio un 66.5  5.7% (100.0%). Los rangos de las hembras y sus reas ncleo se superpusieron con los rangos de los machos a un nivel significativamente mayor que el nivel al que los rangos de los machos se superpusieron con los de las hembras. Casi todos lo rangos de hogar de las aves bordeaban a o se superponan con los de sus vecinos. Los rangos de combinaciones macho-hembra vecinos (n = 11) se superpusieron en un 17.6  3.9% durante el perodo de anidacin, con una tendencia a incrementar la superposicin hacia el final de la poca reproductiva. Debido a que las reas usadas por los carpinteros se mantuvieron estables a travs de la poca reproductiva, propongo que los rangos de hogar durante la anidacin sean considerados como un estimativo confiable de los requerimientos de rea de las especies en los planes de manejo. 
10.2307/4089330|We quantified breeding parameters of Crested Auklets (Aethia cristatella) at Buldir and Kasatochi islands in the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, in 1996 and 1997. Crested Auklets incubated their eggs for about 36 days and chicks weighed about 35 g within the first three days of hatching (14% of adult mass; Buldir, n = 58). Growth rates averaged about 9.9 g per day during the linear phase (Buldir, n = 58; Kasatochi, n = 17), and chicks fledged at an average mass of 248 g (95% of adult mass; Buldir, n = 63) and a wing length of 123 mm (88% of adult wing length; Buldir, n = 37) at 34 days after hatching. We found no differences in intraisland and intrayear chick growth for Buldir and Kasatochi. Productivity (the product of hatching success and fledging success) averaged more than 60% for the two years at Kasatochi and for eight years (1990 to 1997) at Buldir. Intercolony comparisons of productivity parameters revealed differences in hatching date, age of chicks at fledging, and hatching and fledging success. Adult mass differed significantly between the sexes (267 g for males, 253 g for females) and among years. At Buldir, we observed no effect of various levels of investigator disturbance on hatching and fledging success or on other breeding parameters. We found no negative relationships between hatching date and fledging age, hatching date and fledging mass, or fledging mass and fledging age, contrary to the predictions of Y denberg's (1989) model of intraspecific variation in timing of fledging of alcid chicks. Crested Auklet chicks, like those of other diurnally active species of auklets, grow relatively fast and depart at a younger age compared with chicks of two nocturnal species of auklets.
10.2307/4089281|We examined the effects of an insecticide-induced reduction of lepidopteran larvae due to spraying of Bacillus thuringiensis to eradicate gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) on the reproduction of Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina). Treatment plots had two applications of Bacillus in 1994. No Bacillus application occurred in 1995. Reductions in lepidopteran larvae were demonstrated by pheromone traps and arthropod samples from oak (Quercus spp.) foliage. We analyzed the following reproductive parameters: nesting success, number of eggs, number of fledglings, egg mass, mass of nestlings at day 5, growth rates, feeding rates, and prey items brought to nestlings. Of these reproductive parameters, three showed both statistical and biological differences. Nesting success was higher in the control than in the treatment zone in 1995, but not in 1994. Nestling masses at day 5 increased over the duration of the breeding season in the treatment zone but not in the control zone. Differences in feeding rates between treatment and control zones occurred only for small clutches. Overall, the reduction of lepidopteran larvae due to Bacillus application appeared to have only minimal effects on reproduction in Hooded Warblers.
10.2307/4089165|Pekin Ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) were infused with 1,000 mM NaCl. Changes in plasma osmolality
10.2307/4086777| The song types of two populations of Darwin's finches, the Medium Ground-Finch (Geospiza fortis) and the Cactus Finch (G. scandens) on I. Daphne Major, Galpagos, were studied from 1979 to 1981. Four discrete song types, easily distinguished by ear, are present in the G. fortis population, and two are present in the G. scandens population. A male generally sings his father's song type. Females mate randomly with respect to their fathers' song types. There is no evidence that song is used as a cue to avoid either extreme inbreeding or outbreeding. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11210|Much of our understanding of vocal geographic variation in birds is based on the dialects of oscine songbirds that learn their songs. Recent studies have revealed that nonoscine vocal behavior is more complex than previously thought, yet we still have a rudimentary understanding of how vocalizations of suboscine and nonpasserine birds are influenced by genetic and geographic variation. We examined geographic variation in male calls, female calls, and duets of Barred Owls (
10.2307/4090032| Heterothermy in birds occurs in species that are generally small and whose diet fluctuates. This study of thermoregulation of Malachite Sunbirds (Nectarina famosa) showed that they have circadian fluctuations in T
10.2307/4089022|I examined patterns and chronology of the prebasic molt and primary-feather growth rate of nonbreeding and postbreeding Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) on the Arctic Coastal Plain, Alaska. I estimated molt intensity for adults and subadults of both sexes with molt rate (MR, proportion of feathers in blood quills) and percent new feathers (PN, proportion of feathers that recently completed growth) for 26 feather tracts. I then calculated mean total molt score (TMS) and mean total percent new score (TPN) for each sex, age class, molt stage (arrival, start, early, mid-, and late molt), and Julian date. TMS increased from arrival to early molt (14 June-22 July). Subadults molted at greater intensity than did adults during early, mid- and late molt (20 July-1 August); however, males and females in both age classes did not differ. TPN scores were significantly (P < 0.05) greater from 25 July to 1 August than from 20 to 22 July, primarily as a result of maturation of remiges and wing coverts. Brant replaced body and wing feathers concurrently. Back, rump, breast, and side regions were comprised of 25% or more blood quills in adults to 50% or more blood quills in subadults during the flightless period. Brant departing the molt area completed growth of only 11 to 21% of all feathers. Ninth-primary growth rate
10.2307/4090412| We investigated the yearlong territorial behavior of White-bellied Antbirds (Myrmeciza longipes) in Panama by conducting 17 experimental removals during the nonbreeding season on both sexes. We also monitored the territorial behavior and occupancy of 48 males and 34 females throughout the nonbreeding and breeding seasons. We tested the importance of territory switching, mate advertisement, foray behavior, and role of floaters. In seven of the removal experiments, both members of a pair were radiotagged and tracked throughout the duration of the experiments. It was predicted that widowed birds would attempt to attract a new mate through increased song rate or unique vocalizations; however, that behavior was not observed in White-bellied Antbirds. We documented a weak response in floaters to territorial vacancies and found that territory switching occurs regularly in response to experimental removals and naturally within populations. We found density of birds in an area influences the probability of replacement and is likely a reflection of territory quality given that birds in high-density areas were in better physical condition, spent less time off-territory, and competed more for those territories. Telemetry revealed that individuals made silent extraterritorial forays during the nonbreeding season. Birds could use those forays to assess the quality and status of neighboring territories and to find food during this period when food abundance is low. Several birds were observed to temporarily abandon territorial behavior for periods from 2 to 13 months, a previously undocumented behavior in this type of territorial system. /// Investigamos el comportamiento territorial de Myrmeciza longipes a lo largo del ao en Panam mediante 17 remociones experimentales en ambos sexos durante la estacin no reproductiva. Tambin monitoreamos el comportamiento territorial y la permanencia en los territorios de 48 machos y 34 hembras a lo largo de las estaciones reproductiva y no reproductiva. Evaluamos la importancia del cambio de territorios, el despliegue de apareamiento, el comportamiento de incursin y el rol de los individuos flotantes. En siete de los experimentos de remocin, ambos miembros de la pareja fueron marcados con radiotransmisores y seguidos a lo largo de los experimentos. Se predijo que las aves que enviudaron intentaran atraer una nueva pareja mediante incrementos en la tasa de cantos o mediante vocalizaciones nicas; sin embargo, este comportamiento no fue observado en M. longipes. Documentamos una respuesta dbil en los individuos flotantes hacia los territorios vacantes y encontramos que el cambio de territorios ocurre regularmente como respuesta a las remociones experimentales y de modo natural en las poblaciones. Encontramos que la densidad de aves de un rea influencia la probabilidad de reemplazo y probablemente refleja la calidad territorial dado que las aves en reas de alta densidad estuvieron en mejor condicin fsica, gastaron menos tiempo fuera del territorio y compitieron ms por esos territorios. La telemetra revel que los individuos hicieron incursiones silenciosas fuera del territorio durante la estacin no reproductiva. Las aves podran usar estas incursiones para evaluar la calidad y el estatus de los territorios vecinos y para encontrar alimentos durante este perodo, cuando la abundancia de alimentos es baja. Se observ que varias aves abandonaron temporalmente el comportamiento territorial por perodos de 2 a 13 meses, lo que representa un comportamiento no documentado previamente en este tipo de sistema territorial. 
10.2307/4088607| A phenotypic hybrid between Dendroica townsendi  D. nigrescens is described from coastal British Columbia. It carried the mitochondrial-DNA (mtDNA) haplotype of nigrescens, indicating a nigrescens mother in the original cross that led to this hybrid. This specimen is used to demonstrate the special value of "contradictory characters" in refuting alternate hypotheses of parentage for hybrids. Contradictory characters exist when a potential hybrid exhibits character states more extreme than those found in both of a possible pair of parents. While intermediate characters can suggest a hybrid ancestry, intermediate character states may also be consistent with a variety of potential pairs of species as parents, a point I demonstrate using this townsendi  nigrescens hybrid. Phenotypically, the second specimen is a typical townsendi, but its mtDNA haplotype was that of virens. An extensive survey of townsendi haplotypes revealed no other polymorphism for the virens haplotype; furthermore, at least four mutations would be required to move from a townsendi to a virens haplotype. Together these observations suggest that this specimen is a highly backcrossed descendent of a townsendi  virens cross, a hypothesis consistent with the fact that this specimen was collected where the ranges of townsendi and virens very nearly make contact in the Rocky Mountains of British Columbia. 
4087121|Experiments using model herons in natural mangrove habitats demonstrated that more hawks are attracted to white than to blue herons. Both Common Black-Hawks (Buteogallus anthracinus) and crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus) were observed preying on adult herons in Panama. Solitary herons were at greater risk than flocked foragers. White (immature) Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea) were attacked more frequently by hawks than were the blue adults of their species. Dark herons gave more alarms than white herons. Although flock size decreased in years of heavy predation and after attacks, mixed-flock composition remained the same. When flocks re-formed after hawk attacks, their members showed decreased foraging rates and increased interindividual distances. After repeated attacks, herons foraged in poorer habitats, under unfavorable climatic conditions, and under thermoregulatory stress. These results suggest that predation could be a potent force in maintaining color dimorphism in ardeids.
10.1525/auk.2009.09140|In the East Usambara Mountains in northeast Tanzania, research on the effects of forest fragmentation and disturbance on nest survival in understory birds resulted in the accumulation of 1,002 nest records between 2003 and 2008 for 8 poorly studied species. Because information on the length of the incubation and nestling stages in these species is nonexistent or sparse, our objectives in this study were (1) to estimate the length of the incubation and nestling stage and (2) to compute nest survival using these estimates in combination with calculated daily survival probability. Because our data were interval censored, we developed and applied two new statistical methods to estimate stage length. In the 8 species studied, the incubation stage lasted 9.621.8 days and the nestling stage 13.921.2 days. Combining these results with estimates of daily survival probability, we found that nest survival ranged from 6.0% to 12.5%. We conclude that our methodology for estimating stage lengths from interval-censored nest records is a reasonable and practical approach in the presence of interval-censored data.
10.2307/4089067|We compared breeding bird populations in North Dakota using surveys conducted in 1967 and 1992-93. In decreasing order, the five most frequently occurring species were Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris), Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta), Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), and Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus). The five most abundant species-Horned Lark, Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus), Red-winged Blackbird, Western Meadowlark, and Brown-headed Cowbird-accounted for 31-41% of the estimated statewide breeding bird population in the three years. Although species composition remained relatively similar among years, between-year patterns in abundance and frequency varied considerably among species. Data from this survey and the North American Breeding Bird Survey indicated that species exhibiting significant declines were primarily grassland- and wetland-breeding birds, whereas species exhibiting significant increases primarily were those associated with human structures and woody vegetation. Population declines and increases for species with similar habitat associations paralleled breeding habitat changes, providing evidence that factors on the breeding grounds are having a detectable effect on breeding birds in the northern Great Plains.
4090625| Most studies on cowbird parasitism have focused on its effects on parasitized nests, whereas few have considered the costs at nests that cowbirds visit but at which they do not lay eggs. Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) peck and puncture host eggs both in nests where they lay eggs and in unparasitized nests. We analyzed the effect of egg punctures in unparasitized and parasitized nests of a large host, the Creamy-bellied Thrush (Turdus amaurochalinus; hereafter "thrush"), as well as the costs of Shiny Cowbird eggs and chicks in this host's nests. We determined thrush egg survival, hatching success, and chick survival in successful nests, and nest survival during the egg and nestling stages. Frequency of parasitism was 60%, and its intensity 1.6  0.1 eggs
10.2307/4089114|An adequate knowledge of the growth rate of a population often is needed in conservation biology and population management. In long-lived species, annual adult survival is the demographic parameter that has the strongest influence on population growth rate. Adult survival often is estimated by capture-recapture methods under the restrictive assumption that all individuals in a given group have the same survival and recapture probabilities. Violation of this assumption, i.e. heterogeneity among individuals, tends to bias survival estimates. In particular, heterogeneous capture probabilities independent of survival probabilities tend to negatively bias survival estimates. However, a cautious use of capture-recapture methods allows recognition of the problem and an accurate estimation of survival. We estimated adult survival in a population of Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus) breeding in central France based on resightings of banded birds. The estimated survival was lower in the year after the first resighting than afterwards. We did not find any substantial biological explanation for this result (in particular, it was difficult to connect it with the existence of prospecting individuals). However, heterogeneity in the resighting probability, which is very likely in this population, could explain why apparent survival seemed lower in the year immediately after the first resighting. The higher value of the survival estimate (0.90) when capture-rate heterogeneity is accounted for is discussed relative to the growth regime of the population and habitat instability.
10.2307/4090481| Information on area sensitivity and effects of habitat fragmentation has come largely from forest and tallgrass-prairie habitats. Research from other ecosystems is required to determine whether the fragmentation paradigm derived from those studies is applicable to passerine communities elsewhere. I examined the effects of habitat fragmentation on abundance and occurrence of nine species of mixed-grass prairie passerines in southern Saskatchewan. I conducted 190 point-counts in 1996 and 1997 on 89 pastures ranging in size from 8 to 6,475 ha. Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii), Grasshopper Sparrow (A. savannarum), and Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus) were found to be area-sensitive, in that they were more abundant or occurred more frequently, or both, in larger patches of mixed-grass prairie. However, the ratio of edge to interior habitat was a better predictor of area sensitivity than patch size in most cases. Horned Lark (Eremophila alpestris), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), Clay-colored Sparrow (Spizella pallida), Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta), and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) were insensitive to patch size, though occurrence of Clay-colored Sparrow and Western Meadowlark tended to be greater in smaller pastures. Vegetation structure was also found to be an important predictor of grassland songbird abundance and occurrence, in that it explained additional variation not accounted for by patch size or the ratio of edge to interior habitat. Although protection of large contiguous tracts of habitat is essential to conservation of native species, small native-prairie patches with minimal edge habitat also play a vital role in conservation of grassland birds. /// La informacin acumulada sobre la sensibilidad al rea y los efectos de la fragmentacin del hbitat se ha basado principalmente en estudios desarrollados en ambientes de bosques y pradera de pastos altos. Se requiere investigacin en otros ecosistemas para determinar si los paradigmas que han surgido a partir de aquellos estudios son aplicables a comunidades de aves paserinas en otros ecosistemas. En este estudio examin los efectos de la fragmentacin de hbitat sobre la abundancia y la presencia de nueve especies de aves paserinas de praderas de hierbas mixtas en el sur de Saskatchewan. Realic 190 puntos de conteo en 1996 y 1997 en 89 praderas que variaron en tamao desde 8 a 6,475 ha. Las especies Anthus spragueii, Ammodramus bairdii, A. savannarum y Calcarius ornatus fueron sensibles al tamao de los fragmentos, de modo que fueron ms abundantes y se presentaron con mayor frecuencia en parches de praderas mixtas de mayor tamao. Sin embargo, en la mayora de los casos, el cociente entre el hbitat de borde y el hbitat de interior predijo de mejor manera la sensibilidad al rea, que el tamao de los parches. Las especies Eremophila alpestris, Passerculus sandwichensis, Spizella pallida, Sturnella neglecta y Molothrus ater no fueron sensibles al tamao de los fragmentos, aunque la ocurrencia de S. pallida y S. neglecta tendi a ser mayor en los pastizales de menor tamao. La estructura de la vegetacin tambin predijo la abundancia y la presencia de las aves paserinas de pastizal, explicando variacin adicional no explicada por el tamao de los fragmentos ni por el cociente entre hbitat de borde y de interior. A pesar de que fragmentos de gran extensin de hbitat son esenciales para la conservacin de especies nativas, fragmentos de pastizales nativos pequeos que presenten un mnimo de hbitat de borde tambin pueden tener un papel importante para la conservacin de aves de pastizal. 
25488606|We explored predictive models relating body condition and age to nesting propensity, timing of nest initiation, clutch size of first nests, aggregated nest survival, hatching success, and timing of hatch in Mallards (
10.2307/4087492|Pinyon Jays (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus) live in flocks composed primarily of pairs and their offspring. We describe characteristics of 107 pair bonds. Pair bonds appear to be monogamous, perennial, and last an average of 2.5 yr. Males average 1.63 mates/lifetime, and females average 1.43. Males initiate breeding at an average of 2 yr, and females at an average age of 1.56 yr. Initial bonds formed between morphologically similar jays lasted significantly longer than those formed between disparate-size jays. Pairs had emergent properties that could not be accounted for by considering only properties of the mated individuals. Annual reproductive productivity did not vary significantly with duration of pair bonds. We found two cases of mate desertion; all other bonds were broken by deaths of partners. Previously successful jays remated with other successful birds, and unsuccessful birds remated with other unsuccessful birds, more often than expected by chance. Monogamy may have evolved because deserted females are incapable of rearing offspring, sex ratios are male biased, females are aggressive, and lifespan is long. Perennial pair bonds may have been imposed by social constraints more than favored by reproductive advantages. Three possible constraints were that previously unsuccessful individuals rarely mated with previously successful ones, that mates associated throughout the year, and that cooperation among group members may not have been maintained without long-term pair bonds between members of different extended families.
4086071|In a study of behavioral isolating mechanisms existing between light- and dark-phase Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) in two sympatric populations near the Oregon-California border, opposite-sexed birds nearly always chose to display with members of their own color phase. Males of opposite phase, however, frequently engaged in mutual display sequences to attract females. Film analysis revealed no color-phase divergences in form, duration, or sequential ordering of the many visual courtship displays. There were differences, however, in "Advertising," a call used to attract potential mates prior to the pair formation sequences. Dark-phase birds had calls with two notes ("cree-creet"), while light-phase birds had one-noted calls ("creeet"). In playback experiments, courting males of the two color phases readily distinguished the two call-types and only approached or answered female calls of their own phase. This response reversed when an artificial gap was spliced into the light-phase stimulus calls. Films of feeding dives by birds of each color phase also suggested differences that may relate to mean diving depth and hence ecological segregation of the two morphs. When the same playback experiments were repeated in a region of dark-phase allopatry (Manitoba), however, courting males showed very poor discrimination. This suggests that the high degree of segregation in sympatry possibly results from a learning process, whereby individuals rapidly sharpen their discriminative abilities by association.
10.2307/4089673|Numerous studies have reported lower densities of breeding Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) adjacent to forest edges. However, none of these studies has considered habitat use and reproductive success to address mechanisms underlying the observed pattern, and most were conducted in fragmented landscapes and ignored juxtapositions of forest with narrow openings such as roads. We studied the influence of forest roads on Ovenbird density in an extensively forested region of Vermont, evaluating habitat use and reproductive success relative to mechanisms proposed to explain the density-edge relationship. Territory densities on seven study plots were 40% lower within edge areas (0 to 150 m from unpaved roads) than within interior areas (150 to 300 m from roads). We simulated the distribution of Ovenbird territories and concluded that passive displacement, where birds perceive habitat interfaces as boundaries and limit their territories entirely to forest habitat, did not account for the observed density-edge pattern. Territory size was inversely related to distance from roads, providing an alternative explanation for reduced densities near edges and suggesting that habitat quality was higher away from roads. Pairing success was lower within edge areas than within interior zones, but the difference was not statistically significant. The proportion of males that produced fledglings did not differ between edge and interior areas. We conclude that habitat quality for Ovenbirds may be lower within 150 m of unpaved roads in extensive forested landscapes, affecting territory density and possibly reproductive success.
4087913|We tested several hypotheses about the evolution of colonial nesting in Ospreys. We examined foraging behavior and reproductive success of members of a dense colony in coastal North Carolina to test (1) if the colony functioned as a central place for exchanging information about the location of food patches (Information Center Hypothesis), (2) if the colony was located centrally relative to foraging sites, which would minimize foraging travel costs, (3) if the colony functioned to promote synchronized breeding, which would swamp predators with more young than they could consume, (4) if nesting in the center of a group decreased predation pressure, and (5) if safe nest-site distribution controls actual breeding distribution. The hypothesis that the colony functioned as an information center was supported by synchrony in departure, but contradicted by evidence of fidelity to foraging areas. The colony did not function as the geometric center of an individual's foraging locations. Colony members traveled 1.5-7 times as far as they would have traveled had they nested at their geometric centers. There was a negative correlation between the proportion of eggs lost in the colony and the number of eggs available to predators, suggesting some benefits to synchronous nesting in a close spatial group. However, there was no numerical response in predation relative to the total number of eggs available in the colony. Birds nesting toward the center of the colony produced significantly more fledglings than peripheral nesters, but strong nest-site fidelity prevented shifting to more central locations by peripheral nesters. Spatial distribution of nests reflected the distribution of potential nest trees, both within the lake and within the region. This and the plasticity of nesting density shown in Ospreys support Lack's (1968) Nest-site Hypothesis. We conclude that the spatial distribution of safe nest sites and advantages related to predation maintain coloniality in Ospreys.
10.2307/4089032|The trade-off of food return against predation risk by foraging White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) was assessed using focal sampling. Pecking and vigilance rates were compared among different social classes, bird densities, and distances from cover. Contrary to expectations from previous studies and from theory, pecking rate was significantly higher in subordinate than in dominant individuals. Pecking rate increased with distance from cover and was not affected by density. The only significant trend for vigilance rate was a decrease with distance from cover, which was counter to expectations. Increased vigilance towards conspecifics may have balanced any decrease in vigilance for predators as group size increased, or as distance from cover decreased.
10.2307/4089895| We evaluated spatiotemporal variation in clutch sizes of Northern Pintails (pintails; Anas acuta) nesting in California (1985 to 1996), North Dakota (1982 to 1985), Saskatchewan (1982 to 1985) and Alaska (1991 to 1993) to determine whether seasonal declines in clutch size varied in ways that were consistent with a controlling influence of increasing day length. Pintails began nesting in mid-March in California, mid-April in North Dakota and Saskatchewan, and mid-May in Alaska. Observed durations of nesting were 70  2.6 days (SE) in California, 60  6.3 days in North Dakota, 66  1.3 days in Saskatchewan, and 42  0.7 days in Alaska. Annual differences were the principal source of variation in mean clutch sizes (
10.2307/4090138| The systematics of the babblers (Timaliidae) and related members of the Old World insectivorous passerines have been particularly difficult. To clarify our understanding of this group, phylogenetic relationships were constructed using sequences of three mitochondrial genes (cytochrome b, rRNA 12S and 16S). The results indicated that several species traditionally placed among babblers, the shrike babblers (Pteruthius) and the Gray-chested Thrush Babbler (Kakamega poliothorax), are not related to the Timaliidae, but belong to other passerine groups. Furthermore, the phylogenetic hypotheses inferred from molecular data suggest that the babblers assemblage includes two other oscine taxa traditionally considered to be distantly related, Sylvia (Sylviidae) and Zosterops (Zosteropidae). The polyphyly of several babbler genera is discussed, with particular attention to the laughingthrushes (genera Garrulax and Babax) for which the phylogeny is compared to previous hypotheses of relationships. Results from different tests under the maximum-parsimony and maximum-likelihood criteria indicate the rejection of the hypothesis of monophyly for the laughingthrushes group. Thus, the molecular phylogeny challenges the traditional classification of the Timaliidae. /// La systmatique des timalies (Timaliidae), ainsi que celle des groupes d'insectivores de l'Ancien Monde qui leur sont apparents, est depuis toujours un point difficile de la classification des passereaux. Au cours de cette tude, nous avons utilise les squences d'ADN de trois gnes mitochondriaux (le cytochrome be et les ARNr 12S et 16S) afin de reconstruire les relations phylogntiques de ce groupe d'oiseaux. Les rsultats montrent que plusieurs espces classes traditionnellement parmi les timalies, les Allotries (genre Pteruthius) et l'Akalat  poitrine grise (Kakamega poliothorax), ne sont pas apparentes aux Timaliidae et appartiennent en ralit  d'autres groupes de passereaux. De plus, les hypothses phylogntiques dduites de l'analyse des donnes molculaires suggrent que deux autres taxa, qui sont traditionnellement placs dans des familles diffrentes,  savoir les Sylviidae pour le genre Sylvia, et les Zosteropidae pour le genre Zosterops, appartiennent en ralit aux Timaliidae. La polyphylie de plusieurs genres de timalies est discute, particulirement en ce qui concerne les grives bruyantes ou Garrulaxes (genres Garrulax et Babax) pour lesquelles la phylognie obtenue est compare aux hypothses proposes prcdemment. Diffrents tests conduits sous le critre du maximum de vraisemblance permettent de rejeter l'hypothse de la monophylie du groupe des grives bruyantes. Ainsi, la phylognie molculaire obtenue remet en question de nombreux points de la classification actuelle des Timaliidae. 
4086063|Many vagrant landbirds have occurred on Brier, Sable, and Seal islands, Nova Scotia and have produced first records for Nova Scotia or Canada. In counts made on these islands for more than a decade, individuals of western species were relatively more common than in similar counts on islands off northeastern Florida in spring and North Carolina in fall. Western vagrants were more frequent, but much less diverse, on the Florida islands in fall. Recent check-lists substantiate the conclusion that vagrant species from remote ranges are more diverse on the Nova Scotian islands than in other localities in eastern North America. The diversity and high incidence of vagrants may be related partly to the convergence of continental windstreams on Nova Scotia during migration seasons. Regional species, however, evidently avoid Sable Island, which is farthest offshore, whereas vagrants from remote ranges are relatively more common there than on the other two islands. This suggests that navigational error by "lost" vagrants is paramount. Weather patterns are examined in association with the earliest vagrants of each season, as these vagrants may have come most rapidly and directly. Southern vagrants may fly past their normal ranges in spring, unassisted by winds. Western species in spring are probably not generally deflected from their normal routes by winds. Western Dendroica spp. in spring in the east may come because of mirror-image disorientation. Southern vagrants are proportionately as common in fall as in spring, and individuals may or may not be wind-assisted in their reverse migrations. Western vagrants are relatively more common in fall than in spring. Some may come directly down-wind on fall westerlies, but their relatively high incidence in Nova Scotia may result from their being swept up the east coast by prevailing southwesterlies. Turn-of-the-century records from Sable Island suggest that vagrancy may have increased among species that have expanded their populations or ranges, especially those of disturbed habitats.
10.2307/4090107|A removal experiment was conducted to measure how much and by what mechanisms brood parasitic Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) cause nest failures in a commonly used host, the Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia). When numbers of female cowbirds were reduced experimentally, nest failures fell from 65.0% (n = 663 nests) to 49.9% (n = 331). Cowbird reduction reduced the frequency of nest failure to one-third of control levels in Song Sparrows during the last 80 days of the sparrow's breeding season, the period when most parasitic laying took place. Cowbird reduction decreased nest failures strongly at the egg stage, and weakly at the nestling stage. Daily nest-failure rates were independent of whether or not a nest was parasitized by cowbirds. Two hypotheses were tested to explain how cowbirds cause host nests to fail: first, egg removal by female cowbirds lowers clutch size below a threshold where the host deserts; second, cowbirds cause host nests to fail by destroying entire clutches or broods. In support of the first hypothesis, desertion following parasitism and egg removal was less frequent when cowbird numbers were reduced (8.9% of n = 158 nests) than for unmanipulated controls (16.5% of n = 424 nests). In support of the second hypothesis, there were fewer cases where young were killed in the nest, or found dead near it, after cowbird numbers were reduced (2.5% of 158 nests) than in controls (4.7% of 424 control nests). In contrast, proportions of nests that failed after the disappearance of all eggs, young, or both, and after unparasitized clutches were deserted, increased when cowbird numbers were reduced. Although our study supports both hypotheses, cowbird-induced desertion had a greater effect on nest failure rates than did cowbird predation. Our study suggests that cowbird removal programs are likely to benefit commonly used and endangered hosts by reducing rates of nest failure. /// Realizamos un experimento de remocin para medir cunto y por qu mecanismos Molothrus ater ocasiona fracasos de nidificacin en Melospiza melodia, una especie hospedera comn. Cuando el nmero de M. ater hembras se redujo experimentalmente, los fracasos de nidificacin se redujeron del 65.0% (n = 663 nidos) al 49.9% (n = 331). La reduccin de parsitos disminuy la frecuencia de fracasos de nidificacin a un tercio de los niveles del grupo control de M. melodia durante los ltimos 80 das de su temporada reproductiva, cuando ocurri la mayora de la ovoposicin de los parsitos. La reduccin de parsitos disminuy considerablemente el fracaso de nidificacin en nidos con huevos y donde haba pollos. Las tasas diarias de fracaso fueron independientes de la presencia o ausencia de parasitismo en los nidos. Contrastamos dos hiptesis que explican como los parsitos causan el fracaso de nidificacin en los hospederos: primero, la remocin de los huevos por parte de la hembra de M. ater conlleva a un tamao de nidada inferior al lmite que ocasiona la desercin del nido; segundo, los parsitos ocasionan el fracaso de nidificacin porque destruyen la nidada, huevos o pollos, por completo. En apoyo a la primera hiptesis, se observ que la desercin posterior al parasitismo y remocin de huevos fue menos frecuente en nidos con menos parsitos (8.9% n = 158 nidos) que en los controles sin manipulacin (16.5% n = 424 nidos). En apoyo a la segunda hiptesis, se observaron menos nidos con pollos muertos cuando el nmero de parsitos de redujo (2.5% n = 158); en los controles hubo una mayor incidencia de muertes (4.7% n = 424 nidos). En contraste, la proporcin de nidos fracasados despus de la desaparicin de los huevos, pollos, o ambos, y despus de la desercin en nidos sin parasitar, se increment con la reduccin de los parsitos. Aunque nuestro estudio apoya ambas hiptesis, la desercin inducida por los parsitos tuvo una mayor contribucin al fracaso de nidificacin que la depredacin por parsitos. Nuestro estudio sugiere que los programas de remocin de parsitos pueden beneficiar tanto a hospederos comunes como a hospederos amenazados al reducir las tasas de fracaso de nidificacin.
25488689|Most frugivorous birds must complement their diet with insects to fulfill their protein requirements; species that rely almost exclusively on fruits are rare. We used nitrogen (
10.2307/4088864|In many passerine species males do not attain definitive breeding plumage until after their first potential breeding season. Such delayed plumage maturation has been the subject of numerous studies, most of which have focused on the adaptive value of female-like plumage for young males in single populations. Thus, although studies of delayed plumage maturation have been presented as tests of evolutionary hypotheses, most have lacked an appropriate comparative perspective. Moreover, most studies of subadult plumage in passerines have been conducted without information on the general function of ornamental plumage in the species being studied. A study of delayed plumage maturation in the House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) provided an opportunity to overcome these problems. The function and proximate control of ornamental plumage coloration in House Finches have been studied extensively. In addition, House Finches occupy a wide range across North America with approximately 15 subspecies recognized, and populations vary in expression of delayed plumage maturation. In most populations, including the most familiar subspecies, C. m. frontalis, males acquire definitive basic plumage in their first prebasic molt. In at least three populations, C. m. griscomi of southern Mexico, C. m. amplus of Guadalupe Island, and Great Basin populations of C. m. frontalis, however, males do not acquire definitive plumage until the completion of their second prebasic molt, spending their first potential breeding season in a female-like plumage. Using a composite phylogeny and parsimony analysis, I show that delayed plumage maturation likely was lost in the ancestral House Finch population and was regained independently by the three taxa in which it is now observed. Thus, delayed plumage maturation in the House Finch is a derived trait. In addition, I show that the acquisition of delayed plumage maturation is associated with a reduction in the extent of ornamental plumage (i.e. a reduction in patch size). These observations support the idea that delayed plumage maturation in the House Finch is an adaptation to increased production costs of red ornamental display plumage in some populations.
4087090|Whip-poor-wills (Caprimulgus vociferus) showed significantly higher levels of locomotory, vocal, and nest activity during twilight and bright moonlight than under moonless conditions. Field observations and nest record card data indicated that Caprimulgus species usually synchronize their reproductive cycle with the lunar cycle. Hatching tends to occur during young waxing moons, presumably so that moonlight-enhanced foraging will be at a maximum while the dependent nestlings are an energy burden on the parents. Observations of foraging Whip-poor-wills suggest they are primarily visually oriented, unlike the bats (Chiroptera).
10.2307/4088986|We examined DNA sequence variation in an 1,831 base-pair segment of the mitochondrial DNA genome from representatives of the three subspecies of Sarus Crane (Grus antigone). The sequences include the entire cytochrome-b, tRNA
10.2307/4087500|We observed mixed-species flocks of birds foraging for euphausiids near Cape Upright, St. Matthew Island. Murres (Uria spp.) predominated, and the number present was equivalent to 79% of the murres breeding at Cape Upright, or 11% of the total St. Matthew population. All bird species actively feeding were catching the euphausiid Thysanoessa raschii. SCUBA divers determined that murres were diving deeper than 30 m; schools of euphausiids were not observed above that depth. Injured and disoriented euphausiids were present near the surface where surface-feeding Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) captured them.
90008557|Ten vocal types of Red Crossbill (
25150301|Because they share several morphological and ecological characters, the North American sparrow (Emberizidae) genera Ammodramus, Passerculus, and Xenospiza have historically been considered members of a well-defined "grassland" sparrow assemblage. Relationships among the 11 members of this group have been the subject of much taxonomic debate, yet no comprehensive molecular assessment of relationships has been done. We investigated these relationships using mitochondrial DNA sequence data that included complete cytochrome-b and ND2 genes. Phylogenetic reconstructions derived via parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian methods were congruent. The grassland sparrows, as presently configured, are polyphyletic. Pooecetes gramineus, Amphispiza belli (but not A. quinquestriata and A. bilineata), Oriturus superciliosus, and all three species of Melospiza are included in a reconfigured clade, whereas the traditional forms of Ammodramus savannarum, humeralis, and aurifons are placed well outside of these. Within the clade of interest, Ammodramus remains polyphyletic, with leconteii, maritimus, nelsoni, and caudacutus forming a well-resolved clade apart from henslowii and bairdii. The latter are in another strongly supported clade that also includes Passerculus and a Xenospiza-Melozpiza sister pairing. Pooecetes, Amphispiza (belli), and Oriturus represent early lineages in this clade that today have no close living relatives. The polyphyly of the genus Ammodramus is likely the result of morphological convergence attributable to similar adaptive responses to the occupation of similar habitats. In general, the morphological and ecological factors that have defined the grassland sparrows are poor indicators of relatedness. Taxonomic revisions are suggested. /// Debido a que comparten varios rasgos morfolgicos y ecolgicos, los gneros norteamericanos Ammodramus, Passerculus y Xenospiza (Emberizidae) se han considerado histricamente como miembros de un ensamblaje bien definido de gorriones de pastizales. Las relaciones entre los 11 miembros de este grupo han sido objeto de muchos debates taxonmicos, pero no se ha hecho ninguna evaluacin exhaustiva de sus relaciones con base en datos moleculares. Investigamos las relaciones entre estas aves utlizando datos de secuencias mitocondriales completas de los genes citocromo b y ND2. Las reconstrucciones filogenticas basadas en mtodos de parsimonia, verosimilitud y Bayesianos fueron congruentes. El grupo de los gorriones de pastizales tal como est configurado actualmente es polifiltico. Pooecetes gramineus, Amphispiza belli (pero no A. quinquestriata ni A. bilineata), Oriturus superciliosus y las tres especies de Melospiza estn incluidas en un clado reconfigurado, mientras que las formas tradicionales de Ammodramus savannarum, humeralis y aurifons se ubican bien afuera de las dems. Dentro del clado de inters, Ammodramus es an polifiltico, con leconteii, maritimus, nelsoni y caudacutus formando un clado bien resuelto, aparte de henslowii y bairdii. Estos dos ltimos taxones estn en otro clado fuertemente respaldado que tambin incluye a Passerculus y la pareja de taxones hermanos Xenospiza-Melozpiza. Pooecetes, Amphispiza (belli) y Oriturus representan linajes que se separaron tempranamente dentro de este clado y en la actualidad no tienen parientes cercanos. La polifilia del gnero Ammodramus probablemente se debe a convergencia atribuible a respuestas adaptativas similares a la ocupacin de ambientes similares. En general, los factores morfolgicos y ecolgicos que han definido a los gorriones de pastizales son malos indicadores de las relaciones de parentesco. Se sugieren revisiones taxonmicas.
10.2307/4086905|A knowledge of the assimilation of food and of the energetic demands of chicks at different stages in the growth period can provide a basis for understanding growth strategies of seabirds. We have developed a simple model of chick weight loss between feeds that allows an estimation of metabolic costs and food-conversion efficiency in albatross chicks. The data required to provide these estimates are a series of frequent weights of a chick following a meal and the weight of food delivered in the meal. Preliminary results show a considerable variation in both food-conversion efficiency, which may reflect variation in the composition of meals delivered to chicks, and in the metabolic demands of individual chicks.
90008592|Investigation of the ecological and evolutionary basis for the often-intriguing courtship behavior of animals requires that we understand the patterns of variation inherent in such behaviors. The courtship displays of the White-ruffed Manakin (
10.2307/4089406|Herpsilochmus gentryi, the Ancient Antwren, is described from northern Amazonian Peru and from one locality in southeastern Ecuador. As for several other recently described birds, the new species was first identified by voice. Herpsilochmus gentryi is restricted to two structurally distinct kinds of terra firme forest, growing on nutrient-poor, podzolic and quartzitic soils; its distribution is almost entirely edaphically controlled. Morphological and vocal comparisons strongly indicate a sister relationship with H. stictocephalus of the widely disjunct Guianan region. Both species are sympatric with sister taxa of parallel geographic disjunction in the H. sticturus complex. However, the degree of syntopy in the two regions is different. We suggest that the more limited overlap of H. gentryi with H. sticturus dugandi is a function of higher habitat mosaicism resulting from Andean orogeny and fluvial perturbance in Amazonian Peru than on the relatively stable and uniform Guianan shield. Herpsilochmus gentryi is common within its habitat, but the habitat itself is naturally rare and patchily distributed. Construction of a road through these ancient and fragile habitats near the city of Iquitos has led to a dramatic increase in habitat destruction over just the last 10 years. Integration of satellite imagery and aerial photographs with multidisciplinary ground-truthing of soil types, and botanical inventories by teams from the University of Turku, has shown that terra firme landscape heterogeneity is high in Peruvian Amazonia, and at least some distinctive habitats, such as those of H. gentryi, are readily mapped. Both the history and destiny of H. gentryi exemplify how the deterministic effects of local edaphic conditions on phytogeographic and, by extension, bird distribution, define an integral role for these factors in conservation initiatives, and in revealing biogeographic patterns.
10.2307/4088108|Philopatry is the selective return of individual birds to breed close to the site of their own hatching. This phenomenon can greatly influence the operation of evolutionary forces within and among populations of a species. Detection of philopatry normally involves long-term mark, release, and recapture studies. As an alternative, we have applied restriction enzyme analysis of mitochondrial DNA to a colonially nesting seabird species, the Fairy Prion (Pachyptila turtur), as a test of philopatry. As the mitochondrial genome is strictly maternally inherited, each colony in a philopatric species should have a unique combination of mitochondrial haplotypes. Twenty-one prions taken from one colony all had identical mitochondrial genomes, and we argue that juveniles as well as experienced adults return to the colony to breed. Philopatry within this colony does not explain the lack of mtDNA sequence variation. The most likely explanation is the recent occurrence of either a bottleneck or founder event within the colony probably involving a maximum of four females and an unspecified number of male prions. Two additional colonies of prions were not genetically homogeneous and did not have significantly different combinations of mitochondrial DNA lineages. It was not possible to confirm the existence of philopatry in these colonies.
10.2307/4088724|Microhabitat selection of the Kentucky Warbler (Oporornis formosus), a forest-interior Neotropical migrant, was examined using a geographical information system. The distribution of territorial male Kentucky Warblers was mapped within a 460-ha study area in northwestern Virginia from 1979 through 1992. Each annual distribution of territories was compared, using logistic regression, to a random distribution of territories with respect to habitat features codified within a vector-based geographical information system. Kentucky Warblers selected forested areas with cove hardwoods and avoided oak/hickory overstory. The warblers also were found more often in areas that contained streams and in areas with low white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) densities. Since 1979 there have been significant shifts in Kentucky Warbler use of habitat at this site, resulting in fewer territories within oak/hickory and edge habitats.
4086281| Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis sociabilis) observed along the lower Ro Magdalena in northern Colombia fed heavily on Pomacea chemnitzi but also took Marisa cornuarietis, a smaller species. The kites captured Pomacea preferentially over Marisa and had difficulties extracting Marisa from its shell. They also failed to extract some large specimens of P. chemnitzi. Failures with both species were apparently related to problems in removing opercula. These observations indicate that R. sociabilis can no longer be considered a strict specialist on Pomacea. 
10.2307/4090474| Despite much interest in the conservation of landbirds during migratory stopover periods, relatively few studies have examined spatial and temporal variation in habitat use and identified important habitats for migrating landbirds in North America. We surveyed migrant landbirds in five habitats (mature forest interior, mature forest-agricultural edge, mature suburban forest, mid-successional pole-stage forest, and early successional shrub-sapling-stage forest) in central Pennsylvania from late August to early October, 1997-1999. We used abundances of individual species and migrant guilds, species richness, and fruit availability to assess relative habitat quality for fall migrants and measured structural characteristics associated with migrant habitat use. Of 15 species that differed in abundance among habitats, species that breed in mature forest (n = 10) were typically broadly distributed among habitats during stopover, with highest abundance in edge-dominated forests (forest-agricultural edge and suburban forest) and lowest abundance in pole-stage forests. Mature-forest-breeding migrants also regularly used early successional forests, where as many individuals were recorded as in forest interior. Shrub-sapling-breeding species (n = 5) generally were more narrowly distributed among habitats and were most abundant in early successional and edge-dominated forests. We detected among-year differences in relative use of habitats by mature-forest-breeding species, which suggests that the relative quality of stopover habitats may vary from year to year. Fruit availability was highest in shrub-sapling and forest-agricultural edge habitats and was positively associated with abundance of primary frugivores in all three years, indicating that fruit may be driving habitat selection by that guild. Mature-forest-breeding migrants were positively associated with forests that had more understory vegetation and lower percentage of canopy cover (i.e. more tree-fall gaps), which suggests that migrants selected sites with greater vertical and horizontal habitat heterogeneity. Migrating shrub-sapling-breeding species were positively associated with small-diameter stems (0-2.5 cm) and negatively associated with percentage of canopy cover (i.e. characteristics of breeding habitats). Consistently high use of mature edge-dominated and early-successional forests by a wide diversity of landbird species during fall stopover indicates the potential importance of those habitats for migratory landbird conservation. /// A pesar del gran inters en la conservacin de aves terrestres durante los perodos de escala migratoria, relativamente pocos estudios han examinado la variacin espacial y temporal en el uso del hbitat y han identificado los ambientes importantes para las aves terrestres migratorias en Amrica del Norte. En este estudio muestreamos aves terrestres migratorias en cinco ambientes (interior de bosque maduro, borde entre bosque maduro y campo agrcola, bosque maduro suburbano, bosque sucesional de estados intermedios y bosque sucesional de estados tempranos) en el centro de Pennsylvania desde fines de agosto hasta principios de octubre, entre 1997 y 1999. Usamos las abundancias de especies individuales y de gremios de migrantes, la riqueza de especies y la disponibilidad de frutos para determinar la calidad relativa de hbitat para los migrantes de otoo. Adems medimos caractersticas estructurales asociadas con el uso de hbitat de los migrantes. De las 15 especies que variaron en abundancia entre los ambientes, les especies que se reproducen en el bosque maduro (n = 10) tpicamente estuvieron ampliamente distribuidas entre los ambientes durante las escalas migratorias, con una mayor abundancia en los bosques dominados por borde (borde entre bosque y campo agrcola, y bosque suburbano) y una menor abundancia en bosques de estados intermedios. Los migrantes reproductivos de bosques maduros tambin usaron regularmente los bosques sucesionales tempranos, donde se registraton tantos individuos como en el interior de bosque. Las especies reproductivas de los bosques sucesionales tempranos (n = 5) generalmente tuvieron una distribucin ms restringida en los ambientes y fueron ms abundantes en bosques sucesionales tempranos y en bosques dominados por borde. Detectamos diferencias entre aos en el uso relativo de los ambientes por parte de las especies reproductivas del bosque maduro, lo que sugiere que la calidad relativa de los ambientes puede variar de ao en ao. La disponibilidad de frutos fue mayor en los ambientes sucesionales tempranos y en los bordes de bosque y campo agrcola, y se asoci positivamente con la abundancia de los frugvoros primarios en los tres aos, lo que sugiere que los frutos pueden estar influenciando la seleccin de hbitat por parte de este gremio. Los migrantes reproductivos de bosque maduro estuvieron positivamente asociados con los bosques que tenan ms vegetacin en el sotobosque y menor porcentaje de cobertura del dosel (i.e. ms claros producidos por la cada de rboles), lo que sugiere que los migrantes seleccionaron sitios que presentaron mayor heterogeneidad de hbitat vertical y horizontal. Las especies reproductivas migrantes de ambientes sucesionales tempranos se asociaron positivamente con tallos de pequeo tamao (0-2.5 cm) y negativamente con el porcentaje de cobertura del dosel (i.e. caractersticas de los ambientes reproductivos). El uso consistentemente alto de bosques maduros dominados por borde y de bosques en estados sucesionales tempranos por parte de una amplia diversidad de especies de aves terrestres durante las escalas de otoo indica la importancia potencial de estos ambientes para la conservacin de aves terrestres migratorias. 
4088323|We spent 1,173 h determining the activity patterns of Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors), Northern Shovelers (A. clypeata), Northern Pintails (A. acuta), and American Wigeon (A. americana) in Yucatan, Mexico, from October to March, 1986 to 1988. Feeding (30-50%), locomotion (20-37%), and resting (13-28%) were the dominant behaviors of all species. Preening occurred 4-11%, and ducks spent <4% combined in courtship, comfort, alert, and aggression. Activity patterns generally did not differ within or among species over four phenological time periods during winter, and were similar in the sexes and throughout the day. Activities were similar in all open-water habitats but changed when birds used red mangroves (Rhizophora mangle), where resting and preening became dominant. Mild temperatures throughout winter nearly eliminated thermal stress as species spent only 0.0-4.2% of time below their lower critical temperature. We argue that lack of thermal stress increases flexibility in activity patterns and potentially caused the lack of daily, seasonal, and interspecific changes in activity budgets. Such increases in behavioral flexibility and overall energy conservation are probably two major benefits accrued by dabbling ducks wintering in the Neotropics.
25150253|Several bird-survey methods have been proposed that provide an estimated detection probability so that bird-count statistics can be used to estimate bird abundance. However, some of these estimators adjust counts of birds observed by the probability that a bird is detected and assume that all birds are available to be detected at the time of the survey. We marked male Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii) and Grasshopper Sparrows (A. savannarum) and monitored their behavior during May-July 2002 and 2003 to estimate the proportion of time they were available for detection. We found that the availability of Henslow's Sparrows declined in late June to <10% for 5- or 10-min point counts when a male had to sing and be visible to the observer; but during 20 May-19 June, males were available for detection 39.1% (SD = 27.3) of the time for 5-min point counts and 43.9% (SD = 28.9) of the time for 10-min point counts (n = 54). We detected no temporal changes in availability for Grasshopper Sparrows, but estimated availability to be much lower for 5-min point counts (10.3%, SD = 12.2) than for 10-min point counts (19.2%, SD = 22.3) when males had to be visible and sing during the sampling period (n = 80). For distance sampling, we estimated the availability of Henslow's Sparrows to be 44.2% (SD = 29.0) and the availability of Grasshopper Sparrows to be 20.6% (SD = 23.5). We show how our estimates of availability can be incorporated in the abundance and variance estimators for distance sampling and modify the abundance and variance estimators for the double-observer method. Methods that directly estimate availability from bird counts but also incorporate detection probabilities need further development and will be important for obtaining unbiased estimates of abundance for these species. /// Se han propuesto varios mtodos de muestreo de aves que proveen estimaciones de las probabilidades de deteccin para calcular estadsticos que permiten estimar la abundancia de aves. Sin embargo, a pesar de que algunas de estas estimaciones ajustan el nmero de aves observadas por la probabilidad de que un ave sea detectada, stas asumen que todas las aves estn disponibles para ser detectadas en el momento del muestreo. Marcamos individuos de Ammodramus henslowii y A. savannarum y monitoreamos su comportamiento entre mayo y julio de 2002 y 2003 para estimar la proporcin de tiempo que los individuos estaban disponibles para ser detectados. Encontramos que la disponibilidad de A. henslowi disminuy a menos del 10% a fines de junio durante conteos en puntos de 5 o 10 minutos en los cuales un macho deba cantar y ser visible al observador. Luego, durante el periodo entre el 20 de mayo y el 19 de junio, los machos estuvieron disponibles para ser detectados en un 39.2% (DE = 27.3) del tiempo durante conteos de 5 minutos y en un 43.9% (DE = 28.9) del tiempo durante conteos de 10 minutos (n = 54). No detectamos cambios temporales en la disponibilidad de A. savannarum, pero estimamos que la disponibilidad es mucho menor durante conteos de 5 minutos (10.3%, DE = 12.2) que de 10 minutos (19.2%, DE = 22.3), cuando los machos deban cantar y ser visibles al observados durante el periodo de muestreo (n = 80). Para las estimaciones de densidad utilizando el mtodo de muestreo con distancias, estimamos que la disponibilidad de A. henslowi es de un 44.2% (DE = 29.0) y la de A. savannarum de un 20.6% (DE = 23.5). Mostramos como nuestras estimaciones de disponibilidad pueden ser incorporadas en las estimaciones de abundancia y en las de su varianza asociada obtenidas con el mtodo de muestreo con distancias, y como stas tambin pueden modificar las estimaciones de abundancia y varianza asociada obtenidas mediante el mtodo de observador doble. Los mtodos que estimen la disponibilidad de manera directa a partir de los conteos en puntos y que tambin incorporen las probabilidades de deteccin requieren de un mayor desarrollo y sern importantes para obtener estimaciones no sesgadas de la abundancia de estas especies.
10.2307/4088004|We used starch-gel electrophoresis to investigate genetic variability at 23 loci in 107 individuals from seven populations of the Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis). These populations sample all three currently recognized subspecies. No genetic variation was found in six populations from Oregon and California. Average heterozygosity in owls from New Mexico was 0.022. The low level of genetic variability will make it more difficult to monitor the genetics of this threatened species; the paucity of variation is possibly due to a small overall effective population size or bottlenecks in the past. At one locus there was a major allelic frequency difference between the Pacific Coast populations (S. o. caurina and S. o. occidentalis) and the allopatric taxon (S. o. lucida) found in New Mexico; our estimate of F
25488685|Birds generally begin incubation either before laying the last egg of a clutch or when the last egg is laid. We report a third incubation tactic, in which incubation onset is delayed beyond the laying of the last egg. In an Illinois population of American Robins (
10.2307/4089904| We analyzed data on 535 Ural Owl (Strix uralensis) breeding attempts and consecutive survival of both adults and offspring from 1987-1998 in relation to the regional abundance of the Ural Owl's main prey, voles, which show a cycle of low, increase, and peak phases in their population numbers. Vole abundance varied up to 49, crashing during spring-summer every three years. The breeding population tracked abundance of voles in the previous autumn with respect to percentage of pairs breeding and their reproductive output (laying date, clutch size), largely irrespective of phase. Survival depended on vole density in the preceding autumn, but was generally highest in the increase phase. There was thus a paradoxical situation in the peak phases, when vole populations crashed; the owls produced large clutches, but those survived poorly. Some adaptive and nonadaptive scenarios of the Ural Owl's life history are discussed. /// Analizamos datos sobre 535 intentos reproductivos de lechuzas Strix uralensis y la supervivencia consiguiente de adultos y cras entre 1987 y con relacin a la abundancia regional de roedores microtinos (i.e., "voles"), que son sus presas principales. Los tamaos poblacionales de los microtinos varan cclicamente, con fases de baja abundancia, de incremento y de abundancia pico. La abundancia de microtinos vari hasta 49 y la poblacin colaps cada tres aos entre primavera y verano. La poblacin reproductiva de lechuzas sigui la abundancia de los microtinos en el otoo anterior con respecto al porcentaje de parejas que se reprodujeron y su rendimiento reproductivo (fecha de postura, tamao de la nidada), en gran medida independientemente de la fase. La supervivencia dependi de la densidad de microtinos en el otoo anterior, pero en general fue mxima durante la fase de incremento. Se present una situacin paradjica en las fases pico, cuando las poblaciones de microtinos colapsaron: las lechuzas produjeron nidadas grandes, pero stas tuvieron una baja supervivencia. Se discuten algunos escenarios adaptativos y no adaptativos sobre la historia de vida de S. uralensis. 
4086284|The Costa Rican Sharpbill (Oxyruncus cristatus frater) is a chunky bird of stolid demeanor, with rapid and jerky movements. Males apparently form exploded leks of 3-4 birds, advertising their lek territories by singing a high, thin, wiry, descending trill from conspicuous perches high in the canopy of precipitous, mid-elevation rain forest. The singing (and probable breeding) season extends from late February or March to late May or early June. The bright vermilion crest of the males is erected during intense aggressive interactions but not during singing. Probable courtship is described, but we were unable to observe copulation. We also describe a probable flight display of unknown significance. Sharpbills employ varied foraging tactics and take both fruit and animal prey. The sharp-pointed bill is used to pry open rolled leaves, undehisced fruits, and tufts of moss and epiphytes. The Sharpbills' bill and foraging appear to represent a unique specialization within the great tyrannine suboscine radiation of the New World tropics and a striking convergence with the family Icteridae in particular.
4085396|This study compares developmental changes in the behavior, morphology, and body composition of three species of birds with different types of development: Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) (altricial), Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) (semi-precocial), and Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) (precocial). The Starling grows four times and the tern, two and one-half times more rapidly than the quail. Although the adult weights of the three species are similar, the tern neonate is about twice as large (12.8% adult weight) as Starling (6.7%) and quail (5.8%) hatchlings. Both the tern and quail move about and regulate their body temperatures at hatching. The quail chick begins to fly when it is half-grown, the Starling and tern when they are nearly full-grown. At hatching, the tern and quail have larger proportions of nonlipid dry matter and less water in their bodies than does the Starling, indicating greater maturity. The body proportions of neonates are similar, except that the integument and legs of the Starling are smaller than those of the tern and quail. During development, proportion of pectoral muscles and, to a lesser extent, wings, increases in all three species, proportion of legs in the tern decreases and, proportion of head in the quail and, to a lesser extent, the Starling and the tern decreases. Development of homeothermy in the Starling is accompanied by the development of plumage and maturation of the leg muscles to provide a source of heat. In most tissues, increasing function is accompanied by decreasing water content and decreasing growth rate. The functional maturity of the leg appears to set the overall pace of development of the chick. In the tern, rapid body growth is consistent with slow leg growth because the relative size of the legs decreases continually during development. Adult terns have small legs compared both to other adult birds and to newly hatched chicks. Large egg size in the tern results in large hatching size and further reduces the postnatal growth increment of the legs, thereby reducing the postnatal development period. The results of this study support the hypothesis that rate of increase in body weight is inversely related to degree of functional maturity. Several refinements of this general pattern are also evident: (1) the growth rate of the organism is limited by the most slowly growing component, (2) the relative proportions of body components must remain within limits determined by their function during the development period, and (3) post-hatching growth rate may be increased under certain circumstances by increasing embryonic growth of organs that are functionally mature at hatching.
40406705|Because of continental-scale declines of grassland birds over the past century, conservation agendas are focused on increasing understanding of grassland bird ecology and habitat associations. Shortgrass prairie is a unique grassland ecosystem maintained, in part, by Black-tailed Prairie Dogs (
10.2307/4089062|We examined differences between sexes in the structure of vocalizations and the syrinx of the Collared Dove (Streptopelia decaocto). Seven vocal characteristics were measured to determine the degree of sex differences in the structure of the "perch-coo." Sex differences in vocalizations occurred in vocal activity levels and spectrotemporal parameters. Females produced fewer and shorter coo bouts. Coos produced by females also had a higher fundamental frequency, more overtones, a different temporal pattern, and tended to be less stereotyped. Discriminant function analysis revealed that sound percentage, followed by modulation percentage and fundamental frequency, were best at discriminating between the sexes. Based on the magnitude of sex differences and acoustic discrimination ratios, the latter two characters are the ones most likely to be used for vocal sex recognition. In general, the syrinx of female Collared Doves is a reduced copy of the one found in males. Trachea size and the number of tracheal and bronchial rings had high loadings on the principal components that showed significant differences between the sexes. In addition to general size differences, the number of ventromedially thickened rings and length of the tracheosyringeal membrane also were strongly correlated with these principal components. Length and height of the primary bronchi did not appear to differ between the sexes but were bilaterally asymmetrical only in males. The combination of vocal and anatomical data provides evidence that morphological aspects contribute to sexual dimorphism in vocalizations.
4087322| We studied breeding male Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) to test a model of optimal territorial behavior for feeding-time minimizers proposed by Hixon (1980). Specific predictions were that feeding time, defense time, and territory size should decrease with increasing food availability and increase with increased pressure from both conspecific and heterospecific competitors. The constant reproductive output of 4 and 3 eggs for first and second clutches, respectively, and the large component of uncommitted (sitting) time (62.6  3.2%) over the breeding season confirmed that the Willow Flycatcher conformed to a time-minimization strategy. Data analyzed over three stages of the breeding cycle, and over all stages, however, showed that only 5 of the 36 possible relationships were significant as predicted by the model. In general, food availability and competitor pressure were not important influences on the territorial behavior of these birds. Variations in territory size could not be attributed to constraints on feeding time, but correlated closely with the energetic requirements of all birds occupying the territory. We believe that breeding insectivorous passerines, including Willow Flycatchers, maintain a large component of uncommitted time, as well as a larger than necessary territory, to minimize the impact of short-term variations in competitor pressure and food supply. Such birds need not conform to the predictions of models that optimize foraging time. 
4086472|In 1979, we gathered clutch-size and reproductive-success data on Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) nesting in three New England and two North Carolina colonies. In 1975, we gathered similar data from one of the New England and one of the North Carolina colonies. Latitudinal differences in clutch initiation were not evident. Mean clutch size was larger in the New England than in the North Carolina colonies. Mean clutch size was smaller in late nests from one New England colony studied in both years and another New England colony studied in 1979; seasonal trends in clutch size for other colonies were not found. In 1979, nest success was greater in two New England colonies than in one North Carolina colony. Within-season differences in nest success occurred but were inconsistent among colonies. In the four instances where statistical comparisons could be made, larger clutches were more successful than smaller ones in two colonies; large and small clutches had similar success in two other colonies. One egg was collected from each of several nests in each colony in 1979 for organochlorine contaminant analysis, and the fate of the remaining eggs was recorded. Concentrations of DDE and PCBs did not differ with clutch size; concentrations of PCBs were lower, however, in eggs laid late in the season. Although the data suggest an effect of DDE on hatching success in the northern more contaminated colonies, the impact of environmental contaminants on overall reproductive success appears to be minimal.
10.2307/4088903|The energetic requirements of breeding can affect the ability of a bird to simultaneously undergo replacement of its feathers. From 1987 to 1994 we examined patterns of wing- and tail-feather molt in 286 Merlins (Falco columbarius richardsonii) captured in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan during the breeding season to investigate the relationship between these two events. Female Merlins had significantly higher molt scores than males, but among a variety of environmental variables, only capture date was significantly correlated with the extent of molt in female Merlins. In contrast, molt in male Merlins was correlated with capture date, the quality of the nest place, and the hatching date of the chicks. Nearly one-half of all males examined had an arrested molt pattern (i.e. molt stopped partway through), while less than 30% of females had arrested molt. Differences between the sexes may be related to their roles in reproduction. The fact that male Merlins provide most of the food for the pair and their young during the breeding season apparently necessitates slowing down and in some cases arresting molt. Females appear to arrest molt due to the greater demand of having more chicks.
4088303|Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) exhibit clinal variation in body size. Taxonomists have used this variation to differentiate three subspecies (F. a. grabae, F. a. arctica, F. a. numanni). I collected morphological data and blood samples from five Atlantic Puffin colonies to assess differences in body size and allozyme patterns over large geographical distances. I analyzed differences within and among colonies and between F. a. grabae and F. a. arctica. Body size among all but the two most southerly colonies differed significantly. Isoelectric focusing of serum proteins revealed that 5 of 32 loci studied were polymorphic. An average measure of heterozygosity within a colony relative to the total population studied (
4090643| I studied year-round foraging behavior of 28 color-banded Eurasian Three-toed Woodpeckers (Picoides tridactylus alpinus) from 1995 to 1999 in Berchtesgaden National Park, Germany. My research focused on how foraging time was divided among various substrates and foraging techniques. Foraging behavior was recorded by instantaneous sampling during independent observation sessions (i.e. foraging bouts). A combination of tapping and pecking was the most important foraging technique used during breeding (>43%) and nonbreeding (>59%). Both mean and maximum foraging bouts (mean  SD) lasted longer during nonbreeding periods (mean: 17.0  3.7 min, maximum: 61.9  30.2 min) than during breeding periods (4.3  3.0 min, 15.5  16.1 min). Sap-sucking was observed rarely during breeding. Males spent less time foraging on branches, whereas females spent less time in the lower third of trees on which they foraged. Males also manipulated foraging substrates more by pecking and digging (probing), whereas females did more climbing and position-changing on foraging trees. I concluded that Eurasian Three-toed Woodpeckers changed their foraging techniques according to seasonal changes in diet and that, during breeding, males used better foraging grounds than females. /// J'ai tudi le comportement annuel de qute alimentaire de 28 Picoides tridactylus alpinus eurasiens et marqus grce  des bagues de couleur de 1995  1999 dans le parc national de Berchtesgaden, Allemagne. Ma recherche s'est concentre sur le partage du temps entre les diverses sous-strates et les techniques de qute alimentaire. Le comportement de qute alimentaire tait enregistr par chantillonnage instantan, au cours de sessions indpendantes d'observations (i.e. squences de qute alimentaire). Une combinaison de frappe et de coup de bec ("tapping and pecking") tait la technique la plus souvent utilise, que ce soit en priode de reproduction (>43%) ou non (>59%). Les temps moyen et maximal des squences de qute alimentaire taient plus longs au cours des priodes de non reproduction (moyenne: 17,0  3,7 min, maximum: 61,9  30,2 min) qu'au cours des priodes de reproduction (4,3  3,0 min, 15,5  16,1 min). Le comportement de succion ("sap-sucking") a t rarement observ au cours de la priode de reproduction. Les mles ont pass moins de temps  se nourrir sur les branches, alors que les femelles passaient moins de temps dans le premier tiers infrieur des arbres dans lesquels elles se nourrissaient. Les mles manipulaient le substrat en utilisant davantage des coups de becs ("picking") ou en creusant ("digging"), alors que les femelles grimpaient davantage et changeaient plus souvent de positions au sein des arbres sur lesquels elles se nourrissaient. Je conclus que les Picoides tridactylus alpinus modifient leur technique de qute alimentaire en fonction des changements saisonniers survenant dans la dite et au cours de la priode de reproduction, et que les mles utilisaient de meilleurs terrains que les femelles. 
10.2307/4086827|The distribution and abundance of 26 migratory insectivorous bird species were recorded over an elevational habitat gradient in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona for the spring and fall migratory seasons. Most of the species used this area only during migratory passage, and 54% exhibited significant shifts in the habitats occupied from spring to fall. The majority (69%) of species also exhibited significant changes in density within habitats between seasons. Using pairwise correlations of bird densities from 7 habitat types and 2 seasons, I identified 5 groups that contained species whose seasonal distributional patterns were similar to one another but independent and distinct from members of the other 4 groups. Despite independence among groups in the seasonal patterns of habitat distribution, the combined density of all species was significantly positively correlated with a measure of food availability taken from each of the habitat types in each migratory season. Consequently, the spring-to-fall change in insect density within each habitat also was significantly correlated with the seasonal change in bird density over each of the habitat types. The hypotheses that best explain these correlations include that in which competitive adjustments among the migratory birds enable a close match to food resource availability and that whereby noncompetitive adjustments occur in response to the diversity (itself correlated with food abundance) of food types available.
4085547|Male Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) sing with immediate variety (i.e. AB CDE...); they progress rapidly through their song repertoires and tend to countersing with the same song types. Intensive study of two hand-reared males in the laboratory now confirms that both the song types and the song sequences are learned. Furthermore, the leader/follower roles during countersinging duels are not determined at random. In this study, Bird 1 dominated Bird 2 in physical encounters; Bird 2 often followed (i.e. matched) the song type just sung by Bird 1, but Bird 1 matched the songs of Bird 2 only when the songs of the latter were electronically amplified. The leader/follower roles in countersinging may be ritualized expressions of dominance and subordinance, respectively, and could reveal to both males and females the relative vigor of the combatants.
10.2307/4090015| The growing use of comparative methods to address evolutionary questions has generated an increased need for robust hypotheses of evolutionary relationships for a wide range of organisms. Where a phylogeny exists for a group, often more than one phylogeny will exist for that group, and it is uncommon that the same taxa are in each of the existing trees. The types of data used to generate evolutionary trees can also vary greatly, and thus combining data sets is often difficult or impossible. To address comparative questions for groups where multiple phylogenetic hypotheses already exist, we need to combine different hypotheses in a way that provides the best estimate of the phylogeny for that group. Here, we combine seven seabird phylogenies (based on behavioral, DNA-DNA hybridization, isozyme, life history, morphological, and sequence data) to generate a comprehensive supertree for the Procellariiformes using matrix representation with parsimony. This phylogeny contains 122 taxa and represents a conservative estimate of combined relationships presented in the original seven source trees. We compared the supertree with results of a combined sequence data supermatrix for 103 seabird taxa. Results of the two approaches are broadly concordant, but matrix representation with parsimony provides a more comprehensive and more conservative estimate of the phylogeny of the group because it is less influenced by the largest of the source studies (which uses a single, relatively quickly evolving gene). Genetic data sets that can be combined in a supermatrix approach are currenly less likely to be available than phylogenies that can be combined using some form of supertree approach. Although there are limitations to both of those approaches, both would be simpler if all phylogenetic studies made both their data sets and trees they generate available through databases such as TREEBASE. /// El uso creciente de mtodos comparativos para abordar preguntas evolutivas ha incrementado la necesidad de hiptesis robustas sobre relaciones evolutivas para una amplia variedad de organismos. Cuando existe una filogenia para un grupo, a menudo existir ms de una filogenia para ese grupo, y es poco frecuente que los mismos taxa estn presentes en cada uno de los rboles. Los tipos de datos usados para generar rboles evolutivos tambin pueden variar enormemente, por lo que generalmente es difcil o imposible combinar estos datos. Para responder a preguntas comparativas en grupos para los cuales existen mltiples hiptesis filogenticas, necesitamos combinar diferentes hiptesis de manera que obtengamos la mejor estimacin de la filogenia de estos grupos. Aqu combinamos siete filogenias (basadas en comportamiento, hibridizacin de ADN-ADN, isoenzimas, historia de vida, morfologa y datos de secuenciamiento) para generar un super-rbol integrador para los Procellariiformes usando representacin de matrices combinada con parsimonia. Esta filogenia contiene 122 taxa y representa una estimacin conservativa de las relaciones presentadas en los siete rboles originales combinados. Comparamos el super-rbol con los resultados de una matriz de datos de secuencias combinada para 103 taxa de aves marinas. A grandes rasgos, los resultados de las dos aproximaciones concuerdan, pero la representacin de matrices combinada con parsimonia brinda una estimacin ms integral y ms conservativa de la filogenia del grupo, debido a que est menos influenciada por uno de los estudios utilizados (la fuente con ms datos, que a su vez usa un nico gen de evolucin relativamente rpida). Los juegos de datos genticos que pueden ser combinados en una super-matriz estn por lo general menos disponibles que las filogenias que pueden ser combinadas usando alguna aproximacin de tipo super-rbol. Aunque existen limitaciones para estas dos aproximaciones, ambas seran ms simples si todos los estudios filogenticos pusieran a disposicin tanto sus juegos de datos como los rboles que generan a travs de bases de datos como TREEBASE. 
10.2307/4087751|Blackpoll Warblers (Dendroica striata) may reach their winter range in South America by migrating directly over the Atlantic Ocean from the northeastern United States (Drury and Keith 1962, Nisbet et al. 1963) and the Maritime Provinces (Richardson 1972, 1980), through the southeastern United States (Cooke 1904, 1915; Murray 1965, 1966a), or through both regions. Evidence obtained since the 1960s has been accepted as supporting the first of these hypotheses. My purpose was to provide a critical review of the evidence for and against these conflicting views. I examined the geographic distribution and the time of occurrence of Blackpoll Warblers during migration from the northern United States to the Caribbean islands, differences in mean body mass of samples in time and place from the northeastern United States, Bermuda, and Florida, and radar and visual evidence from over the sea. There is no unequivocal evidence that any Blackpoll Warblers migrate over the sea directly from New England to South America, and all evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that Blackpoll Warblers migrate to South America through the southeastern United States.
10.2307/4089407|We introduce an empirically derived methodology for the definition, measurement, and application of vocal characters in assessing species limits in the numerically important Neotropical family Thamnophilidae. On the basis of available evidence, we assume that vocalizations are innate and that all vocal characters have a role in maintenance of species integrity in thamnophilids. Vocalizations of eight syntopic pairs, the members of which resemble one another in both plumage and voice, were analyzed to identify diagnosable vocal characters. To be diagnosable, characters had to distinguish members of a pair unambiguously. Three of the eight pairs were diagnosable by three vocal characters, four pairs by four characters, and one pair by seven characters. Vocalizations differed most consistently by characters reflecting loudsong note structure, loudsong pace, and note structure of calls. In establishing species limits for allopatric antbird populations, we suggest that three vocal characters, the minimum number distinguishing the syntopic pairs, be used as a point of reference. Keeping this point of reference in mind, we recommend that multiple diagnosable vocal characters be present when vocalizations are a major factor in determining species limits in thamnophilid antbirds. To the extent that populations differ strongly in other characters (e.g. morphological, molecular, other behavioral), fewer vocal characters may suffice. The identification of multiple vocal characters as a point of reference, as opposed to individual characters (e.g. note shape) or vocalization types (e.g. the loudsong), allows for greater latitude in the diagnosis. A focus on the number of characters is appropriate given the possibility that the role and importance of vocalization types in species' repertoires may differ across groups of taxa. The methodology and results may also have application in the study of other avian groups in which vocalizations are innate, especially the suboscines.
4084887|Observed nest density as well as nearest-neighbor internest distances in a colony of Royal Terns on the southeastern U.S. coast demonstrate that the species has achieved an exceedingly close approach to maximal or hexagonal packing of its nests, probably the first firm demonstration of this effect in any aspect of a vertebrate social system. Various formulas for calculating both deviations from randomness and approaches toward hexagonality are discussed, using data in the form of nearest-neighbor distances, or in the form of nest density per unit area. The biological significance of Royal Terns' hexagonal nest packing is related to the species' high degree of sociality and low levels of aggression, and while observed predation on them at nesting time seems limited to egg-stealing (heaviest on the colony periphery), it is likely that the high nest density demonstrated here did evolve originally in response to just this sort of peripheral predation, synergistically magnified by the species' colony site choice of tiny shoals and sand bars with drastically reduced spaces for nesting.
4085701| The reproductive biology of Fork-tailed Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma furcata) breeding in the Gulf of Alaska reflects adaptations in response to severe climatic conditions, distant and unpredictable food resources, and predation. Adults build meager nests in natural or excavated cavities and arrive and depart only at night. During incubation, parents frequently neglect eggs for several days at a time, and embryos can survive up to 28 days of neglect during incubation periods that may extend more than 60 days. Even when adults attend eggs, incubation temperatures (29.7C) are well below those of other birds. Fork-tailed Storm-Petrels switch mates more frequently after nests fail than when chicks successfully fledge. They do not recognize their own eggs or chicks. Egg laying, egg size, chick growth rates, and chick mortality vary between and within seasons, possibly because of seasonal and annual differences in food availability. The variability in the onset of breeding and the variability in growth between years suggest that Fork-tailed Storm-Petrels are responsive to oceanographic conditions and may be good indicators of regional productivity. 
4087662|Spaw and Rohwer (1987) proposed that thick shells of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs are a response to puncture ejection by some hosts. I provide evidence for puncture resistance of eggs of the Brown-headed Cowbird and of a sample of nonparasitic icterids. I attempted to establish the relative role of the eggshell shape and inorganic constituents in determining puncture resistance of cowbird eggs. I found that the cowbird eggs tolerated approximately twice as much pressure during puncture resistance tests than eggs of three nonparasitic icterids. The greater strength of cowbird eggs is due mainly to thicker eggshells and a more rounded shape. These variables play a similar role in variation in puncture resistance among conspecific eggs. Cowbird eggshells have a higher content of inorganic constituents than those of nonparasitic icterids. However, the hypothesis that inorganic content further increases strength of cowbird eggs requires additional testing.
10.2307/4088163| Genomic DNA libraries of the Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica) and the Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) were screened for the presence of dinucleotide microsatellite repeats. Two thymine-guanine repeats, "
4085852| Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) in the winter plumage, on a regime under which control birds grew white feathers in plucked areas, grew pigmented feathers in the plucked areas, when injected with posterior pituitary extract or  MSH, LH, or FSH (only effective in females). White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus), patch-plucked and released into the wild after implantation with a hormone-cholesterol mixture, grew pigmented feathers after implantation with  MSH, TSH, thyroxine (in one out of two birds tested), and an FSH/LH mixture. Controls implanted with cholesterol grew only white feathers. Both sets of experiments were carried out in winter. A scheme of the control of ptarmigan plumage colors, which assumes that MSH and gonadotrophins and, in males, testosterone are involved in the natural control mechanism, is proposed. 
10.2307/4089842| Rate of oxygen consumption was measured in eight species of toucans, one barbet, and one hornbill to examine factors that influence their energy expenditures. Basal rate of metabolism in those species, supplemented with measurements from three woodpeckers and three mousebirds, is correlated with body mass and either food habits or climate: temperate acorn- and insect-eating species have basal rates that are 70% greater than tropical fruit-eating species. The temperate, insect- or acorn-eating species are woodpeckers, so level of basal rate is also correlated with familial affiliation. The toucans, barbet, and hornbill have basal rates similar to those of frugivorous pigeons and bats, which collectively are low by avian standards. The effects of climate, food habits, and family affiliation on basal rates in endotherms are difficult to separate, given the restricted data set available. Earlier conclusions that the basal rates of birds greatly exceed those of mammals are confounded by character interactions that influence dependence of basal rate on body mass. The largest toucan showed a remarkable ability to reduce energy expenditure at low ambient temperatures without reducing core body temperature, possibly as a result of peripheral vasoconstriction. 
10.1525/auk.2011.11096|The living and extinct flightless rails of the Pacific are among the most species-rich examples of parallel evolution in vertebrates. The typical rails of this region comprise a diverse assemblage of long-billed species variously placed in the genera
4090356| Pleistocene glacial cycles have often been hypothesized to provide vicariant mechanisms leading to allopatric speciation in a wide range of southern South American (Fuegian and Patagonian) avian taxa. Few of those biogeographic hypotheses, however, have been rigorously tested using phylogenetic analysis. We examined sequence variation in three mitochondrial gene fragments (cytochrome b, ND2, and ND3) to construct a molecular phylogeny for the South American genus Geositta (Furnariidae) and to test the interrelated hypotheses that Geositta cunicularia and G. antarctica are sister species that originated from a common ancestor while isolated in glacial refugia during Pleistocene glacial events in Fuego-Patagonia. Sequence data were obtained for all 10 currently recognized species of Geositta as well as Geobates poecilopterus and two outgroup taxa (Upucerthia ruficauda and Aphrastura spinicauda). We found levels of sequence divergence among Geositta species to be high, ranging from 7.4% to 16.3%. Our phylogenetic reconstructions clearly indicate relationships among Geositta species that differ considerably from those of traditional Geositta phylogeny. These data also strongly suggest that Geositta, as currently defined, is paraphyletic, with Geobates being embedded within Geositta. Our data do not support the hypothesized sister relationship between G. antarctica and G. cunicularia. Instead, they suggest that Geositta consists of two distinct clades, with antarctica and cunicularia falling into different clades. The high levels of sequence divergence among Geositta species, lack of a sister relationship between cunicularia and antarctica, and placement of Fuego-Patagonian antarctica into a clade consisting of two high-Andean (saxicolina and isabellina) and one coastal-west-slope (maritima) species demonstrate that the evolutionary history of Geositta is much older and far more complex than a simple model of allopatric speciation in glacial refugia would suggest. /// Se ha sugerido que los ciclos glaciales del Pleistoceno han causado eventos de vicarianza que han conllevado a procesos de especiacin aloptrica en una amplia gama de taxa de aves del sur de Amrica del Sur (Tierra del Fuego y Patagonia). Sin embargo, muy pocas de estas hiptesis han sido puestas a prueba rigurosamente por medio de anlisis filogenticos. En este estudio examinamos la variacin en las secuencias de tres fragmentos de genes mitocondriales (citocromo b, ND2 y ND3) para construir una filogenia molecular del gnero suramericano Geositta (Furnariidae) y para poner a prueba la hiptesis de que Geositta cunicularia y G. antarctica son especies hermanas que se originaron de un ancestro comn mientras estaban aisladas en refugios durante eventos glaciales del Pleistoceno en Tierra del Fuego-Patagonia. Obtuvimos secuencias para las 10 especies de Geositta reconocidas en la actualidad, as como para Geobates poecilopterus y para dos taxa considerados como grupo externo (Upucerthia ruficauda y Aphrastura spinicauda). Encontramos que los niveles de divergencia entre las secuencias de especies de Geositta son altos, entre 7.4% y 16.3%. Nuestras reconstrucciones filogenticas claramente indican relaciones entre las especies de Geositta que difieren considerablemente de las sugeridas por la filogenia tradicional del gnero. Nuestros datos tambin sugieren fuertemente que como est definido actualmente, Geositta es un grupo parafiltico, pues Geobates est anidado dentro de Geositta. Nuestros datos no apoyan la supuesta estrecha relacin entre G. antarctica and G. cunicularia; en cambio, sugieren que Geositta comprende dos clados distintivos y que antarctica y cunicularia pertenecen a clados distintos. Los altos niveles de divergencia en las secuencias entre las especies de Geositta, la ausencia de una relacin de especies hermanas entre cunicularia y antarctica y la ubicacin de la especie fueguino-patagnica antarctica en un clado conformado por dos especies de los altos Andes (saxicolina y isabellina) y una de la vertiente costera occidental (maritima), demuestran que la historia evolutiva de Geositta es mucho ms antigua y bastante ms compleja que lo que sugerira un modelo sencillo de especiacin aloptrica en refugios glaciales. 
4088465|Data were collected on annual (1980-1983) and seasonal (spring vs. summer) variation in reproduction by the double-brooded Eastern Phoebe (Sayornis phoebe) to test the proposal that phoebes modify reproductive patterns on a seasonal basis and switch from being brood survivalists in spring to brood reductionists in summer. Clutch size did not differ between spring and summer broods nor among years, but spring nests fledged one more nestling than summer nests. In 1981 breeding began earlier, eggs were larger, and nestlings grew faster than in all other years. Clutch size and egg mass within spring clutches increased seasonally. Egg mass was also larger in summer clutches. These observations suggest that food is usually limited during the initiation of spring clutches. However, because spring broods were more productive than summer broods, I predicted that phoebes should act as brood survivalists in spring, but become brood reductionists in summer. All predictions were supported. During the spring: (a) clutches hatched synchronously; (b) egg mass increased significantly with laying order; (c) hatch order had little impact on nestling growth and; (d) last-hatched young fledged as frequently as their siblings. However, during the summer: (a) clutches hatched asynchronously; (b) egg mass did not consistently vary with laying sequence; (c) hatch order had a significant negative impact on growth; and (d) last-hatched young fledged only about 50% of the time. Thus, phoebes seemed to adaptively shift reproductive patterns seasonally, switching from a brood-survivalist strategy in spring to a brood-reductionist strategy in summer. However, I suggest that proximate responses to food availability provide a more parsimonious explanation for the observed patterns. The increase in egg mass with laying sequence was most likely the result of progressive increases in food availability in spring. Higher food availability and reduced energy demands during summer probably also allowed females to lay uniformly large eggs and start incubation sooner. The latter resulted in greater hatching asynchrony in summer clutches. The poorer growth and higher mortality of last-hatched young in summer resulted from a severe size disadvantage that was the result of the greater asynchrony of summer broods. Thus, brood reduction in summer was probably an incidental and nonadaptive outcome of hatching asynchrony.
10.2307/4088937|A phylogenetic analysis of modern pochards (Aythyini) was performed using 99 characters of the skeleton, trachea, natal plumage, and definitive integument. Three shortest trees were found (length = 148; consistency index for informative characters = 0.68) which: (1) placed Marmaronetta as the sister group to other members; (2) defined a basal clade comprising as sister groups Rhodonessa caryophyllacea + Netta rufina and N. peposaca + N. erythrophthalma; and (3) defined as the sister group to the preceding clade all other pochards, in which the three redheads (Aythya valisineria, and the sister species A. ferina and A. americana) are the sister group to the mutually monophyletic white-eyes (A. australis, A. innotata, and the sister species A. nyroca and A. baeri) and scaup (in order of increasingly close relationship, A. novaeseelandiae, A. collaris, A. fuligula, A. marila, and A. affinis). The three shortest trees differed only in the topology among the white-eyes. These nodes, and that supporting the sister relationship between N. peposaca and N. erythrophthalma, were the only nodes not conserved in a majority of bootstrapped replicates; Bremer (decay) indices provided similar assessments of empirical support. Evolutionary trends in body mass, clutch size, preferred nest site, diel activity pattern, and biogeographic patterns are evaluated in the context of this phylogenetic hypothesis. Quantitative comparisons with previously proposed phylogenetic hypotheses, particularly that of Johnsgard, are made using constrained searches based on these data, and a revised classification of the Aythyini is proposed.
4087922|Relative to their mates, male Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) disproportionately altered their contribution to nestling care as the demand for such care varied. In small broods (1-2 nestlings), males made significantly fewer trips to the nest, brought fewer food items, and brought items of a size equal to those of females. In larger broods (3-4 nestlings), males made significantly more trips, brought more items, and brought significantly larger items. A similar, though less significant, pattern was noted as nestlings aged. Relative to their mates, males made significantly fewer trips to young nestlings. These trends in male nestling care are consistent with the hypothesis that, under conditions of reduced demand for care, males will disproportionately reduce care (Westneat 1988). The time and energy gained could be allocated towards additional mates or extrapair copulations.
10.2307/4086028|We used published data on winter sparrow densities (from Christmas Bird Counts) and summer precipitation to test the hypothesis that local densities of wintering sparrows in southeastern Arizona are affected by the abundance of food. Our analyses rest on the assumption, justified by previous studies, that the abundance of seeds available to wintering granivorous birds is correlated with the quantity of rainfall the previous summer. Our results strongly supported two a priori predictions: (1) the density of sparrows should be positively correlated with summer rainfall, and (2) the density of individual sparrow species should be positively correlated with the total density of all other sparrow species. Our findings provide further evidence that winter finch populations are food-limited and suggest that interspecific competition may be important in at least some avian communities.
10.2307/4088410| Among birds, the Common Barn-Owl (Tyto alba) is considered to be particularly sensitive to winter-induced starvation. Yet, there are no detailed data on the metabolic response of this species to long-term food deprivation in the cold. Therefore, eight captive Common Barn-Owls (T. a. alba), including both males and females, were fasted at 5C ambient temperature, until there was a clear increase in the rate of body mass loss. In wild birds, which fast spontaneously, such an increase (reflecting increased protein utilization) is associated with a triggering of refeeding that anticipates a lethal depletion in body fuels. Weighing the barn-owls every 8 h and collecting excreta for 24-h periods, we found that even after only 0.7 day of starvation, body-mass and nitrogen loss reached low and constant values (at 8.6  SD of 1.0 and 0.17  0.01 g/day, respectively), which were maintained for 7.2  1.6 days. This was calculated to correspond to energy equivalents of body-mass loss and daily energy expenditure of 24.3  1.9 kJ/g and 213  22 kJ/day, respectively. Based on these data, the contribution of proteins to energy expenditure was as low as 8.7  1.6%. In contrast to what could be expected, when compared to the prefasting level, mean daily energy expenditure per unit body mass was not significantly reduced. Presumably, this was due to the maintenance of a high locomotor activity during the first part of the night, as revealed by a rate in body mass loss two-fold higher than during the light phase. The fast was stopped after 1.3  0.1 days of increased body-mass loss. The shift to an increased protein utilization was indicated by a 3.5-fold rise in nitrogen excretion associated with a rise in plasma uric-acid concentration from 0.34  0.08 mmol/L up to 1.75  0.13, and a drop of plasma free fatty acids from 1.3  0.3 mmol/L to 0.11  0.10. Despite the initially heavier females, this metabolic shift occurred simultaneously after 7.9  1.7 days of starvation for both sexes. Accordingly, at the time of refeeding, the females weighed 240.0  5.0 g and the males 217.8  7.2 g (i.e. the initial difference in body mass was maintained). At this time, the barn-owls were still able to fly and refeed by themselves. However, based on data for wild Common Barn-Owls that presumably died from starvation, it can be estimated that the rise in nitrogen loss precedes death by less than 2.5 days. 
4090631| Breeding success in birds may be determined by the availability of food that parents can provide to growing nestlings. A standard method for testing the occurrence of food limitation is to provide supplemental food during different parts of the breeding period. If there is spatial variation in the strength of food limitation, the effect of such an experiment should also vary spatially. We investigated whether the strength of food limitation during nestling rearing in the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) was related to the management intensity of agricultural landscapes. We fed birds mealworms during the nestling period in landscapes with high or low local availability of pasture, the preferred foraging habitat. Both habitat and food supplementation affected growth and survival of nestlings; the effects of the food-supplementation experiment were generally stronger than those of habitat. Mortality mainly struck the last-hatched chick. Both habitat and food supplementation positively affected nestling growth, measured as nestling tarsus length. In addition, food supplementation positively affected feather growth and asymptotic mass. Contrary to expectation, no interactions existed between effects of habitat and food supplementation, which suggests that breeding success was limited by food availability in both landscapes. Potential reasons for this lack of effect are parental compensation and low statistical power. Also, breeding densities were higher in landscapes with more pastures, possibly equalizing the per-capita availability of food. Thus, our results demonstrate that reproductive success was limited by availability of food when local availability of preferred foraging habitat was either low or high, but fail to demonstrate spatial variation in the strength of food limitation. /// El xito reproductivo de las aves puede estar determinado por la disponibilidad de los alimentos que los padres pueden brindar a los pichones en crecimiento. Un mtodo estndar para evaluar si las aves estn limitadas por la disponibilidad de alimentos es proveer alimentos suplementarios durante diferentes momentos del perodo reproductivo. Si existe variacin espacial en la presin de la escasez de alimentos, el efecto de este experimento debera tambin variar espacialmente. Investigamos si la presin de la escasez de alimentos durante la cra de pichones de Sturnus vulgaris est relacionada con la intensidad de manejo de los paisajes agrcolas. Alimentamos a las aves con gusanos durante el perodo en el que estaban criando pichones en paisajes con una alta y baja disponibilidad local de pastizales, que representan el hbitat preferido de forrajeo. Tanto el hbitat como la provisin de alimento suplementario afectaron el crecimiento y la supervivencia de los pichones. Los efectos del experimento de provisin de alimento suplementario fueron generalmente ms fuertes que los del hbitat. La mortalidad se manifest principalmente en el pichn que eclosion ltimo. Tanto el hbitat como la provisin de alimento suplementario afectaron positivamente el crecimiento de los pichones, medido con base en el largo del tarso. Adems, la provisin de alimento suplementario afect positivamente el crecimiento de las plumas y la masa asinttica. Contrariamente a lo que se esperaba, no existieron interacciones entre los efectos del hbitat y de la provisin de alimento suplementario, lo que sugiere que el xito reproductivo estuvo limitado por la disponibilidad de alimento en ambos paisajes. Las razones potenciales para esta falta de efecto son la existencia de compensacin por parte de los padres y el poder estadstico bajo. Adems, las densidades reproductivas fueron mayores en los paisajes con ms pastizales, lo que posiblemente igual la disponibilidad de alimento per-cpita. Nuestros resultados demuestran que el xito reproductivo estuvo limitado por la disponibilidad de alimento cuando la disponibilidad local de los ambientes preferidos de forrajeo fue tanto baja como alta, pero no permiten demostrar una variacin espacial en la presin de la escasez de alimentos. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12040|Nest predation is a major cause of reproductive failure for many birds; as a consequence, birds that can assess the abundance of predators and avoid nesting where they perceive predation risk to be high should be favored. For dabbling ducks, mammals are important predators on nests and incubating females. Many mammals use urine for marking territories. Because ducks may be able to detect mammalian urine either by ultraviolet light reflectance or by odor, we hypothesized that ducks may be able to assess the abundance of mammalian predators from their urine and thereby avoid nesting where mammals are abundant. We simulated increased predator abundance on experimental plots by using Red Fox (
10.2307/4088198|In January 1991 I rediscovered "Thamnomanes" occidentalis in eastern Ecuador, following a period of more than 50 years without a record. I review its controversial taxonomic history and, based upon observations of its behavior and vocalizations, suggest that occidentalis be reinstated in the genus Dysithamnus.
4086602| Plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone, 5-dihydrotestosterone (5-DHT), estradiol-17, and corticosterone were measured in free-living and captive European Blackbirds (Turdus merula) during autumn. Free-living birds were designated as sedentary or migratory according to whether they remained in or disappeared from the study area during the winter season. Captive birds that increased body weight, deposited fat, and developed Zugunruhe in autumn were designated as migratory, whereas those that failed to do so were regarded as sedentary. The results do not support the hypothesis that plasma levels of gonadal hormones are elevated in sedentary birds, thus inhibiting autumnal migration. Plasma levels of LH and of testosterone were low in both adult and first-year free-living males, although testosterone levels were higher in migratory than in sedentary free-living first-year males. In captivity, however, testosterone levels were not different between first-year sedentary and migratory males. In both free-living and captive first-year females levels of 5-DHT were higher in migratory than in sedentary individuals. Our analyses suggest that the sedentary and migratory habit may be a consequence of different reactions of genetically different individuals to a slightly increased secretion of gonadal hormones in autumn. The variable plasma levels of corticosterone suggest that this hormone is not directly involved in the initiation of migratory behavior, although circulating levels of corticosterone may be influenced by energetic demands during migration. 
4087918|We studied dominance and aggression among family and nonfamily groups of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) in salt marshes and rice fields in Louisiana, from January to March 1984, and in corn fields during the subsequent spring migration. Some proximate costs and benefits of family unity were examined by comparing the behavior of adults and juveniles among different family and nonfamily groups. We also determined if habitat differences influenced agonistic behavior among social groups of foraging Snow Geese. Lesser Snow Geese had a well-defined dominance hierarchy. Large families dominated small families, which in turn dominated pairs, lone adults, and lone juveniles. Single-parent families and crippled geese were less successful in aggressive interactions than were their normal counterparts. Family groups initiated and won more interactions than nonfamily groups. Individual aggression decreased as family size increased among juveniles in salt marshes. Aggression differed among habitats and was three times more frequent in corn fields than in marshes or rice fields. However, more intense aggression and more within-group aggression were observed in salt marshes as compared with rice or corn fields.
10.2307/4088422|In Superb Fairy-Wrens (Malurus cyaneus), groups of males cooperate with a single female to rear young, yet offspring are usually sired by males from outside the group. In this unusual mating system there is potential for intense sperm competition. During the breeding season, males develop a sperm storage structure (cloacal protuberance) and testes that proportionally are among the largest found in passerines. We compared the development pattern and size of cloacal protuberances of males differing in age and social status. Protuberance size increased with body mass. Age, intragroup dominance, and pairing status did not influence the overall size of the protuberance, but old males had a larger tip on their protuberance. This prominent tip has not been reported in other species, and we speculate that it serves as an intromittent organ. Other birds with large testes and cloacal protuberances have high copulation rates, but copulation in Superb Fairy-Wrens is only very rarely observed. We propose that the cloacal protuberance and large testes of Superb Fairy-Wrens provide large sperm reserves primarily for extrapair copulations. These may occur frequently, or involve the transfer of large ejaculates.
25488601|Costa Rican hummingbirds and Australian honeyeaters respond to an increase in the volume of nectar made available in tubular flowers by increasing the duration of foraging bouts, the rate at which nectar is ingested, and the energetic efficiency of that process. Enhanced intake is the result of increased nectar capture by the tongue during each lick rather than of any significant change in licking rate. All species react to an increase in floral length by spending more time foraging and reducing nectar intake, short-billed species being most affected. Decreased nectar capture per lick, rather than a change in licking rate, is responsible for this response. Honeyeater foraging times increase and nectar-intake rates decrease when the curvature of flowers is increased, though all but one of the short-billed hummingbird species were relatively insensitive to this change. Hummingbirds harvest nectar with equal proficiency whether foraging at erect or at pendulous flowers, whereas the bouts of honeyeaters are longer, and their nectar-uptake rates lower, when they visit pendulous flowers. Overall nectar-extraction rates of hummingbirds, as measured in the laboratory, were greater than those of honeyeaters; values for both groups were generally higher than rates recorded in the field. Hummingbird and honeyeater tongues are equally adept at extracting nectar from tubular flowers, though my results suggest that honeyeater tongues would be more effective in situations where nectar is thinly and widely dispersed.
4085737|Electrophoresis and mathematical models of clines were used to investigate the extent of genetic differentiation and the magnitudes of the evolutionary forces acting in a Dendroica c. coronata-D. c. auduboni (Aves: Parulidae) hybrid zone in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Estimates of the genetic distance between the two taxa are comparable to the degree of genetic differentiation found among subspecies of other passerines. The normalized among-population component of genetic variance, as measured by F
4087667|In 1986 and 1987, we studied the nesting success of five species of wading birds (Ciconiiformes) through repeated visits to a total of 1,609 marked nests in 18 colonies in the Florida Everglades. Abandonment was the most common cause of nesting failure for all species and usually occurred following heavy rainfall and periods of rising surface water. Using stepwise logistic regression, we found that rapid surface water drying rate was associated most strongly with White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) nesting success, and that amount of rainfall was directly associated with failure of Great Egret (Casmerodius alba) nests. From records of 32 past surveys of White Ibis nesting numbers in two different water management areas, we found that years with high nesting numbers had significantly faster spring drying rates than years with low nesting numbers. There was no significant difference in amount of spring rainfall, autumn/winter drying rate, or water depth. Abandonments by ibises appeared to be closely related to prey densities, which probably were directly affected by water-level fluctuations.
4086719|Because migration is a period of exceptional energy demand and surely exerts strong selective pressure for efficient foraging, we expected Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) to be especially efficient foragers when in migratory disposition and to select a diet that more nearly achieves energy maximization relative to control individuals not in migratory disposition. We induced migratory disposition in experimental birds by artificially prolonging daylength, then provided both controls and experimentals with a choice among large, medium, and small larvae (Tenebrio molitor) that varied in calories per unit handling time. Diet choice was studied during the premigratory fattening period, as experimentals gained weight and deposited subcutaneous fat, and later as experimentals attained maximum weight and began to show nocturnal restlessness. Warblers in migratory disposition consumed more food items per feeding bout; handled items more rapidly, thereby increasing the net energetic value of the food they consumed; and fed selectively on more profitable items than control individuals. As a result of these adjustments in their food intake, Yellow-rumped Warblers in migratory disposition foraged more efficiently and came closer to achieving energy maximization during the premigratory fattening period and the subsequent migratory period.
10.2307/4090010| We present a method for estimating density of nesting birds based on double sampling. The approach involves surveying a large sample of plots using a rapid method such as uncorrected point counts, variable circular plot counts, or the recently suggested double-observer method. A subsample of those plots is also surveyed using intensive methods to determine actual density. The ratio of the mean count on those plots (using the rapid method) to the mean actual density (as determined by the intensive searches) is used to adjust results from the rapid method. The approach works well when results from the rapid method are highly correlated with actual density. We illustrate the method with three years of shorebird surveys from the tundra in northern Alaska. In the rapid method, surveyors covered 10 ha h
4087033|"Falco" ramenta Wetmore 1936 is redescribed and moved to a new genus as Pediohierax ramenta (Wetmore). In addition to the holotypical distal end of the tarsometatarsus, this species is now known from a complete tarsometatarsus, humerus, and coracoid from mid-Miocene (Late Hemingfordian and Early Barstovian) fossil localities in the Sheep Creek and Olcott formations, northwestern Nebraska. Pediohierax n. gen. is the primitive sister group of the Falconinae. The earliest fossil records now known of the Falconinae are a species of? Falco from the late Miocene of Idaho and Falco medius from the late Miocene of the Ukrainian S.S.R.
10.2307/4089418| We estimated genetic differentiation between morphologically distinct tidal marsh populations of Swamp Sparrows (Melospiza georgiana nigrescens) and the more widespread inland populations (M. g. georgiana and M. g. ericrypta). The tidal marsh populations are consistently grayer with more extensive black markings (particularly in the crown), and their bills are larger. These differences are variously shared with other species of salt marsh birds and small mammals. We analyzed mitochondrial DNA sequences (5 end of control region, COII/t-lys/ATPase8, and ND2) of Swamp Sparrows and found low levels of genetic variation and no evidence of geographic structure. These results suggest a rapid and recent geographic expansion of Swamp Sparrows from restricted Pleistocene populations. Morphological differentiation has occurred without long-term genetic isolation, suggesting that selection on the divergent traits is intense. The grayer and more melanistic plumage is probably cryptic coloration for foraging on tidal mud, which tends to be grayish as a result of the formation of iron sulfides, rather than iron oxides, under anaerobic conditions. 
25488555|We describe
10.2307/4090407| Feather waxes are ubiquitous in passerine birds, but their composition, phylogenetic distribution, and function are poorly characterized. We used gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to survey the diversity of saturated fatty acids in feather waxes of 91 taxa representing most major passerine groups, and used an independent phylogenetic hypothesis to explore evolutionary variation in the expression of those compounds. Saturated fatty acids are highly stable, and we obtained congruent results in comparisons of extracts from fresh material and from museum skins as much as a century old. All taxa expressed unbranched fatty acids, but in a broad range of proportions relative to their total saturated fatty-acid profile. The expression of three other classes of fatty acids was more variable, although each showed a high degree of conservation at the phylogenetic level corresponding approximately to avian families. The 2-methyl fatty acids were expressed in a number of of families, often in high proportions, but were absent or low in all fringillid taxa surveyed except the Dickcissel (Spiza americana). The 3-methyl fatty acids were common only in fringillids and allies and in one genus of turdids (Zoothera). The 4-methyl compounds were comparatively rare and were abundant only in the paridae, Polioptilinae, and Troglodytidae. Feather-wax composition is unlikely to be highly informative for reconstructing phylogenetic relationships, but study of secretion diversity in a comparative phylogenetic context holds promise for characterizing the functions of those compounds. /// Las ceras de las plumas son frecuentes en las aves paserinas, pero su composicin, distribucin filogentica y funcin han sido escasamente caracterizadas. En este estudio empleamos cromatografa de gases y espectrometra de masas para examinar la diversidad de los cidos grasos saturados presentes en las ceras de las plumas de 91 taxa representantes de la mayora de los grupos principales de paserinos. Adems, empleamos una hiptesis filogentica independiente para explorar la variacin evolutiva en la expresin de estos compuestos. Los cidos grasos saturados son altamente estables, por lo que obtuvimos resultados congruentes en comparaciones hechas entre material fresco y material de pieles de museo de hasta un siglo de antigedad. Todos los taxa expresaron cidos grasos no ramificados, pero en una amplia gama de proporciones con relacin a su perfil total de cidos grasos saturados. La expresin de otras tres clases de cidos grasos fue ms variable, aunque cada una mostr un alto grado de conservatismo al nivel filogentico correspondiente aproximadamente a las familias de aves. Los cidos grasos 2-metil se expresaron en varias familias (a menudo en proporciones altas), pero estuvieron ausentes o en baja cantidad en todos los fringlidos evaluados a excepcin de Spiza americana. Los cidos grasos 3-metil fueron comunes slo en los fringlidos y grupos relacionados y en un gnero de trdidos (Zoothera). Los compuestos 4-metil fueron comparativamente raros y fueron abundantes slo en Paridae, Polioptilinae y Troglodytidae. Es poco probable que la composicin de las ceras de las plumas resulte altamente informativa para reconstruir relaciones filogenticas, pero el estudio de la diversidad de las secreciones en un marco filognetico comparativo parece promisorio para caracterizar las funciones de estos compuestos. 
10.2307/4089286|Parents in many passerines are reported to produce a vocalization at the nest that stimulates nestling begging. Although this phenomenon has been well documented, relatively few studies have systematically examined the use of this call. The purpose of our study was to examine the role of Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) contact calls in the stimulation of nestling begging. Both male and female Tree Swallows called proportionally more at early nestling stages when nestlings generally were less responsive to the arrival of their parent. Parents called more often before feeding than after, and females called on proportionally more visits in which they brought food than on brooding visits in which they did not bring food. Parents also called significantly more often after the first call if no nestlings begged than if one or more nestlings begged. Nestlings begged in response to contact calls given by parents at the nest and during experimental playbacks of contact calls. Our results suggest that one function of the Tree Swallow contact call is to stimulate begging.
25150380|Male Lance-tailed Manakins (Chiroxiphia lanceolata) perform multimale courtship displays for females. To characterize the behavioral repertoire and the lek spatial organization of this species, I observed lekking males on Isla Boca Brava, Chiriqu Province, Panam. Breeding began in March and continued through June, though courtship displays were recorded as late as November. Males were active throughout the day at display areas on the dispersed lek. Display areas were spaced 102  30 m apart and averaged 2,480  1,060 m in area (range: 525-4,500 m; n = 24 display areas). The behavioral repertoire of Lance-tailed Manakins included 11 dance display elements, 7 common vocalizations, and 2 types of male-male duet songs. Duet songs and multimale dances for females were cooperative efforts by male pairs and included display elements that were never performed during courtship displays by solitary males. However, males performed both cooperative and entirely solo displays for females that ended in successful copulation, which suggests that cooperation is not obligate in this species, at least on the level of individual displays. Two sonations, or nonvocal communicative sounds, were noted during courtship displays: low-amplitude pulses of noise produced in rapid sets of 7-30 clicks during slow flight displays, and a low-frequency woosh produced at the nadir of swoop displays. The Lance-tailed Manakin display repertoire provides information useful in comparative analyses of the origin and evolution of display behavior within the manakin clade and in studies of the adaptive consequences of individual behavior within this species. /// Los machos de Chiroxiphia lanceolata realizan exhibiciones de cortejo entre varios individuos para atraer a las hembras. Para caracterizar el repertorio de los comportamientos y la organizacin espacial de las asambleas de cortejo de esta especie, observ a machos en la Isla Boca Brava, provincia de Chiriqu, Panam. La reproduccin comenz en marzo y continu durante todo junio, aunque los despliegues de cortejo fueron observados hasta noviembre. Los machos presentaron actividad durante todo el da en las reas de exhibicin dentro de la asamblea de cortejo dispersa. Las reas de exhibicin estuvieron separadas por 102  30 m y en promedio tuvieron un tamao de 2,480  1,060 m (rango: 525-4,500 m; n = 24 reas de exhibicin). El repertorio de comportamientos de C. lanceolata incluy once elementos de exhibicin de danza, siete vocalizaciones comunes y dos tipos de cantos en dueto entre machos. Los cantos en dueto y las danzas entre machos realizados para atraer a las hembras fueron esfuerzos cooperativos por parte de parejas de machos e incluyeron elementos de exhibicin que nunca fueron realizados en exhibiciones de cortejo realizadas por machos solitarios. Sin embargo, los machos realizaron exhibiciones tanto cooperativas como totalmente solitarias para las hembras, y en ambos casos stas terminaron en cpulas exitosas. Esto sugiere que la cooperacin no es un comportamiento obligatorio en esta especie, por lo menos a nivel de las exhibiciones individuales. Dos sonidos comunicativos no vocales fueron registrados durante las exhibiciones de cortejo: pulsos de ruido de baja amplitud producido en conjuntos rpidos de 7-30 clics durante las exhibiciones de vuelo lento, y un uuush de baja frecuencia producido en el nadir de las exhibiciones de vuelo en picada. El repertorio de exhibiciones de C. lanceolata provee informacin que es til para anlisis comparativos sobre el origen y la evolucin del comportamiento de exhibicin en el clado de los ppridos y para estudios sobre las consecuencias adaptativas del comportamiento individual en esta especie.
4085444|Resident land birds of San Salvador (Watlings) Island, The Bahamas, are briefly discussed. Breeding information is given for some resident species and note made of some new records of nonresidents. The total species known for the island is 132. The addition of three resident land birds raises the probable present total of that category to 19.
10.1525/auk.2012.12037|A large number of beak deformities of unknown etiology have recently been reported in Black-capped Chickadees (
4085975|Two closely related Old World flycatchers, the Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) and the Collared Flycatcher (F. albicollis), are allopatric on most of the European mainland but have overlapping ranges in central and eastern Europe and on the island of Gotland in the Baltic. On Gotland, the Collared Flycatcher is approximately 10 times as abundant as the Pied Flycatcher. The two species hybridize (4% of all matings) at frequencies less than those predicted for random mating (13%). Mixed pairs produce as many offspring as pure Pied Flycatcher pairs and more offspring than Collared Flycatchers. The competence at courtship and/or viability of hybrid offspring, however, is probably reduced, because fewer hybrids breed than would be expected from the proportion of hybrid fledglings.
10.2307/4089966| Little is known of the eastern North American population of Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica), which was recently listed as "of special concern" in Canada. In 1998 and 1999, we marked 18 adult males wintering along the St. Lawrence River, Qubec, with satellite transmitters to document their breeding, molting, and wintering distribution and phenology, and to describe timing and routes of their spring, molt, and fall migrations. Thirteen males moved inland from the St. Lawrence River to breed; the spring migration averaged 5.9 days, and birds arrived on breeding areas on average 9 May. All breeding areas were inland, on the north shore of the St. Lawrence River estuary and gulf. Breeding areas averaged 64.8 km from the St. Lawrence corridor. Males stayed on their respective breeding area a mean of 34.5 days, and left on average 11 June. Twelve males were tracked to their molting areas, one of which stayed on its wintering area until 5 June and flew directly to its molting area. Their molt migration averaged 18.6 days, and the mean arrival date on molting areas was 30 June. All molting areas were located north and averaged 986 km from breeding areas. Four males molted in Hudson Bay, four in Ungava Bay, two in northern Labrador, one on Baffin Island, and one inland, near the Qubec-Labrador border. The mean length of stay on the molting areas was 105.3 days, and the mean date of departure from molting areas was 4 October. All goldeneyes for which the radio still functioned during fall migration returned to winter in the St. Lawrence River estuary, on average 6 November. Our results refute the idea that the main breeding area of the eastern North American population of Barrow's Goldeneyes is located in northern Qubec and Labrador and rather indicate that it is in the boreal forest just north of the St. Lawrence River estuary and gulf. They also indicate that Barrow's Goldeneye males undertake a genuine molt migration, and highlight the importance of molting areas because birds stayed there approximately four months each year. /// On connat peu de chose de la population du Garrot d'Islande (Bucephala islandica) de l'est de l'Amrique du Nord, qui fait partie des espces 'proccupantes' du Canada. En 1998 and 1999, nous avons marqu  l'aide d'metteurs satellites 18 mles adultes du Garrot d'Islande le long du fleuve Saint-Laurent, Qubec, afin de documenter leurs dplacements entre les aires d'hivernage, de nidification et de mue. Treize garrots se sont dplacs  l'intrieur des terres pour nicher et tous les secteurs de nidification se trouvaient sur la rive nord de l'estuaire et du golfe du Saint-Laurent. La migration printanire a dur en moyenne 5,9 jours et les oiseaux ont atteint les aires de nidification en moyenne le 9 mai, lesquelles se trouvaient  64,8 km en moyenne du Saint-Laurent. Les garrots sont demeurs sur les aires de nidification en moyenne 34,5 jours et les ont quittes en moyenne le 11 juin. Douze garrots ont t suivis jusqu' leur aire de mue, dont un est demeur sur l'aire d'hivernage jusqu'au 5 juin pour ensuite se rendre directement  son aire de mue. Leur migration de mue a dur en moyenne 18,6 jours, et la date d'arrive moyenne aux aires de mue fut le 30 juin. Toutes les aires de mue se trouvaient au Nord,  986 km en moyenne des aires de nidification. Quatre mles ont mu  la baie d'Hudson, quatre  la baie d'Ungava, deux dans le nord du Labrador, un  la Terre de Baffin et un prs de la frontire Qubec-Labrador. Les garrots sont demeurs sur les aires de mue 105,3 jours en moyenne et les ont quittes en moyenne le 4 octobre. Tous les oiseaux dont les metteurs ont fonctionn jusqu' l'automne sont retourns, en moyenne le 6 novembre, le long du Saint-Laurent pour y passer l'hiver. Nos rsultats rfutent la thse selon laquelle le nord du Qubec et du Labrador constituerait l'aire principale de nidification du Garrot d'Islande dans l'est de l'Amrique du Nord et montrent plutt que cette population niche dans la fort borale qui s'tend au nord de l'estuaire et du golfe du Saint-Laurent. Ils mettent aussi en vidence l'importance des aires de mue, situes dans l'Arctique, o les mles se concentrent et demeurent environ quatre mois par anne. 
25488648|One long-standing ornithological paradigm holds that song learning in oscine songbirds has a cultural component, whereas suboscine songbirds inherit songs genetically. Recent studies reveal that suboscine song may be more variable and complex than previously realized. Several suboscine species show marked individual variation in their songsvariation that may play a role in individual recognition and neighborstranger discriminationand a few suboscine species show indications of song learning. We investigated individual variation in the vocalizations of a suboscine passerine, the Screaming Piha (
10.2307/4089242| After treatment with a 0.5-T magnetic pulse, homing pigeons (Columbia livia) showed headings that deviated from the mean direction of untreated controls. These deflections ranged up to 60 and were most pronounced at distances beyond 100 km from the home loft. When birds treated with a pulse south-anterior and birds treated with south-left were released together, they deviated to opposite sides of the untreated controls, indicating that the direction of the pulse determined its specific effects. On the day of treatment, a south-left pulse caused a significantly larger deflection than a south-anterior pulse. The duration of the effects was not entirely clear; the number of releases with significant deflections seemed to decrease as time passed and birds had made additional homing flights. Our findings agree with the hypothesis that magnetite-based receptors provide the pigeons with orientational information. The manifestations of the effect indicate that the magnetic "map" rather than the magnetic compass is involved. Apparently, the pulse specifically alters map information. 
10.2307/4088906|Although there are abundant data on heavy metals from coastal and oceanic seabirds, there is little for interior-nesting species. Heavy-metal and selenium levels in breast feathers of adult and fledgling Franklin's Gulls (Larus pipixcan) were examined in northwestern Minnesota, eastern South Dakota, eastern North Dakota, and central Montana in 1994. Metal levels in the feathers of Franklin's Gulls were within the range reported for other species. However, cadmium levels were at the high end and selenium levels at the low end. There were locational differences in metal levels for all metals for both adults and young. Using the levels in feathers of young as indicative of local exposure: (1) Lake Alice and Sand Lake had the lowest levels of lead and chromium, and the highest levels of mercury; (2) Agassiz and Benton had the lowest levels of manganese; and (3) Benton had the highest levels of selenium, lead, and chromium. There were age-related differences in metal levels for 19 of 24 possible comparisons. Adults had significantly higher levels of metals, except for selenium. Young birds had significantly higher levels of selenium than did adults.
10.1525/auk.2013.12075|Developing an understanding of how differences in the dietary ecology and physiology of different species can influence the incorporation of hydrogen and oxygen from resources into consumer tissues is an important factor to consider when designing, or interpreting data from, ecological studies using stable isotope analyses of these elements. Here, we present the results of an experiment designed to examine the relationship between the 
4090680| Early arrival at breeding sites can influence reproductive success through enhanced access to critical resources such as nest sites or mates. One hypothesis explaining protandry, or male-first arrival at breeding sites, proposes that males arrive earlier to increase their extrapair copulation (EPC) opportunities, which may, in turn, enhance males' reproductive success through extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) ("mate opportunity hypothesis"). Extrapair behavior is unexpected in long-lived birds, in which the male is expected to abandon a brood of uncertain paternity, because his probability of future reproduction is high. A previous study of the Waved Albatross (Phoebastria irrorata), a long-lived, socially monogamous seabird, showed evidence of EPFs in 4 of 16 (25%) families. Here, we combined behavioral observations of copulations with additional molecular genetic evidence of EPFs in Waved Albatross families to investigate the fitness consequences of protandry under the mate opportunity hypothesis. During three breeding seasons, we documented 3,661 attempted copulations between birds of known identity; >60% of copulations that involved at least one breeding bird were classified as EPCs. Protandry was pronounced in all three study years: 76.3-96.6% of males arrived before (typically, 6-10 days before) their social mates. Early arrival was associated with increased opportunities for copulations: individual EPC frequencies were higher for breeding males than for breeding females, and males that arrived earlier than their social mates engaged in the most EPCs. Extrapair fertilizations were also regular in our study population; social fathers were excluded as the genetic sire in 14-21% of families. Egg laying dates of EPFs tended to be earlier in the season than those of within-pair fertilizations (WPFs). However, earlier arrival by a male did not translate into a higher probability of siring either within-pair or extrapair offspring, nor did cuckolding males have enhanced reproductive success. Although the fitness consequences of early arrival remain unclear, these findings suggest alternative advantages of early arrival for male Waved Albatrosses. /// La llegada temprana a los sitios de apareamiento puede influenciar el xito reproductivo mediante el acceso privilegiado a los recursos crticos como los sitios de nidificacin o las parejas. Una hiptesis que explica la protandria, o la llegada anticipada de los machos a los sitios de apareamiento, propone que los machos llegan primero para incrementar sus oportunidades de copulacin extra-pareja (CEP), lo que puede, a su vez, incrementar el xito reproductivo de los machos mediante las fertilizaciones extra-pareja (FEP) ("hiptesis de oportunidad de apareamiento"). El comportamiento extra-pareja es inesperado en las aves longevas, en las cuales se espera que los machos abandonen las nidadas cuya paternidad sea incierta, debido a que la probabilidad de un futuro evento reproductivo es elevada. Un estudio previo del albatros Phoebastria irrorata, un ave marina longeva socialmente mongama, mostr evidencia de FEP en 4 de 16 (25%) familias. Aqu, combinamos observaciones de comportamiento de cpula con evidencias genticas moleculares adicionales de FEP en las familias de P. irrorata para investigar las consecuencias de la protandria sobre la adecuacin biolgica en el marco de la hiptesis de oportunidad de apareamiento. Durante tres estaciones reproductivas, documentamos 3,661 intentos de copulacin entre aves de identidad conocida. Ms del 60% de las cpulas que incluyeron al menos un ave reproductiva fueron clasificadas como CEP. La protandria fue elevada en las tres reas de estudio: 76.3-96.6% de los machos llegaron antes (tpicamente, 6-10 das antes) que sus parejas sociales. La llegada temprana se asoci con un incremento en las oportunidades de copulacin: las frecuencias individuales de CEP fueron mayores para los machos reproductivos que para las hembras reproductivas, y los machos que llegaron ms temprano que sus parejas sociales participaron en la mayora de las CEP. Las fertilizaciones extra-pareja tambin fueron frecuentes en nuestra poblacin de estudio; los padres sociales fueron excluidos como los procreadores genticos en el 14-21% de las familias. Las fechas de puesta de los huevos de las FEP tendieron a darse ms temprano en la estacin que las fertilizaciones intra-pareja. Sin embrago, la llegada temprana de un macho no se tradujo en una mayor probabilidad de engendrar pichones tanto intra- como extra-pareja, ni tampoco los machos cornudos tuvieron un xito reproductivo mayor. Aunque las consecuencias para la adecuacin biolgica de la llegada temprana permanecen poco claras, estos resultados sugieren ventajas alternativas de la llegada temprana de los machos de P. irrorata. 
25488647|
               
10.2307/4089168|Observations of mate guarding by males and robbing of nest material by females suggest the hypothesis that dominance should be related to reproductive success in the Mexican Jay (Aphelocoma ultramarina). We analyzed the probability of successful reproduction in this plural-breeding, group-territorial species with respect to variation in social rank, sex, age, flock territory, and year. We examined the correlates of dominance rank at two stages of nesting, early (before and during laying) and late (after laying). The correlates of rank differed between the sexes and nesting stages. In the early or prelaying stage, success in getting a mate and initiating laying was correlated with rank in males but not in females, and with age in both females and males. In the late stage, given that a bird had a nest with eggs, fledging success was not significantly related to rank overall. In females, however, a significant interaction was found between rank and age such that top rank was associated with greater success in older but not younger females. These effects of dominance at two stages of the nesting cycle (i.e. before and after egg laying) are consistent with the mate-guarding behavior of males and the nest-robbing behavior of females during nesting.
10.2307/4087611|I studied the cloacal protuberance and copulatory behavior of the Alpine Accentor (Prunella collaris) over three breeding seasons in central Japan. In males, the seasonal hypertrophy of the glomus seminales forced the posterior wall of the cloaca to form a bulbous cloacal protuberance (16 mm maximum observed diameter) in which sperm were stored. The female's cloaca also protruded from its original position to form a cylindrical protuberance. Its cloacal lips swelled and turned scarlet. The female's protuberance remained swollen for an average of 29.3 days, until the last egg in the first clutch was laid. During renesting or the second breeding attempt, female swelling lasted only 9.4 days. The development period of the male's protuberance was thoroughly overlapped with that of the female. Almost all (98.2% of 431) mating encounters began when the female moved toward the male. In a typical precopulatory sequence, the female exposed the scarlet protuberance toward each of several males in succession, thereby soliciting mountings. Such multiple matings continued throughout the duration of her cloacal swelling. Males performed no sexual displays before they mounted. Each male mated with several females, often in fairly rapid succession, even during the female's presumed fertile period (defined as the 9 days before the laying of her clutch's final egg). The unique external sex organs of Alpine Accentors seem to function in their mating system.
4090666| We assessed seed preference in four species of sparrows that are common to the central Monte desert of Argentina. Our hypotheses are that (1) sparrows always prefer grass over forb seeds and (2) different species of sparrows show the same preferences when consuming seeds. We presented seeds from eight species of plants (four grasses and four forbs) in both choice and nonchoice experiments. In general, sparrow species preferred grass over forb seeds, though one of them (Rufous-collared Sparrow [Zonotrichia capensis]) included one forb species (Parthenium hysterophorus) among its preferred seed items. Among grass seeds, sparrows avoided or showed less preference for the tiny seeds of Sporobolus cryptandrus, which suggests that seed weight may affect seed choice among grasses. Avoidance of most forb species, by contrast, could not be associated with seed size, probably because of the presence of unpalatable or toxic compounds in forb seeds. Experimental evidence suggests that the main feeding pressure of sparrows is clearly directed to grass seeds, which coincides with reported information on bird diet. Results support assertions that sparrows can cause a negative effect on the composition and abundance of grass seeds in the soil seed-bank, a necessary condition for birds in playing a significant role on grass population dynamics in the central Monte desert of Argentina. /// Evaluamos las preferencias por semillas de cuatro especies de emberzidos comunes en el desierto del Monte central, Argentina. Nuestras hiptesis son: (1) las aves prefieren las semillas de gramneas sobre las de dicotiledneas anuales, y (2) todas las especies de aves tienen las mismas preferencias cuando se alimentan de semillas. Utilizamos semillas de ocho especies de plantas (cuatro gramneas y cuatro dicotiledneas anuales) en experimentos de eleccin y de no-eleccin. En general, las especies de aves prefirieron las semillas de gramneas, aunque una de ellas (Zonotrichia capensis) incluy entre sus preferidas a una dicotilednea anual (Parthenium hysterophorus). Entre las gramneas, las aves evitaron o no prefirieron las semillas pequeas de Sporobolus cryptandrus, sugiriendo que el peso podra afectar la eleccin de semillas de gramneas. En cambio, el rechazo de semillas de dicotiledneas anuales no estuvo asociado al tamao, probablemente debido a la presencia de compuestos txicos. La evidencia experimental sugiere que cuando las aves buscan alimento, la principal presin est dirigida a las semillas de gramneas, lo cual coincide con nuestros resultados previos sobre la dieta de estas aves. Los experimentos sugieren que las aves granvoras pueden causar un impacto negativo sobre las semillas de gramneas del banco de suelo, por lo que es plausible que estas aves jueguen un papel significativo en la dinmica de las poblaciones de pastos en la porcin central del desierto del Monte de Argentina. 
4088368|The Carrion Crow (Corvus corone corone) and the Hooded Crow (C. corone cornix) have parapatric ranges in Europe with narrow areas of hybridization. Reproductive biology of populations of Carrion and Hooded crows and hybrids is described for four areas in northern Italy. Nonrandom mating was observed in a hybrid zone. Homogamic pairs were observed more frequently than expected by chance. Data on clutch size and reproductive success were analyzed for Carrion Crows and Hooded Crows in allopatry, and for parental and hybrid phenotypes in a hybrid zone. Clutch size did not vary across the hybrid zone. Pairs with Hooded Crow females in the hybrid zone produced significantly more chicks than those with hybrid females. The number of chicks recorded from Carrion Crow females was higher than for hybrid females, but not significantly. Significant variation was observed for the effect of the male's phenotype on reproductive success due to the comparatively high reproductive success of Carrion Crows in the area of allopatry. No significant difference in the reproductive success was observed in the hybrid zone between pairs containing only parental phenotypes and pairs containing at least one hybrid. Carrion Crows in allopatry produced more fledglings than Carrion Crows in the hybrid zone, whereas Hooded Crows in allopatry had a reproductive success very similar to that of Hooded Crows in the hybrid zone. Our results do not support the dynamic-equilibrium model but are compatible with the bounded-hybrid-superiority model. The hybrid zone studied coincides with an "ecotone" between the alpine valleys and the intensively cultivated plain. We conclude that the maintenance of parapatric distributions of the two morphs is due mainly to ecological factors. The hybrid zone could be considered the narrow belt in which environmental features are such that hybrids are not less fit than parental individuals, its narrowness being caused by the steepness of the environmental gradient crossing it. The nonrandom mating observed could result from heterogeneous phenotype dispersion which, in turn, reflects differential habitat selection in the hybrid zone.
10.1525/auk.2013.12048|Molt is a metabolically demanding process in the annual cycle of birds, particularly for species that undergo simultaneous remigial molt because nutritional and energetic costs occur during a short period. Birds that molt remiges simultaneously utilize many different body-mass and foraging strategies to meet the nutritional and energetic costs of remigial molt, and documentation of interspecific variation has contributed to understanding species-specific risks associated with molt. However, little is known about intraspecific variation in body-mass and foraging strategies among birds that molt remiges simultaneously. We documented body-mass dynamics and foraging effort of Barrows Goldeneyes (
4086651|Seasonal changes in Sanderling (Calidris alba) feeding success, time budgets, and weights were followed throughout the nonbreeding season at Bodega Bay, California. Sanderlings spent more time roosting in fall than in winter, and in fall adults spent more time roosting than juveniles. Sanderling prey capture rates were high in fall and spring and declined through winter. Sanderling weights paralleled seasonal changes in feeding success and activity patterns: birds were heaviest in fall and spring and lightest in winter. These results reflect lowered food availability in winter and imply that birds may have difficulty balancing their energy budgets during part of the nonbreeding season.
4087382|The ability of the Common Barn-Owl (Tyto alba) to localize sounds produced by potential prey can be explained on the basis of sensitivity to differences in interaural time and intensity. The size of the owl's head is a prime determinant of interaural time differences, whereas the facial ruff is the prime determinant of interaural intensity differences. During the 60 days following hatching, the physical structures that establish these binaural cues undergo massive growth. Barn-owl chicks are altricial and scantily feathered when they hatch. Growth of the head and ruff feathers occur at separate times during early maturation. Between 11 and 30 days after hatching, the diameter of the head approximately doubles. Between 35 and 60 days, facial ruff feathers emerge and grow to nearly adult length (ca. 20 mm). During the first 60 days of life, the barn-owl auditory system would be subject to widely varying binaural cues which eventually stabilize.
4087078|Patterns of vigilant behavior of wintering Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) feeding on spawned salmon were examined in 1983-1984 on the Nooksack River in northwestern Washington. Vigilance in feeding birds has, in general, been attributed to predator detection; however, we proposed an additional function of vigilance in socially feeding birds that are vulnerable to food robbery and possible injury by conspecifics. We tested predictions of two nonexclusive hypotheses: (1) eagles look up while feeding to detect danger from humans, and (2) eagles look up while feeding to detect pirating attempts or avoid injury by conspecifics. Results suggest that the function of vigilance varies, depending on the size of the feeding group. Vigilance patterns of eagles feeding in small groups (1-4 eagles) and medium groups (5-7 eagles0 are consistent with hypothesis 1, whereas those of eagles feeding in large groups (8-14 eagles) are consistent with hypothesis 2. Eagles in small groups were more vigilant (measured as scanning time and rate of head raising) when feeding near potential danger (riverbank cover) than when far from danger. Adult eagles feeding in areas of intense human activity were more vigilant than immatures feeding at the same site and were more vigilant than both adults and immatures feeding at secluded sites. Vigilance declined as group size increased from 1 to 4 eagles, and increased as group size ranged from 8 to 14 eagles. Feeding eagles that were looking up at the time of a pirating attempt were more successful in keeping their food than eagles with their heads down. In feeding areas where human activity was minimal, eagles formed larger groups than at more disturbed sites.
10.2307/4090226| Forest fragmentation has been implicated as a cause of population declines of several Neotropical migrant bird species. Fragmentation increases the amount of habitat edge, and reduced nesting success rates near forest edges are well documented in agricultural landscapes ("edge effects"). However, edge effects in predominantly forested landscapes, particularly those related to timber harvest, are poorly understood. This study examines nesting success of ground nesting birds in relation to clearcut edges in a forest-dominated landscape in north-central Minnesota. A total of 383 nests of seven species of ground nesting birds were found and monitored during 1992-1998. Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilus; n = 318) and Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus; n = 44) nests composed the majority of the sample. Predation accounted for 94% of all nest failures. Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism was low (1.8% for all ground nests). Using proportional hazards regression, distance to nearest clearcut edge was the best predictor of nest failure. For all ground nests, nesting success was 0.18 at 0-100 m, 0.39 at 101-500 m, and 0.52 at 501-954 m from nearest clearcut edge. Source-sink modeling indicated that distances 100 m from clearcut edges were sink habitats for Ovenbirds (i.e. recruitment was lower than survival). These results provide strong evidence of a negative edge effect on ground nests, extending 100 m or more from clearcut edges in a forest-dominated area of north-central Minnesota. /// La fragmentacin de bosque ha sido identificada como una causa de la disminucin de las poblaciones de varias especies de aves migratorias Neotropicales. La fragmentacin aumenta la cantidad de borde del hbitat. La reduccin de las tasas de xito de nidificacin cerca de los bordes del bosque en paisajes agrcolas ("efectos de borde") ha sido ampliamente documentada. Sin embargo, los efectos de borde en paisajes predominantemente arbolados, particularmente en aqullos relacionados a la cosecha de madera, se encuentran pobremente entendidos. Este estudio examina el xito de nidificacin de aves que anidan en el suelo en relacin a bordes de claros en un paisaje dominado por bosque en el norte-centro de Minnesota. Se encontraron un total de 383 nidos de siete especies que anidan en el suelo, los cuales fueron monitoreados durante el periodo de 1992-1998. Los nidos de Seiurus aurocapilus (n = 318) y Catharus guttatus (n = 44) compusieron la mayora de la muestra. La depredacin dio cuenta de un 94% de todos los fracasos de los nidos. El parasitismo por Molothrus ater fue bajo (1.8% para todos los nidos en el suelo). Usando una regresin de riesgo proporcional, la distancia al borde del claro ms cercano fue la variable que mejor predijo el fracaso de los nidos. Para todos los nidos del suelo, el xito de nidificacin fue 0.18 a 0-100 m, 0.39 a 101-500 m, y 0.52 a las 501-954 m del borde del claro ms cercano. Modelos "fuente-sumidero" indicaron que los hbitat a una distancia 100 m de los bordes de los claros eran hbitats sumidero para S. aurocapilus (es decir, el reclutamiento fue menor que la supervivencia). Estos resultados proporcionan una fuerte evidencia de un efecto negativo del borde sobre los nidos que se encuentran a nivel del suelo, el cual se extiende 100 m o ms desde los bordes de los claros en un rea dominada por bosques en el norte-centro de Minnesota. 
25488609|Predator deterrence has been widely studied as a potential advantage of colonial breeding. We extend the predator-deterrence hypothesis to the Least Flycatcher (
10.2307/4090248| In autumn, >99% of North American Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) stage at Mono Lake, California, and Great Salt Lake, Utah, creating an exceptional opportunity to measure population trends in a common and otherwise widely distributed species. Aerial photocounts showed that numbers at both lakes fluctuated in parallel, from a total of 3.56 million in 1997, then crashing to 1.60 million in 1998. The decline was coincident with a major El Nio, during which hundreds of thousands starved in the Gulf of California. The population rebounded to 3.27 million by 2000, illustrating the species' potentially high survivorship throughout the year. Catastrophic events are evidently the major factors affecting proximate changes in population size. Factors that set the ultimate limit to the population can be clarified through long-term studies at staging areas. /// En otoo, >99% de los individuos de Podiceps nigricollis se congregan en el Lago de Mono, California, y el Gran Lago de Sal, Utah, lo que crea una oportunidad excepcional para medir las tendencias poblacionales de esta especie comn pero normalmente extensamente distribuida. Conteos mediante fotografas areas mostraron que los nmeros poblacionales en ambos lagos fluctuaron en paralelo, de un total de 3.56 millones en 1997, disminuyendo luego drsticamente a 1.60 millones en 1998. La disminucin fue coincidente con un evento El Nio importante, durante el cual cientos de miles murieron de inanicin en el Golfo de California. La poblacin aument a 3.27 millones en el ao 2000, lo que ilustra la potencialmente alta supervivencia de esta especie a lo largo del ao. Evidentemente los eventos catastrficos son los mayores factores que afectan a los cambios proximales del tamao poblacional. Los factores que imponen los lmites decisivos sobre las poblaciones pueden ser clarificados a travs de estudios a largo plazo en reas de escala. 
4090528| The Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus; hereafter "flycatcher") is a federally listed endangered species that breeds in densely vegetated riparian habitats dominated by native and exotic plants, including introduced monotypic saltcedar (Tamarix ramosissima). Some workers have theorized that saltcedar is unsuitable habitat for the flycatcher, primarily because it generally supports a smaller and less diverse invertebrate community (the flycatcher's food base) than native habitats (e.g. Salix spp.). However, differences in insect communities between native and saltcedar habitats are not proof that saltcedar habitats are inferior. The only way to evaluate whether the habitats differ in dietary or energetic quality is to document actual food limitation or its manifestations. Measurements of an individual's body condition and metabolic state can serve as indicators of environmental stressors, such as food limitation and environmental extremes. We captured 130 flycatchers breeding in native and saltcedar habitats in Arizona and New Mexico and measured 12 variables of physiological condition. These variables included body mass, fat level, body condition index, hematocrit, plasma triglycerides, plasma free fatty acids and glycerol, plasma glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate, plasma uric acid, total leukocyte count, and heterophil-to-lymphocyte ratio. We found substantial sex-based differences in the condition of male and female flycatchers. Ten of the 12 measures of physiological condition differed significantly between the sexes. In all cases where male and female condition differed (except mass), the differences suggest that males were in poorer condition than females. We found few habitat-based differences in flycatcher condition. Only 3 of the 12 physiological condition indices differed significantly between habitats. Our data show that, at least in some parts of the flycatcher's range, there is no evidence that flycatchers breeding in saltcedar habitats exhibit poorer nutritional conditon or are suffering negative physiological affects. /// Empidonax traillii extimus es un atrapamoscas que est incluido en la lista federal de especies amenazadas y se reproduce en ambientes riparios con vegetacin densa dominada por plantas nativas y exticas, incluyendo la especie introducida Tamarix ramosissima. Algunos investigadores han propuesto que los ambientes dominados por Tamarix son inadecuados para este atrapamoscas, principalmente porque por lo general albergan comunidades ms pequeas y menos diversas de invertebrados (la base de su dieta) que los ambientes nativos (e.g. los dominados por Salix spp.). Sin embargo, las diferencias en las comunidades de insectos entre los distintos hbitats no demuestran que los ambientes dominados por Tamarix son de inferior calidad. El nico modo de evaluar si los ambientes difieren en su calidad dietaria o energtica es documentar la existencia de limitacin de alimento o sus manifestaciones. Las medidas de la condicin corporal de un individuo y su estado metablico pueden servir como indicadoras de la presencia de agentes causantes de estrs en el ambiente, tales como limitacin de alimento y condiciones ambientales extremas. En este estudio, capturamos 130 atrapamoscas que estaban criando en ambientes nativos y de Tamarix en Arizona y New Mexico, y medimos 12 variables relacionadas con su condicin fisiolgica. Estas variables incluyeron peso corporal, nivel de grasa, un ndice de condicin corporal, hematocrito, triglicridos del plasma, cidos grasos libres y glicerol en el plasma, glucosa e hidroxibutirato en el plasma, cido rico en el plasma, nmero total de leucocitos y el cociente entre heterfilos y linfocitos. Encontramos diferencias sustanciales con respecto al sexo: diez de las 12 medidas de la condicin fisiolgica difirieron entre machos y hembras. En todos los casos en que hubo diferencias entre sexos (excepto en el peso), stas sugieren que los machos estaban en peores condiciones que las hembras. Encontramos pocas diferencias con respecto al hbitat en la condicin de los atrapamoscas. Slo tres de las 12 medidas de la condicin fisiolgica difirieron significativamente entre hbitats. Nuestros datos muestran que al menos en algunas partes del rango de distribucin de E. t. extimus, no existe evidencia de que los individuos que se reproducen en ambientes dominados por Tamarix se encuentran en peores condiciones nutricionales o sufren de efectos fisiolgicos negativos. 
4086171| The closely related, morphologically similar Palila (Psittirostra bailleui) and Laysan Finch (P. cantans) are natives of thermally dissimilar habitats. The 34.8-g Palila is confined to the cool, montane forests of Hawaii Island, whereas the 31-g Laysan Finch is restricted to a low, treeless atoll. To study their climatic adaptation, we measured their body temperature, oxygen consumption, and evaporative water loss at stable air temperatures between 3 and 40C. Bioenergetically, these species are most distinct in their response to heat. The Palila's upper critical temperature (31C) is 7C lower than the Laysan Finch's, and its heat-strain coefficient is 31% higher (1.76 versus
10.1525/auk.2013.12147|The recent discovery of a
10.2307/4088109|Ptilochronology has been proposed as a method that will open up many new lines of investigation in nutritional ecology, in foraging behavior, and of life-history variables that are affected by (or affect) a bird's nutritional status. The method depends on measurements of a series of daily growth bars to estimate a feather's growth rate, and thereby to quantitate a bird's nutritional status while the feather was growing. The reliability of the method as proposed depends on the fulfillment of several previously unstated assumptions. We identified seven key assumptions and, in experiments with captive White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), examined the likelihood that six of the assumptions could be fulfilled. The seventh assumption, no less crucial than the others, could not be tested empirically. None of the six tested assumptions were consistently fulfilled. Only lethal kinds or levels of nutritional privation consistently slowed feather growth. Moderate or even severe sublethal privation did not produce consistent effects on feather growth. In short, ptilochronology as originally conceived is fraught with uncertainty. It may yield reliable results in very limited, carefully controlled conditions, but this remains to be proved.
4090554| A correlation between length of telomere restriction fragments (TRFs) and age has recently been demonstrated in several bird species. Comparisons of different-aged individuals within a population have shown that TRFs typically shorten with age and that this shortening continues throughout the life span of the species. In addition, it has been shown that telomere rate-of-change (TROC) correlates tightly with life span across several bird species. Previous studies of long-lived birds, however, have shown exceptions to these trends, demonstrating no declines in TRF length in adults in some cases and increases in TRF length with age in other cases. Here, we report known ages of individuals from a colony of Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) based on recaptures of leg-banded birds, including two individuals that were at least 44 years of age, the oldest Great Frigatebirds ever reported. Using a previously developed molecular technique, we report a predictable, nonlinear decline of TRF length with age in this population. Telomere restriction fragments decline more rapidly early in life but continue to shorten throughout the life span examined. The rate of decline in TRF for this species does not fit the tight correlation previously reported between TROC and life span in other species. Finally, we tested the ability to estimate age and age structure of breeding females on the basis of the calibration of TRF length and individuals of known age. Because of the slow telomere-attrition rate and the variability observed in TRF lengths at given ages, estimations of age of individuals and of estimated age structure of breeding birds in this population are not particularly reliable. /// Recientemente se ha demostrado una correlacin entre el largo de los fragmentos de restriccin de los telmeros (FRT) y la edad en varias especies de aves. Las comparaciones de individuos de edades diferentes de una poblacin han mostrado que los FRT tpicamente se acortan con la edad y que este encogimiento contina a lo largo de la vida de estas especies. De modo adicional, se ha demostrado que la tasa de cambio del telmero (TCT) se correlaciona fuertemente con la longevidad en varias especies de aves. Sin embargo, estudios previos de aves longevas han mostrado excepciones a estas tendencias, demostrando la falta de disminuciones en el largo de los FRT de los adultos en algunos casos e incrementos en el largo de los FRT con la edad en otros casos. Aqu, documentamos datos sobre edades conocidas de individuos de una colonia de Fregata minor basados en recapturas de aves anilladas en las piernas, incluyendo dos individuos de por lo menos 44 aos de edad, el individuo conocido ms viejo de F. minor. Usando una tcnica molecular previamente desarrollada, reportamos una disminucin no lineal predecible del largo de los FRT con la edad en esta poblacin. Los FRT disminuyeron ms rpidamente temprano en la vida pero continuaron acortndose a lo largo del perodo de vida examinado. La tasa de disminucin en los FRT para esta especie no concuerda con la estrecha correlacin reportada anteriormente entre la TCT y el perodo de vida de otras especies. Finalmente, evaluamos la capacidad de estimar la edad y la estructura de edades de las hembras reproductivas basndose en la calibracin del largo de los FRT y en individuos de edad conocida. Debido a la lenta tasa de desgaste del telmero y a la variabilidad observada en los largos de los FRT a determinadas edades, las estimaciones de la edad de los individuos y de la estructura de edades estimada a partir de las aves reproductivas en esta poblacin no son particularmente confiables. 
4086958| Clutches of 4 eggs accounted for 64-73% of all clutches laid in 3 yr by a population of Turquoise-browed Motmots (Eumomota superciliosa) in Yucatn, Mexico. The consistently high frequency of 4-egg clutches was associated with only a slight advantage in fledging success relative to clutches of 3 eggs, which ranged in frequency from 11% to 33%. Differences in number of young fledged and proportion of hatchlings fledged were not statistically significant over 3 yr or in any particular year. Clutches of 4 yielded more surviving young in 2 of 3 yr, averaging 2.02 compared to 1.71 for clutches of 3. The proportion of hatchlings that fledged was higher in broods of 3 (overall = 0.67) than in broods of 4 (overall = 0.55) in 2 of 3 yr. The proportion of hatchlings fledged from clutches of 5 (0.36) was lower over 3 yr than that fledged from clutches of 4 or 3. Approximately 40% of nestling mortality in nests that escaped predation was due to starvation. Other known causes included falls from nests and parasitism by maggots. 
4087796|Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) have become conspicuous members of the bird assemblage at Tatoosh Island, Washington, since 1983. We have sufficient before and after observations and data to conclude that two species of storm-petrel (Oceanodroma spp.) show no significant population trends (as based on catch per hour in standardized mist nets from 1978-1988) and that numbers of both Cassin's (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) and Rhinoceros (Cerorhinca monocerata) auklets, the primary falcon prey, are probably declining. An important effect of falcons is their consumption of Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) or simply restriction of crow activities. The numbers of Common Murres (Uria aalge) and Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus) that inhabit Tatoosh have increased markedly, probably due to significantly decreased crow-related egg predation. The fledging rate of Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) approximately doubled in 1987, when one falcon routinely ate crows. These relationships appear to be independent of the locally abundant Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens). We conclude that the indirect, positive effects are at least as important to seabird abundance patterns as are direct, negative effects. We suggest that more attention be paid to corvid activities near seabird colonies and, especially, that the impact on populations of small alcids or other prey be considered when planning conservation efforts to augment the population of an effective avian predator.
10.2307/4089455|We studied the effects of forest patch size and habitat characteristics on breeding success of Scarlet Tanagers (Piranga olivacea) in western New York in 1995 and 1996. Twenty forest stands were grouped into four size classes: Group I (<10 ha, n = 6), Group II (10 to 50 ha, n = 7), Group III (>50 to 150 ha, n = 5), and Group IV (>1,000 ha, n = 2). Group I, II, and III sites were habitat patches located in fragmented landscapes, whereas Group IV sites were located in continuous forests. Although densities of male tanagers were similar in Group II, III, and IV sites, tanagers were absent from all forest patches smaller than 10 ha. Territory size did not differ among males in Group II, III, and IV sites. Pairing success exceeded 75% in all forest size classes in 1995 and 1996, and 100% of the observed males were paired in continuous forest sites. Pairing success differed significantly among forest size classes in 1995 and approached significance in 1996. Fledging success increased significantly with area and was highest (64%) in continuous forest sites. Stepwise multiple regression and principal components analysis indicated that male tanagers breeding in forest patches with higher canopy cover and lower density of oaks had higher pairing success than males in patches with lower canopy cover and higher density of oaks, and that males breeding in larger forest patches with more surrounding forest cover had higher fledging success than males in small patches with less surrounding forest cover. Our results indicate that: (1) breeding density is not a good indicator of habitat quality for forest-interior Neotropical migrants, and (2) large tracts of continuous forest are important for maintaining populations of these species.
10.2307/4090061| During the seven-year period from 1995 to 2001, we conducted a detailed, demographic study of a population of Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) in Oregon. Using a data set consisting of individual capture histories for 8,000 birds, we estimated age-specific and study-year specific survival estimates of adult males and females. High juvenile recruitment enabled us to generate accurate estimates of juvenile survival from fledging to first breeding attempt. We analyzed fecundity patterns, including nesting phenology, clutch success, and overall reproductive success for nearly 1,200 nesting attempts. Temporal variation in survival and fecundity had strong demographic consequences. Asymptotic population growth analysis suggested a slowly growing population. However, variation in vital rates led to population declines even over the relative short timescale of our study, making the conservation status of this species uncertain. In addition to those results, we discuss the costs and benefits of using data collected by volunteers to study demographic processes. /// Entre 1995 y 2001, realizamos un estudio demogrfico detallado de una poblacin de Sialia mexicana en Oregon. Usando una base de datos conformada por historias individuales de captura de 8,000 aves, estimamos la supervivencia especfica por edad y por ao de muestreo de machos y hembras adultos. Un alto reclutamiento de juveniles nos permiti generar estimaciones exactas de la supervivencia de juveniles desde el momento de emplumamiento hasta su primer intento reproductivo. Tambin analizamos los patrones de fecundidad, incluyendo la fenologa de nidificacin, el xito de la nidada y el xito reproductivo total para cerca de 1,200 intentos de nidificacin. La variacin temporal en la supervivencia y la fecundidad tuvieron consecuencias demogrficas importantes. Los anlisis de crecimiento poblacional asinttico sugirieron una poblacin con crecimiento lento. Sin embargo, las variaciones en tasas vitales llevaron a una disminucin poblacional incluso en la escala temporal relativamente corta de este estudio, haciendo que el estatus de conservacin de esta especie sea incierto. De modo complementario, discutimos los costos y beneficios de usar datos colectados por ciudadanos cientficos para estudiar procesos demogrficos. 
10.2307/4086907|A color-banded population of Black-capped Donacobius (Donacobius atricapillus) on a Peruvian oxbow lake was studied during one breeding season and censused for 3 yr thereafter. Eighteen territories along a marshy shoreline were occupied by groups of 2-4 donacobius. Each group contained a mated pair and 0-2 helpers, apparently offspring produced during 1-2 preceding breeding seasons. Helpers participated in nest surveillance, territorial displays, and feeding nestlings. Displays occurred at territory boundaries and consisted of loud duetting by the pair or group. Breeding coincided with the rainy months, October through April, and peaked in November-January. Clutch size was always two. Egg and nestling periods each lasted 17-18 days. No correlation was demonstrable between group size and overall fledging success. Trios, however, accounted for all cases in which both young successfully fledged, whereas pairs never fledged more than one young. Annual survivorship of breeding adults averaged 71%. Cooperative breeding in donacobius is associated with limited opportunities for acquiring breeding territories, as in many other cooperative breeders. The relatively short period during which young serve as helpers (and the resulting small family sizes), however, suggests that at other times or places breeding territories are more readily available to young.
4087288|In a colony of Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) on Kent Island, New Brunswick, i chicks were rotated on a daily basis through n nests to produce i/n chick-equivalents of food requirement, increasing by small increments from 1 (i = 6, n = 6) to 2 (i = 2, n = 1), between ages 10 and 50 days. Food delivered each night (SUM) was estimated by 24-h increments in chick mass. In nonexperimental nests SUM varied significantly among pairs, and chick mass varied in direct relation to SUM. Adults tending experimental nests did not respond to increased food demand, and chick mass decreased with increasing chick-equivalent per nest. After rotations were terminated, the mass of most chicks increased quickly to normal levels. These results suggest that the average amount of food delivered daily by each parent is determined independently of food demand and that chicks attain a mass that balances a fixed food intake against food requirement, which varies in direct relation to mass.
40406721|The Great Bustard (
10.2307/4089631| Numbers of Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii) have declined throughout much of the breeding range in recent years, yet little information exists to determine factors that are causing these declines. We studied Bell's Vireos nesting in grassland-shrub habitats at two study areas in central Missouri to determine reproductive performance, survival, and population growth potential. Birds were color banded and observed during the breeding seasons of 1996, 1997, and 1998 to determine seasonal fecundity. We monitored 124 breeding pairs (127 pair years) and 213 nests. Density declined from 1.00 to 0.80 territories per 10 ha at the first site and increased from 1.11 to 1.33 at the second site during the study. Mean nesting success was 31  SE of 0.03% overall and ranged from 13 to 42% among years and study areas; 57% of the pairs fledged at least one young. Low annual production was a function of high rates of nest predation (41% of all nests observed, accounting for 44 to 78% of daily nest mortality annually) and nest parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; 29% of nests observed, 17 to 37% of daily nest mortality annually). Mean seasonal fecundity was 1.60 young fledged per pair per year (range 1.00 to 1.79). Annual survival of adults was 61  0.04% and was higher than previously reported. We used our estimates of seasonal fecundity and annual survival of adults to determine the finite rate of increase () for our study population. Our study areas seemingly comprised sink habitats ( = 0.85). Thus, the vireos on our study areas likely were limited by low reproductive success. Population declines also may be caused by habitat loss, which highlights the need for investigation of historical and current rates of loss of grassland-shrub habitat. 
4088462| We studied the relationship of Black-shouldered Kite (Elanus caeruleus) territory size to prey abundance and competitor abundance in northwestern California. Kite territory size ranged from 1.6 to 21.5 ha (n = 26). The estimated mean number of California voles (Microtus californicus) per territory was 1,483  SE of 163 (n = 25). Competitor abundance (i.e. total raptor abundance) ranged from 4.8 to 31.0
25488646|Responses of parent birds to changes in demands by their offspring have typically been investigated by manipulating brood size and testing for altered patterns of provisioning. We applied an alternative method to breeding pairs of American Kestrels (
10.2307/4090282| Timing of breeding in Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) varies both within and between years. Social status and breeding experience may explain much of the within-year variation, but the availability of certain foods may partially explain between-year patterns. Scrub-jays in suburban habitats with access to unlimited human-provided foods breed earlier and with less between-year variation in timing of breeding than jays in wildland habitats. We hypothesized that those differences in timing of breeding result from access to human-provided foods in the suburban site. Human-provided food may influence timing of breeding by improving the overall body condition of females, or it may influence breeding by providing nutrients essential for breeding. If condition mediated, breeding females in the two habitats should differ in certain physiological parameters relative to time before egg laying and calendar date. If the effect is not related to body condition, we expect differences in pre-breeding females relative to calendar date, but not in relation to time before egg laying. To test those predictions, we measured plasma levels of total protein, calcium, luteinizing hormone, and estradiol. We also measured variables associated with body condition-body mass, a size-corrected condition index, and total body lipids. Most variables tended to increase with both days before laying and calendar date, except total body lipids, which decreased. Suburban females had higher levels of plasma protein relative to both days before egg laying and calendar date than female breeders in the wildland habitat. Luteinizing hormone differed between sites relative to calendar date but not days before laying. Our data suggest that suburban scrub-jays with access to predictable sources of high-quality human-provided foods accumulate endogenous protein that can be used to breed earlier. /// La poca de reproduccin de la especie Aphelocoma coerulescens vara tanto intra como interanualmente. El estatus social y la experiencia reproductiva pueden explicar gran parte de la variacin intraanual, mientras que la disponibilidad de ciertos alimentos puede explicar pautas interanuales. Aves en ambientes suburbanos, con ilimitado acceso a alimentos proporcionados por humanos, se reproducen ms temprano y con menos variacin interanual en relacin a la poca de reproduccin que aves en reas silvestres. Nosotros introducimos la hiptesis que estas diferencias en la poca de reproduccin son debidas al acceso que las aves en ambientes suburbanos tienen a alimentos proporcionados por humanos. Alimentos proporcionados por humanos pueden influir la poca de reproduccin al mejorar la condicin corporal general de las hembras, o pueden influir en la reproduccin de las aves al proporcionar nutrientes que son esenciales para su reproduccin. Por tanto, hembras reproductivas en los dos ambientes deberan diferir en ciertos parmetros fisiolgicos relacionados con el tiempo previo a la puesta de huevos y con la fecha del calendrio. Si el efecto no est relacionado con la condicin corporal, esperaramos diferencias en hembras pre-reproductivas en relacin a la fecha del calendrio, pero no en relacin al tiempo previo a la puesta de huevos. Para probar estas predicciones, medimos niveles en plasma de protenas, calcio, hormona luteinizante y estradiol. Tambin medimos variables asociadas con la condicin corporal: masa corporal, un ndice de condicin corregido para tamao y el total de lpidos. La mayora de variables tendieron a incrementar en relacin al tiempo previo a la puesta de huevos y fecha del calendrio, excepto por el total de lpidos, que decreci. Hembras de ambientes suburbanos mostraron niveles en plasma de protenas, tanto en relacin al tiempo previo a la puesta de huevos como a la fecha del calendrio, ms altos que los niveles de hembras reproductivas en reas silvestres. Los niveles de hormona luteinizante difirieron entre los dos ambientes en relacin a fecha del calendrio pero no en relacin al tiempo previo a la puesta de huevos. Nuestros datos sugieren que aves en ambientes suburbanos con acceso a fuentes de alimento proporcionados por humanos que son previsibles y de alta calidad acumulan protenas endgenas que pueden ser usadas para reproducirse ms temprano. 
25488569|We studied nutrient-reserve dynamics of female Greater Scaup (
10.2307/4088823|Over the last five to eight years, the Puerto Rico Department of Natural Resources, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and University of Puerto Rico have maintained a breeding and recovery program for the Plain Pigeon (Columba inornata), which is declining throughout its range. To assist this ongoing effort, variability in nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA (in its control region) was quantified for the 20 surviving founders of this program by DNA fingerprinting and polymerase-chain-reaction/dideoxy sequencing, respectively. Compared to unrelated individuals of other birds, the DNA data indicate that a low level of genetic variation exists among the founders, among their captive-bred descendants, and in their source population. This conclusion is evaluated against the recent history of the species in Puerto Rico and then in terms of its importance to the ongoing recovery program.
10.2307/4090192| Carotenoid-based colors serve important sexual-signaling functions in many animals, but the proximate factor(s) underlying their expression has sparked controversy. In particular, the relative contributions of dietary and physiological mechanisms have been questioned of late. However, no studies have concurrently quantified levels of food intake or pigment processing in any species to examine the comparative effects of pigment acquisition and use on integumetary coloration. Here, we studied within- and between-sex patterns of food intake and plasma pigment circulation in the Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata) to assess how sexually dichromatic, carotenoid-based bill pigmentation serves as an indicator of pigment access in the diet and carotenoid transport through the bloodstream. First, in a food-choice study, we found that males and females did not consume different types or amounts of food, despite dramatic sex differences in bill coloration. Similarly, variability in carotenoid-based bill pigmentation within each sex was uncoupled from levels of food consumption. Next, we used high-performance liquid-chromatography (HPLC) to quantify the types and amounts of carotenoids circulating through blood. Male and female Zebra Finches circulated the same four major carotenoid pigments in blood plasma (lutein, zeaxanthin, anhydrolutein, and -cryptoxanthin), but males circulated a significantly higher concentration of plasma carotenoids than did females. Within both sexes, individuals that circulated more carotenoid pigments displayed more brightly colored bills. In sum, these results suggest that physiological factors such as pigment transport may play a more important role in shaping variability in carotenoid-based bill coloration in this species than does diet. Future studies should be aimed at identifying the proximate determinants of plasma carotenoid circulation in these birds as well as how circulated pigments are used to produce maximum color displays. /// Los colores basados en carotenoides tienen funciones importantes como seales sexuales en muchos animales, pero los factores proximales que determinan su expresin han generado controversia. En particular, la contribucin relativa de mecanismos alimenticios y fisiolgicos ha sido cuestionada recientemente. Sin embargo, ningn estudio ha cuantificado paralelamente los niveles de ingestin de alimento y el procesamiento de los pigmentos en una misma especie para examinar el efecto comparativo de la adquisicin y uso de pigmentos sobre la coloracin integumentaria. En este estudio investigamos los patrones intra e intersexuales de ingestin de alimento y circulacin plasmtica de pigmentos en Taeniopygia guttata para determinar cmo la pigmentacin del pico, que es sexualmente dicromtica y est basada en carotenoides, funciona como un indicador del acceso a los pigmentos en la dieta o del transporte de carotenoides a travs del torrente sanguneo. Primero, en un estudio de seleccin de alimento, encontramos que los machos y las hembras no consumieron diferentes tipos o cantidades de alimento a pesar de las marcadas diferencias en la coloracin del pico. Del mismo modo, la variabilidad en la pigmentacin del pico en cada sexo no se acopl con los niveles de consumo de alimento. Luego, utilizamos cromatografa lquida de alto rendimiento para cuantificar los tipos y cantidades de carotenoides que circulaban por la sangre. Las hembras y los machos presentaron los mismos cuatro pigmentos principales (lutena, zeaxantina, anhidrolutena y -criptoxantina) circulando en el plasma sanguneo, pero los machos presentaron concentraciones significativamente mayores de carotenoides plasmticos. En ambos sexos, los individuos que circularon ms pigmentos carotenoides en el plasma mostraron picos con coloracin ms brillante. En resumen, estos resultados sugieren que en esta especie, factores fisiolgicos como el transporte de pigmentos podran jugar un papel ms importante moldeando la variabilidad en la coloracin carotenoide del pico que la dieta. Estudios futuros deberan tener como objetivo identificar los determinantes proximales de la circulacin de los carotenoides en el plasma en estas aves, y determinar cmo son utilizados los pigmentos transportados para producir una mxima expresin del color. 
10.2307/4090482| The postfledging period is the least-studied stage of avian life cycles. Survival during this period has crucial effects on population dynamics. Survival of fledged young may be influenced by dispersal from their nest sites, because juveniles must cope with the hazards of novel environments. To better understand this important life stage, we used radiotelemetry techniques to study postfledging movements and survival of 50 juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) at Prairie Ridge State Natural Area in Jasper County, Illinois, in 1999 and 2000. Juveniles began to move away from the nesting area in the third week after fledging. Most juveniles moved only 1-5 km from their birth site by the end of the study (90 days). Juvenile survival for the first 90 days after fledging was estimated as 56-69%. Mortality was greatest during the first week of the postfledging period, likely because of high rates of predation. Juvenile meadowlarks are flightless at fledging and thus are vulnerable to predators. We did not observe a second peak of mortality, as other studies have shown, at independence or when juveniles began to move away from their nest areas. The present study suggests that immediate postfledging movements may not be related to dispersal to future breeding sites, but rather occur in response to immediate needs for food resources and security from predators. Furthermore, the data suggest that presumed mortality patterns and estimated levels of juvenile survival are suspect; that interspecific variability of juvenile survival and postfledging movements may be considerable; and that detailed, longer-duration field studies are necessary to elucidate this important demographic period. /// El perodo post-emplumamiento es la etapa menos estudiada del ciclo de vida de las aves. La supervivencia durante este perodo tiene efectos cruciales sobre la dinmica de las poblaciones. La supervivencia de los juveniles que abandonan el nido puede estar influenciada por la dispersin desde los sitios de nidificacin, ya que los juveniles deben enfrentarse con las amenazas de los nuevos ambientes. Para entender mejor esta importante etapa, empleamos tcnicas de radio-telemetra para estudiar los movimientos post-emplumamiento y la supervivencia de 50 juveniles de Sturnella magna en el rea Natural Estatal Prairie Ridge en el Condado de Jasper, Illinois, en 1999 y 2000. Los juveniles comenzaron a alejarse de las reas de nidificacin durante la tercera semana luego de abandonar el nido. La mayora de los juveniles se desplaz slo 1-5 km desde sus sitios de nacimiento hasta el momento de finalizacin del estudio (90 das). La supervivencia de los juveniles durante los primeros 90 das luego de abandonar el nido fue estimada en 56-69%. La mortalidad fue mayor durante la primera semana del perodo post-emplumamiento, probablemente debido a altas tasas de depredacin. Los juveniles de S. magna no pueden volar en el momento de abandonar el nido y por ello son vulnerables a los depredadores. No observamos un segundo pico en la mortalidad, como lo han mostrado otros estudios, en el momento de la independencia o cuando los juveniles comenzaron a alejarse de sus reas de nidificacin. Este estudio sugiere que los movimientos inmediatos posteriores al post-emplumamiento no se relacionaran con la dispersin a sitios de cra futuros, sino que probablemente ocurren en respuesta a necesidades inmediatas de alimento y proteccin de los depredadores. Ms an, los datos sugieren que los patrones de mortalidad presuntos y los niveles estimados de supervivencia juvenil son sospechosos; que la variabilidad interespecfica de la supervivencia juvenil y los movimientos post-emplumamiento pueden ser considerables; y que son necesarios estudios de campo detallados y a ms largo plazo para elucidar este importante perodo demogrfico. 
4088048|We studied within-season mate switching in two populations of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in central Illinois over nine breeding seasons. On the East Bay site, 35.2% of the monogamous pairs switched mates. On this less-preferred habitat, there were fewer potential mates. In contrast, on the Mackinaw site, 58.8% of the monogamous pairs switched mates, and there were potential mates available throughout the breeding season. There was no consistent immediate reproductive cost or benefit to mate switching. We suggest that mate switching in these House Wren populations is a consequence of varying mate availability and differing gender-related costs of facultative polygyny and territoriality. Because females incubate the eggs and brood the chicks, males have the first opportunity to desert their mate and offspring, which often results in polygynous matings. After the chicks leave the nest, males that feed fledglings may lose their territory and the opportunity to breed again. Females do not incur such a cost, and they easily move to another territory and another mate. Frequencies and relative costs and benefits of mate switching also varied considerably among three other House Wren populations. This reveals considerable flexibility in response to different demographic and environmental situations. Knowledge of the basis for this variability is important to understand mate choice in birds.
4088371|Survival of Least Auklets (Aethia pusilla) was investigated at St. Paul Island, Pribilof Islands, Alaska, during three breeding seasons (1987-1989). Based on resightings of color-marked birds, an overall annual adult survival rate of about 0.75 was observed. Because of their fidelity to nesting and display sites, as well as their insensitivity to capture early in the breeding season, this estimate was unlikely to be substantially biased by emigration from the study plot or disturbance caused by handling. An index of adult body condition was highly variable during the 1988 breeding season, but was weakly correlated with subsequent survival. However, the body-condition index was significantly correlated to likelihood of breeding in the same and following years. Survival was not related to adults' variable plumage, although lightness of plumage correlated with age and dominance and functions for status signalling in this species, Survival was significantly lowered in individuals with damage to their webbed feet. Subadults (two-year-olds) showed low site fidelity compared to adults. Age of first breeding was at three years. During the breeding season, known causes of mortality included predation by foxes, gulls, and humans. The low annual survival of Least Auklets relative to other alcids, together with large year-to-year variation in reproductive performance, suggests there is greater potential for population fluctuations in this species. Survival estimation may be a partial solution to the difficulty of monitoring alcid populations directly.
10.2307/4089969| Previously published morphological and behavioral data for the tyrant flycatchers (Tyrannidae) were reanalyzed using cladistic techniques. Several additional characters, including two putative synapomorphies of the Tyrannidae were incorporated. Nearly all of the 100 traditional tyrannid genera were included. Results of the analysis of this set of 68 characters support three previously proposed tyrannid assemblages: the kingbird assemblage and slightly restricted Empidonax and Myiarchus assemblages. Characters of the nasal septum that past workers have considered conservative and phylogenetically informative are supported as synapomorphies of the kingbird and restricted Empidonax assemblages. Several small monophyletic groups of genera are supported. The monophyly of neither the Elaenia assemblage nor the flatbill and tody-tyrant assemblage is supported in any most-parsimonious tree, but such trees are not significantly better than trees supporting their monophyly. A Tyrannidae exclusive of the Cotingidae and Pipridae is monophyletic in some most-parsimonious trees, but not in others in which flatbills and tody-tyrants are basal to a clade containing Cotingidae, Pipridae, and the remaining tyrannid genera. There is some evidence that characters describing plumage color pattern are more homoplasious than the other character suites I examined. /// Utilizando tcnicas cladsticas reanalic datos morfolgicos y conductuales previamente publicados para la familia Tyrannidae. Incorpor varios caracteres adicionales incluyendo dos sinapomorfias putativas. Inclu casi todos los gneros de los aproximadamente 100 gneros tradicionales de la familia Tyrannidae. Los resultados del anlisis de un set de 68 caracteres apoyan tres grupos de tirnidos previamente propuestos: el grupo Tyrannus y los grupos Emipidonax y Myiarchus. Los caracteres relacionados con el septum nasal que han sido considerados previamente como conservadores y filogenticamente informativos, son apoyados como sinapomorfias del grupo Tyrannus y del grupo restringido Empidonax. Varios pequeos grupos de gneros monofilticos son apoyados. Ni la monofilia del grupo Elaenia ni la de los picochato (e.g. Plathyrhinchus) y mosqueritos (e.g. Todirostrum, Hemitriccus) es apoyada en cualquiera de los rboles ms parsimoniosos, pero estos rboles no son significativamente mejores que los que apoyan su monofilia. Un Tyrannidae exclusivo de la familia Cotingidae y Pipridae es monofiltico en alguno de los rboles ms parsimoniosos, pero no en otros en los que los picochatos y mosqueritos son basales a un clado que contiene a Cotingidae, Pipridae y a los dems gneros de tirnidos. Existe cierta evidencia que los carateres que describen los patrones de coloracin del plumaje son ms homoplsicos que el set de caracteres que examine. 
4087438|Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) nest in a wide variety of habitats. We examined nest-site selection in a mixed-species colony of Roseate and Common (S. hirundo) terns on the interdune area of a barrier beach to determine species differences, to identify which characteristics at nest sites differed from the available habitat, and to compare nest-site preferences of early- and late-nesting Roseate Terns. Both species nested in the same area, but Roseate Terns nested under dense vegetation and Common Terns nested in more open sites. For Roseate Terns, cover within 0.5 m of the nest was greater than that within 1 m; the opposite was true for Common Terns. Cover within 5 m was similar for both species. Roseate and Common terns select different habitat features. Site characteristics of early- and late-nesting Roseate Tern nests differed. Late-nesting terns used sites with greater cover within 0.5 m, less cover within 5 m, taller vegetation, and with less visibility compared with early-nesting terns. Late-nesting Roseate Terns were still able to find sites in dense cover. At this colony, competition between the two species may not be limiting, and abundant sites remain available.
4086657|Natal dispersal and lek fidelity (attendance within and between years) of Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) were studied on Cold Spring Mountain, northwestern Colorado, from July 1981 through May 1984. Female Sage Grouse followed the typical avian pattern of dispersing farther than males. However, there was no difference between proportions of male and female yearling grouse attending the lek closest to their juvenile banding location. Fifteen percent of all individually marked juveniles (24/157 birds) were known to have attended leks as yearlings. There was no difference between yearling and adult lek attendance rates for either sex; however, females attended leks less often than males. Yearling females, but not yearling males, visited 2 or more leks more often than adults. These differences may be related to yearlings' inexperience with breeding or to a strategy to enhance reproductive success.
10.2307/4087618|We studied breeding success, chick growth, and diets of Least (Aethia pusilla) and Crested (A. cristatella) auklets on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, in summer 1987. Least Auklets had higher breeding success on control plots (50-66%) than on disturbed plots (36%). Crested Auklets had a breeding success of 42% on disturbed plots. Predation by microtine rodents and weather accounted for most natural chick mortality. Least Auklet chicks grew at a maximum rate of 4.9 g/day, and Crested Auklet chicks at 12.8 g/day. Least Auklet chicks were fed mostly copepods (Neocalanus plumchrus), whereas Crested Auklet chicks were fed Thysanoessa euphausiids.
4085983|Predation by Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) on the eggs of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), Pelagic Cormorants (P. pelagicus), Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens), and Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) was studied in the summers of 1976-1980. Crows took eggs to specific sites on their territories where they ate them and where we counted the shells. In 1980, the crows took 1,167 cormorant eggs, an estimated 22% of all eggs in first clutches. When Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were present, more cormorant eggs were lost to crows than on days when eagles were absent. More eagles were present on weekends than on weekdays, presumably because the local eagle population was kept inadvertently on the move by people seeking recreation on the water.
10.2307/4086782|Autumnal attraction to man-made lighting causes heavy mortality in fledgling Hawaiian seabirds: Newell's Shearwater (Puffinus auricularis newelli), Dark-rumped Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia sandwichensis), and Band-rumped Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma castro). These threatened, endangered, and rare species (respectively) approach and circle lights on their first flight from mountain nesting colonies on the island of Kauai to the sea. We shielded lights of the largest resort to prevent upward radiation on alternate nights during two fledgling seasons. Shielding decreased attraction by nearly 40%. Most attraction occurred 1-4 h after sunset. Full moon dramatically decreased attraction, a phenomenon that has both theoretical and management implications.
10.2307/4088857|Complete mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene sequences (1,143 bp) were determined from the 14 extant species in the Diomedeidae (albatrosses and mollymawks) and in two outgroup species from the Procellariidae (petrels and shearwaters). Phylogenetic analysis using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methods identified a single best-supported hypothesis of evolutionary relationships within the Diomedeidae, namely that two lineages arose early in the evolution of the Diomedeidae. A further bifurcation in each of these lineages resulted in four monophyletic groups of albatrosses: (1) southern mollymawks, (2) sooty albatrosses, (3) North Pacific albatrosses, and (4) "great" albatrosses. Monophyly of the southern mollymawks (Diomedea bulleri, D. cauta, D. chlororhynchos, D. chrysostoma, and D. melanophris) and sooty albatrosses (Phoebetria fusca and P. palpebrata) indicates that Diomedea is paraphyletic. Resurrection of two genera, dropped historically in taxonomy of the Diomedeidae, results in a total of four genera. Calibrations based on the fossil record indicate that cytochrome-b evolutionary rates in albatrosses are slow compared with those of most mammals.
10.2307/4087621|European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) have recently invaded Arizona and breed in some areas but not in similar areas nearby. In Arizona, European Starlings commonly nest in cavities in saguaro cacti (Carnegiea gigantea) but do not excavate these cavities. To examine whether European Starlings compete with native woodpeckers for nest cavities in saguaros, we studied Gila Woodpeckers (Melanerpes uropygialis) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) in areas with European Starlings and in similar, nearby areas with no European Starlings. We determined which factors explained the variation in the number of nests of each species present on fifteen 10-ha plots. We also compared the location and dimensions of nest cavities used by each species to determine whether European Starlings use Gila Woodpecker nest cavities, Northern Flicker nest cavities, or both. We found that European Starlings compete with Gila Woodpeckers but not with Northern Flickers. This competition decreases the number of Gila Woodpeckers that nest in areas where European Starlings nest. European Starlings used Gila Woodpecker nest cavities, and there was a negative relationship between the number of European Starling nests and the number of Gila woodpecker nests that explained 46.7% of the variation in the number of Gila Woodpecker nests on the plots. European Starlings did not use Northern Flicker nest cavities, and we found no relationship between the number of European Starling nests and the number of Northern Flicker nests. In addition, the number of Gila Woodpecker nests was positively related to the number of large saguaros and negatively related to the slope of the plot. The number of Northern Flicker nests was positively related to the volume of ironwood (Olneya tesota). The number of European Starling nests was negatively related to the distance to agriculture and large lawns.
4086278|Sexual differences in the behavior of adult Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) were examined during the pre- and post-hatch periods of the 1980 breeding season. Following clutch completion, females invested more time than males in both territorial attendance and incubation, but there were no sexual differences in egg-shifting or grass-collection. In contrast, males engaged in more agonistic behavior and long-called and yelped in all contexts more than females before chick hatching. Males also displayed more mate-oriented mews and chokes than did females at this time. During the post-hatch period, there were no sexual differences in territorial attendance, brooding, or frequency of chick feedings, but males continued to exhibit higher frequencies of agonistic acts than did females, as well as higher levels of long-calls and yelps. After chick hatching, both sexes demonstrated increased levels of agonistic acts, long-calls, yelps, mews, and yeows, while males exhibited decreased frequencies of chokes and head-tosses. The results of this study strongly suggest that parental investment by male L. marinus may equal that of females.
10.2307/4088772|Sequences of flight-feather replacement were determined for 13 species of Costa Rican hummingbirds based upon capture-recapture data for 5 to 60 individually marked, adult individuals per species. A single sequence of primary molt occurred in 99% of all individuals, proceeding from innermost to outermost, except that the three outermost primaries molted in the sequence 8-10-9. For secondaries and rectrices, molt typically commenced with the innermost and/or outermost feathers and proceeded centripetally, but with much individual variation. Between 2 and 18 different sequences were observed in these tracts for the different species, the number of sequences per species being closely correlated with the number of molt records. Each species showed two or three common sequences and various rare ones; within at least one species, some individuals showed different sequences in successive annual molts. It is incorrect to postulate genetically fixed, rigid sequences of at least secondary and rectrix molt for these species, or even for individuals within a species. Bilateral asymmetry of feather replacement was very rare for primaries, but more frequent for secondaries and rectrices. For five species in which at least 30 records were available, the progress of molt over the entire plumage was examined, using primary molt as a standard. Molt in secondaries and rectrices commenced when four to six primaries had been replaced, and finished at about the same time as did primary molt. Wing and tail coverts commenced molt after, and finished before, the primaries. In all species, body molt proceeded continuously throughout the period of primary molt, with minor differences in timing in different tracts being far exceeded by individual variation. The major difference between species occurred in the timing of the molt of the throat and crown-forehead. The more specialized and differentiated were these areas into glittering crowns, frontlets and/or gorgets, the later they molted. Females of sexually dichromatic species, although lacking the glittering plumage of their males in these areas, nevertheless showed delays in head molt nearly or quite as great as those shown by males.
4090527| Many species, including shorebirds, feed during both day and night, yet little is known about how this affects behavior and habitat preferences. European Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis apricaria) and Northern Lapwings (Vanellus vanellus) feeding on arable farmland were more widely dispersed at night: nocturnal flocks were smaller, typically monospecific, and occurred in many more fields than diurnal mixed-species flocks. Diurnal numbers of European Golden-Plovers could not be used to predict nocturnal numbers; this indicates that ranging behavior differed between day and night. For both species, nocturnal feeding was recorded on almost all nights, irrespective of moon phase. Northern Lapwing nocturnal feeding activity decreased with increasing cloud cover and decreasing ground temperature, but no clear relationships were detected between European Golden-Plovers' nocturnal feeding activity and environmental variables. Habitat selection differed between day and night, and between species at night. Diurnal studies of habitat choice and site selection may misrepresent the full requirements of such species. /// Muchas especies, incluyendo especies de aves costeras, se alimentan tanto durante el da como durante la noche. Sin embargo, se sabe muy poco si esto puede afectar el comportamiento y las preferencias de hbitat de estas especies. Los individuos de Pluvialis apricaria y Vanellus vanellus que se alimentan en terrenos agrcolas arables presentaron una distribucin ms amplia durante la noche: las bandadas nocturnas fueron ms pequeas, fueron generalmente monoespecficas y se presentaron en muchos ms campos que las bandadas mixtas diurnas. Los nmeros diurnos de P. apricaria no pudieron ser usados para predecir los nmeros nocturnos, lo que indica que el comportamiento de distribucin difiere entre el da y la noche. Para las dos especies, se registr alimentacin nocturna en casi todas las noches, independientemente de la fase lunar. La actividad de alimentacin nocturna de V. vanellus disminuy con el aumento de la cobertura de nubes y con la disminucin de la temperatura del suelo, pero no se detectaron relaciones claras entre la actividad de alimentacin nocturna de P. apricaria y las variables ambientales. La seleccin de hbitat difiri entre el da y la noche y entre especies durante la noche. Los estudios diurnos sobre preferencia de hbitat y seleccin de sitio pueden tergiversar la totalidad de los requerimientos de estas especies. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12013|We examined heterozygosity at hypervariable microsatellite loci and blood parasite presenceabsence in five populations of Golden-winged Warblers (
10.1525/auk.2011.10271|The Imperial Woodpecker (
4085889|Distributions of nesting attempts in time and space within territories of Red-winged Blackbirds were examined in order to test hypotheses about the costs and benefits to females of sharing territories and mates. In a Washington State population, the distribution of time intervals between nest starts on the same territories was identical to the distribution of time intervals between nest starts on different territories. In an Indiana population, short intervals between nest starts within territories were underrepresented, indicating that nests starts were overdispersed in time within territories. In both populations, there was no indication that nests started close together in time were either more or less likely to be nearest neighbors in space than expected by chance. These results support the hypothesis that females in the Indiana population suffer a net cost from sharing their mate's parental care.
4085899| The common practice of expressing community structure in terms of indices of diversity and evenness involves a serious loss of information. Differences attributable to the accumulation of species with increasing area are ignored, differences in the density of individuals are often masked by other factors, and many combinations of species richness and relative abundance can produce the same value of the index. As an alternative we suggest (1) comparing species richness by standardizing samples either to equal numbers of individuals or to the number of individuals expected on equal-sized plots, and (2) expressing the relative abundance of species as a graph of their relative abundances arranged in a decreasing array. We present an analysis of bird census data based on the proposed methods, and we include comparisons with applications of four indices commonly used in ecology, the Shannon-Weaver index of diversity, the J evenness index, the inverse of Simpson's measure of concentration, and Hill's evenness index. For 37 Breeding Bird Censuses taken in various terrestrial habitats across the United States and Canada, the proposed methods reveal some very general relationships about the organization of bird communities in different habitats. Equal-sized areas of mature deciduous forest and second-growth habitats may be equally species rich (14-24 species with 1 breeding territory per 6 ha); the density of individuals (territorial pairs) is generally higher in deciduous forest habitats, and the relative abundance of bird species shows more dominance (less evenness) in the deciduous forest. Mixed coniferous-deciduous forests and dense young deciduous forests have fewer species than mature eastern deciduous forests or second-growth habitats (9-16 and 7-10 species per 6 ha, respectively), although the density of individuals is approximately equal to that in second-growth habitats. Coniferous forests are species-poor (5-8 per 6 ha), and the density of territorial pairs is low (8-12 per 6 ha compared with 40-70 in deciduous forests). Although the proposed methods require assumptions that need to be evaluated carefully, we are optimistic that they will have other useful applications in the analysis of avian communities. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12080|Diverse patterns of parental care, including uniparental care by either the male or the female, provide excellent opportunities to investigate how variation in social traits is maintained in wild populations. Coexistence of different parental strategies within the same population is expected when they exhibit similar costbenefit ratios. We investigated one of the most diverse avian breeding systems and compared parental behavior and reproductive output between nests that are uniparentally cared for by male or female Eurasian Penduline Tits (
4085212|Interspecific territoriality in birds has generally been regarded as adaptive, but Murray (1969, 1971) proposed a nonadaptive model in which interspecific aggression is explained as mistaken misdirected intraspecific aggression. Gradually increasing the size of an artificially induced territory of a male Blue-throated Hummingbird, Lampornis clemenciae, permitted a test of the two hypotheses. The male ejected all hummingbirds except female conspecifics from a small space around an initial clustered grouping of 10 hummingbird feeders, but as feeders were dispersed outward radially in 3 subsequent treatments, thus necessitating defense of an increasingly larger area, first Black-chinned Hummingbirds, Archilochus alexandri (treatment 2), then Rivoli's Hummingbird, Eugenes fulgens (early in treatment 3), and finally male con-specifics (late in treatment 3) were permitted to forage. This shows that the male was able to make clear distinctions between species and contradicts the basic assumption of the Murray model. Character convergence (Cody, 1969) and the adaptive model of Orians and Willson (1964) are discussed as alternative explanations of these findings.
10.2307/4089688|We assessed levels of genetic differentiation based on mitochondrial DNA sequences (portions of the cytochrome-b and ND2 genes) at several taxonomic levels in thamnophilid antbirds. Our focus was to investigate genetic differentiation among populations of two species in the genus Drymophila and to identify the sister genus to Drymophila. In addition, we present evidence of high levels of population subdivision in Hypocnemis cantator (Warbling Antbird). This widespread Amazonian taxon co-occurs, on a local scale, with D. devillei (Striated Antbird). Sequence divergences among populations of D. devillei and D. caudata (Long-tailed Antbird), two bamboo-specialists, often exceeded 2% between populations. Divergences within H. cantator, a species with more generalized habitat requirements and a more "continuous" distribution, were even higher, including 5.7% divergence between samples separated by 350 km of apparently continuous Amazonian forest. At higher taxonomic levels, genetic distances suggest that antbird genera and biological species are old. Genetic divergence between the two species that comprise the genus Hypocnemis was 9.3%, and divergence between D. devillei and D. caudata averaged 7.2%. Weighted parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses supported Hypocnemis as the sister taxon to Drymophila; the genus Myrmotherula was not monophyletic, supporting previous allozyme analyses. In addition to the protein-coding sequences, we found that spacer regions between genes also provided phylogenetically informative characters from the level of suboscine families to within the biological species that we studied.
40406069|Fluctuating asymmetry (FA), small random deviation from bilateral symmetry, often increases with stress during development. Common Terns (
4088552|We examined the influence of nestling hunger and the settlement of additional mates on the parental behavior of polygynous male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). When brood size and nestling age were held constant, the begging behavior of food-deprived nestlings caused most males to begin provisioning nestlings. Males were not influenced by the presence of additional females settling on the territory. Males that did not respond to nestling hunger had a fertile female mate. In response to satiated nestlings, males stopped provisioning. These results suggest that polygynous male Red-winged Blackbirds may be withholding parental care at one nest in order to protect paternity at another nest. Females increased provisioning to food-deprived nestlings and reduced provisioning to satiated nestlings. Changes in female provisioning rate were associated with changes in foraging habitat and volume of prey delivered to nestlings.
4084892|The nesting biology of the American Robin was studied in northern Maine forests during the summer of 1971. Robins arrived on the study tracts in early April and 78% of them nested within 5 m of a clearing. Robins nested higher in deciduous trees than in coniferous trees but this was probably a function of tree height. Of the nests in coniferous trees 65% were in an axillary position and 61% of the nests in deciduous trees were saddled on limbs. Egg-laying began on 10 May and ended on 6 July with the peak of laying occurring between 21 and 25 May. The mean clutch size of 38 nests was 3.2. Of the 34 nests built in coniferous trees 18% were successful, while 52% (N = 20) of the nests were successful in deciduous trees. Daily mortality rates of eggs and young in nests in conifers were 6.7% and 4.2% respectively. Daily mortality rates of eggs and young in nests in deciduous trees were 2.9% and 1.3%. Unknown predators were responsible for all nesting failures. The average number of young fledging per successful nest was 2.5, which put production near the lower limit that has been reported for population stability in robins.
4090349| Although many studies have revealed differences in patterns of extrapair paternity between species and between populations of the same species, possible differences in female extrapair behavior within populations have received far less attention. Here, we propose and test the hypothesis that females of the highly polygynous Red Bishop (Euplectes orix) follow two different extrapair strategies, with benefits of extrapair copulations depending on the quality of their social mate ("conditional-extrapair-strategy hypothesis"). In particular, we propose that females mated to low-quality males enhance the genetic quality of their offspring by performing extrapair copulations with males of higher quality than their social mate (in accordance with the good-genes hypothesis), whereas females mated to high-quality males perform extrapair copulations as insurance against temporary infertility of their social mate caused by sperm depletion due to frequent copulations (in accordance with the fertility-insurance hypothesis). Several predictions derived from our hypothesis, regarding differences in frequency and distribution of both unhatched eggs and extrapair young between high-quality and low-quality males, are tested and shown to be supported. Most importantly, hatching failures occurred more often in territories of high-quality males than in those of low-quality males, and the proportion of unhatched eggs within the territory was positively correlated to breeding synchrony for high-quality males only. Those results suggest that sperm depletion is a risk for females mated to high-quality males with many mating opportunities. The fact that broods of high-quality males without unhatched eggs had a significantly higher proportion of extrapair young than broods of high-quality males with unhatched eggs is consistent with the hypothesis that females mated to high-quality males were successful in performing EPCs as insurance against temporary infertility of their social mates. Furthermore, genetic fathers of extrapair young hatched in territories of low-quality males were found to be of higher quality than the corresponding social fathers, whereas no difference in quality was found between genetic and social fathers of extrapair young hatched in territories of high-quality males. Although we cannot exclude the possibility that the observed pattern was a result of females mating randomly from within the available pool of extrapair males, it is in accordance with our prediction that females mated to low-quality males perform extrapair copulations with males of higher quality than their social mate to enhance offspring fitness. Overall, the data presented here suggest that females within our study colony adjusted their extrapair behavior to the quality of their social mate, even if we cannot entirely rule out alternative explanations for some of the results obtained. Thus, the study provides support for the conditional-extrapair-strategy hypothesis, which states that within populations, females may follow different extrapair strategies to gain different benefits. /// Aunque muchos estudios han indicado que existen diferencias en los patrones de paternidad extra-pareja entre especies y entre poblaciones de la misma especie, las posibles diferencias en el comportamiento extra-pareja de las hembras dentro de una poblacin han recibido mucha menos atencin. En este trabajo proponemos y ponemos a prueba la hiptesis de que las hembras de la especie altamente polignica Euplectes orix siguen dos estrategias extra-pareja diferentes, en las que los beneficios de las cpulas extra-pareja dependen de la calidad de su pareja social ("hiptesis condicional de estrategia extra-pareja"). En particular, proponemos que las hembras apareadas con machos de baja calidad mejoran la calidad gentica de sus cras realizando cpulas extrapareja con machos de mayor calidad que su pareja (de acuerdo a la hiptesis de genes buenos), mientras que las hembras apareadas con machos de alta calidad realizan cpulas extra-pareja como un seguro contra la infertilidad temporal de su pareja social causada por agotamiento del esperma debido a cpulas frecuentes (de acuerdo a la hiptesis de fertilidad asegurada). Varias predicciones derivadas de nuestra hiptesis en cuanto a diferencias en la frecuencia y distribucin de huevos no eclosionados y pichones extrapareja entre machos de alta y baja calidad, son puestas a prueba y resultan cumplirse. Lo ms importante es que los fracasos de eclosin sucedieron ms frecuentemente en los territorios de machos de alta calidad que en los de machos de baja calidad, y la proporcin de huevos no eclosionados dentro del territorio estuvo correlacionada positivamente con la sincrona de la reproduccin slo para los machos de alta calidad. Estos resultados sugieren que el agotamiento de esperma es un riesgo para las hembras que se aparean con machos de alta calidad que tienen muchas oportunidades para aparearse. El hecho de que las nidadas de los machos de alta calidad sin huevos no eclosionados tuvieron una proporcin de pichones extra-pareja significativamente mayor que la de las nidadas de machos del mismo tipo con huevos no eclosionados es consistente con la hiptesis de que las hembras apareadas con machos de alta calidad incrementaron su xito reproductivo al realizar cpulas extra-pareja como un seguro contra la infertilidad temporal de sus parejas sociales. Ms an, los padres genticos de los pichones extra-pareja que eclosionaron en los territorios de machos de baja calidad fueron de mayor calidad que los padres sociales correspondientes, mientras que no existi diferencia en la calidad de los padres genticos y sociales de los pichones extrapareja que eclosionaron en los territorios de machos de alta calidad. Aunque no podemos excluir la posibilidad de que el patrn observado sea el resultado de que las hembras se aparean aleatoriamente con los machos extra-pareja disponibles, este patrn est de acuerdo con nuestra prediccin de que las hembras apareadas con machos de baja calidad realizan cpulas extra-pareja con machos de mayor calidad que su pareja social para incrementar la adecuacin de sus cras. En general, los datos aqu presentados sugieren que las hembras de nuestra colonia de estudio ajustaron su comportamiento extra-pareja a la calidad de su pareja social, an si no podemos descartar completamente explicaciones alternativas para algunos de los resultados obtenidos. As, este estudio respalda la hiptesis condicional de estrategia extra-pareja, que propone que al interior de una poblacin las hembras pueden seguir estrategias extra-pareja diferentes para obtener distintos beneficios. 
10.2307/4088908|The diet of Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) is described using records of gut contents collected by the U.S. Biological Survey. Cedar Waxwings eat more fruit than most other Temperate Zone birds, including one of the most frugivorous thrushes, the American Robin (Turdus migratorius; 84 vs. 57% fruit in their annual diets, respectively). Cedar Waxwings are almost exclusively frugivorous in the winter and early spring. During the spring period of fruit scarcity, flowers comprise a large portion of the diet of waxwings (44% of May diet). Cedar Waxwings eat aerial and vegetation-borne animal prey, whereas American Robins eat vegetation-borne and terrestrial prey. The fruits eaten by Cedar Waxwings are characterized by high sugar and low lipid content. American Robins, like other North American thrushes, eat sugary and lipid-rich fruits, suggesting contrasting digestive strategies in waxwings and thrushes. This perspective is reinforced by the correspondence between these birds' diets, the timing of breeding in relation to availability of preferred foods, and flocking patterns.
10.2307/4088089|Cladistic analysis of 157 characters of definitive plumages and soft parts, natal plumages, tracheae, and nontracheal skeletons of 59 Anatini (sensu Livezey 1986) provided a phylogenetic hypothesis of high consistency (CI = 0.71, excluding unique autapomorphies) and resolution (tree completely resolved except for two nested trichotomies, a trichotomy within the northern-hemisphere mallards, and the tentative placements of two poorly known species of Anas). Major phylogenetic inferences (lists of three or more taxa are in order of increasing relatedness) include the following: (1) monophyly of the tribe is weakly demonstrated; (2) the tribe comprises three subtribes-Cairineae (Cairina, Pteronetta, Aix), Nettapodeae (Chenonetta, Nettapus), and Anateae (all other genera); (3) subtribe Anateae comprises three "supergenera" (each comprising two genera)-Amazonetta (A. brasiliensis and Callonetta leucophrys), Lophonetta (L. specularioides and Speculanas specularis), and Anas (genera Mareca and Anas); (4) the genus Mareca or wigeons includes six species-capensis, strepera, falcata, sibilatrix, penelope, and americana; and (5) the large genus Anas comprises two weakly supported subgroups or cohorts, the first of which includes two subgenera (mallards [Anas] and blue-winged ducks [Spatula]) and the second includes four subgenera (Australasian teal [Nesonetta], pintails [Dafila], Holarctic teal [Querquedula], and spotted teal [Punanetta]). Other findings include that a sister-relationship exists between Anas sparsa and other mallards, that subgroups of the "true" mallards are largely congruent with biogeographic subdivisions (northern-hemispheric, African, and South Pacific), that the four species of shoveler are monophyletic, that a sister-relationship between the speckled teals (flavirostris and andium) and brown pintails (georgica, acuta, and eatoni) exists, and that A. querquedula is the sister-group to the green-winged teals (formosa, crecca, and carolinensis) and not closely related to the blue-winged ducks. Supplementary data and related theory indicated that (1) interspecific interfertility is a poor indicator of relationship, (2) the phylogenetic species concept provided the most practical definition of terminal taxa, (3) a majority of groups within the Anatini originated in the southern hemisphere, (4) body size, sexual size dimorphism, and egg size are strongly constrained phylogenetically, whereas sexual dichromatism and clutch size are less predictable, (5) biparental attendance of broods is primitive within Anatini, and (6) characters of definitive plumages, natal plumages, tracheae, and skeletons had similar consistencies but attained maximal utility at different levels within the phylogeny, which indicates different rates of character evolution within the tribe.
4086064|Observations of the reproductive biology of Thick-billed Murres were made at Cape Hay, Bylot Island and at Coburg Island, Northwest Territories, Canada simultaneously by two teams between June and September 1979. The median laying date at Coburg (2 July) was 4 days earlier than at Cape Hay (6 July), and this resulted in the following differences in breeding biology. At Coburg egg volumes were larger, chick growth rates higher, and the proportion of chicks fledged per pair higher than at Cape Hay. An additional factor that reduced breeding success at Cape Hay, independent of laying date, was ice- and rockfalls onto incubating birds. At both colonies chicks were fed mainly on arctic cod (Boreogadus saida). At Cape Hay 48% of the pairs raised a chick to fledging, with a mean fledging weight of 190.6 g, whereas the corresponding values for Coburg were 71% and 206.1 g.
4087799|Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, has both a dense urban breeding population of Merlins (Falco columbarius) and a large wintering population. We censused Merlins in the city to determine population size. Individuals were trapped to identify banded birds and to obtain sex, age, and body-measurement data. We collected data during the breeding seasons and winters of 1985 to 1988. The wintering population, which varied from 22 to 38 birds, consisted almost entirely of locally hatched birds; only 4 of 303 Merlins seen during the four winters of this study were confirmed to be unbanded. Males predominated in the winter-trapped sample (32 of 55) but not significantly so. There was a significant difference in the age distribution of the sexes. Most males (29 of 32) were 3 years old or younger, and most females (12 of 23) were 4 years old or older. Body mass of adults trapped in winter was significantly higher (10.0% for males, 5.3% for females) than those of nonmigrants trapped during the breeding season. Yearling males were 7.6% heavier than breeding yearlings. Yearling female masses were significantly lower (8.7%) in winter than during the breeding season. Of 45 birds trapped in winter, 20 subsequently bred in the city. These birds occupied preferred nesting sites (those showing more consistent occupancy) more often than would be expected by chance. Nests involving a nonmigratory male tended to be more productive than those with a presumed migratory male. We suggest that increased familiarity with the breeding area may convey some advantage to nonmigratory males. Recruitment into the breeding population did not vary at a statistically significant level with migrant/nonmigrant behavior. Only 1 of 15 yearling males, and 0 of 9 yearling females, caught in winter obtained a breeding territory the next spring, even though yearlings made up 21% of the breeding population during our study. Wintering Merlins had a much greater tendency to have offspring that also wintered; individuals presumed to be migratory did not. This implies a genetic component to the development of a resident nonmigratory population.
25488596|The function of nonvocal sounds in avian communication has rarely been investigated. I used playback of natural and digitally altered wing sounds from both sexes of Calliope Hummingbird (
25488559|Recent avian colonists to the West Indies have expanded their ranges through the archipelago in stepping-stone fashion, occupying virtually all of the available islands with suitable habitat. Consequently, gaps in the distributions of colonists can be interpreted as extinction events. One exception to this pattern is the weakly differentiated population of the Red-legged Thrush (
4090599| Population genetic variation in Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos; n = 152) from Western Russia, North Asia, the Aleutian Islands, and mainland Alaska was investigated using 667 base pairs of the 5-end of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region. DNA sequencing revealed two clades that correspond to Avise et al.'s (1990) group A and B mtDNA haplotypes. Group A haplotypes (80.3%) were wide-spread in all localities from Western Russia to Alaska. Group B haplotypes (19.7%), by contrast, were found primarily in mainland Alaska, where they occurred at high frequency (77.4%), but they also occurred at low frequencies (declining east to west) in the Aleutian Islands (11.8%) and the Primorye region of North Asia (4.4%). Group B haplotypes were not observed in Western Russia or elsewhere in North Asia outside Primorye. Consequently, Mallards exhibited substantial genetic structure between Old World and New World
10.1525/auk.2012.11184|The postbreeding period is critical for many forest birds and especially for juveniles, which must learn to forage on their own before the fall migration. During this period, many birds of the boreal forest are found in early-successional stands (ESS), where fruit abundance is typically high. Boreal forest birds may use ESS to exploit fruit or for reasons other than access to fruit, namely to forage along forest edges or simply to transit through clearcuts between patches of mature forest. We tested whether frugivory, edge use, and transit through small (<65 ha) clearcuts between mature-forest patches accounted for bird abundance in ESS in a boreal forest of Quebec during the summers 2007 and 2008. Fifteen of the 33 species captured in ESS were postbreeding frugivores. Removal of all fruits from
4086366|Eighteen pairs of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) at three different colonies laid second clutches while still feeding young from their first broods. Seven clutches were laid before the chicks from the first brood fledged, and 11 were laid after the chicks from the first brood fledged. In each case, parents alternately fed chicks from the first brood and incubated the second clutch. Sixteen of the 18 clutches disappeared, were addled, or were deserted. Young hatched from the two other second clutches, but all chicks died or disappeared 2-4 days after hatching. We suggest that a second clutch, laid before chicks from the first brood fledged, probably results from a physiological miscue associated with chick loss from the first brood and stimulated by an unusual surplus of food. Conversely, when laid after chicks from the first brood fledge, a second clutch might function as insurance, permitting a pair to raise young late in the season if chicks from the first brood are lost. In either case, parents must partition care between eggs and chicks from the second clutch and fledged chicks from the first brood. Accordingly, the successful fledging of chicks from two broods in a single season is unlikely unless exceptionally favorable conditions occur.
10.2307/4088769| DNA-DNA hybridization was used to compare seven taxa from five avian orders, with an alligator as outgroup. Complete matrices of
4089540|I studied the systematic relationships of the three large owlet-nightjars (Aegothelidae) to determine the taxonomic status of a fawn-colored lowland form currently classified as Aegotheles insignis tatei. I examined most of the existing specimens of A. i. insignis (n = 158) and A. crinifrons (n = 23) and all known specimens of A. i. tatei (n = 4). I also examined specimens of A. albertisi (n = 70), A. archboldi (n = 25), A. bennettii (n = 55), A. cristatus (n = 50), A. savesi (n = 1), and A. wallacii (n = 21). Aegotheles i. tatei was distinguishable from A. i. insignis and A. crinifrons by its small size and in seven plumage characters. Aegotheles i. tatei was further distinguishable from one or the other of these taxa by four additional characters. Unique among owlet-nightjars, A. i. tatei has the shortest tarsi, does not have recurved filamentous tips on its facial feathers, and has stiffer feathers on the auricular area and throat. My search of museums revealed two new specimens of A. i. tatei, expanding the known geographic range of this taxon 1,000 km eastward along the southern coast of Papua New Guinea from the upper Fly River to Nunumai, near the Ulamanu River. Unlike the montane A. i. insignis, A. i. tatei inhabits lowland forests where rivers emerge from foothills of the main cordillera. I propose that tatei be elevated to species status and that the name Starry Owlet-Nightjar be adopted based on the bird's markings. Aegotheles crinifrons, A. insignis, and A. tatei pass through a previously unrecognized but distinctive rufous juvenal plumage. These are the only owlet-nightjars known to exhibit this plumage, which calls for reexamination of generic limits within the Aegothelidae.
4088044|We examined the independent effects of age and breeding experience on reproductive success in Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) 3-9 years old. Both factors significantly enhanced success after the other factor had been statistically controlled. When the sexes were analyzed separately, previous breeding experience had a significant influence on success of females but not males, whereas among first-time breeders, age was significantly more important to males than to females. The trends with experience were curvilinear, which indicates that the advantages of experience after the first breeding attempt decreased. The linear trends with age implied that increases in success are realized more constantly through 9 years of age. Breeding experience enhanced clutch size of the female as well as hatching success of both sexes, while age enhanced the timing of breeding by both sexes and clutch size, hatching success, and fledging success of the male but not the female. Our results relate to sex-specific roles in reproduction, and we suggest that deferred breeding may be more effective strategy for males than for females.
4087440|We measured wing joint mobility in penguins, alcids, diving-petrels, and non-diving fliers. Great reduction in mobility of the intrinsic wing joints was found in penguins, but not in alcids or diving-petrels. This reduction is correlated with simplification of the intrinsic wing musculature. In contrast, alcids and diving-petrels, which use their wings in both air and water, retain the full functional capacities for flight. Movement through the air probably requires a capability for subtle and varied motions, forces, and shape changes that preclude stiffening and simplification of the wing. Hence, the conversion of an aerial wing to a flipper, as in penguins, must be possible only after the evolutionary loss of flight.
10.2307/4090472| Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) and Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus) are small, brightly colored Neotropical migrant birds that breed in eastern North America. Wherever the two species occur together, they hybridize to a limited degree, producing distinctive hybrid phenotypes. In recent decades, chrysoptera has experienced dramatic population declines across much of its range. Those declines have often been correlated with establishment and increase of pinus in the same areas, but it remains uncertain what, if any, role pinus has played in driving the decline of chrysoptera. In a first attempt at molecular genetic analysis of chrysoptera-pinus population dynamics, Gill (1997) reported cryptic, completely asymmetric, and possibly very rapid introgression of pinus mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into chrysoptera, causing what he termed "local cytonuclear extinction" of chrysoptera. As Gill (1997) noted, however, those results were based on relatively small samples from a single area in Pennsylvania. To begin to investigate the generality of Gill's findings and to establish a baseline for long-term genetic and ecological studies, we intensively sampled one new study area (in southern West Virginia) and also sampled more broadly across two other areas (in Michigan and Ohio) that have experienced pinus invasions and chrysoptera declines. In southern West Virginia, introgression of mtDNA appeared to be roughly symmetrical: 15% (11 of 72) of pinus phenotypes possessed chrysoptera mtDNA, and 12% (17 of 137) of chrysoptera phenotypes possessed pinus mtDNA. Results from much smaller samples from Michigan and Ohio also failed to show any evidence of asymmetric mitochondrial introgression. The results we report here, based on mtDNA and plumage phenotype information for 337 birds representing much of the range of the two species, indicate that previous genetic results and inferences from Pennsylvania may not be broadly applicable to the many areas of contact between chrysoptera and pinus in eastern North America. /// Las reinitas Vermivora chrysoptera y V. pinus son aves migratorias pequeas de colores brillantes que se reproducen en el este de Norte Amrica. En lugares donde las dos especies se encuentran juntas, stas se hibridizan de forma limitada, produciendo fenotipos hbridos distintivos. En dcadas recientes, las poblaciones de chrysoptera han disminuido dramticamente a travs de gran parte de su rango de distribucin. Estas disminuciones a menudo han estado correlacionadas con el establecimiento e incremento de poblaciones de pinus en las mismas reas, pero an es incierto si pinus ha jugado algn papel causando la disminucin de chrysoptera. En un primer anlisis basado en gentica molecular de la dinmica poblacional de chrysoptera-pinus, Gill (1997) document la ocurrencia de introgresin crptica, completamente asimtrica y posiblemente muy rpida, del ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) de pinus a chrysoptera, causando lo que l llam "extincin citonuclear local" de chrysoptera. Sin embargo, como lo mencion Gill (1997), sus resultados se basaron en muestras relativamente pequeas de una sola rea ubicada en Pennsylvania. En este trabajo muestreamos intensivamente un rea de estudio nueva (en el sur de West Virginia) y muestreamos ms ampliamente a travs de otras dos reas (en Michigan y Ohio) en donde han ocurrido invasiones de pinus y disminuciones de chrysoptera para comenzar a investigar la generalidad de los hallazgos de Gill y para establecer una base para estudios genticos y ecolgicos de largo plazo. En el sur de West Virginia, la introgresin del ADNmt pareci ser aproximadamente simtrica: el 15% (11 de 72) de las aves con fenotipo de pinus presentaron ADNmt de chrysoptera, y el 12% (17 de 137) de las aves con fenotipo de chrysoptera presentaron ADNmt de pinus. Los resultados basados en muestras mucho ms pequeas de Michigan y Ohio tampoco mostraron evidencia alguna de introgresin mitocondrial asimtrica. Nuestros resultados, basados en informacin sobre ADNmt y plumaje para 337 aves de buena parte del rango de distribucin de las dos especies, indican que los resultados genticos previos y las inferencias de Pennsylvania no seran ampliamente aplicables a las mltiples zonas de contacto entre chrysoptera y pinus en el este de Norte Amrica. 
10.2307/4088935|We sequenced 432 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cytochrome-b gene in all recognized biological species in the genera Zonotrichia, Passerella, and Melospiza, as well as Junco hyemalis and Pipilo chlorurus. Our goals were: to estimate the phylogenetic pattern within and among genera; to compare our estimate with previous estimates based on allozymes and mtDNA restriction sites; to map morphometric distances onto the phylogenetic hypothesis; and to determine the extent of geographic variation in two polytypic species, the Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca) and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia). There was no geographic pattern to cytochrome-b variation within the Song Sparrow, whereas four mtDNA lineages of Fox Sparrows were found; these results corroborate those obtained from mtDNA restriction-site data. Analysis of cytochrome b yielded 14 equally-parsimonious trees. Although mtDNA and allozyme trees were statistically congruent, they differed somewhat, and the data were combined to estimate phylogeny; two equally-parsimonious trees resulted. The consensus tree indicated the following relationships: within Melospiza, the pattern is {Song Sparrow {Swamp Sparrow [M. georgiana], Lincoln's Sparrow [M. lincolnii]}}; Junco and Zonotrichia are sister genera; within Zonotrichia, the pattern is {Rufous-collared Sparrow [Z. capensis] {White-throated Sparrow [Z. albicollis] {Harris' Sparrow [Z. querula] {White-crowned Sparrow [Z. leucophrys], Golden-crowned Sparrow [Z. atricapilla]}}}}; the data could not reliably resolve relationships among the other genra. In general, restriction sites and cytochrome-b sequence data yielded congruent phylogenies. Morphometric distances mapped onto the phylogenetic hypothesis revealed instances in which molecular and phenotypic evolution proceeded at different rates, except within Melospiza, where the two data sets yielded congruent patterns. Song dialects apparently evolved twice within Zonotrichia.
10.2307/4089510|Downstroke force produced by Rock Doves (Columba livia) as they negotiated an obstacle course was measured using in vivo recordings of delto-pectoral crest strain. During this slow
10.2307/4090274| We investigated the function of Red-tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda) tail streamers by quantifying patterns of variation in streamers and other measurable traits on the basis of measurements of 659 individuals, including 422 of known age and 459 of known sex, measured in the field from 2000 to 2002. Our data were consistent with the idea that Redtailed Tropicbirds' tail streamer ornaments function for mate attraction, but it suggested that variability in streamer expression is arbitrary and unlikely to provide a meaningful signal of individual quality during mate choice. The two elongated red tail streamers are composed of bilaterally symmetrical filamentous central rectrices with a black rachis and narrow red vane averaging 399  1.8 mm (SE) in length when fully grown. Prior to breeding, individuals of opposite sex conspicuously display elongated red tail streamers during complex aerial courtship. Streamers exhibited measurement asymmetries (the difference between new and old fully grown tail streamers) of up to 144 mm because of wear at the tip of the older streamer, which accounts for most of the difference in the lengths of two fully grown streamers in individual birds. As in other putative sexually selected traits, tail streamers were more variable than non-ornamental traits across individuals. Males were slightly larger than females in length of fully grown streamers (ratio 1.04), culmen length (ratio 1.02), and tarsal length (ratio 1.01). There was no correlation between fully grown streamer length and body size (score on first principal component) (r = 0.004), wing length (males, r = 0.05; females, r = 0.10), or mass (males, r = 0.10; females, r = 0.04), which is consistent with the hypothesis that streamers have an ornamental rather than aerodynamic function. There was a significant correlation between the ratio of streamer lengths (growing vs. fully grown, r = 0.50) of male and female pair members, indicating that at least the timing of ornament development was coordinated within pairs. However, tail streamers did not appear to be good indicators of an individual's "quality;" on the basis of 372 adults of known age (3-22 years), streamer length did not increase with age (r = 0.30) and was not correlated with an index of body condition (r = 0.03). The streamer length of pair members was not correlated with chick asymptotic body mass or chick fate, nor was female streamer length with egg size. /// En este estudio investigamos la funcin de las muy elongadas rectrices centrales de Phaethon rubricauda basndonos en los patrones de variacin en las rectrices y otros caracteres medidos en el campo entre 2000 y 2002 en 659 individuos (incluyendo 422 de edad conocida y 459 de sexo conocido). Nuestros datos son consistentes con la idea de que los ornamentos de la cola de P. rubricauda funcionan para la atraccin de pareja, pero sugieren que la variabilidad en la expresin de las rectrices es arbitraria y es poco probable que represente una seal significativa de la calidad de los individuos durante la seleccin de parejas. Las dos rectrices rojas elongadas estn compuestas por plumas centrales filamentosas simtricas con rquis negro y una vena roja estrecha que mide en promedio 399  1.8 mm (EE) cuando est completamente crecida. Antes de la reproduccin, durante el complejo cortejo areo, los individuos de sexos opuestos hacen despliegues conspicuos de sus rectrices. Las rectrices mostraron asimetra en las mediciones (diferencias entre rectrices nuevas y viejas completamente crecidas) de hasta 144 mm debido al desgaste de la punta de la ms vieja, lo que representa la mayor parte de la diferencia entre las longitudes de dos rectrices completamente desarrolladas en un individuo. Como en otros caracteres presumiblemente seleccionados sexualmente, las rectrices centrales elongadas fueron ms variables entre individuos que caracteres no ornamentales. Las longitudes de las rectrices completamente desarrolladas, del culmen y del tarso fueron ligeramente mayores en los machos que en las hembras (cociente 1.04, 1.02 y 1.01, respectivamente). No existieron correlaciones entre la longitud de las rectrices completamente crecidas y el tamao corporal (valor en el eje del primer componente principal) (r = 0.004), la longitud del ala (machos, r = 0.05; hembras, r = 0.10), ni la masa corporal (machos, r = 0.10; hembras, r = 0.04). Esto es consistente con la hiptesis de que las rectrices elongadas tienen una funcin ornamental y no aerodinmica. Hubo una correlacin significativa entre el cociente de longitudes de las rectrices (en crecimiento vs. completamente desarrolladas, r = 0.50) de los miembros macho y hembra de las parejas, indicando por lo menos un ajuste temporal en el desarrollo de los ornamentos en cada pareja. Sin embargo, las rectrices elongadas no parecieron ser buenas indicadoras de la "calidad" de los individuos: sobre la base de 372 adultos de edad conocida (3-22 aos), la longitud de las rectrices no aument con la edad (r = 0.30) y no se correlacion con un ndice de condicin corporal (r = 0.03). La longitud de las rectrices de los miembros de una pareja no estuvo correlacionada con el peso corporal asinttico de los pichones ni con la suerte de stos. La longitud de las rectrices de las hembras no se correlacion con el tamao de los huevos. 
4087808|Seabird colonies usually grow as first-time breeders join existing groups. I tested the hypothesis that the presence of conspecifics, specifically the sight and sound of established breeders, was the stimulus responsible for first-time breeders to join existing colonies. The attractive power of conspecifics was tested by presenting to conspecifics models of Laysan Albatross (Diomedea immutabilis) in several behavior postures, with accompanying recordings of vocalizations. I found that Laysan Albatross landed more frequently in areas where both albatross models and vocalizations were present than in areas with only visual stimuli or no vocal stimuli. Landing albatross and those on the ground were found nearer to the artificial social stimuli than would be expected from a random distribution. Three-dimensional models were more attractive than two-dimensional models, and paired models were more attractive than single models for both three-dimensional and two-dimensional models. Three-dimensional models in a sky-pointing posture were the most attractive overall, whereas models in head-forward posture were the most attractive two-dimensional models. Albatross exhibited courtship behavior closer to the models than would be expected from a random distribution. The implications of attraction to endangered bird management and restoration are discussed.
4087711|We studied nest distribution in the Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba), and three possible selective factors that influence it: nest predation, the use of nest groups as information centers for food finding, and spatial variation in nest-hole quality. Quadrat surveys in 2 yr suggested that nests were dispersed randomly with respect to the distribution of suitable holes, but on a larger spatial scale, holes on the south shore were preferred to those on the north. Predation intensity was largely independent of nest density. This was true whether egg predation alone, chick predation alone, or total predation was considered. Nesting close to other birds, however, had a slight advantage on a very local scale. Reduced predation on south-shore nests seemed to be due to their being better protected from predators rather than to specific advantages to aggregation. Neither chick feeding rates nor chick growth rates increased with nest group size, indicating that nest groups did not serve as information centers for food finding. We conclude that the observed clumping of nests was due to a clumped distribution of suitable sites and spatial variation in nest-hole quality.
10.2307/4088149|Survival rates of Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) were examined based on recoveries and recaptures of about 350,000 geese banded at breeding colonies in northern Canada, at migration stopover points in the Dakotas and Missouri, and on the wintering grounds in Louisiana and Texas. First-year survival rates for goslings banded on the breeding grounds varied from 10 to 70% of adult survival rates. Much of the juvenile mortality occurred on the breeding grounds or early on the first migration. Young geese that reached migration stopovers or the wintering grounds were more vulnerable to hunters than adults, but had only slightly lower survival rates than adults. Greater vulnerability and lower survival continued through the second year of life, even though yearlings do not breed. In contrast, older birds that did not breed, or failed early in a nesting attempt, were much less vulnerable to hunters in the following hunting season than successful breeding adults, but did not appear to have higher survival as a result. Geese captured for the first time as breeding adults had slightly lower survival rates than geese that had been recaptured at the colony at least once, suggesting experienced breeders have higher survival. Although there was some evidence that older birds were slightly more vulnerable to hunters, there were no signs of any changes in survival rate with age in older geese, indicating that senescence, if it affects survival, does not do so for at least the first 10 to 15 years of age. With current hunting levels, less than 5% of Lesser Snow Geese are likely to live beyond this age. Our study demonstrates a variety of statistical methods for testing hypotheses about age-specific survival using both recovery and recapture data, even when the data do not permit estimation of the exact survival rates.
90008585|An isolated population of tapaculos attributed to
10.2307/4088409| In the laboratory we determined cooling rates, resting and peak metabolic rates, and minimal thermal conductances in neonates of nine North American and five European shorebird species, with neonatal body masses between 4 and 55 g. We measured the initial (T
4087085|Theoretical models predict that intensity of avian nest defense should increase with age of the offspring. Empirical observations conforming with this prediction have been taken as support for these models. We here present a new explanation for the observed correlations between offspring age and level of nest defense. We propose that increased intensity of nest-defense behavior is largely a result of the methods used by the researchers who made the observations. We suggest that when an observer repeatedly visits or brings a potential nest predator to a nest, nest-defense behavior of parents is modified by positive reinforcement and loss of fear. We tested this hypothesis by measuring nest-defense behavior of female American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and male and female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). The tests were performed at nests visited only once during different stages of the nesting cycle and at a group of nests visited repeatedly from initiation of incubation to fledging. Nest-defense intensity (as measured by call rates, closest approach to the predator, and numbers of dives and strikes) of robins and blackbirds at nests visited once, in most cases, did not increase through the nesting cycle. At nests visited repeatedly through the nesting cycle, intensity of nest defense by both robins and blackbirds, in many cases, increased significantly. In addition to intensity of nest defense increasing at multiple-visit nests, we observed higher proportions of birds at these nests performing nest-defense behaviors than at single-visit nests.
90008576|Obligate brood parasites, which typically lack reliable interactions with conspecifics early in life, acquire species recognition cues by mechanisms other than imprinting on parents and siblings. The African indigobirds (
25488683|Although egg size is a widely studied life-history trait in evolutionary ecology, it is largely unknown whether exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) can influence the allocation of resources to avian eggs and, if so, how. It is well established that female birds exposed to POPs transfer these compounds to their eggs. However, little is documented with regard to contaminant-related changes in egg quality, such as egg mass, albumen mass, yolk mass, lipid, and water content. We report positive correlations between the concentrations of several major classes of POPs (organochlorines, brominated flame-retardants, and metabolically derived products) in plasma of Arctic-breeding Glaucous Gulls (
10.2307/4089948|Migratory hummingbirds forage on diverse assemblages of flowers varying in shape, color, and accessibility. Do hummingbirds learn to feed from flowers by observing other hummingbirds? Learning abilities of Ruby-throated (Archilochus colubris), Broad-tailed (Selasphorus platycercus), and Rufous (S. rufus) hummingbirds were studied in the presence or absence of a knowledgeable tutor. In two sequential trials hummingbirds learned to feed from artificial feeders of increasing complexity. Feeders in the first trial had easy access and were colored red at the nectar spout. In this initial trial, hummingbirds attempted to feed from the artificial feeder regardless of tutor presence, but tutored birds learn to feed more quickly. Feeders in the second trial were uncolored and the nectar spout was surrounded by a long artificial corolla. Tutored birds again learned to feed more quickly than their solitary counterparts. However, both untutored and tutored hummingbirds learned to feed more quickly in the second trial than the first, suggesting that the initial task of identifying a novel feeding resource is more difficult than learning how to access an identified resource.
10.1525/auk.2013.12120|Climate cycling during the Quaternary played a critical role in the diversification of avian lineages in North America, greatly influencing the genetic characteristics of contemporary populations. To test the hypothesis that North American Northern Goshawks (
4089550|The composition of depot fat in Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) was dominated by C
25488680|An understanding of individuality in animal vocalizations can assist in tracking individuals spatially and temporally, and is particularly useful for species of conservation concern. We determined whether
10.1525/auk.2011.10117|Although the costs of parental care are at the foundations of optimal-parental-investment theory, our understanding of the nature of the underlying costs is limited by the difficulty of measuring variation in foraging effort. We simultaneously measured parental provisioning and foraging behavior in a free-living population of Zebra Finches (
10.2307/4088902|Epaulets of female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) vary in brightness from brown to bright red-orange. We test predictions of the hypothesis that condition at the time of molt determines female epaulet brightness and that females in superior condition produce brighter epaulets. We compared each female's epaulet with a series of color photographs ranked from 1 (dull brown) to 12 (bright red-orange) and considered females to have increased in brightness between years if their color increased by at least two ranks. More first-year females than older females increased in brightness, more older females increased in brightness after low reproductive effort than after high effort, and more first-year females increased in brightness after a year of superabundant food (an emergence of periodical cicadas, Magicicada spp.) than after other years. In each case, we expected an improvement in condition. We estimated female condition and regressed condition index on day of the breeding season. During the breeding season, females that later increased in brightness improved in condition relative to females that did not increase in brightness. We confirm a previously reported correlation between age and epaulet brightness, but age does not explain the relationship between change in brightness and either reproductive effort or the emergence of cicadas. We conclude that the most likely explanation for our results is that condition, at least in part, determines epaulet brightness in female Red-winged Blackbirds and that superior condition is reflected by brighter epaulets. Our results support assumptions of the status-signaling hypothesis and mate-choice hypotheses for the evolution of variable plumage. The best explanation for the evolution of variable plumage among female Red-winged Blackbirds is that brightness signals status in female-female aggressive encounters.
10.2307/4089275| Small passerines forage for calciferous material on a daily basis during egg laying, but beyond this general observation, mechanisms of calcium uptake are poorly understood. I investigated calcium uptake during egg laying in Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) by administering a 5-Ci dose of radioisotopic calcium
10.2307/4087543|I studied variation in plumage color and allozymes in Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) from Minnesota and in Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus) from Missouri and from eastern Pennsylvania. Color character scores were less than 2 in Missouri pinus and greater than 26 in Minnesota chrysoptera. The level of genetic divergence (D = 0.001) is comparable to that of conspecific populations of other passerine birds. I found no fixed alleles that could serve as genetic markers for studies of the evolutionary genetics of these warblers.
10.2307/4090024| The need restore energetic reserves at stopover sites constrains avian migration ecology. To describe that constraint, we examined relationships among mass gained by Wilson's Warblers (Wilsonia pusilla) during stopover, abundance of Wilson's Warblers (i.e. capture rate), and arthropod abundance during autumn migration. We found that amount of mass gained by Wilson's Warblers during stopover declined as a function of their abundance. We found no relationship between mass gained by Wilson's Warblers and arthropod abundance. Abundance of Wilson's Warblers was positively associated with arthropod abundance. These patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that mass gain during stopover is density dependent. They also suggest that Wilson's Warblers respond numerically to abundance of food at that stopover site. This numerical response may override any functional response and thereby account for lack of a relationship between mass change and arthropod abundance. /// La necesidad de recuperar las reservas energticas en los lugares de descanso representa una limitante en la ecologa de migracin de las aves. Para describir dicha limitante examinamos la relacin entre el aumento de peso de Wilsonia pusilla durante las paradas, su abundancia (i.e. tasa de captura) y la abundancia de artrpodos durante la migracin otoal. Encontramos que el incremento en la masa de W. pusilla durante el tiempo de descanso disminuy en funcin de su abundancia. No encontramos ninguna relacin entre el aumento de peso de W. pusilla y la abundancia de artrpodos. La abundancia de W. pusilla estuvo positivamente asociada con la abundancia de artrpodos. Estos patrones son consistentes con la hiptesis que plantea que el aumento de peso durante las escalas migratorias es dependiente de la densidad. Los patrones tambin sugieren que W. pusilla responde numricamente a la abundancia de alimento en este sitio de descanso. Esta respuesta numrica podra anular cualquier respuesta funcional y por lo tanto podra ser responsable por la ausencia de una relacin entre el cambio de masa corporal y la abundancia de artrpodos. 
10.1525/auk.2013.12167|An analysis of morphology, vocalization, habitat preference, and distribution revealed that the southern yellow-billed population ascribed to the Plumbeous Seedeater (
10.2307/4089840|We investigated site fidelity and apparent survival in a promiscuous population of Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (Ammodramus caudacutus) in southern Rhode Island. Based on capture-recapture histories of 446 color-banded sparrows studied from 1993 to 1998 at our primary study site, Galilee, we observed significant variation in apparent survival rates among years, but not between sexes. Return rates of adult males (37.6%) and females (35.6%) were not significantly different during any year. Juveniles exhibited high return rates, ranging from 0 to 44%, with males (61% of returns) more likely to return than females (35%). In addition, we monitored movements of 404 color-banded sparrows at nine satellite marshes in 1997 and 1998, which supported our findings at Galilee and documented intermarsh movements by 10% of all banded birds. Lack of gender-bias in adult dispersal and strong natal philopatry of sparrows in Rhode Island occurs regularly among passerines possessing a variety of mating systems. Despite emancipation from parental and resource defense duties, adult male Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows exhibited apparent survival rates similar to adult females. Availability of high-quality breeding habitat, which is patchy and saturated, may be the most important factor limiting dispersal for Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows in Rhode Island.
10.2307/4090104|We conducted phylogeographic analyses of Motacilla flava (Yellow Wagtail) and M. citreola (Citrine Wagtail). We analyzed mitochondrial DNA sequences from 167 M. flava specimens obtained from 17 localities throughout Eurasia and Alaska, and 38 specimens of M. citreola obtained from 7 Eurasian localities. Phylogenetic analysis revealed three clades within traditionally recognized M. flava: Europe and southwestern Asia, northeastern Eurasia, and southeastern Asia. Those groups should be considered species, because together they are not monophyletic, and are interspersed with M. citreola, M. cinerea, and M. alba. Motacilla citreola also is paraphyletic, consisting of two species-level groups. Northeastern and southeastern groups of M. flava each appear to be sister taxa to eastern and western groups of M. citreola, respectively. Together those four groups form a clade, whereas the western M. flava group is considerably more distant. Within each of the three groups of M. flava, and the two groups of M. citreola, little phylogeographic structure was detected. Signatures of past population expansion are evident for some populations of M. flava; expansion is more recent in Moscow, Kursk (western group), Yamal, and Anabar (northeastern group), and older in Tyva and Vyatka (western group). A history of population stability is inferred for the Yamal population of M. citreola. Nested-clade analyses detected contiguous range expansion for southeastern M. flava and restricted gene flow with isolation by distance for northeastern M. flava and eastern M. citreola. ///          (Motacilla flava)   (M. citreola) .      167 M. flava  17    ,  38 M. citreola  7  .      M. flava      ,     - ,  -    - .       ,       ,    ,      .     M. citreola,          .    -          ,    -       .            ,    .           .          .           ( )      ,  ( ),    (- ).           .  "  " (Nested Clade Analysis)    -            -       .
10.2307/4089962| Although the large white-headed gull group (genus Larus) has long been a model in speciation studies, the systematic status and evolutionary relationships of many of its taxa remain unresolved. We used mitochondrial DNA control region and cytochrome-b gene sequences in an attempt to resolve some of those uncertainties. In contrast to previously published results based on nuclear markers, mitochondrial DNA was found to be strongly structured among species, indicating that mitochondrial gene flow is very low. Phylogenetic relationships remain largely unresolved, mainly because of the low amount of variation between species. Horizontal transfer of mitochondrial lineages is demonstrated or suspected between most taxa and obscured the reconstruction of the history of the group. The Mediterranean form michahellis was as differentiated from the other western European species as these are from each others, confirming it is neither conspecific with L. fuscus nor with L. argentatus. The forms fuscus and graellsii do not show any significant differences in haplotypes frequencies, arguing for their subspecific status. /// Bien que le groupe des golands (genre Larus) est depuis longtemps un modle utilis pour les tudes sur la spciation, le statut systmatique et les relations volutives de la plupart de leurs taxa restent non rsolu. Nous avons utilis des rgions contrles d'ADN mitochondrial et des squences du gne cytochrome-b pour tenter de rsoudre certaines de ces incertitudes.  la diffrence des rsultats bass sur des marqueurs nuclaires prcdemment publis, nous avons trouv que l'ADN mitochondrial tait fortement structur parmi les espces, indiquant que le flux de gne mitochondrial est trs faible. Les relations phylogntiques restent en grande partie non rsolu, principalement en raison de la faible quantit de variation entre espces. Le transfert horizontal de lignes mitochondriales est dmontr ou suspect entre la plupart des taxa et obscurcit la reconstitution de l'histoire du groupe. La forme mditerranenne michahellis tait aussi diffrencie des autres espces d'Europe de l'ouest que ces dernires le sont les unes par rapport aux autres, confirmant l'absence de conspcificit avec L. fuscus et L. argentatus. Les formes fuscus et graellsii ne montrent aucune diffrence significative dans les frquences d'haplotypes, argumentant dans le sens de leur statut sous-spcifique. 
10.2307/4089336|Within the New World blackbirds, the lineage of grackles and their allies contains several species that have been extremely well studied by avian biologists. Using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences, we present a phylogeny for the grackles and allies that serves as a basis for comparative studies in this group. We compare two gene regions and determine that ND2 is evolving more rapidly than cytochrome b. However, this difference in evolutionary rate does not result in significant incongruence between phylogenies derived from the two gene regions independently. A combined weighted analysis provides a completely resolved phylogeny for this group. In general, this phylogeny has higher support than the phylogenies derived from the two genes independently. Two major clades are identified in this combined phylogeny (1) a completely South American clade, and (2) a largely North American/Caribbean/Central American clade. This phylogeny has important implications for the study of behaviors and morphology.
4089556|We tested for the presence of compensatory growth (i.e. faster age-specific growth) following ephemeral periods of food restriction in altricial nestlings using the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) as a model species. To simulate periods of poor food conditions, we raised nestlings in captivity, fed them a synthetic diet, and held them at constant body mass for 48 h beginning on either day 3 or 6 of life. Controls were fed according to an age-specific feeding schedule that yielded normal growth curves. During realimentation, restricted nestlings did not achieve a faster rate of growth than that of controls. Instead, these nestlings either died (all controls lived) or gained mass at a rate similar to that of controls. Consequently, restricted nestlings reached asymptotic mass two days later than control nestlings. Growth of culmen and tarsus was not affected, but growth of the eighth primary was reduced for several days in nestlings restricted at day 6 (i.e. late restricted), although this difference disappeared by the age of fledging. Because surviving nestlings achieved only a 15.9% increase in food consumption compared with unrestricted controls and were unable to translate it into a faster rate of growth, the nestlings may have been growing at a maximum rate. We found no differences between late-restricted and unrestricted nestlings in % water, % protein, % lipid, and % ash. The two groups were of similar maturity as measured by % body water and the water index. Our results are consistent with current theory in that periods of food restriction delayed the schedule of mass accretion by the length of the restriction period. Although House Sparrows have a labile growth rate and developmental time, our results did not support the hypothesis of compensatory growth. Based on this and one other study, compensatory growth does not appear to occur in altricial birds.
10.2307/4090120|Using molecular genetic markers that differ in mode of inheritance and rate of evolution, we examined levels and partitioning of genetic variation for seven nominal subspecies (11 breeding populations) of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) in western North America. Gene trees constructed from mtDNA control region sequence data show that subspecies of Canada Geese do not have distinct mtDNA. Large- and small-bodied forms of Canada Geese were highly diverged (0.077 average sequence divergence) and represent monophyletic groups. A majority (65%) of 20 haplotypes resolved were observed in single breeding locales. However, within both large- and small-bodied forms certain haplotypes occurred across multiple subspecies. Population trees for both nuclear (microsatellites) and mitochondrial markers were generally concordant and provide resolution of population and subspecific relationships indicating incomplete lineage sorting. All populations and subspecies were genetically diverged, but to varying degrees. Analyses of molecular variance, nested-clade and coalescence-based analyses of mtDNA suggest that both historical (past fragmentation) and contemporary forces have been important in shaping current spatial genetic distributions. Gene flow appears to be ongoing though at different rates, even among currently recognized subspecies. The efficacy of current subspecific taxonomy is discussed in light of hypothesized historical vicariance and current demographic trends of management and conservation concern. /// Examinamos los niveles de diversidad gentica y la subdivisin de sta para siete subespecies nominales (11 poblaciones reproductivas) de gansos Branta canadensis en el oeste de Norte Amrica utilizando marcadores genticos moleculares que difieren en su modo de herencia y su tasa de evolucin. Los rboles de genes construidos a partir de secuencias de la regin control del ADNmt mostraron que las subespecies de B. canadensis no tienen ADNmt distintivos. Los morfos de B. canadensis de tamao corporal grande y pequeo fueron altamente divergentes (0.077 de divergencia promedio en secuencias) y representaron grupos monofilticos. La mayora (65%) de los 20 haplotipos detectados se encontraron slo en una localidad reproductiva. Sin embargo, tanto en el morfo de tamao grande como en el de tamao pequeo, algunos haplotipos se encontraron en varias subespecies. Los rboles poblacionales para marcadores nucleares (microsatlites) y mitocondriales generalmente concordaron, y mostraron resolucin de relaciones poblacionales y subespecficas, incluyendo separacin incompleta de linajes (i.e. "incomplete lineage sorting"). Todas las poblaciones y subespecies fueron genticamente divergentes, pero a diferentes niveles. Anlisis de varianza molecular, de clados anidados y basados en coalescencia para el ADNmt sugieren que tanto fuerzas histricas (fragmentacin en el pasado) como contemporneas han sido importantes moldeando la distribucin espacial actual de la diversidad gentica. An entre las subespecies actualmente reconocidas parece existir flujo gnico, aunque a diferentes tasas. Se discute la eficacia de la taxonoma subespecfica actual a la luz de los eventos hipotticos de vicarianza histrica y las tendencias demogrficas actuales de inters en trminos de manejo y conservacin.
4087337|Young Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) did not respond preferentially to calls of siblings at 8 and 9 days of age, but did so by 12 days of age. In experiments with and without visual isolation, and with use of playback, we demonstrated a tendency to approach sibling begging calls. This differential response indicated sibling-recognition occurred, was based on experience, and involved vocal cues.
10.1525/auk.2013.12206|Range-wide monitoring of shorebirds (Aves: Charadriiformes) suggests that many species are declining. For most species, it is unknown whether distinct population units exist, which makes management and conservation difficult. One shorebird of conservation concern, the Buff-breasted Sandpiper (
10.2307/4088763|The Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin) is a unique obligate folivorous bird with a well-developed foregut fermentation system. Its relative gut capacity is equivalent to 9% of the adult body mass (ca. 680 g). The large crop and lower esophagus represent 77% of the total gut capacity. The crop is folded into two interconnected chambers, and the lower esophagus is a multichambered organ. Both are unusually muscular with constrictions between chambers. The interior lining of the crop and esophagus has longitudinal ridges covered by cornified epithelium. The crop and esophagus are the main fermentation organs, with pH and volatile-fatty-acids levels equivalent to those found in mammals with foregut fermentation. The proventriculum and gizzard are much reduced in capacity. A combination of abrasion and microbial action effectively reduces particle size along the gut. A trial with markers made out of thin (0.6-mm) plastic film demonstrated that large particles
90008543|Recent years have seen a series of new species descriptions in which no type specimen or fragmentary type specimen material was provided as documentation. These descriptions have been controversial, but the Code of Zoological Nomenclature makes clear that such nondiagnostic types are not acceptable specimen documentation. A more appropriate approach is documentation of the discovery, but without formal naming of the species, until suitable specimen documentation can be assembled.
10.2307/4089712|Many species of waterfowl form pair bonds during the nonbreeding season, yet current descriptions of mating systems and patterns of philopatry in waterfowl focus on the breeding grounds. We studied wintering Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in southwestern British Columbia to examine mating systems and philopatric behavior outside of the breeding season. The number of males at our study area was far more variable than that of females. Males that were unsuccessful in obtaining a mate were observed over a larger area than were paired males. Habitat use overlapped considerably among paired males, and no territorial boundaries were formed. Annual return rates to the nonbreeding grounds were high for both sexes (62% for females, 77% for males). Individuals not only returned to the general study area, but also to specific sections within the study area. Males that did not pair in the previous year returned to the study area in the subsequent year with the same frequency as males that had obtained mates; however, they tended to leave the study area prior to courtship. Therefore, it is possible that males return to the same wintering grounds each year to reunite with a previous mate. High levels of philopatry by both sexes allow pairs to reunite in fall, potentially increasing the benefits of philopatry for both sexes.
4085653|A study of nest-site competition between Adelie (Pygoscelis adeliae) and Chinstrap (P. antarctica) penguins was conducted during the 1977-78 austral summer at Point Thomas, King George Island, Antarctica. Data were collected on the timing of the reproductive cycle, the reproductive success, and the behavioral interactions between Adelie and Chinstrap penguins in areas of competition. Adelie Penguins in mixed sites had their nests usurped by arriving Chinstrap males, and reproductive success was significantly depressed for Adelie pairs nesting in these areas. We suggest that nest-site competition is a relatively recent phenomenon correlated with dramatic population increases among pygoscelids in response to the increased availability of krill in areas of past whaling activities.
10.2307/4090280| Degradation of urinary nitrogen-containing compounds by bacteria in the ceca of birds occurs in a number of herbivorous and omnivorous species, and cecal absorption of the products of that degradation has been reported in chickens. This recycling of nitrogen may play an important role in nitrogen balance, especially in those species with low dietary nitrogen intake. We report, for the first time, degradation of nitrogenous compounds by intestinal bacteria in a bird that is nectarivorous and lacks ceca, Anna's Hummingbird (Calypte anna). Hummingbirds subsist year-round on a liquid diet with an exceptionally low-nitrogen content. Ureteral urine containing ammonia, urea, and uric acid has been observed in the lower intestinal tract of Anna's Hummingbird. Bacteria obtained from intestinal contents and homogenates of the anterior and posterior intestine of this species were able to break down uric acid, urea, and potassium urate, but not sodium urate. This degradation is the necessary first step in the recycling of nitrogen. Assessing its significance will involve determining whether the products of microbial breakdown are subsequently absorbed across the intestinal walls of these unique animals. /// La degradacin bacteriana de compuestos urinarios que contienen nitrgeno ha sido documentada en los ciegos de varias especies de aves herbvoras y omnvoras, y la absorcin de los productos de esa degradacin en los ciegos se ha documentado en gallinas. Este reciclaje de nitrgeno podra tener un papel importante en el balance de este elemento, especialmente en aquellas especies con baja ingestin de nitrgeno en la dieta. En este estudio documentamos por primera vez la degradacin de compuestos nitrogenados por bacterias intestinales en un ave nectarvora que carece de ciegos, el colibr Calypte anna. Los colibres subsisten a lo largo del ao con una dieta lquida que presenta un contenido de nitrgeno excepcionalmente bajo. Se ha observado orina uretrica con amonaco, urea y cido rico en la parte baja del tracto intestinal de C. anna. Las bacterias obtenidas de contenidos estomacales y homogenatos del intestino anterior y posterior de esta especie pudieron degradar cido rico, urea y urato de potasio, pero no urato de sodio. Esta degradacin es un primer paso necesario para el reciclaje de nitrgeno. Evaluar su importancia incluir determinar si los productos de la degradacin microbiana son posteriormente absorbidos a travs de las paredes intestinales de estos animales. 
10.2307/4090411| Passerine birds are favored models for studies of sperm competition and extrapair paternity, yet the intraspecific chronology of testicular maturation and its empirical and theoretical consequences in avain mating systems have been largely ignored. I analyzed age-dependent variation in testicular morphology in 25 breeding populations of the Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens) distributed throughout its geographic range in eastern North America. Yearlings (first breeding season) had significantly smaller testes than older males (2 years). Latitude, altitude, and Julian date had negligible effects on testicular morphology when effects of core body size were controlled. Preparator effects had significant influence on the estimation of testicular volume and asymmetry. Contrary to Mller's hypothesis that the smaller testis compensates for deficiencies in the larger, the volumes of the left and right testes were positively correlated in both yearlings and older males. Older males exhibited a higher degree of degree of directional asymmetry because of the disproportionate enlargement of the left testis. These data suggest that testicular morphology and reproductive capacities of yearling passerines may not be equivalent to those of older males. In a broader context, these findings demonstrate that age class should be factored into quantitative models of sperm competition in birds. /// Las aves paserinas son frecuentemente empleadas como modelos en estudios sobre competencia espermtica y paternidad extra-pareja, pero la cronologa intraespecfica de la maduracin testicular y sus consecuencias empricas y tericas sobre los sistemas de apareamiento de las aves han sido en buena parte ignoradas. En este estudio analic la variacin dependiente de la edad en la morfologa testicular en 25 poblaciones reproductivas de Dendroica caerulescens distribuidas a travs de su rango geogrfico en el este de Norte Amrica. Los machos aales (en su primera temporada reproductiva) presentaron testculos significativamente ms pequeos que los machos ms viejos (de 2 aos). La latitud, altitud y fecha juliana tuvieron efectos despreciables sobre la morfologa testicular una vez que los efectos del tamao corporal fueron controlados. Los efectos del preparador tuvieron una influencia significativa sobre la estimacin del volumen y la asimetra testicular. En contraste con la hiptesis de Mller de que el testculo ms pequeo compensa las deficiencias del ms grande, el volumen del testculo izquierdo estuvo positivamente correlacionado con el del derecho tanto en los machos aales como en los ms viejos. Los machos ms viejos mostraron un mayor grado de asimetra direccional debido al agrandamiento desproporcionado del testculo izquierdo. Estos datos sugieren que la morfologa testicular y la capacidad reproductiva de los paserinos aales podran no ser equivalentes a las de machos de mayor edad. En un contexto ms amplio, estos hallazgos demuestran que la clase de edad debe ser tenida en cuenta en los modelos cuantitativos de competencia espermtica en las aves. 
4085452|There are two distinguishable subspecies of the Black-bellied Whistling-Duck, one in South America to eastern Panama and one from western Panama through Central America to the southernmost United States. The type locality of the species is the West Indies, but there is little evidence that birds from that area are anything but vagrants or birds imported from South America. All records of this species in the West Indies are attributable to the subspecies that occurs naturally in South America. The plate and description on which the name of the species is based seem to be of the South American form. It thus becomes clear that the South American and West Indian populations of Black-bellied Whistling-Duck must bear the name Dendrocygna autumnalis autumnalis (Linnaeus) 1758 and that Dendrocygna discolor Sclater and Salvin 1873 is a junior synonym. The earliest available name for the birds north of Panama is D. a. fulgens Friedmann 1947, of which D. a. lucida Friedmann 1947 is a synonym.
10.2307/4088146|A new method of measuring reproductive success was used to test Van Horne's (1983) contention that reliance on population density as a measure of habitat quality can produce misleading results. None of the three emberizine sparrows in this study showed a clear correlation between high territory density and high reproductive success. Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) were most successful in medium-density plots, and did poorly when territory density was low. Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) were significantly more successful at low density, and were least successful at high density. Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) were the only species whose reproductive success was unaffected by territory density and, thus, for which density would have been a reasonable measure of habitat quality. These results lend support to Van Horne's thesis that the singular use of density may be a poor indicator of habitat quality and that additional factors should be considered.
4087853|I examined Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism of Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) nests to determine the effects of cowbird size (male vs. female) and host size (blackbirds vs. warblers) on both host and parasite growth and reproductive success. Because the 25% adult sexual size dimorphism was not expressed in nestling cowbirds, equal hatching sex ratios remained equal at fledging with both host species. Red-winged Blackbirds were far superior hosts, primarily because they usually accepted cowbird eggs whenever they were laid. In contrast, Yellow Warblers usually accepted only those cowbird eggs laid after the warbler had laid several eggs. The cowbird lays many eggs in many nests; consequently, many eggs were poorly timed, and cowbird reproductive success in Yellow Warbler nests was much lower than in Red-winged Blackbird nests. The impact of cowbirds was far greater on Yellow Warblers than on Red-winged Blackbirds, primarily due to the poor competitive ability, and hence fledging success, of the warbler nestlings relative to the much larger cowbird nestlings. In southern Manitoba, the level of harm suffered by Yellow Warblers because of nest parasitism may be maintained at a high level because the success of cowbirds in Red-winged Blackbird nests keeps cowbirds abundant. The population dynamic relationship among these three species is very different from that reported from a study of the same three species in eastern Ontario.
10.2307/4086030|Werschkul and Jackson (1979) suggested that sibling competition is a dominant force in the evolution of avian growth rates. Two predictions of this hypothesis, (1) that species with broods of one (B1) should grow more slowly than those with larger broods (B2+), and (2) that growth rates should be more variable among B1 species than among B2+ species, are confirmed. A simple numerical calculation illustrates that sibling competition may exert very strong selection on growth rate compared to that of external mortality factors, provided that growth rate accurately predicts the outcome of competition between sibs. The results of such selection depend on the evolutionary flexibility of growth rate in response to factors causing mortality of nestlings. Attempts to relate growth rate to total mortality rate of nestlings and to mortality within broods failed. Hence, I could find neither direct support for the sibling-competition growth-rate hypothesis nor evidence for flexibility of growth rate with respect to nestling mortality. Three alternatives for slow growth among B1 species are discussed: (1) limitation by availability of food, (2) limitation by the availability of essential nutrients in the diet, and (3) increased precocity of the chicks of B1 species.
10.2307/4089845|We examined patterns of geographic variation in contact calls of Orange-fronted Parakeets (Aratinga canicularis) during the nonbreeding season. Calls were recorded throughout the range of that species in Costa Rica. Recordings of wild-caught birds held for one to two weeks indicated that each individual favors one dominant call type and different birds use different favored calls. We used that fact to cull replicate calls from the same individual in field recordings of flocks observed at various locations throughout the sample area. Remaining recordings from a given year were submitted to spectrographic cross-correlation and principal coordinates analysis as described by Cortopassi and Bradbury (2000). Principal coordinates were then correlated with site location using MANOVA. Call durations were also examined for geographical patterns. Like sympatric Yellow-naped Parrots (Amazona auropalliata) studied over the same region by Wright (1996), Orange-fronted Parakeets exhibited significant geographic variation but, unlike the larger species, showed no discrete dialect patterns. Call duration varied clinally but with different patterns for the Nicoya Peninsula and the Guanacaste mainland. Two principal coordinates also showed clinal variation even after removing any correlated duration effects. Scale over which local calls were statistically homogeneous was 7-10 km. We compared that figure to home ranges of 18 birds radio-tracked concurrently with call sampling. Both range areas and range lengths were asymptotic after a week of tracking. Asymptotic range lengths were 2-9 km. Scale of movements of birds, at least during that period, was thus similar to distance within which calls tended to be statistically homogeneous. This study and that by Wright show that several well-known patterns of geographical variation seen with passerine song are replicated quite closely in contact calls of parrots, despite the fact that the functions of vocal signals are quite different in the two taxa.
4089561| In many birds, populations breeding at higher latitudes have larger clutch sizes. It has been hypothesized that this relationship results from the greater availability of food at higher latitudes. We examined geographic variation in clutch size of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in relation to latitude, longitude, laying date, breeding density, elevation, and summer actual evapotranspiration (AE). AE is a measure of terrestrial primary productivity, and we assumed that it was correlated with resource abundance. Clutch size data were complied from nest records throughout the breeding range in the United States and Canada (n = 7,459). Summer AE estimates were made from long-term climatological records, and breeding density was estimated from Breeding Bird Surveys. All variables were averaged for each 1 block of latitude and longitude (n = 85 latilong blocks). We found a strong positive relationship between clutch size and latitude. Absolute levels of resource abundance (summer AE) were not related to clutch size but were related inversely to latitude and longitude. After controlling for the effects of confounding variables, clutch size was related positively to latitude and relative resource abundance (summer AE after controlling for breeding density). Our results are consistent with Ashmole's hypothesis that relative, rather than absolute, levels of resource abundance determine at least some of the variation in clutch size. 
10.2307/4089015|This study was conducted during the 1988-1989 breeding seasons in Dongguk University Forests (area A) at Namyangju-gun, and during the 1993-1994 breeding seasons in Puyong-ri (area B) at Yangpyong-gun, in Kyonggi-do, South Korea. The eggs of the Crow Tit (Paradoxornis webbiana) had two color types (blue and white) in both areas, but no nests had mixed blue and white eggs. In area A (n = 53), blue clutches (75.5%) were more frequent than white ones (24.5%). In area B (n = 62), the ratio of blue clutches (59.7%) to white ones (40.3%) was not skewed significantly from 1:1. In each area, neither the egg-laying period nor clutch size varied with egg color. Twenty females having two or more successive nests had the same egg color, irrespective of their male mates. However, of seven males that mated with different females, eggs in the nests of two males changed from white to blue. In each area, blue and white clutches tended to be widely distributed throughout the study area. Breeding success was related to nest height above ground, but not to egg color or species of nest tree. Nest predation seems to have been caused mostly by Eurasian Jays (Garrulus glandarius) in high nests, by Common Cuckoos (Cuculus canorus) in midlevel nests, and by snakes (Natrix) in low nests.
10.2307/4090311| Perception of predation risk by animals living in habitat mosaics moderates movement behaviors, potentially influencing the connectivity of landscapes. Perception of risk varies with environmental factors, which opens the possibility of managing connectivity for animals in fragmented landscapes. Observing understory forest birds wintering in north-central Florida, we tested the hypothesis that the presence of the Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor), a vigilant, socially dominant flocking species, would increase the propensity of multispecies flocks engaged in mobbing to cross forest boundaries and move into open areas. Eastern Screech-Owl (Megascops asio) calls were broadcast next to an owl model at sites within continuous oak forest habitats (control) or just outside of forest in either old-field habitats with clustered saplings and shrub cover (shrub treatment) or in early successional habitats (open treatment; 11 trials in each habitat). In both treatments (forest adjacent to open or shrub), models were positioned 15 m from forest boundaries in nonforest habitat. For each individual responding to the playback (i.e. that entered a 30-m radius around the model), we recorded the species and its proximity to the model using three distance classes: within 15 m (at the forest edge), 10 m (out in the open), and 1 m (at the model). Both greater vegetative cover and presence of titmice were significantly correlated with proportion of responding individuals and species that approached and crossed forest boundaries, and the effects were additive. We show experimentally that socially dominant titmice can facilitate forest-boundary crossing by other bird species, which suggests a potential mechanism defining connectivity in fragmented landscapes for wintering forest birds. /// La percepcin del riesgo de depredacin por parte de los animales que viven en hbitats en mosaico modera el comportamiento de movimiento, lo cual podra potencialmente influenciar la conectividad de los paisajes. La percepcin del riesgo vara con factores ambientales, lo cual abre la posibilidad de manejar la conectividad para animales que habitan paisajes fragmentados. A travs de la observacin de aves de sotobosque que invernan en Florida nor-central, pusimos a prueba la hiptesis de que la presencia de Baeolophus bicolor, un ave vigilante y socialmente dominante en las bandadas, podra hacer que las bandadas mixtas que exhiben comportamientos para ahuyentar a los depredadores sean ms propensas a cruzar bordes de bosques y moverse hacia reas abiertas. Reprodujimos llamadas de Megascops asio junto a un modelo de este bho en sitios dentro de un bosque de roble continuo (control) o justo afuera del bosque en hbitats de campos abandonados con renovales agrupados y cobertura de arbustos (tratamiento de matorral) o en hbitats de sucesin temprana (tratamiento de hbitat abierto; 11 pruebas en cada hbitat). En ambos tratamientos (bosque adyacente a hbitat abierto o matorral) se posicionaron los modelos a 15 m del borde del bosque en el ambiente no boscoso. Para cada individuo que responda a la grabacin (i.e. que entr en un radio de 30 m alrededor del modelo), registramos la especie y su proximidad al modelo utilizando tres clases de distancia: dentro de 15 m (en el borde del bosque), 10 m (afuera en el hbitat abierto) y 1 m (en el modelo). La mayor cobertura de vegetacin y la presencia de B. bicolor se correlacionaron significativamente con la proporcin de individuos que respondieron y el nmero de especies que se acercaron y cruzaron el borde del bosque, y los efectos de estos factores fueron aditivos. Demostramos experimentalmente que B. bicolor puede facilitar el cruce de bordes de bosque para otras especies, lo que sugiere un mecanismo potencial que determina la conectividad en paisajes fragmentados para aves de bosque invernantes. 
10.2307/4089763|Black-billed Magpies (Pica hudsonia) are a relatively sedentary corvid, with greater dispersal of females than males. To genetically confirm that dispersal pattern, 29 reproductively active adults were captured over two years and were scored for primer-specific random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) bands (53 polymorphic bands in 1996 and 104 in 1997). In both years, we captured more previously banded males than females, and individuals recaptured were more often the heaviest nestling in their brood from the previous years. Genetic distances between all possible adult pairs were calculated and degree of genetic similarity between pair-wise comparisons was assessed using the Mantel test. In the pair-wise comparison of genetic distances, data for both years showed that genetic distances between males were significantly less (P < 0.05) than those for other adult combinations (male-female and female-female). Using the same analytical approach, we found that females were no more genetically similar to one another (P > 0.05) than were random pairs of adults. Group-distance analysis using the computer package RAPD also showed higher genetic similarity among males than among females. We suggest that a plausible hypothesis to account for the relatively high genetic homogeneity of the breeding male population compared to the female population is that a long-lasting intraclutch dominance hierarchy exists among siblings. That hierarchy is sufficiently long-lasting to influence the breeding population, resulting in alpha males remaining in the natal area, whereas lower ranking birds, including females, are forced to disperse.
4085656|The role of social facilitation in breeding synchrony was examined in detail in 8 Herring Gull colonies during one field season in New Jersey and was compared with 4 colonies in the same area during other seasons and 5 colonies from other geographical areas described in the literature. In the eight colonies, mean egg-laying date was inversely related to colony size, the length of the egg-laying period increased with colony size, the variation (standard deviation) in egg-laying date decreased with colony size, and hatching success increased with colony size. As no significant differences occurred in mean egg and clutch size, age variables were eliminated as a cause of the breeding synchrony. Comparing all colonies, the length of the egg-laying period was not correlated with colony size, and the standard deviation of the egg-laying dates decreased as colony size increased up to a size of 200 pairs and increased thereafter. I propose that social facilitation functions to increase synchrony up to a critical number of pairs. Further increases in the number of breeding pairs result in a breakdown of the colony into separate "subcolonies" that function as colonies. Breeding success, as measured by hatching success, increases continuously with colony size. The synchrony, however, increases only up to a critical limit and decreases thereafter, as the synchronies of the subareas occur at different times, making the entire egg-laying period longer.
4087861|Male Northern Shrikes (Lanius excubitor) in Israel create conspicuous caches of impaled prey. We found that cache size increased before the breeding season, peaked when nests were completed and eggs laid, and declined sharply when males fed impalings to mates and young. We hypothesized that cache size reflects the quality of the male and his territory, thereby influencing mate selection. To test this hypothesis, we manipulated cache size of male Northern Shrikes. Male shrikes with experimentally augmented caches mated earlier and sired more offspring than controls, and males without caches remained unpaired and deserted their territories. We concluded that cache size affects mate selection by female Northern Shrikes and that reproductive success is increased in individuals with larger caches.
10.1525/auk.2012.12027|Why individuals use some areas within a home range more than others is poorly understood. One factor that may drive differential use is habitat heterogeneity. We radiotracked 37 male Swainson's Warblers (
4090525| Food abundance, weather, and female body condition are believed to influence the timing of breeding and reproductive performance of birds. We simultaneously studied the effects of weather and food abundance on reproduction in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) while experimentally reducing female condition and foraging efficiency by clipping some flight feathers prior to egg laying. Control females laid larger clutches earlier in the season, had longer incubation periods, and raised heavier nestlings than experimental females. Fledging success did not differ after controlling for laying date and brood size. Greater insect abundance was associated with laying earlier in the season, heavier eggs, and shorter incubation periods. Most likely, feather-clipping affected clutch size through reduced foraging efficiency, which delayed the date of laying, rather than through loss of body condition. This outcome is consistent with the idea that Tree Swallows are "income" breeders that base their timing of reproduction on short-term rates of food intake near the time of breeding. Contrary to studies of other species, Tree Swallows do not appear to time their laying so that hatching will coincide with seasonal peaks in food supply. Rather, they appear to breed when temperature and food abundance are sufficient to allow females of a given body condition to initiate egg laying. /// Se cree que la abundancia de alimento, el clima y la condicin corporal de las hembras influyen sobre el momento de la reproduccin y el desempeo reproductivo de las aves. Estudiamos simultneamente el efecto del clima y de la abundancia de alimento sobre la reproduccin de Tachycineta bicolor, al mismo tiempo que redujimos experimentalmente la condicin y eficacia en el forrajeo de las hembras cortndoles algunas de las plumas para el vuelo antes del perodo de la puesta. Las hembras control pusieron nidadas mayores y ms temprano en la estacin, tuvieron perodos de incubacin ms largos y criaron polluelos de mayor peso que las hembras experimentales. El xito de emplumamiento no difiri luego de controlar por la fecha de la puesta y el tamao de la nidada. Una mayor abundancia de insectos se asoci con una puesta ms temprana en la estacin, con huevos de mayor peso y con perodos de incubacin ms cortos. Lo ms probable es que el corte de las plumas afect el tamao de la nidada a travs de la reduccin de la eficiencia del forrajeo, lo que atras la fecha de puesta, y no a travs de un deterioro en la condicin corporal. Este resultado concuerda con la idea de que T. bicolor cra en funcin de los "ingresos", basndose en las tasas de adquisicin de alimento a corto plazo antes del periodo reproductivo para determinar el momento de inicio de la reproduccin. En contraste con estudios para otras especies, T. bicolor no parece sincronizar la puesta, de manera que la eclosin coincida con el perodo de mayor abundancia de alimento. Ms bien, esta especie parece reproducirse cuando la temperatura y la abundancia de alimento son suficientes como para permitirles a las hembras que cuentan con una determinada condicin corporal iniciar la puesta. 
10.2307/4090289| We estimated annual rates of survival for juvenile and adult Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) using capture-recapture analyses from 22 years of mist-netting data in coastal California (n = 2,651 individual captures). Our apparent survival estimate was 56% for adults and 25% for juveniles. We are the first to estimate an annual juvenile survival rate for a Neotropical migrant using capture-recapture probability estimates. Like most estimates of annual survival, we could not distinguish between dispersal away from our study area (which is likely high for juveniles) and mortality. Hence, survival is underestimated. However, our juvenile survival estimate did not include the period from fledging to independence, a time when mortality can be high. Many researchers have assumed juvenile survival to be half that of adult survival in population models (e.g. source-sink). Our juvenile to adult survival ratio was 45% (95% CI = 27 to 65%). We caution researchers from simply assuming that juvenile survival approximates half of adult survival when modeling populations and suggest using a range of values. Using a range of values is prudent because of the potential for annual variation, site-specific variation, and especially because estimates are imprecise or completely lacking. /// Estimamos tasas anuales de sobrevivencia de juveniles y adultos de Catharus ustulatus utilizando anlisis de captura-recaptura de 22 aos de redeo en la costa de California (n = 2651 capturas individuales). Nuestra estimacin aparente de sobrevivencia fue de 56% para adultos y 25% para juveniles. Este es el primer estudio que estima una tasa de sobrevivencia juvenil anual para una migratoria nertica-neotropical utilizando estimaciones de probabilidad de captura-recaptura. Al igual que la mayora de las estimaciones de sobrevivencia anual, no pudimos distinguir entre dispersin fuera de nuestra rea de estudio (probablemente alta en juveniles) y mortalidad. Por tanto, la sobrevivencia est subestimada. Sin embargo, nuestra estimacin de sobrevivencia juvenil no incluy el perodo desde que el pollo abandona el nido hasta el momento en que alcanza la independencia, un perodo en el que la mortalidad puede ser alta. En modelos poblacionales muchos investigadores han supuesto que la sobrevivencia juvenil es la mitad de la adulta (por ejemplo en modelos de fuente-resumidero). Nuestra proporcin de sobrevivencia de adultos a juveniles fue de 45% (95% IC = 27% a 65%). Advertimos del riesgo de suponer que la tasa de sobrevivencia juvenil es la mitad de la adulta y sugerimos usar una serie de valores. Utilizar una serie de valores es prudente debido a factores potenciales como la variacin anual, variacin local y especialmente porque las estimaciones son imprecisas o inexistentes. 
4085454|Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were observed while feeding on food treated with methiocarb for each minute of 5-min exposure periods on 5 successive days. Feeding decreased during the first exposure, but examination of the data for exposures 2-5 indicated that at least two exposures are necessary for formation of a conditioned aversion. Tests on the individuals of six groups of birds each tested at a different interval (1 day; 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 weeks) after learning an aversion to a treated food indicated little extinction of the aversion. The experiment indicated that much of the extinction is due to the effects of testing conditions and not methiocarb. Another experiment demonstrated that red-wings can recognize the absence of methiocarb from their familiar food as well as recognize it in different food.
10.2307/4088816|The timing and production of crop milk are important to the reproductive tactics of granivorous columbids, but little is known about crop-milk production in frugivorous columbids. We examined the diet of nestling White-crowned Pigeons (Columba leucocephala) and the relative contributions of crop milk and fruit during different stages of nestling development. The diet was dominated by five species of plants: Metopium toxiferum (poisonwood), Guapira discolor (blolly), Ficus citrifolia (shortleaf fig), F. aurea (strangler fig), and Erithalis fruticosa (black torch). Fruit of F. aurea and F. citrifolia dominated the diet during May and June. Fruit of M. toxiferum, which began to ripen in early July, dominated the diet through September. Guapira discolor was found in the diet throughout the nesting season and, overall, ranked as the second-most-important food. Erithalis fruticosa was found in small amounts in samples collected throughout the season. Crop milk remained an important component of the diet throughout the nestling period. As nestlings grew, fruit was added to the diet. At ages 0 to 2 days, the diet was entirely crop milk. The proportion of the diet composed of fruit increased from 10% on day 3 to 65% at day 15. These data suggest that the reproductive tactics of frugivorous pigeons may differ from those of granivorous pigeons. We speculate that frugivorous columbids may continue to supplement the diet of nestlings and fledglings with crop milk. Although this behavior may enhance growth rates and survival of individual young, it also may lengthen the interclutch interval. These findings emphasize the conservation importance of protecting large feeding areas to maintain populations of threatened and endangered frugivorous pigeons.
10.2307/4088412| We tested the hypothesis that brood size in House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon), which have a mean mass of 10.6 g, is confined by digestive limits to maximal rate of energy flow in parents feeding nestlings. Using doubly-labeled water (DLW), we measured field metabolic rate during feeding of nestlings (
4087390|We examined the changes in abundance between 1969 and 1986 of 19 forest-dwelling, mostly migratory bird species breeding in New Hampshire at 2 different scales: one local (an intensively studied 10-ha plot in unfragmented forest) and the other regional (Breeding Bird Surveys statewide). Twelve of the 19 species exhibited similar trends at both scales. Eight neither increased nor decreased, and 4 (Least Flycatcher, Winter Wren, Wood Thrush, and Swainson's Thrush) declined significantly. Others increased, decreased, or remained steady at one or the other scale. Overall, more species declined than increased both locally (8 vs. 1) and regionally (5 vs. 1). Comparisons of these patterns, combined with results of intensive studies at the local level, suggest that changes in food abundance and in vegetation structure related to forest succession on the breeding grounds, along with other processes that influence bird reproductive success and survivorship, are the most plausible explanations for most of the observed trends. Winter mortality was also identified as affecting breeding abundances, but only in short-distance migrant and permanently resident species. We have no evidence to indicate that the numbers of long-distance migrants were affected by events in their Neotropical wintering areas, although this possibility is difficult to assess from breeding-ground data. We urge caution in attributing declines of breeding forest migrant birds to tropical deforestation or similar causes until we either can eliminate alternate explanations that involve breeding-season events or have available critically needed demographic information on migrant populations in their wintering areas.
4085544|The proportion of female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) with an egg in the oviduct in a sample collected on a particular day can be used to estimate the daily laying rate of the population. To evaluate several potential biases in the use of this method of estimation, we collected about 400 female cowbirds in southern Ontario in the breeding seasons of 1976 and 1977. There was no evidence that birds with an egg in the oviduct were more wary than those without. The proportion of birds with an egg in the oviduct was independent of six variables: habitat (breeding or feeding), year, time of day, method of detection in breeding and feeding habitats (by sight or sound), sociality (alone, with a male only, with more than one male, and miscellaneous associations), and method of collecting (searching for birds, waiting for them at feedlots, or trapping). We conclude that the proportion of collected females with an oviducal egg can be a good estimate of the average daily laying rate. This was about 0.8 eggs per female in late May and early June.
10.1525/auk.2013.13048|Nest-habitat selection in colonial species has rarely been assessed at multiple spatial scales to evaluate its fitness consequences. Management for the federally endangered U.S. Interior population of Least Terns (
4087806|Counts of migrating hawks were initiated in 1934 at Hawk Mountain and, except for 1943-1945, have continued to the present. We analyzed the data from 1934-1986 by a standardized sample period appropriate for each species. Counts of several species known to be susceptible to detrimental effects of organochlorine pesticides crashed between 1946-1971. All of these populations recovered subsequently. The immature-age classes and the species with the shortest generation times recovered first after DDT use diminished in North America. These observations mostly conform to predictions made on the basis of the adverse effects of DDT and metabolites on raptors. We suggest that standardized migration counts reflect qualitative trends of most raptor populations that pass over Hawk Mountain in the autumn. Currently, populations of many species appear to be either stable or recovering from the effects of organochlorines. Possible exceptions are eastern populations of the Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis), American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), Broad-winged Hawk (B. platypterus), Red-shouldered Hawk (B. lineatus), and Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos), which may be decreasing.
10.2307/4089199|The closely related Black-eyed Bulbul (Pycnonotus barbatus), Red-eyed Bulbul (P. nigricans), and Cape Bulbul (P. capensis) occupy parapatric to locally sympatric ranges within southern Africa. We used a multivariate discriminant function analysis to relate the South African distribution of these species at the resolution of a quarter-degree square of latitude and longitude to a suite of six environmental variables extracted from digital models. The analysis correctly classified the distribution of these species for 89% of the 1,426 squares analyzed. Separation on the first discriminant function, which successfully characterized the distribution of P. nigricans, was mainly by the coefficient of variation in mean annual rainfall and mean July minimum temperature. Separation on the second discriminant function, which successfully characterized P. capensis, was mainly by the "normalized difference green vegetation index" (derived from NOAA satellite scans). Using the standardized coefficients for the first discriminant function, a model generated to predict the distribution of P. nigricans at a finer geographic resolution within our Eastern Cape Province study area was 93% successful. The results suggest that the three species occupy distinctly different habitats, as characterized by the suite of six environmental variables that we analyzed.
10.2307/4089411|Species in the genus Piranga vary in degree of sexual dimorphism, plumage coloration, morphology, song, migratory patterns, and geographic distribution. To study these aspects of Piranga biology in an evolutionary context, I constructed a phylogeny for this genus using cytochrome-b sequence data. Parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses of DNA data reveal three possible phylogenies for species in this genus. All three trees identify a clade containing P. rubriceps, P. leucoptera, and P. erythrocephala and a clade containing P. rubra, P. ludoviciana, P. olivacea, P. bidentata, and P. flava. The trees differ in the placement of P. roseogularis. Morphology, song, and plumage data did not agree with these phylogenies. Levels of sequence divergence and the phylogeny of haplotypes are consistent with the idea that P. flava as currently described contains more than one evolutionary unit. Mapping the evolution of seasonal migration onto the DNA trees indicates that migration evolved once within Piranga.
10.1525/auk.2010.10048|The production of some types of signals is often assumed to be cost-free, yet we know relatively little about the factors that affect signal development. In birds, many plumage signals are produced by the pigment melanin being deposited into growing feathers. Birds synthesize melanin in a complex pathway involving many potentially limiting resources, one of which may be dietary calcium. We tested the effect of dietary calcium on the development of the black throat patch (bib) of juvenile male House Sparrows (
10.2307/4089109|We used cross-sectional, longitudinal, and experimental data to investigate the effects of habitat at the smallest spatial scale-the nest site-on reproductive success of Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus). Over an eight-year period, the amount of nest cover was positively correlated with fledging success. The same pairs tended to be more successful when they had more nest cover, and experimental increases and decreases in cover significantly affected survival of nest contents. Other characteristics of nest sites, such as nest type and type of vegetation over the nest, did not affect success. The positive effect of cover resulted mainly from reduced exposure of nest contents to predators during incubation and to high temperatures when chicks were young. Roof cover was positively correlated with fledging success in nests from all areas. Cover on the sides of the nest giving the most protection from the sun was positively correlated with fledging success in warmer sites and with survival of young chicks in all areas. Young chicks at nests with less cover were more likely to move from their nests and to die on hot days. Experimental results indicated that the likelihood of egg detection by predators decreased with increasing nest cover. Height of nest entrance was a significant predictor of egg loss, suggesting that accessibility of nest contents to predators was an important component of predation risk. Thermal properties of nests and risk of predation were related; predation of nest contents was more likely when adults were absent, and during hot weather adults were more often absent from nests with little cover. Although the effect of cover on success was small relative to the large yearly variation in success due to food conditions, cover is likely to influence lifetime reproductive success substantially. Large and long-term data sets and experimental approaches may be necessary to identify subtle but biologically important factors among long-lived organisms that inhabit variable environments.
10.2307/4089815|Arabian Babblers (Turdoides squamiceps) are territorial, cooperative breeding passerines in which groups consist of parents and helpers. All members of the group feed nestlings in a single nest and all group members provision at similar rates. We hypothesized that the field metabolic rate (FMR) of Arabian Babbler nestlings is related to group feeding; that is, FMR would be greater in nestlings of larger rather than smaller sized groups. To test that hypothesis, we measured FMR of 10 day old nestlings from small (2 and 3 individuals), medium (4 and 5 individuals), and large (6 or more individuals) groups. We also determined number of hatchlings and fledglings produced per group. There was an increase in body mass and FMR from small to medium-sized groups, but there was a levelling off or decrease in those parameters in large groups. That suggests that there is an optimum group number for provisioning nestlings, above which there may be a negative effect. The relationship between group size and annual number of eggs was not significant, but there was a positive and linear relationship between group size and annual fledglings production. Thus, more eggs reached the fledgling stage with an increase in group size, suggesting that larger groups are better able to defend the nest against predators.
10.2307/4090416| Logistic regression has become increasingly popular for modeling nest success in terms of nest-specific explanatory variables. However, logistic regression models for nest fate are inappropriate when applied to data from nests found at various ages, for the same reason that the apparent estimator of nest success is biased (i.e. older clutches are more likely to be successful than younger clutches). A generalized linear model is presented and illustrated that gives ornithologists access to a flexible, suitable alternative to logistic regression that is appropriate when exposure periods vary, as they usually do. Unlike the Mayfield method (1961, 1975) and the logistic regression method of Aebischer (1999), the logistic-exposure model requires no assumptions about when nest losses occur. Nest survival models involving continuous and categorical explanatory variables, multiway classifications, and time-specific (e.g. nest age) and random effects are easily implemented with the logistic-exposure model. Application of the model to a sample of Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) nests shows that logistic-exposure estimates for individual levels of categorical explanatory variables agree closely with estimates obtained with Johnson's (1979) constant-survival estimator. Use of the logistic-exposure method to model time-specific effects of nest age and date on survival of Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors) and Mallard (A. platyrhynchos) nests gives results comparable to those reported by Klett and Johnson (1982). However, the logistic-exposure approach is less subjective and much easier to implement than Klett and Johnson's method. In addition, logistic-exposure survival rate estimates are constrained to the (0,1) interval, whereas Klett and Johnson estimates are not. When applied to a sample of Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) nests, the logistic-exposure method gives results either identical to, or similar to, those obtained with the nest survival model in program MARK (White and Burnham 1999). I illustrate how the combination of generalized linear models and information-theoretic techniques for model selection, along with commonly available statistical software, provides ornithologists with a powerful, easily used approach to analyzing nest success. /// La regresin logstica se ha hecho cada vez ms popular para modelar el xito de nidificacin en trminos de variables explicativas especficas para los nidos. Sin embargo, los modelos de regresin logstica para el xito de los nidos son inapropiados cuando se aplican a datos de nidos de diferentes edades, por la misma razn que el estimador aparente del xito de nidificacin est sesgado (i.e. nidadas ms viejas son probablemente ms exitosas que nidadas ms jvenes). Aqu se presenta e ilustra un modelo lineal generalizado que les brinda a los ornitlogos una alternativa flexible y adecuada a la regresin logstica que es apropiada cuando los perodos de exposicin varan, como sucede a menudo. A diferencia del mtodo de Mayfield (1961, 1975) y del modelo de regresin logstica de Aebischer (1999), el modelo logstico de exposicin no requiere suponer cundo ocurre la prdida de los nidos. Los modelos de supervivencia de los nidos que incluyen variables explicativas continuas y categricas, clasificaciones de mltiples vas y efectos temporales especficos (e.g. edad del nido) y aleatorios, son implementados fcilmente con el modelo logstico de exposicin. La aplicacin del modelo a una muestra de nidos de Icteria virens mostr que las estimaciones de los niveles individuales de variables categricas explicativas coinciden en gran medida con las obtenidas con el estimador de supervivencia constante de Johnson (1979). El uso del mtodo logstico de exposicin para modelar los efectos temporales especficos de la edad y fecha del nido en relacin con la supervivencia de nidos de Anas discors y A. platyrhynchos brinda resultados comparables con aquellos suministrados por Klett y Johnson (1982). Sin embargo, el enfoque del modelo logstico de exposicin es menos subjectivo y mucho ms fcil de implementar que el mtodo de Klett y Johnson. Adems, las estimaciones de la tasa de supervivencia del mtodo logstico de exposicin estn restringidas al intervalo (0,1), mientras que las estimaciones de Klett y Johnson no lo estn. Cuando el mtodo logstico de exposicin es aplicado a una muestra de nidos de Charadrius montanus, los resultados son idnticos o similares a los obtenidos con el modelo de supervivencia de nidos del programa MARK (White y Burnham 1999). Aqu muestro cmo la combinacin de modelos lineales generalizedos y tcnicas de informacin tericas de seleccin de modelos, junto con paquetes estadsticos comnmente disponibles, les brindan a los ornitlogos un enfoque poderoso y fcil de usar para analizar el xito de nidificacin. 
10.2307/4089332|We studied the relationships between bill and hindlimb morphology and foraging behavior in 17 species of shorebirds within a phylogenetic framework. The results show that the evolutionary change in bill length is related to the evolutionary change in foraging strategies from visual hunting to tactile hunting. We also found evolutionary relationships between an increase in bill length and both plunging and sweeping foraging movements, and a decrease in bill length and "routing" behavior. No relationships were found between hindlimb morphology and movement pattern (continuous hunting species vs. pause-travel species). Examining the evolutionary rate of change in bill and hindlimb structures shows that the family Scolopacidae and the subfamily Recurvirostrinae evolved more rapidly than the species of Charadriinae. Results from our ecomorphological and evolutionary analysis support the hypothesis by Zweers and co-workers on the evolution of feeding mechanisms in shorebirds.
4086062|Electrophoretic methods were used to examine patterns of genic variation within and between populations of 11 species of Galapagos finches (Geospizinae) and to examine phyletic relationships among these species. Levels of genetic heterozygosity are moderate and are similar to those found for other vertebrates, including birds. Interpopulation levels of genic differentiation are slight for all species except the Warbler Finch (Certhidea olivacea), which exhibits marked differentiation. Nevertheless, the island populations of finch species are several times more differentiated than are populations of mainland avian species. The patterns of both within and between population genic variation are most easily explained as functions of population size and the degree of interisland movements. The relationships among the finch taxa suggested by the biochemical data are quite concordant with the traditional view based on morphology.
4088677|Parental vocalizations that influence the feeding process of nestling passerines have not been well studied. Vocalizations of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) were analyzed by audio and video recordings within the nesting cavity. One vocalization, the "squawk," stimulated gaping in nestlings during the feeding process. Parents gave squawks most during the first 48 h posthatching when nestlings were frequently unresponsive to vocalizations and equally or more responsive to vibratory and other stimuli. Contrary to reports about other species, spontaneous gaping did not occur frequently at any age. Within the first 48 h posthatching, however, gapes frequently occurred to "irrelevant" stimuli. As nestlings aged, they gaped more frequently to stimuli directly associated with feeding, such as to squawks at three to seven days of age and to the parents' arrival at older ages. The parents' vocalization plays an important role in coupling the nestlings' gaping response with the appropriate situation, especially during the first days posthatching when nestling responses are coarsely tuned to appropriate stimuli.
10.1525/auk.2013.13033|Understanding how weather influences survival and reproduction is an important component of forecasting how climate change will influence wildlife population viability. Nest predation is the primary source of reproductive failure for passerine birds and can change in response to temperature. However, it is unclear which predator species are responsible for such patterns because predation events are rarely observed. We investigated whether temperature influenced predator-specific rates of nest predation by analyzing data from six prior studies conducted between 1997 and 2010 in Texas, Illinois, and Missouri that used constant-surveillance video systems to identify predators at the nests of Golden-cheeked Warblers (
10.2307/4089717| Using mitochondrial sequence data, we estimated phylogenetic relationships and genetic divergence among selected species of white-eyes (Zosteropidae). We focused on taxa endemic to islands in Micronesia, specifically Zosterops conspicillatus, Z. semperi, Z. hypolais, Rukia oleaginea, and Cleptornis marchei. We also included in our data set five additional species of Zosterops from the Indo-Australian region and three species from Africa, as well as additional passerine outgroups. Our mitochondrial sequence data revealed substantial genetic divergence (5.7 to 7.3%) among Z. conspicillatus, Z. semperi, and Z. hypolais, three taxa that formerly were treated as a single species. In addition, a sequence divergence of 6.5  SE of 1.7% was found between the population of Z. conspicillatus from Rota and "conspecific" populations on Guam, Tinian, and Saipan. The distinctiveness of the Rota population suggests that this taxon should be recognized as a distinct species, a result that bears on the conservation of this population because it has been declining dramatically in recent years. All optimal trees based on analysis of the mitochondrial sequence data place Rukia oleaginea within the genus Zosterops. In all optimal trees, Cleptornis marchei positions as the sister taxon to a clade including all other zosteropids included in this study. The trees based on our data strongly contradict the traditional classification of Cleptornis as a honeyeater (family Meliphagidae). Our data cannot resolve with any confidence the sister relationships of the insular endemic white-eyes, although the optimal trees suggest multiple colonizations of Micronesia by more than one white-eye lineage. 
10.2307/4088269|In many cooperatively breeding birds, the primary reason that helpers remain on the natal territory rather than disperse to breed independently may be to gain an advantage in competing for high-quality habitat. We hypothesized that cavities excavated in living pines, because they require much time to construct, are the critical determinant of habitat quality that has led to cooperative breeding in Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). These woodpeckers rarely colonize sites that lack existing cavities. To test our hypothesis we drilled cavities in 20 unoccupied sites. Eighteen were occupied subsequently, but none of 20 control sites were used. The manipulation added 12 new social units (breeding pairs or unpaired territorial males) to the population. New groups mostly comprised previous helpers and dispersing first-year birds. These results support our contention that variation in habitat quality dependent on the presence or absence of cavities is the ecological basis of group formation in Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. Cavity construction may be used to increase the number of groups in a population, and to prevent territory abandonment when bird-constructed cavities are lost.
4088228|Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) commonly line their grass nests with feathers of other species. In one of three years studied, there was a significant negative correlation between numbers of feathers in the nest and chick nestling periods (i.e. broods surrounded by more feathers fledged earlier). In the third year of the study, the population was divided into two groups, balanced for all measurable aspects of parental quality. In the "removal" group, all feathers were removed daily and in the "control" group all feathers were allowed to remain. All nests and their contents were disturbed equally. Chicks in removal nests had lower growth rates (in mass, wing chord and tarsus) and higher infestations of mites and lice. I suggest that feathers aid chicks directly by preventing hypothermia and indirectly through higher growth rates by allowing earlier fledging when necessary. Protection from ectoparasites may be an important advantage in natural nests where nest cavities are not cleaned out annually. Inadvertent removal of feathers from nest boxes may be an important cause of posthatching declines in feather numbers.
10.1525/auk.2009.09070|The study of sexual dichromatism has played an important role in the development and testing of evolutionary theory. However, previous work has often relied on human vision to assess plumage color and contrast, an approach challenged by the finding that dichromatism is often visible to birds but invisible to humans. We explicitly tested whether the use of human vision undermines previous comparative analyses in antbirds (Thamnophilidae). Focusing on a sample of 71 species, we used (1) molecular sequencing of the SWS1 opsin gene to assess spectral sensitivity and (2) spectrophotometry and color discrimination models to compare human and avian perception of dichromatism. We show that antbirds, like the majority of avian families studied to date, are violet-sensitive (VS) rather than ultraviolet-sensitive (UVS). We also demonstrate that species perceived as monochromatic by humans may look dichromatic to antbirds, but that human and avian perceptions of dichromatism are nonetheless positively correlated. To assess whether this relationship validates the assumptions of published comparative analyses, we re-ran the analyses using avian-perceived dichromatism; the results remained qualitatively unchanged. Although it is clear that the use of spectrophotometry and visual models can improve measurements of plumage coloration, we conclude that scores generated from human perception provide a meaningful estimate of sexual dichromatism for the purposes of comparative analyses, at least in antbirds. Furthermore, our results suggest that discrepancies between human and avian perceptions of sexual color differences may be relatively minor in avian families with VS visual systems. Received 7 July 2009, accepted 16 October 2009.
10.1525/auk.2013.13042|Regular replacement of flight feathers is one of the most time-consuming activities in the annual cycle of flying birds. In principle, birds can decrease the time required to renew feathers by increasing the rate at which individual feathers grow and by growing more feathers simultaneously. Using 52 comparisons of 43 species from 26 families of birds that maintain the ability to fly while molting, we show that the average number of primary feathers growing simultaneously explains 60.0% of the variation in mass-corrected molt duration, whereas feather growth rate explains only 4.4% of the variation in mass-corrected molt duration. The trend is even stronger when species that grow all their primaries simultaneously are included in the analysis. We suggest that the rate at which feather tissue is produced cannot increase without compromising feather quality because the size of the feather follicle constrains the speed at which feathers can be generated. Thus, birds that must molt rapidly to meet time constraints in their life cycle may be forced to reduce the time spent molting mostly by growing more feathers simultaneously.
10.2307/4090288| Nest predation is the primary cause of nest failure among birds. As such, it has large consequences on avian populations and is believed to be an important force in the evolution of avian life-history traits. Therefore, using a combination of laboratory and field research, we investigated the potential of northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) and two species of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus and P. keeni) to be predators on eggs and nestlings of birds, particularly the threatened, canopy nesting Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus). In captivity, both mice and squirrels attempted to prey on eggs and live nestlings of various sizes. Mice attempted to prey on eggs more than nestlings, were more likely to attack nestlings when hungry than when sated, and were more likely to attack small than large nestlings. Individual flying squirrels varied in their propensity to attack but generally were more likely to attempt to open eggs when hungry than when sated. Opening of eggs by both mice and squirrels was limited by egg size. Video monitoring of artificial nests containing live nestlings confirmed that mice prey on large nestlings at canopy nests in Washington State's temperate rainforest. We conclude that mice and flying squirrels are predators of canopy nesting passerines, and their potential as nest predators must be considered to understand the consequences of nest predation. /// La depredacin de nidos es la causa principal del fracaso de nidificacin en las aves. Por ello, la depredacin tiene consecuencias importantes para las poblaciones de aves y se cree que representa una fuerza importante en la evolucin de los caracteres de historia de vida de las aves. Usando una combinacin de trabajo de campo y laboratorio, investigamos el potencial de las ardillas voladoras (Glaucomys sabrinus) y de dos especies de ratones (Peromyscus maniculatus y P. keeni) como depredadores de huevos y pichones, particularmente de Brachyramphus marmoratus, especie amenazada que nidifica en el dosel. En cautiverio, tanto los ratones como las ardillas intentaron depredar huevos y pichones vivos de diversos tamaos. Los ratones intentaron depredar huevos ms que pichones, atacaron con mayor frecuencia pichones cuando estaban con hambre que cuando estaban satisfechos y atacaron con mayor frecuencia pichones pequeos que grandes. Los individuos de ardilla voladora variaron en su propensin a atacar, pero en general prefirieron intentar abrir huevos cuando tenan hambre, en comparacin a cuando estaban satisfechos. La apertura de los huevos por parte de los ratones y las ardillas estuvo limitada por el tamao de los huevos. El monitoreo por video de nidos artificiales que contenan pichones vivos confirm que los ratones depredan pichones grandes en los nidos del dosel en las selvas templadas lluviosas del estado de Washington. Concluimos que los ratones y las ardillas voladoras son depredadores de paseriformes que nidifican en el dosel, y que deben ser considerados para entender las consecuencias de la depredacin de nidos. 
10.2307/4090488| A Gray-headed Albatross (Thalassarche chrysostoma) was recorded traveling, in the course of a foraging trip, at a minimum average ground speed of
10.2307/4086894|We quantified the behavior of four species of passerine birds foraging for arthropods among the foliage of different plant species and vertical strata of a northern hardwoods forest in New Hampshire (USA). Two species (Vireo olivaceus and Setophaga ruticilla) often changed their foraging patterns among strata but not among tree species, except in white ash. In the latter, both species flew more frequently between perches while searching for prey, which reflects the more open canopy and sparser distribution of ash foliage. A third species (Vireo philadelphicus) was stereotyped in its search and attack methods but had variable attack rates, indicating greater foraging success in some microhabitats than in others. The fourth species (Dendroica caerulescens), which inhabits the forest understory, showed few significant differences in its search or attack behavior, despite considerable variety in the sizes, shapes, and arrangements of leaves among available plant species. The foraging patterns of S. ruticilla were further influenced by differences among tree species in the abundance of a major prey type (leafhoppers, Cicadellidae: Homoptera) and by the active escape behavior of those prey. We conclude that these four bird species, all of which search leaves at a distance and fly up to hover or snatch arthropod prey from leaf surfaces, are relatively unaffected by details of foliage structure such as leaf size, shape, petiole length, and arrangement on twigs. The distribution of foliage within a plant, however, and, in some cases, the abundance of certain food resources do differentially influence the foraging tactics and capture success of these species. Because foliage distribution and arthropod availability both vary with plant species, the floristics of a site will strongly influence the "foraging opportunities" available to birds and therefore their success in exploiting particular habitats.
10.2307/4088731|Fruit choice by birds is affected by many factors, but the interactions between sensory and postingestive cues has received little experimental study. To evaluate how postingestive responses to fruit sugars relate to color and other visual cues, we offered individually caged Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) artificial red and green fruits containing 12.8% (g/g) sucrose or hexose (1:1, glucose: fructose) sugars. In 1-h trials with 6-mm-diameter fruits, waxwings preferred hexose to sucrose fruits, regardless of color. Birds given only sucrose fruits ate more than other groups. With 11-mm fruits, patterns of consumption were the same, but clear preferences for hexose over sucrose showed only in 3-h trials. Waxwings given red-hexose and red-sucrose fruits or green-hexose and green-sucrose fruits in two-cup tests learned to prefer the hexose fruits from positional cues. Starlings that initially preferred green learned to prefer red-hexose over green-sucrose fruits after two 3-h trials. Similarly, starlings that initially preferred red learned to prefer green-hexose fruits when paired with red-sucrose fruits. These preferences persisted through three posttreatment trials when both red and green fruits had only hexose sugars. In contrast to Cedar Waxwings, starlings given all-sucrose fruits ate the least, and two of four birds in the all-sucrose group stopped eating fruits altogether. At the level tested, sucrose was a strong associative repellent for starlings, probably because of induced postingestional distress due to their inability to digest sucrose. In contrast, waxwings can digest sucrose, but appear unable to maintain positive energy balance feeding solely on high-sucrose fruits. Development of high-sucrose cultivars may alleviate depredation to fruit crops by sucrose-deficient species like the European Starling, as well as by inefficient sucrose-digesting species like the Cedar Waxwing.
25488650|Populations occupying "sink" habitats can persist if productive local subpopulations exist, if immigrants rescue the population, or if both processes occur. We tested these hypotheses by combining capturemarkrecapture data and recruit origin assignments obtained from feather stable-isotope values from a local Mallard (
10.2307/4085495|We present an analysis of bird distribution in small islands in the northern Lesser Antilles colonized principally from Guadeloupe. In spite of great differences among the islands in soils, rainfall, and vegetation, their avifaunas are strikingly uniform. We found that species inhabiting coastal scrub on the source island performed better as colonists than inhabitants of interior rainforest, suggesting that humid forests in the target islands would hold drastically impoverished bird communities. This proved not to be the case. Diversities in the small-island rainforest communities were compensated by the substitution of coastal scrub species for missing forest counterparts and the expansion of vertical foraging zones. In progressing from species-poor to species-rich communities in equivalent habitat, the number of trophic guilds remains constant, while the number of species per guild and the tightness of species packing increase. We conclude that the faunal uniformity of islands colonized from Guadeloupe results from nonuniform dispersal abilities coupled with ordering ecological constraints: versatility in habitat occupancy, trophic status and size in relation to guild neighbors.
10.2307/4089123|Although the genus Pseudobulweria was described in 1936 for the Fiji Petrel (Ps. macgillivrayi), its validity, phylogenetic relationships, and the number of constituent taxa it contains remain controversial. We tried to clarify these issues with 496 bp sequences from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene of 12 taxa representing three putative subspecies of Pseudobulweria, seven species in six other genera of the Procellariidae (fulmars, petrels, and shearwaters), and one species each from the Hydrobatidae (storm-petrels) and Pelecanoididae (diving-petrels). We also include published sequences for two other petrels (Procellaria cinerea and Macronectes giganteus) and use Diomedea exulans and Pelecanus erythrorhynchos as outgroups. Based on the pronounced sequence divergence (5 to 5.5%) and separate phylogenetic history from other genera that have been thought to be closely related to or have been synonymized with Pseudobulweria, we conclude that the genus is valid, and that the Mascarene Petrel (Pseudobulweria aterrima) and the Tahiti Petrel (Ps. rostrata) are distinct species. In trees constructed with maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood, Pseudobulweria is the sister taxon to Puffinus and Calonectris, and these genera in turn are most closely related to Bulweria (and Procellaria in the maximum-parsimony tree). Pseudobulweria is not closely related to Pterodroma in either tree. Because Ps. r. trouessarti from New Caledonia, and Ps. r. rostrata from Polynesia differ by only 0.6%, these taxa do not deserve species status and should be regarded as valid subspecies.
4085758|Daily energy expenditure (DEE) of six free-ranging Phainopeplas (Phainopepla nitens) was measured using doubly labeled water and simultaneously estimated from behavioral observations using Walsberg's time-budget model for free-living Phainopeplas. DEE measured by labeled water averaged 79.1 kJ/day, which is 2.6 times the basal metabolic rate. Estimates derived from time-budget data averaged almost 40% lower (48.1 kJ/day), demonstrating that time-budget estimates of DEE in birds, even if based on rates of metabolism determined in the laboratory, can involve substantial errors. An analysis of the potential sources of error in the time-budget method suggests that the influence of solar radiation on metabolism of free-living birds should be incorporated into future models. Daily water influx measured by doubly labeled water averaged 154% of the total body-water pool. This seemingly high rate is probably due to this flycatcher's unusual fruit diet.
10.2307/4085509|The digestive tracts of 20 greater sandhill cranes collected at Grays Lake, Idaho in 1972 and 1973 were analyzed for food habits. Their diet contained 8 plant, 8 insect, and 1 annelid species. Plants made up 73% of the total by volume, insects and earthworms 27%. Important foods include timothy corms, short-horned grasshoppers, and fly larvae. Comparison of food items consumed and food available supports the conclusion that cranes are opportunistic and omnivorous feeders.
10.1525/auk.2010.09171|Habitat selection theory predicts that individuals choose breeding habitats that maximize fitness returns on the basis of indirect environmental cues at multiple spatial scales. We performed a 3-year field experiment to evaluate five alternative hypotheses regarding whether individuals choose breeding territories in heterogeneous landscapes on the basis of (1) shrub cover within a site, (2) forest land-cover pattern surrounding a site, (3) conspecific song cues during prebreeding settlement periods, (4) a combination of these factors, and (5) interactions among these factors. We tested hypotheses with playbacks of conspecific song across a gradient of landscape pattern and shrub density and evaluated changes in territory occupancy patterns in a forest-nesting passerine, the Black-throated Blue Warbler (
90008067|According to the sexual selection hypothesis (SSH), plumage conspicuousness has evolved through mate choice because it signals the quality of the bearer, and this is an honest signal because it involves a predation cost in terms of increased detectability to predators. Alternatively, according to the unprofitable prey hypothesis (UPH), conspicuousness is an aposematic signal indicating higher escape potential. We should expect the animals with higher predation risk (either conspicuous or dull, depending on the hypothesis) to have evolved antipredator behaviors to compensate for their higher predation risk (i.e. the compensation hypothesis). We tested these hypotheses by studying the vigilance behavior of wintering Eurasian Siskins (
4086290| The major body components (water, lean dry, and fat) were measured in the carcasses of Gray Catbirds from which the flight muscles had been removed. Birds were collected from May through October near Ann Arbor, Michigan and during September and October near Gainesville, Florida. Additionally, the glycogen content of muscle and liver and the concentrations of glucose and triglycerides in plasma were determined in catbirds sampled during fall migration in Florida. Catbirds attained maximum body masses of 50 g in Florida, largely due to the addition of fat. Relatively lean birds (3-4% body fat) in spring through fall weighed approximately 35 g. Thirteen percent of the birds sampled were estimated to have had sufficient reserves of fat to cross the Gulf of Mexico, although a larger proportion of the population probably makes this crossing. The lean dry mass of the carcass (without the flight muscles) is related significantly to structural body size and time of day, but is not related to molt, sex, or carcass fat content. Plasma glucose and triglycerides in free-living fall migrants do not vary diurnally. Liver glycogen, however, is four times higher in the evening than in the morning (77 and 19 mg/g, respectively), and muscle glycogen is five times higher in the evening (20 and 4 mg/g, respectively). Evening concentrations of glycogen are among the highest values reported for birds and do not confirm the reduction in glycogen reported for some other migrants. 
4086362|I examined the influence of age and time on female reproductive performance in a marked population of Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) breeding in southwestern Manitoba from 1977 to 1980. Arrival date and length of prelaying period varied among years but were not related to female age. Rate of nonbreeding and nest-initiation date varied among years and by female age. Age variation in nonbreeding was due to the failure of yearlings and a few 2-yr-olds to breed. Yearlings began laying an average of 5-8 days later than older females. Clutch size increased with female age but showed no significant annual variation despite extreme changes in water conditions. Reproductive performance generally increased with female age and with improving water conditions. These results were consistent with theoretical models that predict that reproductive effort (RE) increases with age or with declining residual reproductive value. My data support Williams' (1966) prediction that organisms adapted to living in variable environments adjust their RE in relation to probability of success. Female Lesser Scaup exhibited a temporally dynamic reproductive strategy, and natural selection seemingly has favored "yes-if" genes (Williams 1966) that effect breeding only when conditions are favorable for the individual.
4086703|We recorded parent-offspring feeding interactions for 47 offspring from 16 broods of Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) after nest departure. Longspur parents divided their families into single-parent brood units within a day of leaving the nest, and these brood units remained stable until offspring became independent. There were no differences in either the food load sizes or the feeding visit rates of male and female parents, but by the last week of parental care, female-tended offspring had moved an average of 626 m from their nest, almost 4 times farther than those tended by males. We outline the potential costs and benefits of brood division and suggest that this behavior may be common among birds with biparental care because it helps to reduce predation of entire broods and to improve the foraging economics of parents.
10.2307/4089900| Among songbirds, does reduced fidelity to a breeding site lead to vocal improvisation? Data for Cistothorus wrens suggest it does, because North American Sedge Wrens (C. platensis) have low breeding-site fidelity and improvise their large song repertoires, but sedentary or site-faithful populations of this and other Cistothorus species in the Neotropics and North America all imitate. We attempted to falsify this hypothesis by studying extreme south-temperature zone populations of Sedge Wrens in the Falkland Islands. We banded and recorded males on Kidney Island and Carcass Island, and then compared song matching among males both within and between islands. Birds on those islands were highly site-faithful from one breeding season to the next. Song repertoires were large, up to 400 in one bird, and songs of birds within an island were more similar to each other than to songs on the other island, showing that these birds do imitate. These results further support the idea that site fidelity promotes imitation of neighbors, and continue to highlight the unique correlation between reduced site-fidelity and song improvisation in the North American Sedge Wren. /// Lleva la baja fidelidad al sitio de cra a la improvisacin vocal entre las aves canoras? Datos para el gnero Cistothorus sugieren que s, porque poblaciones de C. platensis que presentan baja fidelidad al sitio de cra improvisan sus repertorios de largos cantos, mientras que poblaciones de esta especie y de otros Cistothorus del Neotrpico y de Amrica del Norte que son sedentarias o fieles a sus sitios imitan. Intentamos falsear esta hiptesis estudiando poblaciones de C. platensis en el extremo sur de Amrica del Sur, en las Islas Falkland (Malvinas). Anillamos y registramos machos en las Islas Kidney y Carcass, y luego comparamos la similitud de los cantos entre machos de una misma isla y de islas diferentes. Las aves de estas islas fueron muy fieles a sus sitios entre una estacin reproductiva y la siguiente. Los repertorios de cantos fueron grandes, llegando a 400 cantos en un ave. Los cantos fueron ms similares entre s dentro de una isla que entre islas, mostrando que estas aves s imitan. Estos resultados tambin apoyan la idea que la fidelidad al sitio de cra promueve la imitacin de los vecinos, y continan destacando la correlacin entre baja fidelidad al sitio e improvisacin de cantos en C. platensis. 
25150254|Recent work in Michigan's eastern Upper Peninsula suggests that terrestrial areas bordering northern Lake Huron provide important stopover habitat for spring migrating landbirds, principally because of the presence of emergent aquatic midges (Diptera: Chironomidae). Migrants were concentrated in lakeshore habitats abundant with midges during spring migration. American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) and Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) foraged and used habitat differently, depending on their distance from the lakeshore. Here, we describe results of an integrative study in which we sampled resources, quantified American Redstart foraging behavior, and estimated mass change in American Redstarts and five other common migrant landbird species to evaluate the importance of adult midges as an early season resource for spring migrants. Resource sampling and American Redstart foraging behavior suggested that more food was available in shoreline habitats than inland during spring migration. Furthermore, migrants gained mass in shoreline habitat during stopover, which supports the argument that nearshore areas provide important stopover habitat for spring migrants. Finally, resource sampling, mass change estimates, and American Redstart foraging behavior suggested that midges and spiders (Araneae: Arachnidae) provided an important early season resource for migrating landbirds. Evidence suggests that midges were responsible for elevated spider abundance at the shoreline and that birds foraged on both midges and spiders. Midges appear to play an important role in providing high-quality stopover habitat for landbirds migrating through Michigan's eastern Upper Peninsula. /// Trabajos recientes en el este de la parte superior de la Pennsula de Michigan sugieren que las reas terrestres a lo largo de la orilla del Lago Huron representan un hbitat importante para las paradas de aves migratorias terrestres durante la primavera, principalmente debido a la presencia de insectos acuticos emergentes (Diptera: Chironomidae). Las aves migratorias se concentraron en los hbitats de ribera del lago, los cuales presentan una alta abundancia de quironmidos durante la migracin de primavera. Individuos de Setophaga ruticilla y Dendroica virens forrajearon y utilizaron de distintas maneras el hbitat, dependiendo de sus distancias a la orilla del lago. Aqu, describimos resultados de un estudio que integra muestreos de recursos, cuantificacin del comportamiento de forrajeo de S. rutinilla y estimaciones de los cambios en el peso de S. rutinilla y otras cinco especies de aves migratorias terrestres comunes, para evaluar la importancia de los quironmidos adultos como un recurso disponible tempranamente en la estacin para las aves migratorias de primavera. El muestreo de recursos y el comportamiento de forrajeo de S. rutinilla sugirieron que la disponibilidad de alimento era mayor cerca de la orilla del lago que en los hbitats interiores durante la migracin de primavera. Adems, las aves migratorias ganaron peso corporal durante las paradas en los hbitats ribereos, lo que apoya el argumento de que las reas ribereas son un hbitat importante para las aves durante las paradas migratorias de primavera. Finalmente, el muestreo de recursos, las estimaciones del cambio en el peso y el comportamiento de S. rutinilla sugirieron que tanto los quironmidos como las araas (Araneae: Arachnidae) proveyeron de un recurso importante durante la fase temprana de la estacin para las aves terrestres migratorias. La evidencia sugiere que los quironmidos fueron responsables de la elevada abundancia de araas en las orillas del lago y que las aves forrajearon tanto quironmidos como araas. Los quironmidos parecen tener un papel importante en proveer de hbitat de alta calidad para las paradas migratorias de aves terrestres que migran a travs de la parte este y superior de la Pennsula de Michigan.
10.1525/auk.2013.12201|Determining how phenotypic traits covary within individuals can offer information on the underlying functional interactions of complex phenotypes and the mechanisms that promote them. We investigated covariation of the white wing patch of the Eurasian Black-billed Magpie (
10.2307/4089760|Several species of migratory songbirds exhibit a distinct form of habitat segregation while on their Neotropical wintering grounds in which males and females occupy different habitat types. In the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), that sexual habitat segregation is a result of behavioral dominance of older males. In that study, we examined whether such dominance behavior and the resulting differential habitat segregation has consequences for the condition or survival of excluded individuals. We quantified the physical condition and survival of redstarts (both males and females) occupying two habitat types that differed in the proportion of males and females present in Jamaica. Both sexes of redstarts occupying female-biased habitat lost significantly more mass over-winter and had lower annual survival and longevity compared to individuals in male-biased habitat. These results suggest that nonbreeding habitats differed in suitability, with the least suitable habitat being occupied predominately by females. Because most female redstarts are forced to over-winter in these kinds of habitats, they may often be in poor physiological condition prior to departing on spring migration for the breeding grounds. This in turn may influence dynamics of the breeding period by determining their condition and perhaps reproductive success. Furthermore, because winter habitat segregation appears to lower female survivorship, it may also limit the number and availability of breeding females. These results implicate events that occur during the nonbreeding period as playing a critical role in the annual dynamics of this migratory species.
4086066|Based on morphological and distributional information, it appears that two species of Stelgidopteryx swallows breed in Costa Rica: the northern and highland serripennis (represented by the race fulvipennis, if one recognizes subspecies at all), and the southern and lowland ruficollis (represented by uropygialis on the Caribbean versant and decolor on the Pacific). In general, the forms of ruficollis have larger bills, shorter wings, brighter throats, and paler rumps than do those of serripennis. Overlap without demonstrable hybridization occurs between uropygialis and fulvipennis locally along the northern and eastern foothills of the central highlands of Costa Rica. Previous accounts of hybrids, intergrades, etc. have failed to take into account the amount of individual variation and migratory behavior of all forms. Appropriate English vernaculars for the species serripennis and ruficollis would be Northern and Southern Rough-winged Swallow, respectively.
4086122|Foraging methods and habitats used by the predominant members of an excavating guild, Downy (Picoides pubescens), Hairy (P. villosus), and Pileated (Dryocopus pileatus) woodpeckers, were studied in southwestern Virginia during the breeding, postbreeding, and winter seasons. Seasonal variation of foraging methods and sites used by the three woodpeckers may be related, in part, to the birds' ability to excavate into trees. Downy, Hairy, and Pileated woodpeckers differed in their changes in the breadths of their foraging methods and the microhabitats they used. Downy Woodpeckers did not make the entensive excavations necessary to reach concentrated food sources, such as carpenter ants, during winter but increased the breadth of their resource use in all aspects of foraging behavior examined. Pileated Woodpeckers are strong excavators and decreased breadth primarily by excavating into tree trunks during the winter to exploit concentrated food sources. Hairy Woodpeckers, with excavating capabilities intermediate between Downy and Pileated woodpeckers, demonstrated an intermediate change in the breadth of their foraging behavior. Selection of different foraging microhabitats may account for more of a reduction in overlap among the three woodpecker species than other aspects of foraging behavior examined. Also, seasonal changes in overlap among species suggest an inverse relationship between overlap of species macrohabitats (stand structure) and microhabitats (sizes of trees and positions in trees used for foraging). As woodpeckers forage in more similar stands, they may use less similar trees and positions in trees as foraging sites.
10.1525/auk.2010.09122|We show that the topology of separate elements in avian compound rhamphothecae are strongly similar among different clades, not only in external appearance but in how these elements conform to underlying structures. We conducted a morphological survey of 81 extant bird species and tested superficial similarities in external beak morphology for substantive similarity in associated skeletal structures and nerve courses. A revised set of morphological characters for compound rhamphothecae was optimized onto three recent phylogenetic trees to assess the relationships of homology and homoplasy in rhamphothecal morphology. Osteological correlates of rhamphothecae from the extinct basal ornithurine birds
90008580|The evolution of egg mimicry by parasites and the recognition of foreign eggs by hosts are important components of the coevolutionary arms race between brood parasites and their hosts, which is one of the most behaviorally complex of all hostparasite interactions. To examine cues used by the Yellow Warbler (
4090444| Various studies have shown that experiments on nest defense and enemy recognition (e.g. recognition of adult brood parasites) can be confounded by many factors. However, no study has described a confounding effect of control dummy type. Here, I show experimentally that the choice of control dummy may influence the results of an experiment and lead to erroneous conclusions. I tested recognition abilities of the Blackcap (Sylvia atricapilla), currently a host rarely used by the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus). Blackcaps responded very differently to two kinds of control dummies: they ignored the Eurasian Blackbird (Turdus merula) dummy, but attacked the Rock Pigeon (Columba livia) dummy as frequently as they attacked the Common Cuckoo. The differing results may be explained by the fact that the Rock Pigeon is more similar to the Common Cuckoo than the Eurasian Blackbird is, and consequently elicited more aggressive behavior than the latter. Thus, absence of discrimination in enemy-recognition studies may reflect a methodological artifact resulting from varying abilities of particular hosts to discriminate along a continuum of recognition cues. This result has serious methodological implications for further research on enemy recognition and aggression in general: a control dummy should not be too similar to the dummy brood parasite; otherwise, the chance of detecting existing recognition abilities is low. Further, I argue that coevolution only increases pre-existing aggression in the particular host species. Therefore, increment analysis (assessing changes in host antiparasitic responses during the nesting cycle while controlling for background aggression to control dummies) provides a more accurate picture of hosts' recognition abilities than the traditional approach (when the total level of antiparasitic response is analyzed). /// Varios estudios han mostrado que los experimentos sobre defensa de nidos y reconocimiento del enemigo (e.g. reconocimiento de parsitos de nidadas adultos) pueden ser equvocos por muchos factores. Sin embargo, ningn estudio ha descrito un efecto equvoco dado por el tipo de modelo usado como control. En este estudio, demuestro experimentalmente que la eleccin del modelo puede influenciar los resultados de un experimento, conduciendo a una conclusin errnea. Prob las habilidades de reconocimiento de Sylvia atricapilla, que es actualmente un hospedero raramente usado por Cuculus canorus. S. atricapilla respondi de manera muy diferente ante dos tipos de modelos control: ignoraron a modelos de Turdus merula, pero atacaron a modelos de Columba livia tan frecuentemente como atacaron a C. canorus. Las respuestas diferenciales pueden ser explicadas por el hecho que C. livia es ms similar a C. canorus que a T. merula, por lo que provoc un comportamiento ms agresivo que contra T. merula. Por lo tanto, la falta de discriminacin en estudios sobre el reconocimiento de enemigos puede estar reflejando un artefacto metodolgico que resulta de la variacin en la habilidad de un hospedero en particular de discriminar a lo largo de un continuo de seales de reconocimiento. Este resultado presenta serias consecuencias metodolgicas para estudios futuros sobre reconocimiento de enemigos y sobre agresividad en general: el modelo utilizado como control no debe ser muy parecido al modelo del parsito de nidada; de lo contrario, la probabilidad de detectar la habilidad de reconocimiento existente es muy baja. Adems, argumento que la coevolucin slo aumenta la agresin preexistente en una especie hospedera en particular. Por lo tanto, los anlisis de incremento (la determinacin de los cambios en las respuestas antiparasitarias de los hospederos durante el ciclo de nidificacin mientras se controla por la agresin de fondo hacia modelos control) brindan una mejor idea sobre las habilidades de reconocimiento de los hospederos que el enfoque tradicional (cuando el nivel total de la respuesta antiparasitaria es analizado). 
10.2307/4089638|Chemical contaminants in the environment can influence both morphological and behavioral traits. Ornamental traits such as plumage color may be especially valuable in detecting the effects of toxic chemicals in the environment, although they have been little used to date. We examined patterns of plumage color in subadult female Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) breeding in an area on the Hudson River that had high levels of PCB contamination and compared them with specimens from other parts of the species' range and with data from two previous studies of plumage color. Tree Swallows are one of the few species of birds where females, but not males, have a distinctive subadult plumage during their first breeding season. Females from four breeding colonies in contaminated areas had significantly more adult-type blue-green coloring than females from the rest of the species' range. Subadult female plumage color at these sites formed a continuum between the normal dull brown plumage found elsewhere and the blue-green plumage of older females. Among these subadults, more colorful individuals bred earlier, and earlier breeding in turn led to larger clutches. The patterns of plumage anomalies described here are consistent with disruption of the endocrine system resulting in the early expression of an adult trait. This study supports recent suggestions that examining variation in ornamental traits of animals is an efficient means of detecting effects of chemical contaminants in the environment.
10.2307/4090314| Incubation is an energetically demanding process for parents, in part because of the thermodynamic costs of maintaining egg temperature. One might predict that aspects of nest construction-in particular, the thermodynamic properties of the nesting material and the degree to which the nest provides shelter from the wind-would have important effects on thermodynamic costs. However, little is known about the relative importance of those factors. Here, we investigate egg cooling rates in several commonly used nesting materials and in various wind speeds and examine the effect on those rates of wetting the materials. Nesting materials differ greatly in their insulating properties; feather down is the best insulator, and grass the worst. When the materials are wet, eggs cool much more rapidly, differences between materials tend to diminish, and down becomes the worst insulator. Hence, there may be significant selection pressure to choose particular nesting materials, but materials may be better or worse according to the situation of the nest. Increasing wind speed also has profound effects on egg cooling rates, even at the low speeds tested here, which implies strong selection pressure to locate and construct nests that minimize wind speed at the egg surface. Our results suggest that nest construction may have an important bearing on the subsequent costs of reproduction, and that important trade-offs may exist between nest construction for reduced thermodynamic costs, and other costs and benefits of nest-building and reproduction. /// La incubacin es un proceso energticamente costoso para los padres, en parte debido al costo termodinmico de mantener la temperatura de los huevos. Se podra predecir que los aspectos de la construccin del nido - en particular, las propiedades trmicas del material y el grado al cual el nido provee de proteccin contra el viento - podran tener un efecto importante sobre los costos termodinmicos. Sin embargo, se sabe poco sobre la importancia relativa de estos factores. En este estudio, investigamos las tasas de enfriamiento de los huevos en varios materiales de nidificacin comnmente usados y a varias velocidades de viento. Adems, examinamos el efecto de mojar los materiales sobre las tasas de enfriamiento. Los materiales de nidificacin difirieron considerablemente en sus propiedades de aislamiento; los plumones son el mejor aislante y el pasto el peor. Cuando los materiales estn mojados, los huevos se enfran mucho ms rpido, las diferencias entre materiales tienden a disminuir y los plumones resultan ser el peor aislante. Por lo tanto, debe existir una presin selectiva significativa para elegir ciertos materiales en particular, pero los materiales pueden ser mejores o peores dependiendo de la ubicacin del nido. El aumento de la velocidad del viento tambin tiene un efecto fuerte sobre la tasa de enfriamiento de los huevos, incluso a las velocidades bajas que se probaron en este estudio, lo que implica una fuerte presin selectiva para construir y localizar los nidos de manera que se minimice la velocidad del viento sobre la superficie de los huevos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la construccin del nido puede tener un papel importante en el costo reproductivo subsecuente, y que puede existir una solucin de compromiso importante entre la construccin del nido para reducir los costos termodinmicos, y otros costos y beneficios de la construccin del nido y reproduccin. 
10.2307/4089964| We examined genetic population structure of five putative subspecies of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) in the San Francisco Bay region (M. m. samuelis, M. m. maxillaris, M. m. pusillula, M. m. gouldii, and M. m. heermanni) at nine microsatellite loci to assist the development of Song Sparrow conservation and management strategies. We sampled nine populations from five putative subspecies and found low estimates of differentiation between populations within subspecies and between. Despite low estimates of divergence, genetic structure at the subspecies level was indicated by the larger amount of variance accounted for by subspecies than populations. We propose that a management unit encompassing the range of M. m. pusillula be given priority for conservation on the basis of the extent of genetic divergence shown by Cavalli-Sforza and Edward's chord distance, and the topology of an unweighted pair group cluster analysis supported by 100% of bootstrap replicates across loci. Although M. m. samuelis and M. m. maxillaris appear undifferentiated from M. m. heermanni, it remains possible that adaptive differences between those types were not identified with neutral loci. /// Nous avons examin la structure gntique de populations de cinq sous-espces putatives de Bruant chanteur (Melospiza melodia) dans la rgion de la Baie de San Francisco (M. m. samuelis, M. m. maxillaris, M. m. pusillula, M. m. gouldii, et M. m. heermanni) au niveau de neuf loci microsatellitaires pour venir en aide au dveloppment de stratgies de conservation et d'amnagement pour le Bruant chanteur. Nous avons chantillonn neuf populations  partir de cinq sous-espces putatives et nous avons trouv de faibles estimations de diffrenciation  l'intrieur et entre les populations intra et inter sous-spcifiques. Malgr de faibles estimations de divergence, la structure gntique au niveau sous-spcifique tait reprsente par une plus grande variance au sein des sous-espces que dans les populations. Nous proposons qu'une unit d'amnagement contenant la gamme de M. m. pusillula puisse tre reconnue comme prioritaire sur le plan de la conservation en se basant sur l'tendue de la divergence gntique montre par la distance d'accord de Cavalli-Sforza et Edward, et la topologie d'une analyse par groupe pair, non pondre et supporte par 100% des rplications de rchantillonnage  travers les loci. Bien que M. m. samuelis et M. m. maxillaris apparaissent indiffrencier de M. m. heermanni, il est encore possible que ces diffrences adaptatives entre ces types n'aient pas t identifies par des loci neutres. 
10.2307/4088411| The bioenergetics of eight captive Common Barn-Owls (Tyto alba alba) acclimated at 5C were studied during the restoration of a 30% reduction in body mass following a period of total food deprivation. The eight-day period during which body mass was restored (Refeeding I) was compared with a five-day prefasting period (Feeding), corresponding to steady body mass and a six-day period (Refeeding II) of stabilization at a new steady state. Food was given ad libitum throughout the feeding periods. During Refeeding I, the rate of increase in body mass (13.9  SD of 1.0 g/24 h in females and 9.2  0.8 g/24 h in males) was close to the maximum value for growth of captive or wild owlets. It was achieved by a 1.63-fold increase in gross energy intake and daily metabolized energy, respectively, of 370  42 and 275  31 kJ/d during Feeding. In contrast to the clear increase in food assimilation efficiency observed in other species during refeeding, the high rate of energy intake and body mass restoration in the Common Barn-Owl was associated with only a slight increase in assimilation efficiencies: 52.0  2.2% versus 49.1  1.0% during Feeding for dry mass; and 75.5  1.1% versus 74.1  0.6% for energy. This slight increase could only be attributed to a reduction of the energy lost in pellet production (i.e. to a higher effectiveness in gastric digestion). The energetic cost of daily change in body mass was estimated in both sexes and both feeding periods, and appeared to be constant (10.8  1.1 kJ/g fresh body mass). Using this value, the part of the daily metabolized energy invested in the existence metabolism was calculated. After four days of refeeding, existence metabolism paradoxically appeared similar or even higher than before fasting, while the body mass was still lower than the initial value. Thus, in contrast to the laboratory rat (Rattus norvegicus) or humans, the Common Barn-Owl is unable to enhance restoration of body reserves by minimizing existence requirements when refed ad libitum after a period of starvation. This might be partly due to the maintenance of a high locomotor activity throughout starvation and refeeding. 
10.2307/4088100| We used an audiocartridge system, which measures the ballistic movements of the egg attributable to embryonic cardiac contractions, to determine the heart rate (HR) of the Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus) before and during the prolonged hatching process. The average heart rate at 36C in 8 embryos (mean fresh egg weight = 38 g) was 262 beats/min (bpm) on the last day of prepipping, and 264 bpm on the first day of shell fracture (external pipping). Heart rate increased to 291 bpm after penetration of the air cell by the beak (internal pipping), and increased to 310 bpm on the last day of incubation. With a few exceptions, the heart rate, which did not change systematically during the last stage of prepipping, remained unchanged early in external pipping and then increased markedly with the initiation of pulmonary respiration. Changes in heart rate during hatch may be related to increases in the oxygen consumption of the embryo. The heart rate was highly variable even at constant ambient temperatures. It changed according to a temperature coefficient
90008558|Morphologically similar sympatric species reduce competition by partitioning resources, for example by occupying different dietary niches or foraging in different areas. In this study, we examine the foraging behavior of Arctic (
4085460|Common Loons wintering in Tom's Cove off Assateague Island, Virginia, defended individual feeding territories of 4-8 ha during the day and rafted together at night. The major activity, feeding, followed a daily pattern. Tidal changes, especially the onset of ebb tide, influenced feeding location and intensity. Generally considered solitary birds, loons may have a loosely cohesive social system of individuals that remain in contact throughout the year.
10.2307/4089204|Five species in the African lovebird genus Agapornis are the only parrots, other than Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus), that construct nests. Four species (A. personata, A. fischeri, A. lilianae, and A. nigrigenis) build domed nests within cavities, and a fifth (A. roseicollis) builds a cup-shaped nest within a cavity. The other members of the genus have nesting behavior that is more typical of other parrots: A. cana and A. taranta nest in cavities that are lined with nesting material, and A. pullaria excavates burrows in arboreal ant or termite nests. To reconstruct the evolution of nest-building behavior in Agapornis, I sequenced a 622-bp portion of the cytochrome-b gene (mtDNA) and used the sequence data to build a phylogenetic tree. The phylogeny shows that the divergence between the nest-building species and cana, taranta, and pullaria occurred early in the evolution of the genus. The nest builders form a monophyletic clade, and the small amount of sequence divergence between personata, fischeri, lilianae, and nigrigenis indicates that they probably should be considered subspecies of a single species. A reconstruction of the evolution of nest-building behavior on the phylogeny indicates that the construction of a domed nest is derived from the habit of lining the nest, because the nesting material is used to build progressively more complex nest structures. Within Agapornis, nest building is associated with colonial breeding. The construction of a nest within a cavity may allow breeding pairs to modify and use cavities that otherwise might be unsuitable. This would, in turn, give pairs added flexibility in nest-site choice, thereby facilitating colonial breeding.
4090359| American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) populations are increasing across North America, often at high rates in urban areas. A monthly survey of American Crows in the Seattle Christmas Bird Count (CBC) circle suggested that winter counts reflected American Crow abundance at other times of the year, so we used CBC results for American Crows as a measure of population trend. In the Seattle area, local survival and fecundity appear unable to account for exponential population growth. We tested the hypothesis that juvenile dispersal from outlying suburban and exurban areas contributes to growth in the urban population by radiotagging 56 juveniles 5-46 km away from the central business district of Seattle and tracking their movements. Juvenile American Crows' centers of activity were 0.2-22.2 km away from their natal territory during the first 3-12 months after fledging. An estimated 45% survived one year. Movements of dispersing American Crows varied in their consistency with simulated random-walk paths; the data suggested that, at the population level, American Crows were not drawn into urban areas, though some individuals may have been. Movements of dispersers produced a net influx into the city, because of greater reproductive success outside the city than in it. Simulations of urban population growth that included immigrants and emigrants accounted for most of the observed growth, which indicates the importance of distant suburban and exurban breeding pairs to urban population dynamics. /// Las poblaciones de cuervos Corvus brachyrhynchos estn aumentando a travs de Amrica del Norte, a menudo a tasas altas en reas urbanas. Un muestreo mensual de C. brachyrhynchos en el circuito del Conteo de Aves de Navidad (CAN) de Seattle sugiri que los conteos invernales reflejan la abundancia de C. brachyrhynchos en otros momentos del ao, por lo que usamos los resultados del CAN como una medida de la tendencia poblacional de esta especie. En el rea de Seattle, la supervivencia y la fecundidad local parecen incapaces de explicar un crecimiento poblacional exponencial. Evaluamos la hiptesis de que la dispersin de juveniles desde reas suburbanas y nourbanas contribuye al crecimiento de la poblacin urbana. Para ello, marcamos con radios y seguimos los movimientos de 56 juveniles localizados a una distancia de 5 a 46 km del centro comercial de Seattle. Los centros de actividad de los juveniles de C. brachyrhynchos se ubicaron entre 0.2 y 22.2 km de distancia de sus territorios natales durante los primeros 3 a 12 meses luego de abandonar el nido. Un porcentaje estimado del 45% de los individuos sobrevivi un ao. Los movimientos de dispersin de los cuervos variaron en su consistencia con rutas simuladas de movimientos aleatorios. Los datos sugieren que, a nivel poblacional, C. brachyrhynchos no se desplaz hacia reas urbanas, aunque algunos individuos podran haberlo hecho. Los movimientos de dispersin produjeron un flujo neto hacia la ciudad, debido a un mayor xito reproductivo afuera de la ciudad que dentro de sta. Las simulaciones de crecimiento poblacional urbano que incluyeron inmigrantes y emigrantes explicaron la mayora del crecimiento observado, lo cual indica la importancia de parejas reproductivas distantes suburbanas y no-urbanas en la dinmica poblacional urbana. 
10.1525/auk.2013.13003|Painted Buntings (
10.1525/auk.2012.11226|Males of monogamous species are expected to increase their overall fitness by engaging in extrapair copulations, but the fitness implications of this behavior for females are somewhat less clear. Numerous studies have examined the potential benefits of extrapair mating to females, but the costs of extrapair mating, which may be substantial, are less well studied. Quantifying these costs is critical to understanding the evolution of extrapair mating behavior in females. We examined the costs of extrapair paternity to female Red-backed Fairy-wrens (
4086118|Baptista's (1977) survey of Pacific Northwest coastal populations of Puget Sound White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis) revealed that Oregon birds sing one sequence of song components, while birds in Washington and British Columbia use another sequence or theme. The form of the terminal trill varies in a manner that defines geographically distinct song dialects. My studies of pugetensis breeding at Finley National Wildlife Refuge in the inland Willamette Valley of Oregon in 1977 and 1978 revealed a third southern-theme dialect. This dialect remained stable during my study and was indistinguishable from that of birds recorded in the same area in 1965. By matching songs of pugetensis recorded in flocks during spring migration with songs of breeding pugetensis, I determined that a single flock may contain birds from many areas of the Pacific Northwest, suggesting that flocks of migrating birds are aggregations of birds, each individual having its own schedule and destination. A review of the literature on White-crowned Sparrow song indicated that support is equivocal for the hypothesis that there is a particular functional relationship between population and dialect structure and that song dialects are indicators of discrete demes. I concluded that this hypothesis is inconsistent with the observed patterns of geographical variation in pugetensis song components. I suggest that these patterns may indicate the existence of some other functional relationship between demes and dialects, or that dialects may not indicate the presence of demes in pugetensis. I also note the possibility, suggested by these patterns, that juvenile pugetensis may learn songs in a manner different from those documented so far for White-crowned Sparrows.
10.2307/4088973|We studied the interannual movements of 361 individually color-banded adult Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus) at Great Salt Lake, Utah from 1990 to 1993. In northern Utah, Snowy Plovers nested in a dynamic environment; suitable breeding habitat declined by 50% at two study areas in four years. Male Snowy Plovers were more site faithful than females; 40% of males exhibited fidelity compared with 26% of females (P < 0.01). However, as the amount of available suitable nesting habitat declined, male site fidelity diminished, whereas female fidelity remained relatively constant. We found strong evidence that female site fidelity was affected by nesting success in the previous year. Females that nested unsuccessfully were less likely than successful females to exhibit site fidelity the following year; males did not exhibit this nest-success bias. In addition, unsuccessful females breeding at sites with high densities of nests tended to disperse the following year, whereas male site fidelity did not appear to be affected by either a study site's overall nesting success the previous year or a study site's nest density the previous year. Female avoidance of areas with high densities of nests may be an antipredator strategy. Snowy Plovers in northern Utah have biparental incubation duties, but only males care for broods. Familiarity with brood-rearing areas was one plausible explanation for male-biased fidelity. However, we could not eliminate an alternative hypothesis that both focal study sites represented scarce breeding areas due to the presence of freshwater, and male Snowy Plovers preferred to use the same areas rather than disperse. We propose that more landscape-level studies are needed to address questions concerning local and regional movement patterns.
4086464|Fratricide in eagles (Accipitridae: Accipitrinae) is either obligate [second hatched nestling (C2) always dies] or facultative (C2 occasionally dies) and appears to be a function of relative size differences between siblings. Several factors, including time between hatching, differences in hatching weights, and possibly the sex of the nestling in conjunction with its hatching sequence, influence size difference. Size differences are modified further by feeding rates of young by adults. These factors determine the relative differences in locomotor development and coordination and thus the ability of the first-hatched nestling to control access to and monopolize parent-provided resources. Significantly greater (P < 0.0001) within-clutch volume differences (an indicator of disparity in hatching weight) and greater time between hatching (mode of 3 versus 2 days) are found in eagles in which fratricide is obligate (three species) than in those in which fratricide is facultative (eight species). We suggest that these differences are proximate mechanisms that account for observed differences in the frequency of fratricide in eagles. Although size difference is determined in part by the sex and hatching sequence of the nestling, the role of offspring sex in fractricide is not clear.
10.2307/4089592| Species diversity and community composition of birds change rapidly along elevational gradients in Costa Rica. Such changes are of interest ecologically and illustrate the value of protecting continuous gradients of forest. We used mist nets and point counts to sample birds along an elevational gradient on the northeastern Caribbean slope of the Cordillera Central in Costa Rica. Sites included mature tropical wet forest (50 m); tropical wet, cool transition forest (500 m); tropical premontane rain forest (1,000 m); and tropical lower montane rain forest (1,500 and 2,000 m). We recorded 261 species from 40 families, including 168 species captured in mist nets (7,312 captures) and 226 detected during point counts (17,071 observations). The sample included 40 threatened species, 56 elevational migrants, and 22 latitudinal migrants. Species richness (based on rarefaction analyses) changed little from 50 to 1,000 m but was lower at 1,500 and 2,000 m. Mist nets and point counts often provided similar views of community structure among sites based on relative importance of difference categories of species (e.g. migrant status, trophic status). Nonetheless, important differences existed in numbers and types of species represented by the two methods. Ninety-three species were detected on point counts only and 35 were captured only. Ten families, including ecologically important ones such as Psittacidae and Cotingidae, were not represented by captures. Elevational migrants and threatened species occurred throughout the gradient, illustrating the need to protect forest at all elevations. A comparable study from the Cordillera de Tilarn (Young et al. 1998) demonstrated similar patterns of species change along an elevational gradient. Comparisons with that study illustrated that point counts are a valuable complement to mist-net studies. Both studies indicated the diverse nature of the avifauna along elevational gradients in Costa Rica. 
10.2307/4090193| We studied the effect of the secondary metabolite emodin on food intake, food assimilation mass coefficient (AMC), feeding bout rate, and defecation rate in a frugivorous bird, the Yellow-vented Bulbul (Pycnonotus xanthopygos). Emodin is found in the ripe fruits of Mediterranean buckthorn (Rhamnus alaternus), which is commonly eaten by P. xanthopygos. Emodin (0.005 and 0.01% wet mass) increased dry matter AMC by 8-10% after isolating the effect of food intake. At a concentration of 0.001%, emodin increased the AMC of nitrogen, fat, and organic remains (mainly carbohydrates and proteins). Apart from emodin, fruits of R. alaternus contain a variety of secondary metabolites that may interact with each other and influence bird digestion. Artificial food laced with crude Rhamnus fruit extract increased food intake and dry matter AMC. Emodin (0.01% wet mass) increased the average time between defecations, but did not affect the time interval between feeding bouts nor the average amount consumed per feeding bout. We speculate that emodin increases food retention time. Longer retention time may explain the observed increase in AMC. Our results suggest that sometimes secondary metabolites in ripe fruit may not be detrimental to frugivores and the presence of emodin in the pulp of ripe buckthorn fruits might be selectively adaptive to the plant. /// Estudiamos el efecto del metabolito secundario emodina sobre la ingestin de alimento, el coeficiente de asimilacin de masa del alimento (CAM), la tasa de sesiones de alimentacin y la tasa de defecacin en Pycnonotus xanthopygos, un ave frugvora. La emodina se encuentra en los frutos maduros de Rhamnus alaternus, los cuales son consumidos frecuentemente por P. xanthopygos. La emodina (0.005 y 0.01% de peso hmedo) aument el CAM de material seco en 8-10% luego de remover el efecto de la ingestin de alimento. A una concentracin de 0.001%, la emodina aument el CAM de nitrgeno, grasa y restos orgnicos (principalmente carbohidratos y protenas). Adems de emodina, los frutos de R. alaternus contienen una variedad de metabolitos secundarios que podran interactuar entre s e influenciar la digestin en las aves. Un alimento artificial impregnado con extracto crudo de Rhamnus aument la tasa de ingestin de alimento y el CAM de material seco. La emodina (0.01% de peso hmedo) increment el tiempo promedio entre defecaciones, pero no afect el intervalo de tiempo entre sesiones de alimentacin ni la cantidad promedio consumida por sesin. Especulamos que la emodina incrementa el tiempo de retencin de alimento. Un tiempo de retencin mayor podra explicar el incremento observado en el CAM. Nuestros resultados sugieren que en algunos casos los metabolitos secundarios en los frutos maduros podran no ser dainos para los frugvoros, y que la presencia de emodina en la pulpa de frutos maduros de R. alaternus podra ser selectivamente adaptativa para la planta. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10088|White-winged Scoters (
4085355| An odd-looking wood warbler collected 24 April 1954 near Cameron, on the Gulf coast of Louisiana, originally identified as a melanistic Mniotilta varia, proves to be a hybrid Mniotilta varia  Dendroica cerulea. The specimen, an adult male, is intermediate between the parent species in almost all characters of size, proportions, and plumage pattern. In virtually all published lists of Parulidae, the genus Mniotilta appears first in sequence. This is shown to be a historical accident, based on a generic key published over a century ago. Mniotilta is a derivative of Dendroica, but its legs and feet have become distinctively modified for tree trunk foraging. Having occupied and become modified for a new adaptive zone, the species varia should continue to be placed in the monotypic genus Mniotilta. Hybrid parulids are reviewed, and the theory reiterated that selective pressures favoring evolution of reproductive isolating mechanisms have been strongest among closely related (=congeneric) species. Such selective pressures have been weaker between more distantly related species, as likelihood of mismatings was lower. All but one parulid hybrids involve either species-pairs or members of different genera. This is not a phenomenon of oversplit genera in the Parulidae. 
10.2307/4090114|We analyzed distribution of Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus faxoni) wintering in the eastern United States and northeastern Mexico using data from 2,077 specimens collected in winter or during migration. Hermit Thrushes collected in winter showed a sex-biased latitudinal distribution, with the female mean 1.2 south of the male mean. Three general, nonmutually exclusive hypotheses have been proposed to account for that pattern in other species: (1) dominance of males over females, which forces females to lower latitudes; (2) larger body size of males, which permits males to overwinter in colder areas; and (3) earlier arrival by males on breeding grounds, which selects for males to winter closer to the breeding grounds. The dominance hypothesis requires that females be subordinate, an assumption that is not supported by previous research with wintering Hermit Thrushes. We also found no difference in sex ratio among habitats, despite strong differences in habitat quality. The body-size hypothesis requires that the larger sex be able to withstand colder temperatures. Male Hermit Thrushes are larger, but neither multiyear climate data nor weather in the specific month and year when birds were collected showed males to face significantly colder temperatures on the wintering grounds. Our data are most consistent with the arrival-time hypothesis. Males collected during spring migration migrated 20 days before females. When males began migrating in March, they experienced colder weather than sedentary females. By wintering farther north and migrating earlier, males expedite their return to their breeding grounds, although the small difference in winter distribution between the sexes is marginal compared to the effect of males' much earlier departure. Presumably, any cost to males of wintering or migrating under more demanding conditions is balanced by the advantage of early arrival on the breeding grounds. /// Analizamos la distribucin de individuos invernantes de Catharus guttatus faxoni en el este de los Estados Unidos y el noreste de Mxico utilizando datos de 2,077 especmenes colectados en invierno o durante la migracin. Los especmenes colectados en invierno mostraron una distribucin latitudinal sesgada de acuerdo al sexo: la hembra promedio se ubic 1.2 al sur del macho promedio. Para explicar este patrn en otras especies, se han propuesto tres hiptesis generales no mutuamente excluyentes: (1) dominancia de los machos sobre las hembras, que confina a stas a menores latitudes, (2) mayor tamao corporal de los machos, que les permite pasar el invierno en reas ms fras; y (3) arribo ms temprano de los machos a las reas reproductivas, lo que hace que haya seleccin para que stos pasen el invierno ms cerca de las reas de reproduccin. La hiptesis de dominancia requiere que las hembras sean subordinadas, una suposicin que no ha sido apoyada por estudios previos sobre C. guttatus faxoni. Tampoco encontramos diferencias en la proporcin de sexos entre hbitats, a pesar de diferencias marcadas en la calidad de los hbitats. La hiptesis de tamao corporal requiere que el sexo de mayor tamao est en capacidad de soportar temperaturas ms bajas. Aunque los machos de C. guttatus faxoni son ms grandes, ni datos climticos multianuales ni el clima del mes y ao en que las aves fueron colectadas mostraron que los machos experimentaran temperaturas menores en las reas de invernada. Nuestros datos son ms consistentes con la hiptesis del tiempo de arribo. Los machos colectados durante la migracin de primavera migraron 20 das antes que las hembras. Cuando los machos empezaron a migrar en Marzo, se enfrentaron a climas ms fros que las hembras sedentarias. Al invernar ms al norte y migrar ms temprano, los machos hacen que su regreso a las reas de reproduccin sea ms rpido, aunque la pequea diferencia en la distribucin de invierno entre los sexos es marginal comparada con el efecto del abandono mucho ms temprano de los machos. Presumiblemente, los costos en que incurren los machos que invernan o migran bajo condiciones ms exigentes es balanceado por las ventajas de arribar temprano a las reas de reproduccin.
4086275|Starch gel electrophoresis was used to evaluate levels and patterns of genic differentiation among 10 species of galliform birds in the Phasianidae (9) and Tetraonidae (1). The phasianids included on Old World quail, a partridge, a pheasant, and six species of New World quail. Measures of within-species genetic variation included heterozygosity, percentage polymorphic loci, and number of alleles per polymorphic locus. These values were similar to but lower than those reported for other birds. Genetic distances among conspecific populations and among congeneric species were low compared to other avian results. Genetic distances among noncongeners both within and between families were considerably higher, however, than those reported for passerine birds. Thus, more studies of levels of genic differentiation among nonpasserines are required to complement the literature on genic divergence among passerines and to enable us to make general statements about genic evolution in birds. Phenograms and phylogenetic trees suggested that Phasianus colchicus, Tympanuchus pallidicinctus, Coturnix coturnix, Alectoris chukar, and the New World quail (Odontophorinae) are genically distinct taxa. The branching sequence among the non-Odontophorine taxa is unresolved by our data. The branching order among taxa in the Odontophorinae from a common ancestor is: Cyrtonyx montezumae, Oreortyx pictus, Colinus virginianus, Callipepla squamata, Lophortyx gambelii, and L. californicus. The genera Cyrtonyx, Oreortyx, and Colinus are clearly distinct from Callipepla and Lophortyx, which are quite similar to each other genically. We use a fossil species from the mid-Miocene of Nebraska to calibrate our genetic distances. We estimate dates of divergence of taxa in the Odontophorinae and offer a hypothesis on their historical biogeography. Our analysis suggests that three east-west range disjunctions could account for the origin of Oreortyx (12.6 MYBP), Colinus (7.0 MYBP), and Callipepla-Lophortyx (2.8 MYBP). We suggest that L. californicus and L. gambelii should be considered distinct species because of an apparent lack of panmixia in zones of sympatry, even though the D between them is typical of that found between subspecies of other birds. Oreortyx and Colinus should remain as distinct genera, while our data are equivocal on the status of Callipepla and Lophortyx.
4085614|Pairs and solitary males of five species of dabbling ducks (Mallard, Anas platyrhynchos; Blue-winged Teal, A. discors; Northern Shoveler, A. clypeata; Gadwall, A. strepera; Pintail, A. acuta) were observed during April and May 1977 and 1978 to study activity patterns of birds that used artificially manipulated and untreated habitats of the Delta Marsh, Manitoba. Concurrently, samples of aquatic macroinvertebrates were collected in both habitats to relate the frequency of dabbler foraging to estimates of available food resources. Habitat treatments included either mowing of existing emergent hydrophytes or basin scarification by rototilling in late summer, followed by flooding the subsequent spring. Foraging and locomotion were most frequently observed and were negatively correlated in both years. Females foraged more than their mates, whereas solitary males fed least among all. Males in consort with their mates exhibited more alert behavior than was expected by chance alone. Foraging by all species occurred most frequently on control areas in 1977 and mowed areas in 1978. Abundance, biomass (dry weight), and composition of aquatic invertebrate communities varied among habitat treatments within and between years. Dabbling ducks seemingly gauge their foraging effort within patches by sampling the current abundance, biomass, and perhaps nutritive quality of potential invertebrate prey. This interpretation conforms with theory and empirical evidence for animals inhabiting environments with unstable food resources.
4085851|In 1975 and 1976, eight teams of investigators located 262 colonies of nesting herons and their allies along the Atlantic coast from Florida to Maine. Fourteen species were found in Florida, numbers decreasing to seven in Maine. Colonies censused in the extreme south and north of the study area were lower in number of species and number of adults than those in the intermediate area. More than 90% of the colony sites surveyed in 1975 were active in 1976. The total number of nesting adults per colony, number of species per colony, and number of nesting adults of each species per colony in 1976 were significantly correlated with their respective values for 1975. Abandoned and new colonies appeared to be satellites of nearby reused colonies; they had fewer individuals and species than reused colonies and were closer to reused colonies than reused colonies were to each other.
4089555|The taxonomy of the Australasian teals has been particularly unstable. Australasian Grey Teal (Anas gracilis) and Chestnut Teal (A. castanea) are widely viewed as specifically distinct, but the taxonomy of the New Zealand teals remains unsettled. Because conservation status is affected by taxonomic rank, it is important to resolve the status of the rare subantarctic teals. To estimate phylogenetic relationships of teals, we sequenced three mitochondrial DNA genes (12S, and ATPase 6 and 8). The resultant phylogeny unequivocally groups the Chestnut Teal with the Grey Teal, rather than with the New Zealand teals as has traditionally been held (Fleming 1953). A greater level of sequence divergence occurred within the New Zealand teals than between the Grey and Chestnut teals. This diversity, together with morphological and behavioral differences, implies that the New Zealand teals should be accorded specific status as A. aucklandica, A. nesiotis, and A. chlorotis. Although it is most likely that the teal that colonized the Auckland Islands and Campbell Islands originated in New Zealand, our data do not allow us to determine whether the ancestors of the Campbell Island Teal came from mainland New Zealand or the Auckland Islands. This uncertainty arises because, as our data show, the colonization events were separated by a short period of time.
4085309|Analyses of the major body components of pen-raised Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) revealed that body-fat indices (g fat/g lean dry weight) decreased rapidly during the first week of life from a value of approximately 0.30 at hatching. Low values of about 0.10 were then maintained until an age of 2 weeks, after which a gradual increase in the fat index occurred until a value of 0.39 was reached at about 6 weeks. A slight decrease in body fat then occurred as asymptotic weight was approached. Body-water indices (g water/g lean dry weight) were low at hatching and increased rapidly to a maximum value of about 3.14 at 1 week, declining gradually thereafter throughout the remainder of the growing period. Ash indices (g ash/g lean dry weight) and the caloric values of lean dry and ash-free lean dry biomass did not change significantly throughout the growing period. Live-weight caloric values, however, varied in a pattern similar to that of the fat index. The abrupt increases in body water and decreases in body fat during the first week of life seem to typify growing waterfowl and clearly differentiate them from other precocial species of birds such as Japanese Quail. Whole-body counting of potassium-40 was not successful in accurately predicting the total body fat of growing Wood Ducks.
25150335|We describe a distinctive new species of twistwing (Tyrannidae: Cnipodectes) from southeastern Peru. Despite extensive ornithological research in the region, this species has escaped notice, which suggests that it may be restricted to larger blocks of forest dominated by bamboo (Guadua spp.), a habitat poorly surveyed in Amazonia. Currently known from only a few sites in the departments of Madre de Dios and Cuzco, the species appears to be a Guadua specialist, though its life history is very poorly known. To date, the only other species of Cnipodectes, C. subbrunneus (Brownish Twistwing), is not known from most of southeastern Peru. /// Describimos una nueva especie del gnero Cnipodectes (Tyrannidae) de la regin sureste de Per. A pesar de las extensas investigaciones ornitolgicas en la regin, esta especie no ha sido reportada anteriormente, lo que sugiere que se encuentra restringida a grandes extensiones de bosque dominadas por bamb (Guadua spp.), un hbitat que ha sido escasamente muestreado en la Amazona. Actualmente se le conoce solamente para pocos sitios en los departamentos de Madre de Dos y Cuzco. La nueva especie de Cnipodectes parecera ser una especie residente local y estar asociada a parches de bamb, aunque se conoce muy poco de su historia natural. Hasta la fecha, la nica especie en el gnero era C. subbrunneus, la cual no ha sido reportada para el sureste de Per.
25150291|During the past century, numerous theoretical articles explored the evolution of seasonal migration in birds; many of these focused on environmental or social conditions that may have led to the origin of migration. More recent work has focused not on the origin of migration, but on changes in migratory behavior that have occurred in modern species and their immediate ancestors. We used a novel approach, a multistate ancestral state reconstruction of migration, to examine patterns of migratory evolution in the New World orioles (Icterus spp.). Both the multistate and binary reconstructions indicated repeated gains in migration. However, the multistate method revealed details of how migration may be gained that the standard binary-state reconstructions would not have shown. Our maximum-likelihood reconstruction, using branch lengths based on a molecular phylogeny, suggested multiple instances of rapid gain of migration. Furthermore, we found that every migratory species' migration type differed from that of its closest relatives. Surprisingly, no partially migratory species was closely related to a fully migratory species. These novel patterns involving gain of migration demonstrate the utility of multistate ancestral reconstruction for examining changes in migratory behavior in closely related birds. /// Durante el siglo pasado, numerosos artculos tericos exploraron la evolucin de la migracin estacional en las aves. Muchos de stos se enfocaron en las condiciones ambientales o sociales que podran haber conducido al origen de la migracin. Los trabajos ms recientes no se han enfocado en el origen de la migracin, sino en los cambios en el comportamiento migratorio que sucedieron en las especies modernas y sus ancestros inmediatos. En este estudio empleamos un enfoque novedoso, una reconstruccin ancestral de la migracin basada en mltiples estados de carcter, para examinar los patrones de evolucin de la migracin en los orioles del nuevo mundo (Icterus spp.). Tanto las reconstrucciones con mltiples estados como las reconstrucciones binarias indicaron que la migracin ha aparecido repetidamente. Sin embargo, el mtodo con mltiples estados revel detalles acerca de cmo podra haberse adquirido la migracin que las reconstrucciones binarias estndar no hubieran mostrado. Nuestra reconstruccin de mxima verosimilitud realizada con base en la longitud de ramas en una filogenia molecular sugiri varias instancias de adquisicin rpida de la migracin. Adems, encontramos que el tipo de migracin realizado por cada especie migratoria difiri del de los taxones ms cercanamente emparentados. Sorprendentemente, ninguna especie parcialmente migratoria est estrechamente emparentada con una completamente migratoria. Estos patrones novedosos que involucran la adquisicin de la migracin demuestran la utilidad de la reconstruccin ancestral con mltiples estados de carcter para examinar los cambios en el comportamiento migratorio en aves cercanamente emparentadas.
10.2307/4089020|I examined the influence of early social experience on winter dominating ability in White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis). Eleven sparrows from four broods were hand raised to independence, housed in flocks with their brood mates for 8 to 9 weeks, placed in isolation or in a flock of six for an additional 17 weeks (the experimental phase), and then tested for "final dominance" in one of three juvenile flocks consisting of unfamiliar hand-reared birds and wild-caught birds. The mass of a nestling relative to its brood mates was not correlated with its final dominance, and no dominance interactions were observed between nestlings. Similarly, although an unstable period occurred in the brood-mate flocks during which dominance relationships fluctuated greatly from day to day, neither dominance status nor total number of dominance interactions in the brood-mate flocks was correlated with final dominance. In contrast, social conditions imposed during the experimental phase appeared to influence final dominance strongly. Three of five isolates achieved the top rank in final flocks, sparrows from the experimental flock were all of low rank, and wild-caught sparrows attained intermediate rank. These results suggest that the social conditions experienced by juvenile White-throated Sparrows before they leave the breeding ground and during fall migration might have a lasting effect on their dominance status and, thus, their survival in winter.
10.2307/4089963| The phylogeny of all known Xiphorhynchus (Dendrocolaptidae) species and many of its subspecies was reconstructed to evaluate species limits in this taxonomically challenging genus and investigate the possible role played by the Amazonian "vrzea" (floodplain forest)-"terra-firme" (upland forest) ecotone in its diversification. Phylogenies were inferred based on 2,430 bp of the mitochondrial DNA genes ND2, ND3, and cytochrome b. All phylogeny estimates supported the monophyly of all extant Xiphorhynchus species to the exclusion of the sibling species pair Straight-billed (X. picus) and Zimmer's (X. kienerii) woodcreeper. Confirming findings of previous molecular and anatomical studies, strong support was found to include the Lesser Woodcreeper (Lepidocolaptes fuscus) in Xiphorhynchus. Levels of sequence divergence among some subspecies of Buff-throated (X. guttatus), Ocellated (X. ocellatus), and Spix's (X. spixii) woodcreepers reached or exceeded those found between closely related, undisputed biological species of Xiphorhynchus. High levels of sequence differentiation and the paraphyly of some Xiphorhynchus species indicated that the following taxa should be recognized as species: Lafresnaye's (X. guttatoides), Tschudi's (X. chunchotambo), and Elegant (X. elegans) woodcreepers. All Xiphorhynchus species restricted to terra-firme forest in lowland Amazonia formed a well supported monophyletic group, whereas species restricted to vrzea forest were either basal to a clade containing species found in a wide variety of habitats (Striped Woodcreeper [X. obsoletus]) or belonged to a distinct lineage likely to be regarded as a separate genus (X. kienerii). These findings falsified an anticipated sister relationship between vrzea and terra-firme species, as expected if the vrzea-terra-firme ecotone had played a decisive role in population differentiation and speciation within Xiphorhynchus. Instead, phylogeny estimates suggested that the vrzea-terra-firme habitat specialization evolved early on in the evolutionary history of Xiphorhynchus and that subsequent differentiation occurred mostly within the terra-firme habitat. /// Se reconstruy la filogenia de todas las especies conocidas y de muchas de las subespecies de Xiphorhynchus (Dendrocolaptidae) para evaluar los lmites de las especies en este gnero taxonmicamente complejo y para investigar el rol del ecotono entre "vrzea" (bosque de inundacin) y "terra-firme" (bosque de tierras altas) del Amazonas en su diversificain. Las filogenias fueron inferidas a partir de 2,430 pares de bases de los genes de ADN mitocondrial ND2, ND3 y citocromo b. Todas las estimaciones filogenticas avalaron la monofilia de todas las especies vivientes de Xiphorhynchus, con excepcin del par de especies hermanas X. picus y X. kienerii. Se encontr fuerte respaldo para incluir a Lepidocolaptes fuscus en Xiphorhynchus, confirmando estudios moleculares y anatmicos previos. Los niveles de divergencia en las secuencias entre algunas subespecies de X. guttatus, X. ocellatus y X. spixii alcanzaron o excedieron aquellos encontrados entre especies biolgicas cercanamente emparentadas de Xiphorhynchus. Los altos niveles de diferenciacin en las secuencias y la parafilia de algunas especies de Xiphorhynchus indicaron que los siguientes taxones deberan ser reconocidos como especies: X. guttatoides, X. chunchotambo y X. elegans. Todas las especies de Xiphorhynchus restringidas a las reas de bosque de terra-firme de las tierras bajas del Amazonas formaron un grupo monofiltico fuertemente respaldado, mientras que las especies restringidas a bosques de vrzea aparecieron en la base del clado que contena a aquellas encontradas en una amplia variedad de hbitats (X. obsoletus) o pertenecieron a un linaje separado que probablemente pueda ser considerado como un gnero separado (X. kienerii). Estos resultados falsifican la relacin de hermandad esperada entre las especies de vrzea y terra-firme que se esperara si el ecotono de vrzea y terra-firme hubiera jugado un rol importante en la diferenciacin entre poblaciones y en la especiacin de Xiphorhynchus. En cambio, las estimaciones filogenticas sugirieron que la especializacin de hbitat de vrzea y terra-firme evolucion temprano en la historia evolutiva de Xiphorhynchus y que las diferenciaciones subsecuentes ocurrieron principalmente en el hbitat de terra-firme. 
25150337|The antitrochanter is a uniquely avian osteological feature of the pelvis that is located lateral to the postero-dorsal rim of the acetabulum. This feature makes the avian hip joint unique among all vertebrates, living and fossil, in that a significant portion of the femoral-pelvic articulation is located outside of the acetabulum. This additional acetabular articulation occurs between the neck of the femur and the antitrochanter, and operates as a hinge joint or ginglymus. It is complementary to the articulation of the head of the femur with the acetabulum, which is a pivot joint or trochoides. The size, location, and spatial orientation of the antitrochanter were determined for 77 species of birds representing a variety of hindlimb functions (e.g., highly cursorial, vertical clinging, foot-propelled diving) and spanning a wide range of body sizes (swifts to rheas). The area of the antitrochanter is a good predictor of body mass in birds; its position and orientation are reasonably consistent within hindlimb morphofunctional groups, but not among all birds. The antitrochanter serves as a brace to prevent abduction of the hindlimb and to absorb stresses that would otherwise be placed on the head of the femur during bipedal locomotion. The drum-in-trough-like form of the antitrochanter-femur articulation tends to assist in the transfer of long-axis rotational movements of the femur to the pelvis. The avian antitrochanter is a derived feature of birds that evolved as an aid in maintaining balance during bipedal terrestrial locomotion. /// El antitrocnter es un carcter osteolgico nico de las aves que se ubica de modo lateral al borde postero-dorsal del acetbulo en la pelvis. Este trabajo explora las posibles funciones del antitrocnter, as como la estructura y funcin de la unin con la pelvis. La unin plvica aviar es nica entre todos los vertebrados, fsiles y vivientes, por tener una porcin significativa de la articulacin femoral/plvica ubicada fuera del acetbulo. Esta articulacin extra acetabular se produce entre el cuello del fmur y el antitrocnter y opera como un plano de rotacin (bisagra) o ginglimo. Adems, es complementaria a la articulacin de la cabeza del fmur con el acetbulo, que es una unin pivotante o trocoides. El tamao, la ubicacin y la orientacin espacial del antitrocnter fue determinado en 77 especies de aves que representan una variedad de funciones de las extremidades posteriores (e.g. altamente cursorial, trepador vertical, nado propulsado por las patas) y abarcan un amplio rango de tamaos corporales (desde vencejos hasta andes). El rea del antitrocanter predice adecuadamente el tamao corporal en las aves, y su posicin y orientacin concuerda razonablemente con los grupos morfo-funcionales (segn como usan las patas posteriores), pero no entre todas las aves. El antitrocnter sirve como apoyo (traba) para prevenir la abduccin de la pata y para absorber presiones que de otra forma se aplicaran a la cabeza del fmur durante la locomocin bpeda. La forma como tambor en canal de la articulacin antitrocnter/fmur ayuda en la transferencia de movimientos rotacionales de eje largo, del fmur a la pelvis. El antitrocnter es un carcter derivado de las aves que evolucion como ayuda para mantener el balance corporal en la locomocin bpeda terrestre.
4088324|I present equations for calculating the annual reproductive success (ARS) of females engaged in typically monogamous, rapid double-clutch monogamous, typically polyandrous, and polygynous-polyandrous relationships. With appropriate redefinition of terms, these equations can be used to calculate ARS of males. I calculate annual reproductive success for female Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor), female Florida Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma c. coerulescens), and male and female Spotted Sandpipers (Actitis macularia). I show that the ratio of ARS of all females of breeding age to ARS of all males of breeding age equals the sex ratio (all males of breeding age to all females of breeding age). With data on the Spotted Sandpiper, I illustrate the usefulness of the equations for evaluating hypotheses regarding the evolution of mating systems. Given that a caring parent can rear no more than one brood in a breeding season, and given a low probability of clutch success, I evaluate the potential ARS for hypothetical female Spotted Sandpipers in monogamous, rapid double-clutch monogamous, and polygynous-polyandrous relationships. The maximum ARS is the ARS actually achieved by the Spotted Sandpiper with typical polyandry.
10.2307/4090105|From may through July, 1993-1998 and 2001, effects of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on 36 Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus) nests were documented in southwest Colorado. Overall parasitism was 75.0% and was the major source of nest failure. Among vireo nests that were not depredated, a significantly lower proportion of parasitized nests (10.2%) than nonparasitized nests (85.7%) fledged host young. Significantly fewer vireos hatched and fledged per nest and per egg in parasitized nests compared with nonparasitized nests. We observed no significant differences in mortality rates during the incubation stage between parasitized and nonparasitized nests. However, during the nestling stage, mortality rate was significantly higher in parasitized nests (0.17 nests lost per observation day) than nonparasitized nests (0.01 nests lost per observation day). Cowbirds almost always hatched 3 to 5 days before vireo nestlings. In two cases, vireo nestlings fledged from parasitized nests; in one nest the cowbird egg failed to hatch, and in the other nest the vireo hatched simultaneously with the cowbird. The low vireo production at that study site suggests that that area may be a sink population for Warbling Vireos. /// Desde mayo a julio, entre 1993 y 1998 y en 2001, documentamos los efectos del parasitismo de Molothrus ater en 36 nidos de Vireo gilvus en el suroeste de Colorado. En general el parasitismo fue de 75.0% y fue la principal causa de fracaso durante la nidificacin. De los nidos que no fueron depredados, los nidos parasitados emplumaron significativamente menos pollos de hospedero (10.2%) que los no parasitados (85.7%). Significativamente menos V. gilvus eclosionaron y emplumaron por nido y por huevo en los nidos parasitados que en los no parasitados. No observamos diferencias significativas en las tasas de mortalidad durante el periodo de incubacin entre nidos parasitados y no parasitados. Sin embargo, durante el periodo de empollamiento, la tasa de mortalidad fue significativamente mayor en los nidos parasitados (0.17 nidos perdidos por da de observacin) que en los no parasitados (0.01 nidos por da de observacin). M. ater casi siempre logr eclosionar de 3 a 5 das antes que el hospedero. En dos ocasiones, los pollos del hospedero lograron emplumar en nidos parasitados; en un nido el huevo del parsito no eclosion, y en el otro nido, husped y hospedero eclosionaron simultneamente. La baja produccin de V. gilvus en este sitio de estudio sugiere que esta poblacin podra ser una poblacin sumidero para V. gilvus.
4086604|Behavioral data collected year-round in northwestern Arkansas indicated that foraging is not the exclusive function of soaring flight. Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) spent much more time soaring than would be expected from the foraging returns of this behavior. Soaring was found to be unimportant in thermoregulation. Instead of soaring to thermoregulate, birds sought shade, were inactive, and panted during heat stress. Ptiloerection and retraction of extremities were noted during cold stress. Soaring activity contributed significantly to territorial defense, and I suggest that soaring flight is superior to flapping flight in this regard. Courtship was a prominent function of soaring during late winter. Further studies on functions of raptorial soaring should investigate exploratory behavior.
10.2307/4089761|Relatively little is known about the role of predation in shaping patterns of coexistence and nest dispersion of songbird species. It has been hypothesized that predators diversify songbird communities by preying more heavily on individuals and species with greatest similarity in nest-site use. To investigate the importance of predation, we tested how predators responded to assemblages of artificial songbird nests that varied in nest-site placement, vegetation features, and nest dispersion patterns in boreal forest of west-central Alberta, Canada. Variability among nest sites was achieved by deploying wicker nests throughout a gradient of vegetation cover and by deploying nests to simulate two- and three-species assemblages. Two-species assemblages, comprising 20 simulated White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys) and 3 simulated Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus) nests, and three-species assemblages, comprising 10 simulated White-throated Sparrow, 9 simulated Hermit Thrush, and 4 simulated Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina) nests, were deployed in eight replicate plots. We hypothesized that predators would be more adept at locating and depredating (1) nests characterized by similar vegetation features in nest patches; (2) nests of similar appearance or nest guild; and (3) clumped versus randomly distributed nests. Contrary to predictions, predation did not increase as variance in vegetation of nest sites decreased across 16 nest-predation plots, nor did variance in vegetation of successful nests increase as predation level increased across 15 nest-predation plots. The addition of one species' nest type to assemblages did not result in lower predation rates. Predators also did not depredate more clumped nests than randomly distributed nests. Overall, predation did not appear to influence patterns of songbird species coexistence or nest dispersion. Abilities of predators to discriminate among less-similar versus more-similar nest sites and nest-dispersion patterns are probably species-specific; that is probably related to the hunting behavior of predators (i.e. use of olfactory and visual cues) and territory size.
10.2307/4089238|We analyzed patterns in the abundance, productivity, and survivorship of a coastal California population of Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla) using capture-recapture data from 18 years of standardized mist-netting conducted during the breeding season. The numbers of adult and hatching-year birds captured each year showed no consistent trend through time. The total number of adults captured annually, an index of adult abundance, was positively related to productivity in the previous year as indexed by the number of hatching-year birds captured. In addition, the number of adults captured for the first time at the study site, an index of new adults entering the population, was positively related to the previous year's productivity. There was a positive correlation between the numbers of summer residents and transients captured in each year. Estimated annual adult survival of summer residents was 50.3%. The annual recapture probability for summer residents (68.8%) was much greater than for presumed transients (7.2%). When the difference in recapture probability between summer residents and transients was ignored, annual survival was underestimated (30.5%). Year-to-year variation in survival showed no relationship to annual fluctuations in adult abundance. These patterns of survival and productivity parameters suggest that abundance in this population has been influenced primarily by circumstances on the breeding grounds.
10.2307/4089864|For those few bird species that are exclusively frugivorous, the low protein content of fruits is likely a major nutritional constraint. Physiological mechanisms that allow strict frugivory remain enigmatic, but reduced protein requirements may suffice. We investigated protein requirements of Pesquet's Parrot (Psittrichas fulgidus), a highly specialized, obligate frugivore. Three isocaloric, fruit-based diets of varying protein content (6.1, 3.3, and 2.6% dry mass crude protein) were used in feeding trials lasting three to five days per diet. A minimum dietary protein requirement of 3.2% dry mass was estimated from balance trials. Endogenous nitrogen losses were 0.05 gN
25488533|Parents inluence the phenotype of their offspring by determining the environment in which early development occurs. The many factors that affect growth in avian brood parasites provide an excellent context in which to examine how ecological variables and sex differences influence plasticity of early development. We used a model-selection approach to determine the most important variable(s) for explaining patterns in growth rate of the Brown-headed Cowbird (
10.2307/4088931|A cladistic analysis of 21 genera of cuckoos (Aves, Cuculidae) using 28 behavioral and ecological characters produces one shortest-length tree (L = 80 steps, CI = 0.52, RI = 0.79, RC = 0.42) that differs from traditional classifications of the Cuculidae. My results suggest that two cuculid subfamilies, the terrestrial Neomorphinae and the Phaenicophaeinae, are polyphyletic. The obligate brood parasite Tapera (Neomorphinae) and the facultative brood parasite Coccyzus (Phaenicophaeinae) are removed from otherwise nonparasitic sub-families and placed among the Old World obligate parasites in the Cuculinae. This suggests that: (1) brood parasitism arose only once in the Cuculidae rather than three times as previously thought; and (2) that terrestrial habitat use in Tapera has evolved secondarily. The placement of Coccyzus among the obligate parasites implies that the immediate ancestor of this genus was an obligate brood parasite. Therefore, the facultative behavior of Coccyzus represents a loss of obligate parasitism, rather than the development of facultative parasitism from a nonparasitic ancestor. In life, Coccyzus shares a number of life-history traits with the obligate brood parasites that support this hypothesis. Based on my analysis, I propose changes to the classification of the cuckoos that are consistent with the opinions of many early systematists, and the results of an unpublished phylogeny of the cuckoos based on postcranial osteological characters. In addition, my findings suggest that the Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoatzin) is a cuckoo most closely related to the communally breeding anis (Crotophaginae).
10.2307/4089189|Reproductive success in birds often is measured in terms of the proportion of nests that hatch or fledge young. We assessed survival of 35 Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) broods near Yorkton in east-central Saskatchewan, Canada, from 1990 to 1993. Brood survival was higher for offspring that hatched early in the breeding season in three of four years when wetland abundance declined over the summer. Seasonal patterns of wetland abundance were reversed in 1993, and early hatching broods suffered higher mortality. A more accurate measure of reproductive success is the number of young that survive to breed, i.e. recruitment. Ducklings were tagged at Yorkton and on the St. Denis National Wildlife Area (1985 to 1995), enabling us to identify individuals that returned to breed in subsequent years. Female recruits were more likely to originate from early hatched nests at both sites. With respect to recruitment, we also tested for an additional advantage of hatching early, over and above that associated with duckling survival. There was no statistical difference in the seasonal distribution of nests producing recruits compared with broods that successfully fledged at least one young. Thus, the selective advantage to nesting early for Mallards likely is driven by a seasonal decline in duckling survival, which in turn may be associated with decreasing wetland density.
4090644| Lekking is classified as a form of male-dominance polygyny in which males lack control of resources essential for the acquisition of females. Of particular interest to behavioral ecologists has been the mechanistic basis of male spatial aggregation and the maintenance of site fidelity over time. The "hotspot" hypothesis has been proposed as both an ultimate and proximate mechanism by which males aggregate in locations where females are likely to be encountered. The hypothesis has been extended to include areas of the environment that act to constrain females' use of space. Here, we test a prediction of this hypothesis for three species of manakins (Pipridae): that leks are located in places where fruit, the main food for these frugivorous birds, is plentiful. We compared four lek sites with four non-lek control sites of Golden-headed (Pipra erythrocephala), Wire-tailed (P. filicauda), and White-crowned (P. pipra) manakins in an Amazonian forest in Ecuador. Our results show that lek sites had higher fruit biomass than control sites. Moreover, lek sites had more plants bearing ripe fruit as well as a higher fruit biomass per plant than control sites. Thus, our results support the environmental hotspot hypothesis as an explanation for current lek site occupancy and suggest that fruit availability may also explain the placement of traditional manakin lekking sites. We also discuss a potential direct benefit for subordinate male manakins derived from the notion of central-place foraging and public information-sharing. /// El apareamiento en asambleas de cortejo est clasificado como un tipo de poliginia basada en la dominancia de los machos, en la que stos carecen de control sobre recursos esenciales para la adquisicin de hembras. Los mecanismos que subyacen a la agregacin espacial de los machos y al mantenimiento de la fidelidad a los sitios han sido de particular inters para los eclogos del comportamiento. La hiptesis de los "puntos calientes" (lugares en los que se concentran recursos) ha sido propuesta como un mecanismo tanto ltimo como prximo para explicar por qu los machos se agregan en lugares donde es altamente probable que se encuentren hembras. Esta hiptesis ha sido extendida para incluir a las reas del ambiente que actan limitando el uso del espacio por parte de las hembras. En este estudio ponemos a prueba una prediccin de esta hiptesis para tres especies de saltarines (Pipridae): las asambleas de cortejo deben estar ubicadas en lugares donde los frutos, la principal fuente de alimento de estas aves frugvoras, son abundantes. Comparamos cuatro sitios con asambleas de cortejo con cuatro sitios control sin stas para Pipra erythrocephala, P. filicauda y P. pipra en un bosque amaznico en Ecuador. Nuestros resultados indicaron que los lugares en que estaban ubicadas las asambleas de cortejo presentaron una mayor biomasa de frutos que los sitios control. Adems, los sitios de cortejo presentaron ms plantas con frutos maduros y una mayor biomasa de frutos por planta que los sitios control. Por lo tanto, nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis de los "puntos calientes" de concentracin de recursos como una explicacin para la ocupacin actual de los sitios por las asambleas de cortejo, y sugieren que la disponibilidad de frutos podra igualmente explicar las ubicaciones tradicionales de estas asambleas en los saltarines. Tambin discutimos un beneficio directo potencial para los machos subordinados derivado de los conceptos de forrajeo alrededor de un lugar central y de compartir informacin pblica. 
25488727|The Little Penguin (
10.2307/4088942|We studied the behavior and phenology of nesting Elegant Trogons (Trogon elegans) in the Chiricahua, Huachuca, and Santa Rita mountains in southeastern Arizona in 1993 and 1994. We found 34 nests and 11 cavities that were investigated by trogons but never occupied. Adults reared young successfully in 24 nests, but abandoned 5 nests after egg laying; 5 nests had unknown fates. Incubation lasted an average of 19 days; feeding of young lasted 15 days. Nesting phenology was extremely variable: six nests were started in May and contained nestlings or had fledged young by late June; eight nests were started in June and finished by late July; six nests were started in July and had fledged young by late August. Rates and durations of incubation, brooding, and feeding of nestlings were equal between adult male and female trogons except in two cases. Rates between years were different in six cases. Males called significantly more often than females. Elegant Trogons nesting in Arizona have different behaviors from other Neotropical members of the Trogonidae, especially with regards to their durations of incubation and feeding. Also, they feed nestlings insects rather than fruit.
10.2307/4086898|We measured rates of carbon-dioxide production and water turnover in adult starlings by the doubly-labeled water technique. CO
10.1525/auk.2011.10189|Incubation has a significant reproductive cost in birds that can limit both current and future reproductive success.We manipulated the incubation period of Wood Ducks (
10.1525/auk.2013.13017|Relating population density to spatially explicit habitat characteristics can inform management by directing efforts to areas with lower densities or focusing conservation and land protection on high-density areas. We conducted point-transect surveys for the endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (
10.1525/auk.2013.13117|The occurrence of extrapair paternity (EPP) in socially monogamous species varies greatly among species and across latitudes. Recent work suggests that birds residing in less seasonal, tropical environments will have lower levels of EPP than seasonal tropical and temperate species. Less seasonal tropical birds are predicted to have the lowest rates of EPP because their presumed low breeding densities and low breeding synchrony may reduce the opportunities for extrapair mating, and their potentially higher adult survival and longer-term pair bonds may increase the costs of retaliation by males, resulting in reduced paternal care. Nevertheless, the limited number of studies in tropical regions impedes our understanding of whether EPP varies across environments and why. We report on rates of EPP and the potential underlying mechanisms for the observed rate in the Black-crowned Antshrike (
4086225|The hindlimb musculature of six specimens of Amazona albifrons was dissected in order to (1) provide a detailed myological description, (2) provide a preliminary study and basis for a systematic analysis of the Psittaciformes, and (3) point out any myological peculiarities that might be associated with their unusually manipulative feet. Notable features include a peculiar positioning of M. extensor brevis digiti IV, a previously undescribed muscle to digit III, a peculiar arrangement of the short extensors of the hallux, and a branch of M. extensor digitorum longus to the hallux. These features are believed to be associated either with the zygodactyl digit configuration or the requirement of finer control over the individual digits.
10.2307/4087623|On 24 March 1989, the oil tanker 'Exxon Valdez' spilled 260,000 barrels of crude oil in Prince William Sound, Alaska. Oil eventually drifted over
10.2307/4089923|Abundances of forest birds in an unfragmented, undisturbed, and relatively mature temperate deciduous forest at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire, changed markedly between 1969 and 1998. Total numbers of birds (all species combined) declined from 210-220 individuals/10 ha in the early 1970s to 70-90/10 ha in the 1990s. Of the 24 regularly occurring species, 12 decreased significantly (four to local extinction), three increased significantly, and nine remained relatively constant in abundance. Nine of the 12 declining species were Neotropical migrants. Most species exhibited similar trends on Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes in New Hampshire during the same 30 year period and on three replicate study sites in nearby sections of the White Mountains from 1986-1998. Probable causes of trends were diverse and differed among species. Most could be accounted for by individual species' responses to events occurring primarily in the local breeding area. The most important local factor affecting bird abundance was temporal change in forest vegetation structure, resulting from natural forest succession and local disturbances. Four species that declined markedly and in some cases disappeared completely from the study plot (Least Flycatcher, Empidonax minimus; Wood Thrush, Hylocichla mustelina; Philadelphia Vireo, Vireo philadelphicus; and American Redstart, Setophaga ruticilla) appear to attain peak abundance in early or mid successional forests. Species preferring more mature forests, such as Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens) and Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus), increased significantly in abundance over the 30 year study. Other important factors influencing bird abundances were food availability and events in the migratory and winter periods. Nest-predation rates, although varying among years, showed no long-term pattern that would account for population declines, and brood parasites were absent from this forest. Findings from this study demonstrate that major changes in bird abundances occur over time even in undisturbed and relatively mature forests, and illustrate the need for considering habitat requirements of individual species and how habitat suitability changes over time when trying to assess the causes of their long-term population trends. The results also imply that any conclusions about the effects of other factors affecting forest bird abundances, such as increased nest predation or brood parasitism associated with habitat fragmentation, must also account for successional changes that may be affecting habitat suitability.
4086126|The nesting season of the California Least Tern (Sterna albifrons browni) has often been characterized by two waves of nesting, but the composition of the later wave and reasons for its occurrence have not been well understood. In 1980, a group of late-nesting birds, many of them banded and color-banded, presented a unique opportunity for study. Most of the banded birds were identified as 2-yr-old terns nesting for the first time; several were older, renesting pairs that had failed earlier at a colony close by. The chronology of the second wave, age composition, clutch size, behavior of 2-yr-old parents, fledging success, and postfledging dispersion were documented. Implications of these new data are discussed.
4090360| Attention has recently been focused on microbes that occur in the plumage of wild birds and can degrade feathers under laboratory conditions and in poultrywaste composters. In particular, Bacillus licheniformis, a soil bacterium, was found in the plumage of many birds netted in eastern North America, and poultry feathers were rapidly broken down when incubated in a suspension of this bacterium (Burtt and Ichida 1999). If feather-degrading microbes affect wild birds under normal conditions, they may have played an important role in the evolution of molt, plumage color, and sanitation behavior, such as sunning and preening. We performed the first test on whether a feather-degrading bacterium can degrade feathers of live birds housed outdoors under seminatural conditions. We found no evidence that B. licheniformis degraded wing feathers of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) when applied twice (with a two-week interval) during the winter, despite the fact that it degraded Northern Cardinal feathers when incubated in our laboratory. In a second experiment, we found no evidence that B. licheniformis degraded feathers of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) when applied twice (with a one-week interval) during the summer, despite the fact that birds were housed in humid conditions that should have favored the growth of B. licheniformis. /// Recientemente se ha prestado atencin a los microbios que habitan en el plumaje de las aves silvestres y que pueden degradar las plumas bajo condiciones de laboratorio y en lugares de descomposicin de los desechos de criaderos de aves de corral. En particular, Bacillus licheniformis, una bacteria del suelo, fue hallada en el plumaje de varias aves atrapadas con redes en el este de Amrica del Norte, y plumas de aves de corral que fueron incubadas en una suspensin de esta bacteria se degradaron rpidamente (Burtt and Ichida 1999). Si los microbios degradadores de plumas afectan a las aves silvestres bajo condiciones normales, stos pueden haber jugado un rol importante en la evolucin de la muda, el color del plumaje y los comportamientos sanitarios como los baos de sol y el acicalamiento. Realizamos una primera prueba para determinar si las bacterias pueden degradar plumas de aves vivas mantenidas a la intemperie en condiciones semi-naturales. No encontramos evidencia de que B. licheniformis degradara las plumas del ala de Cardinalis cardinalis tras ser aplicada dos veces durante el invierno (con un intervalo de dos semanas), a pesar de que degrad las plumas de C. cardinalis cuando fue incubada en nuestro laboratorio. En un segundo experimento, no encontramos evidencia de que B. licheniformis degradara plumas de Sturnus vulgaris tras ser aplicada dos veces durante el verano (con un intervalo de una semana), a pesar de que las aves fueron albergadas en condiciones hmedas que deberan haber favorecido el crecimiento de B. licheniformis. 
4086223| Several aspects of breeding and social behavior in two Galpagos finches are related to food supply. Geospiza fuliginosa is largely granivorous, and G. difficilis is largely insectivorous. Measurements show that breeding of both species occurred when arthropod abundance was high. Breeding stopped when arthropod abundance was declining but before it was low. Breeding-territory size in G. difficilis varied inversely with food supply. Territory size in G. fuliginosa was similar across sites and was not correlated with food supply. This difference between species may be attributed to differences in the effects of invertebrate and seed resources on the functional response of consumers: feeding rate of G. difficilis on invertebrates increased linearly with their supply, whereas feeding rate of G. fuliginosa on seeds was essentially independent of seed abundance. In the nonbreeding season, the granivore G. fuliginosa moved in flocks, whereas G. difficilis was more stationary and solitary. Data indicate that seed supply was temporally more variable than invertebrate abundance, and this helps account for dry-season behavioral differences between the species. Functional response and/or renewability of seeds and invertebrates may also have influenced behavior at that time. 
10.2307/4090270| Multibrooded species that undertake more than one nesting attempt per breeding season and individuals that breed over multiple years (breeding seasons) must decide whether to return to (or remain at) their former breeding site and social mate (fidelity) or to relocate (dispersal). During three breeding seasons (1998-2000), we examined breeding-site (territory and nest) fidelity and social-mate fidelity of Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe) (n = 435 adults captured and color-banded, n = 198 males, n = 237 females) both within years and between years. We also examined the influence of sex and previous reproductive success on breeding-site and social-mate fidelity decisions. Field research was conducted at Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center, Martin County, Indiana. Breeding-site (territory and nest) and social-mate fidelity were extremely high both within and between years. Only 23 instances of breeding dispersal to new territories were documented. Within years, Eastern Phoebe adults rarely dispersed to new territories; but after an initial nest failure, they were more likely to change nests within a territory for their second breeding attempt. Males were more likely to change territories between years; however, the distance dispersed between territories did not differ between sexes. Within-year social-mate fidelity was nearly universal with 85.5% of all males and 92.7% of females mating with the same mate during multiple breeding attempts. Divorce was uncommon and mate replacement usually occurred following mate disappearance and probable death. Within years, 2.4% of females and 4.8% of males divorced and paired with new mates for their next breeding attempt. Between-year divorce rates were low; of those birds for which the original mate was known to be alive, only 3.0% of females and 4.3% of males changed mates. The probability of divorce was not influenced by sex or previous reproductive success. /// Las especies de mltiples nidadas que emprenden ms de un intento de anidacin por temporada reproductiva y los individuos que se reproducen en varios aos (temporadas reproductivas) deben decidir si regresar a (o permanecer en) sus sitios previos de reproduccin y a su pareja social previa (fidelidad), o si reubicarse (dispersi). Durante tres temporadas reproductivas (1998-2000), examinamos la fidelidad al sitio de reproduccin (territorio y nido) y a la pareja social en Sayornis phoebe dentro de aos y entre aos (n = 435 adultos capturados y marcados con anillos de color, n = 198 machos, n = 237 hembras). Tambin examinamos la influencia del sexo y del xito reproductivo previo sobre las decisiones de fidelidad al sitio y a la pareja social. El trabajo de campo fue realizado en Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center, Martin County, Indiana. La fidelidad al sitio de reproduccin (territorio y nido) y a la pareja social fueron extremadamente altas tanto dentro de aos como entre aos. Slo se documentaron 23 instancias de dispersin reproductiva a nuevos territorios. Los adultos de S. phoebe rara vez se dispersaron hacia territorios nuevos dentro de un ao, pero despus de un fracaso de anidacin inicial tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de cambiar de nido dentro del territorio para su segundo intento reproductivo. Los machos fueron ms propensos a cambiar de territorio entre aos; sin embargo, la distancia de dispersin entre territorios no fue diferente entre los sexos. La fidelidad a la pareja social dentro de aos fue casi universal: el 85.5% de los machos y el 92.7% de las hembras tuvieron la misma pareja durante mltiples intentos reproductivos. El divorcio fue poco comn y el reemplazo de parejas usualmente sucedi tras su desaparicin y probable muerte. Dentro de aos, el 2.4% de las hembras y el 4.8% de los machos se divorciaron y se aparearon con otras aves para su siguiente intento reproductivo. Las tasas de divorcio entre aos fueron bajas: de las aves para las que se saba que la pareja original estaba viva, slo el 3.0% de las hembras y el 4.3% de los machos cambiaron de pareja. La probabilidad de divorcio no fue influenciada por el sexo ni por el xito reproductivo previo. 
4087087|A concordance in the distribution of uniquely derived character states of the syrinx and of six protein coding loci confirms that euleri should be removed from the genus Empidonax and that its nearest relatives are Cnemotriccus and Aphanotriccus. A hypothesis that euleri is the sister taxon of Aphanotriccus is based on the sharing of a uniquely derived syringeal structure and two synapomorphic allozymes, and on the comparatively low genetic distance between them. A new genus, Lathrotriccus, is proposed for euleri, which differs from Aphanotriccus in its cranial morphology. The reassignment of euleri increases the desirability of obtaining anatomical specimens and tissue of griseipectus, the only remaining South American endemic in Empidonax, and of tissue of Xenotriccus, a near relative of euleri on the basis of syringeal morphology.
10.2307/4088097|We compared duckling mortality patterns in Barrow's Goldeneyes (Bucephala islandica) and Buffleheads (B. albeola) in the aspen parkland of central British Columbia, Canada. Hatching phenology of both species varied between years in relation to spring temperatures. Buffleheads hatched on average a few days later than Barrow's Goldeneyes each year. Mortality estimates for ducklings differed by as much as 55%, and depended on the technique used. Estimates of mortality rates per brood were higher and more variable than those calculated per duckling. The Mayfield estimate of mortality per duckling day, adjusted for duckling age, was the most accurate. Mortality rates of Barrow's Goldeneyes and Buffleheads varied similarly between years. Mortality patterns in relation to duckling age, however, varied between species and between years. The highest mortality usually occurred in the week after hatching. Hatching date influenced mortality rates in 3 of 5 yr, but there was no consistent pattern. Barrow's Goldeneye ducklings suffered higher mortality than Bufflehead ducklings in 4 of 5 yr. This pattern was reversed in 1984, when the largest number of Barrow's Goldeneye broods occurred. Duckling mortality was higher on ponds with several broods than on ponds with single broods, which implies density-dependent mortality. This may have been due to intra- and interspecific aggression. The high mortality of Barrow's Goldeneye ducklings in 1983 was followed by lowered female recruitment in 1985. Because aggressiveness by Barrow's Goldeneyes has more impact on conspecifics, Barrow's Goldeneyes and Buffleheads can coexist at low to moderate densities of goldeneyes. At high goldeneye densities, Buffleheads may be excluded from some ponds.
10.2307/4088900|Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos; n = 282) wintering in the Southern High Plains (SHP) of Texas were collected from 15 October 1988 to 7 February 1989. Lipid and fat-free body masses were determined for all Mallards. Birds were surveyed electrophoretically for genetic variation at 30 biochemical loci. Our objective was to determine if structural size, fat mass, or fat-free mass of Mallards were related to multilocus genetic variation. Wing-chord length, our estimator of structural size in Mallards, was shortest in female Mallards with the highest levels of genetic variation. Fat mass and fat-free mass of Mallards (corrected for size) were not related to multilocus heterozygosity. Mixtures of morphologically and genetically differentiated breeding populations of Mallards on the SHP wintering area may explain the relationships between multilocus heterozygosity and size we detected in these birds.
10.1525/auk.2013.12150|Intensive agriculture, as is typical of corn and soybean production, may be responsible for declines in the abundance and diversity of farmland birds. In Quebec, the transition to intensive crops is evidenced by marked increases of corn and soybean fields. From 2008 to 2010, we used satellite telemetry to study use of corn (
4086067|This paper describes a test of an hypothesis recently proposed to explain a difference in foraging behavior observed in Pine Warblers (Dendroica pinus) on two neighboring Bahama islands. The hypothesis, that the members of the two populations were using different intrinsic preference patterns in selecting their foraging substrates, is supported by observations of different substrate responses in captive birds from the two islands in a common test situation. We interpret intrinsic preferences as expressions of stereotyped response patterns selected for during episodes of stress and active competition in fluctuating environments and becoming detectable as deviations from currently optimal patterns (matching the local resource distribution) during periods of resource abundance and reduced or suspended competition. Intrinsic preferences are difficult to recognize in nature, and we believe that they may be much more common than generally suspected.
10.2307/4089757|We constructed phylogenetic hypotheses for Greater and Lesser Antillean Mimidae, including five endemic species of tremblers and thrashers that represent the best plausible example of an avian radiation within the Lesser Antilles. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred from analysis of 3,491 base pairs (bp) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and roughly 780 bp of the nuclear-encoded myoglobin gene. We used a subset of mtDNA gene sequences and pcrRFLP analysis to evaluate the phylogeographic relationships among individuals representing island populations of the Brown and Gray tremblers (Cinclocerthia ruficauda and C. gutturalis), Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus), Scaly-breasted Thrasher (Margarops fuscus), and Antillean and continental populations of the Tropical (Mimus gilvus) and Northern mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos). Phylogeographic analysis distinguished three strongly differentiated mtDNA clades among tremblers, as well as distinct southern (St. Lucia and Martinique) and northern (Dominica to Montserrat) mtDNA lineages of the Scaly-breasted Thrasher. Minor geographic subdivision was also observed between continental and Antillean populations of the Tropical Mockingbird. Phylogenetic analyses of species-level Mimidae relationships that are based on mtDNA and nuclear sequences provide strong support for the monophyly and Antillean origin of a clade that consists of the tremblers, Pearly-eyed Thrasher, and Scaly-breasted Thrasher, but reject the monophyly of the genus Margarops. Phylogenetic analysis cannot confirm the monophyly of all endemic Antillean mimids because of the apparently contemporaneous diversification of the Antillean White-breasted Thrasher (Ramphocinclus brachyurus) with the continental Gray Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) and Black Catbird (Melanoptila glabrirostris). However, an insertion and a deletion in the myoglobin intron 2 sequence support grouping the West Indian thrashers and tremblers, from which we infer that the endemic Lesser Antillean mimids are an indigenous radiation. Assuming a constant mtDNA clock for the Mimidae, the splitting of the Northern and Tropical mockingbird lineages is roughly contemporaneous with the separation of the three trembler clades, as well as the two Scaly-breasted Thrasher clades. Application of a mitochondrial DNA clock ticking at 2% sequence divergence per million years (Ma), suggests that the history of the endemic thrasher and trembler lineage in the West Indies extends back about 4 Ma, and the three distinct clades of tremblers split about 2 Ma ago.
10.2307/4087486|Nearest-neighbor methods of spatial analysis confirmed that colonies of Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) on Aldabra Atoll were subdivided into clusters of up to 22 nests/cluster. Each cluster arose from a nucleus of advertising, unpaired males. Within a cluster, sites were spaced regularly at intervals of 0.5-1 m. Clusters differed in degree of synchrony of female settlement. Hatching success correlated positively with synchrony of female settlement. The interval between female settlement and laying date decreased as the season progressed. Hatching or fledging success was not significantly affected by date of laying. Breeding success (fledglings/egg) exceeded 50% in both seasons. Great Frigatebird males formed display clusters one month before females settled, competed for display sites within clusters, and preferred clusters that contained eight or more displaying males. Females settled more readily by males in the larger colony and, early in the season, preferred clusters that already contained nests. I suggest that usurpation of nests by unpaired males was a principal cause of nesting failure, and that synchronous female settlement within a cluster made the cluster less attractive to prospecting males than one that contained mostly advertising males. Selective mate choice by females appears to be the principal agent inducing spatial clustering by males.
10.2307/4089025|The behavior of immature Common Murres (Uria aalge) two to seven years of age was studied at a colony in southeastern Scotland during two breeding seasons. Immatures tended to arrive progressively earlier in the season as they aged, and were seen at the colony more frequently. Timing of final departure from the colony did not vary between cohorts. Within a day, five-year-old birds spent longer at the colony in the early part of the breeding season compared to later. Immature Common Murres seen at the colony in previous breeding seasons arrived earlier, were seen more often, and were more likely to attempt to breed than birds of the same age that had not been seen before. Overall, recruits invested almost triple the amount of time in colony attendance in the prelaying period than nonrecruits of the same age. Among birds of the same age seen in both 1990 and 1991, those arriving earlier and seen more often in 1990 were more likely to attempt to breed in 1991. The great majority of birds attending "clubs" on intertidal rocks were two- or three-year-olds. Some two- and three-year-olds, and almost all older immatures, were found on ledges above the breeding area of the colony. Three-year-olds that showed a shift in the course of a season between attending at sea rocks and attending on or above the colony almost all shifted from sea rocks to on or above the colony. Older immatures visited fewer breeding subcolonies within a season compared to younger birds. However, most immatures attending areas/ledges on or above breeding ledges were sedentary, visiting only one subcolony. We recorded 69% of immatures in 1990 and 64% in 1991 primarily attending their natal subcolony. Also, 57% of birds breeding for the first time recruited to their natal subcolonies. These frequencies were greatly in excess of those expected if birds were dispersing randomly. Age did not affect the liklihood of attending the natal subcolony, but in one cohort immatures seen in previous season(s) were significantly more likely to attend their natal subcolony than birds not seen previously.
10.2307/4088764|Do songs of songbirds, which learn to sing, provide reliable clues to genetic identity in zones of secondary contact? How do some songbird species maintain such highly stereotyped songs throughout extensive geographic ranges? These two questions were addressed with a study of song development by Carolina and Black-capped chickadees (Parus carolinensis and P. atricapillus). In one hand-reared, mixed group in the laboratory, male Carolina Chickadees produced better imitations of a tape-tutored Black-capped Chickadee fee-bee song than did two male Black-capped Chickadees. In another mixed group, a male Black-capped Chickadee produced a better imitation of tape-tutored Carolina Chickadee song elements than did the Carolina Chickadee males themselves. Black-capped Chickadees in an additional experiment were tutored with normal fee-bee songs and with fee-fee, bee-bee, and bee-fee songs; these males also produced highly abnormal songs, although songs of males within groups converged on one another, reinforcing ideas that social interactions are crucial for the song learning process. These data thus reveal that song in secondary contact zones of these chickadees is probably not a good indication of genotype. The feat of Black-capped Chickadee song stereotypy in nature, together with other features of their singing behavior (e.g. social and hormonal determinants of singing, subsong by both sexes but loud songs only from males), remain both puzzling and fascinating.
25150389|We describe a postcranial skeleton of a stem-group tody (Aves: Alcediniformes: Todidae) from the early Oligocene of Germany. The fossil is tentatively assigned to Palaeotodus itardiensis Mourer-Chauvir, 1985, which previously was known only from a few incomplete bones from the early Oligocene of France. It is the most substantial fossil record of a Paleogene stem-group tody described so far and shows many previously unknown skeletal details. The specimen confirms the occurrence of Todidae, which are today restricted to the Caribbean Greater Antilles, in the Paleogene of Europe. The biogeographical significance of these finds depends on the phylogenetic relationships between Todidae and other alcediniform birds. If Todidae are not the sister taxon of Momotidae (motmots) as suggested by a recent phylogenetic analysis of molecular data, occurrence of stem-group Todidae in the Old World fossil record actually follows from the currently assumed Old World origin of alcediniform birds. /// Wir beschreiben ein postcraniales Skelett eines Stammgruppenvertreters der Todis (Aves, Alcediniformes, Todidae) aus dem frhen Oligozn von Deutschland. Das Fossil wird unter Vorbehalt Palaeotodus itardiensis Mourer-Chauvir, 1985 zugeordnet, einer Art, die bisher nur von wenigen unvollstndigen Knochen aus dem frhen Oligozn von Frankreich bekannt war. Es ist der bisher vollstndigste Fossilnachweis eines palogenen Stammgruppenvertreters der Todis, und zeigt viele bisher unbekannte osteologische Einzelheiten. Das Exemplar besttigt das Vorkommen von Todidae, die heute auf die karibischen Groen Antillen beschrnkt sind, im Palogen Europas. Die biogeographische Bedeutung dieser Funde hngt von den Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen zwischen Todis und anderen alcediniformen Vgeln ab. Falls Todis nicht das Schwestertaxon der Momotidae (Motmots) sind, wie eine krzlich verffentlichte phylogenetische Analyse molekularer Daten nahelegt, folgt das Vorkommen von Stammgruppenvertretern der Todidae in der Alten Welt vom gegenwrtig angenommenen altweltlichen Ursprung der alcediniformen Vgel.
10.2307/4086766|Diets were determined for Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) that collected flying insects for nestlings and foraged at two locations, 3.25 km apart, where food abundance differed. At both locations, more than 99% of prey in the diets were 10 mm or less in length and at least 95% of the diets consisted of insects from the orders Diptera and Homoptera. Regardless of location, Tree Swallows were selective in the sizes of prey that they delivered to their young. They chose more valuable prey but did not completely reject less valuable items, and the diet was closer to the optimum at the location where food abundance was greatest.
4085920| The ability of Marsh Hawks (Circus cyaneus) to locate prey acoustically was measured in both the laboratory and the field. Laboratory experiments indicated that the directional hearing of the Marsh Hawk was substantially better than that of a sample of typical diurnal raptors and similar to that of owls capable of capturing prey in total darkness. Angular resolution along the horizontal axis was 2 for the Marsh Hawks, 1-2 for the owls, and 8-12 for the sample of typical diurnal raptors. For the Marsh Hawks, angular resolution along the vertical axis was at least 2. The maximum range at which prey could be detected by sound was estimated to be 3-4 m for the Marsh Hawk and 7 m for the Barn Owl (Tyto alba). Field experiments indicated that free-ranging Marsh Hawks could locate vole vocalizations (squeaks) accurately and attack prey successfully without the aid of visual or olfactory cues. Additional field experiments were conducted to determine how the Marsh Hawk integrates auditory and visual cues while capturing concealed prey. These experiments show that the Marsh Hawk does not require motion cues or auditory depth perception to determine the elevation of a sound source. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09162|Helminthic parasites occur at high frequencies in waterbirds, but little is known about their effects on host population dynamics. In 20042005, we examined the effect of helminthic parasites on fledging success of semiprecocial American Coot (
4090642| Plumage traits have been studied intensely for more than a century, especially bright and exaggerated plumage. A large body of evidence across a range of avian taxa supports sexual selection as a major evolutionary force acting on plumage colors. The discovery of ultraviolet (UV) coloration in avian plumage resulted in the extension of sexual selection hypotheses to explain the evolution of potential UV plumage traits. However, there have been no comparative evolutionary studies elucidating the origin of UV signals in birds. Here, I used a comparative phylogenetic approach to investigate the evolution of chromatic UV plumage colors in the grackles-and-allies clade of the New World blackbirds (Icteridae). On the basis of reflectance data collected from museum study skins, I have determined that UV plumage signals have evolved multiple times from an ancestral condition that lacked UV plumage signals, with very few unambiguous reversals. Although UV plumage has evolved in both males and females, there have been significantly more evolutionary changes in male UV plumage characters. Concentrated changes tests and correlations of independent contrasts reveal evidence for sexual selection of some male UV plumage characters, as well as an increase in UV plumage coloration for species found in open habitats. These results support the use of objective assessments of avian colors (i.e. spectrophotometry) to properly interpret patterns of plumage evolution generally, and they suggest the need for behavioral studies on the function of chromatic UV signals in several blackbird species. /// Los caracteres del plumaje, en especial los colores brillantes y los rasgos exagerados, han sido estudiados intensamente durante ms de un siglo. Existe un cmulo amplio de evidencia en distintos taxa de aves que apoya la hiptesis de que la seleccin sexual es una importante fuerza evolutiva que acta sobre la coloracin del plumaje. El descubrimiento de la coloracin ultravioleta (UV) en el plumaje de las aves conllev a la extensin de la hiptesis de seleccin sexual para explicar la evolucin de los caracteres UV del plumaje. Sin embargo, no existen estudios evolutivos comparativos que hayan elucidado el origen de las seales UV en las aves. En este estudio, emple un enfoque filogentico comparativo para investigar la evolucin de la coloracin UV del plumaje en el clado de los changos y chamones, que forma parte de la familia Icteridae. Con base en datos de reflectancia obtenidos a partir de pieles de museo, determin que las seales UV han evolucionado repetidamente a partir de una condicin ancestral que careca de seales UV, con muy pocas reversiones no ambiguas. Aunque la coloracin UV del plumaje ha evolucionado tanto en los machos como en las hembras, han existido significativamente ms cambios evolutivos en los caracteres UV de los machos. Pruebas de cambios concentrados y correlaciones de contrastes independientes proveen evidencia de la existencia de seleccin sexual sobre algunos de los caracteres UV de los machos, y de un incremento en la coloracin UV en las especies que habitan ambientes abiertos. Estos resultados apoyan el uso de mediciones objetivas de los colores de las aves (i.e. espectrofotometra) para interpretar los patrones de evolucin del plumaje en general, y sugieren la necesidad de estudios de comportamiento que permitan elucidar la funcin de las seales cromticas UV en varias especies de ictridos. 
10.2307/4089368|Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) breed colonially on islands off the Atlantic coast of Canada and exhibit strong site and mate fidelity. We used RAPD markers to estimate relationships among 91 petrels representing three colonies: Bon Portage Island and Big White Island in Nova Scotia, and Gull Island in Newfoundland. Analysis of molecular variance indicated small but significant variance among groups (2.53% for Nova Scotia vs. Newfoundland) and among colonies within groups (2.58% among the three nesting islands). Neighbor-joining dendrograms using similarity and percent match metrics failed to recover colonial groupings. The observed genetic structure probably is due to a historical association during the most recent glaciation or is a result of barriers that impede genetic mixing.
4086980|The Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) has a suite of adaptations that promotes multiple brooding, a common characteristic among columbids. Mourning Doves are well adapted for multiple brooding because they produce food (crop milk) for young nestlings in vivo and feed older nestlings a diverse granivorous diet. This facilitates extended breeding seasons and, thus, multiple brooding. Other traits such as constant incubation, fast nestling growth, and fledging at low weight serve to shorten the nesting cycle and enhance the number of broods that can be produced. Constant incubation also allows columbids to have no incubation patch. The effect of small clutch size on the length of the nesting cycle is ambiguous. Predation as a selective force augments the advantage of short nesting cycles. Mourning Doves also are adapted to renest quickly. By constructing small nests and reusing old nests, they can initiate nesting cycles quickly despite their ritualized building behavior. Small clutch size and a lesser role in crop-milk production allow females to initiate new clutches quickly, and sometimes to overlap nesting cycles.
25488575|We evaluated associations between the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and Ring-necked Pheasant (
4085215|Nocturnal passerine migration was studied with portable ceilometers in the spring and fall of 1974 in northeastern New York. Most passerine migrants seen flew singly. Of the more than 4000 birds recorded in the spring and fall migrations, nearly 60% in both seasons were separated by time intervals greater than 30 sec. Poisson distributions were fitted to the observed bird distributions. Each time line was analyzed with 10- and 30-sec sampling units. In the spring 12.1% of the 66 time lines in the 10-sec series and 13.6% of the 66 in the 30-sec series were significantly clumped (P > 0.05). In the fall less flocking was observed, with 3.2% of 93 time lines in the 10-sec series and 4.4% of 91 in the 30-sec series significantly clumped. Regression analysis showed that flocking, as measured by the coefficient of dispersion, significantly increased with the volume of migration in the spring. Regression of the fall data did not reveal this relationship. Analysis of the time intervals separating birds in the 10-sec sampling units indicated that migrants flying close together assume nonrandom spacing patterns. The groups of birds detected by the 10- and 30-sec units ranged in size from 2 to 13; the majority contained fewer than 6 birds. The 30-sec units did not detect proportionately larger groups, suggesting the flocks were consistently small and compact enough to be largely contained by the 10-sec sampling units.
10.2307/25150216|We explored two hypotheses that may explain intraspecific variability in nest size. The "thermoregulatory" hypothesis states that species adjust nest size to maintain egg temperature and minimize temperature fluctuations in the nest. Recently, the suggestion has been made that nest size may reflect the health status or phenotypic quality of the builder, potentially making it a sexually selected trait ("sexual selection" hypothesis). For two years, we weighed nests of Blue Tit (Cyanistes caeruleus) at initiation of reproduction in a nest-box breeding population in central Spain. We recorded laying date, clutch size, incubation period, and hatching success. We measured and took blood samples of adult females when nestlings reached three days of age. General regression models controlling for potential variables that could affect nest weight revealed that prevalence of Trypanosoma avium and immunoglobulin levels in females were significantly related to nest weight in only one of the study years. Females not infected with Trypanosoma avium built heavier nests than infected ones, whereas female immunoglobulin levels were negatively associated with nest weight. Hatching success and duration of the incubation period were not related to nest weight in either year. Thus, our results do not support the thermoregulatory hypothesis and show that certain measures of female health are related to nest-building effort in some years, probably depending on environmental conditions. /// En este trabajo exploramos dos de las varias hiptesis que se han propuesto para intentar explicar la variabilidad intraespecfica en el tamao del nido. La hiptesis de la "termorregulacin" propone que el tamao del nido se optimizara para mantener la temperatura de los huevos y minimizar las fluctuaciones de temperatura. Recientemente, se ha sugerido que el tamao del nido podra reflejar el estado de salud o la calidad fenotpica de su constructor, actuando as como un carcter sujeto a seleccin sexual (hiptesis de la "sealizacin sexual"). Durante dos aos, se registr el peso de los nidos de Cyanistes caeruleus de una poblacin que nidifica en cajas-nido en el centro de Espaa al inicio de la reproduccin. Se registraron la fecha y tamao de puesta, la duracin del perodo de incubacin y el xito de eclosin. Se obtuvieron las medidas corporales y una muestra de sangre de las hembras adultas a los tres das de edad de los polluelos. Empleando modelos de regresin general controlando por las posibles variables que pudieran afectar al peso del nido, se encontr que la prevalencia de tripanosomas y el nivel de inmunoglobulinas de la hembra estuvieron significativamente relacionados con el peso del nido en uno de los aos de estudio. Las hembras no infectadas por tripanosomas construyeron nidos ms pesados que las infectadas, mientras que el nivel de inmunoglobulinas de la hembra estuvo negativamente relacionado con el peso del nido. El xito de eclosin y la duracin del perodo de incubacin no estuvieron relacionados con el peso del nido en ninguno de los aos de estudio. Por consiguiente, nuestros resultados no apoyan la hiptesis de la termorregulacin, e indican que determinadas medidas de la salud de la hembra estn relacionadas con el esfuerzo de construccin en algunos aos, dependiendo probablemente de las condiciones ambientales.
4085927|Avian phonations are generally reported to consist of an harmonic series or sounds with no overtones (pure tones). Neither of these kinds of sounds is produced by freely oscillating, edge-clamped membranes such as the tympanic membranes of a syrinx. A possible alternative mechanism, at least for pure tones, is a whistle, i.e. a regular perturbation in the flowing air column, possibly interacting with the membranes. The coo of a Ring Dove is such a whistled song. It shows strong modulation of amplitude (AM) but not of frequency (FM). We have examined air flow, internal pressures, and electrical activity in syringeal and body-wall muscles during phonation by Ring Doves. Flow patterns and tracheal pressures show that the nares are closed during cooing; expired air is forced into the inflatable esophagus. This inflation appears to be of little acoustic significance. Pulsatile activity in the abdominal muscles instills a strong AM that confers a warbled quality to part of the coo. More subtle AM is effected by oscillations of the lateral tympanic membranes. Beat frequencies also produce AM-like patterns in the wave envelope. Contraction of the syringeal muscles shapes the syrinx into a vocal configuration but appears to have little modulatory effect. The structure of a dove's syrinx suggests that whistles could be made by any of several techniques that differ in the interactions among syringeal components.
4087285|Inter- and intrafamilial relationships within the New World Piciformes were examined through an electrophoretic analysis of 20 protein-coding loci (19 of which varied between taxa). One individual from each of 26 species representing 25 genera and 5 families was analyzed; Monotus momota (Coraciiformes, Momotidae) was used as an outgroup. Although levels of genetic differentiation were high (the mean Nei's unbiased distance was 1.07), the data proved useful for phylogenetic inference. The jackknife technique was used to estimate the robustness of phylogenetic hypotheses. At the interfamilial level, the results suggest the following groupings: [[[(Bucconidae) (Galbulidae)]{(Picidae)[(Capitonidae) (Ramphastidae)]}]]. These results were consistent with hypotheses of familial relationships proposed by two recent cladistic analyses of morphological character complexes (Simpson and Cracraft 1981, Swierczewski and Raikow 1981). Our data challenge the currently accepted monophyly of the Piciformes, however, in much the same way as do DNA-DNA hybridization data. Agreement among independently derived hypotheses of interfamilial relationships suggests confidence in our knowledge of evolutionary patterns among piciform taxa. Hypotheses of intrafamilial relationships, some of which agreed with morphological patterns obtained in other studies, were presented. This study shows that starch-gel electrophoresis may be useful at higher taxonomic levels.
4086416|Specimens of Northern ("Baltimore" and "Bullock's") orioles collected at six sites in western Kansas in 1976 and 1978 are compared with specimens collected at the same sites in the mid-1960's. No changes in the location or size of the step-cline ("hybrid zone") between the two taxa are indicated by comparisons of the plumage features of the male specimens; the distribution of phenotypes of birds from sites where both Baltimore and Bullock's orioles occur is not bimodal, and, therefore, there is no indication of selection against intermediate birds. Female Bullock's-like orioles, however, are found farther east along the Cimarron River in southwestern Kansas than they were in the 1960's. The correlations between the amount of precipitation at a locality in western Kansas and the phenotype of oriole that occurs there are high (about 0.90). This suggests that precipitation per se is a factor that determines the distributional limits of these birds relative to each other. There are no recent changes, however, in the average climatic conditions in western Kansas. Perhaps the orioles present at a site in any given season are a reflection of the conditions there the previous season or two. The analyses of size variation among samples collected in the 1970's show an east-west cline that is more-or-less congruent with that found for plumage features; at any given site, the variability in size is positively correlated with the variability in plumage. Where a diversity of oriole phenotypes occurs, there is no tendency for females to associate with males of the "same type" (i.e. Bullock's with Bullock's or vice versa); this suggests that assortative mating does not occur.
4088234|We tested a hypothesis that the high densities of some passerines breeding in North American marshes result from greater safety of this habitat from predators as compared to upland habitats. We examined the relative importance of water depth and distance from the marsh edge in lowering predation rates on experimental nests with Blue-breasted Quail (Coturnix chinensis) eggs. In addition, using cameras we studied the role of water depth in determining the predator community. Our results showed that: (1) predation was lower in the marsh than in the adjacent upland; (2) predation rates decreased with increasing water depth in the marsh; (3) for the marsh nests, the distance to the marsh edge was relatively unimportant; (4) the diversity of nest predators decreased with increasing water depth; and (5) in the deep marsh areas, there was only one major predator, the Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris). We propose that the greater safety of deep-water marsh areas, the reduced complexity of the predator community, and the type of predators allowing effective nest defense by nest owners have played the key role in the evolution of reproductive strategies of marsh-nesting passerines.
4088378|This study analyzed the multivariate morphological differences between survivors and nonsurvivors over winter in three years in the Common Rosefinch (Carpodacus erythrinus). In addition to the standard selection techniques commonly used, a number of multivariate analyses were employed. Differential survival could not be accounted for by differences in trait means. The variance-covariance matrices of survivors and nonsurvivors were highly significantly different, indicating differences in character relationships between the groups. A principal-components analysis of each matrix revealed that character correlations on the first vector from each matrix differed. Among survivors all characters were positively correlated to the first vector, whereas among nonsurvivors the first vector described bill width in relation to bill length. Therefore, these two characters were chosen and used in a full-quadratic regression model. This analysis showed a positive relationship between survival and the combination of bill length and bill width, resulting in increased variance in bill width. In particular, survivors were characterized by a positive relationship between bill length and bill width, whereas nonsurvivors were characterized by either too broad, or too narrow a bill in relation to bill length. Possible causes behind this variation in bill proportions may be recently altered selection pressures as a consequence of a new habitat, and/or the particular conditions encountered during ontogeny (a purely environmental effect).
4086612| Small quantities of petroleum may adhere to the plumage, feet, or nest materials of breeding birds and be transferred to their eggs during incubation. In this study, oil was applied to naturally incubated Great Black-backed Gull (Larus marinus) and Herring Gull (L. argentatus) eggs, and its effects on reproductive success were assessed. Embryo survival was inversely proportional to the quantity of petroleum applied to eggshell surfaces. Dose responses, however, were dependent on embryonic age at the time of treatment. Eggs of either species, treated with 10-20 l of No. 2 fuel oil 4-8 days after laying, experienced significant reductions in hatching success. Embryos oiled past the midpoint of the 28-day incubation period were insensitive to as much as 100 l of petroleum. Fuel oil weathered outdoors for several weeks was as toxic as fresh oil to larid embryos. Productivity estimates obtained following various oil treatments indicated that only under severe conditions (e.g. large doses of petroleum contaminating young embryos) could egg oiling have a significant impact upon populations of the Herring Gull and species with similar life-history characteristics. Species that are more sensitive to oil, however, those having lower reproductive potentials and higher postfledging mortality rates or those subject to other stresses, may be more adversely affected by oil pollution. 
4088679|We discuss 44 instances of the use of generic, specific, or subspecific names that differ from those generally in use for North American (sensu AOU 1957) birds. These names are generally older than the names presently used and have been revived on the basis of priority. We examine the basis for the proposed changes and make recommendations as to which names should properly be used in an effort to promote nomenclatural stability in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.
4086229|We studied dominance behaviors of captive winter flocks of White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) in central Pennsylvania. Preliminary tests with a small group of birds indicated that there might be differences in behaviors between color morphs if age and sexual differences were controlled. Studies of two larger groups produced considerable variation in results between the groups. One group displayed striking correlations between dominance ability and color. In this group white adult males dominated others more than tan adult males did, whereas tan immature males, adult females, and immature females were more often dominant than were white immature and female birds. The second group did not display such striking differences. Tan adult and immature females were more dominant than white females, as in the first group, but not significantly. Immature males displayed the opposite trend from the first group-white morphs were more dominant than tans. Adult males in the second group showed no clear trend. We also found differences in dominance between tan and white females that appeared to depend on season, white birds dominating tan birds in a small group in the spring, a reversal of relationships documented in the fall. Within age-sex classes, dominant females in both large groups tended to be duller in plumage brightness (scaled as an index) than were subordinate females. In one of the two large groups, duller immature males were more dominant than brighter ones, while brighter adult males tended to be more dominant than duller ones. We suggest that the relationships between immature male plumage and dominance may be influenced by the morph of adult males of specific dominance status in the flock. Spring plumage indices were more often correlated with fall dominance differences than were fall plumage conditions, suggesting a genetic or causal relationship between dominance and plumage rather than a proximate (status signaling) function. Recorded morph frequencies from this study and the literature support the hypothesis that selection is balanced between the two morphs and is dependent on the advantages or disadvantages of aggressiveness within a sex.
25150295| Analysis of the structure and stability of a hybrid zone can serve as a starting point for examining mechanisms that influence spatial and evolutionary relationships between species. Recent studies of the hybrid zone between Black-capped Chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina Chickadee (P. carolinensis) have suggested that genetic introgression is limited to a narrow zone, while also reinforcing the conclusion that the line of contact between these parapatrically distributed species is now shifting northward. We investigated the structure, position, and recent movement of the chickadee hybrid zone in southeastern Pennsylvania. Using selectively neutral microsatellite DNA markers, along with mitochondrial DNA haplotypes, we documented large differences in genetic composition among three populations 65 km apart where we sampled large numbers of breeding residents during 1998-2003. Genetic results indicate that the three sites support a population of Carolina Chickadees (Great Marsh), a population in which most individuals exhibit evidence of hybridization (Nolde Forest), and a population comprising mostly Black-capped Chickadees but with evidence of hybridization now taking place (Hawk Mountain). The patterns within the Nolde Forest population suggest that selection against hybrids may not be as strong as has been concluded from studies in other parts of the chickadee hybrid zone. Comparison of mitochondrial and nuclear genotypes between samples collected 15 years apart suggest that the northern edge of the hybrid zone shifted by 20 km over this interval, with hybridization now occurring as far north as the Kittatinny Ridge and beyond, where only Black-capped Chickadee genotypes were previously detectable. Our data and historical accounts suggest that the hybrid zone, now 50 km wide, may have become wider while also shifting northward. These results support the hypothesis that Carolina Chickadees enjoy a selective advantage during hybridization with Black-capped Chickadees, but both the proximate mechanisms and ultimate causes remain to be investigated. /// L'analyse de la structure et de la stabilit de la zone d'hybridation peut servir de point de dpart pour examiner les mcanismes qui influencent les relations spatiales et volutives entre les espces. Des tudes rcentes portant sur la zone d'hybridation entre la Msange  tte noire (Poecile atricapillus) et la Msange de Caroline (P. carolinensis) suggrent que l'introgression gntique est limite  une zone troite, tout en renforant l'ide que la zone de contact entre ces deux espces parapatriques est en train de se dplacer vers le nord. Nous avons examin la structure, la position et les mouvements rcents de la zone d'hybridation des msanges dans le sud-est de la Pennsylvanie.  l'aide de marqueurs microsatellites neutres de l'ADN et d'haplotypes d'ADN mitochondrial, nous avons document de grandes diffrences au niveau de la composition gntique de trois populations situes  65 km l'une de l'autre, pour lesquelles nous avons chantillonn de grands nombres d'individus reproducteurs rsidents entre 1998 et 2003. Les rsultats gntiques indiquent que les trois sites supportent respectivement une population de Msanges de Caroline (Great Marsh), une population dont la plupart des individus montrent des signes d'hybridation (Nolde Forest) et une population compose surtout de Msanges  tte noire prsentant des signes d'hybridation (Hawk Mountain). Les tendances dans la population de Nolde Forest suggrent que la slection envers les hybrides n'est peut-tre pas aussi forte que ce qui avait t conclu  partir des tudes ralises dans d'autres parties de la zone d'hybridation des msanges. La comparaison des gnotypes mitochondriaux et nuclaires entre les chantillons rcolts  environ 15 ans d'intervalle suggre que la limite nord de la zone d'hybridation s'est dplace d'environ 20 km pendant cet intervalle. Des hybridations se produisent maintenant jusqu' Kittatinny Ridge et mme plus au nord, o seulement les gnotypes de Msange  tte noire taient autrefois dtects. Nos donnes et les comptes-rendus historiques suggrent que la zone d'hybridation, maintenant large d'environ 50 km, peut avoir largie tout en se dplaant vers le nord. Ces rsultats supportent l'hypothse que les Msanges de Caroline profitent d'un avantage slectif lors de l'hybridation avec les Msanges  tte noire mais les mcanismes proximaux et les causes ultimes demeurent peu connus. 
4085811|A 10-month study of the foraging association between white-faced capuchin monkeys and Double-toothed Kites was conducted in conjunction with a study of the behavior of three monkey species. Kites were observed 30 times more frequently in association with capuchins than with the other monkeys, and they were present for 19.3% of the capuchin contact time. Kite-capuchin associations were not subject to significant diurnal and monthly variation. Associating kites normally stayed 5-30 m from capuchins, and they fed on large insects disturbed by the capuchins' activity. Kites were normally active on a plane horizontal with or below the monkeys but seldom above. Strata locations for the two species were significantly correlated. Capuchins seemed minimally affected by the presence of the kites. The foraging association between the two species was interpreted as a product of the behavioral characteristics of the capuchins and the opportunistic feeding strategy of the kites.
10.2307/4090319| Female songbirds generally have an innate ability to distinguish between conspecific and heterospecific song, and may learn to discriminate among variants of conspecific song. By observing female copulation-solicitation displays elicited by playback of perched songs and flight whistles from distant (>2,000 km) widespread populations, we assessed the extent to which responses of female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) to the two categories of male courtship song depend on experience. We hypothesized that female responsiveness to flight whistles is more dependent on experience than their responsiveness to perched song, because, though both perched songs and flight whistles vary spatially, perched songs always conform to strict species-specific structural and syntactic rules. Flight whistles, in contrast, are so variable that some types may not be recognizable as conspecific vocalizations to birds that have never experienced them. The species-wide structural similarities of perched songs make it possible for females to have innate responsiveness to these songs, as shown by isolate-reared females. In contrast, isolate-reared females do not respond to flight whistles. In the present study, females readily responded to foreign perched-song types, but showed as little response to foreign flight whistles as they did to heterospecific control songs. A previous study had shown that the same females were highly responsive to the local flight whistle. Thus, in accord with our hypothesis, females must have direct experience with a flight-whistle type to become responsive to it, but will respond to any unfamiliar perched-song type. Our findings for females are concordant with results on variation in the role experience plays in development of male production of songs from these two categories. /// Las hembras de las aves canoras generalmente poseen una habilidad innata para distinguir entre cantos de individuos coespecficos y heteroespecficos, y pueden aprender a distinguir entre variantes de cantos coespecficos. Evaluamos cmo la experiencia de las hembras de Molothrus ater influye sobre sus respuestas a dos categoras de canto de cortejo de los machos. Observamos los despliegues de cpula y solicitud de las hembras provocados por la reproduccin de cantos emitidos desde perchas y de silbidos emitidos en vuelo de poblaciones distantes (>2,000 km) de distribucin amplia. Nuestra hiptesis propone que la respuesta de las hembras a los silbidos emitidos en vuelo depende en mayor medida de la experiencia que la respuesta a los cantos emitidos desde perchas, porque-aunque tanto los cantos emitidos desde perchas como los silbidos en vuelo varan espacialmente-los cantos emitidos desde perchas siempre se ajustan a reglas estructurales y de sintaxis que son especie-especficas. Los silbidos en vuelo, en contraste, son tan variables que algunos tipos pueden no ser reconocidos como vocalizaciones de individuos coespecficos por las aves que nunca han tenido la experiencia de escucharlos. Las similitudes estructurales para una misma especie de los cantos emitidos desde perchas les permiten a las hembras poseer una respuesta innata a estos cantos, como lo muestran las hembras criadas en aislamiento. En contraste, las hembras aisladas no responden a los silbidos emitidos en vuelo. En este estudio, las hembras respondieron rpidamente a los tipos de cantos de percha emitidos por individuos forneos, pero mostraron respuestas mnimas tanto a silbidos en vuelo emitidos por individuos forneos como a cantos control de individuos de otras especies. Un estudio previo mostr que las mismas hembras respondieron de modo intenso al silbido en vuelo de individuos locales. De este modo, en concordancia con nuestra hiptesis, las hembras deben poseer experiencia directa con el tipo de silbido de vuelo para generar una respuesta a ste, pero respondern a cualquier tipo de canto de percha aunque no les sea familiar. Nuestros resultados para las hembras concuerdan con los resultados sobre la variacin en el rol que juega la experiencia en el desarrollo de la produccin de los cantos de los machos en las dos categoras mencionadas. 
25150303| The genus Monticola consists of 13 putative species with distributions throughout Eurasia and the sub-Saharan region of Africa. As such, this genus provides an excellent model with which to explore historical intercontinental movements and forces driving speciation in southern Africa. To address these questions, we reconstructed a hypothesis of species relationships using the mitochondrial ND2 and cytochrome-b genes. Monticola forms a well-supported, monophyletic clade within the avian family Muscicapidae. Our results support previous studies suggesting that the Malagasy genus Pseudocossyphus be subsumed into Monticola, and suggest that several of the Malagasy species (notably M. bensoni and M. erythronotus) are not valid. Sequence data, along with morphological and distributional evidence, support the elevation of M. pretoriae to species status. Historical biogeographic analyses suggest an area of origin for Monticola in the arid region of northern Africa plus Saudi Peninsula or the African savanna, or both. Determination of speciation timing suggests that Monticola arose 5.5 mya, with subsequent lineage splits occurring throughout the Pliocene and Pleistocene. We propose that climate-driven ecological vicariance as well as dispersal were important in the biogeographic history of this group and are responsible for present-day species relationships and distributions. /// Le genre Monticola est compos de 13 espces rparties  travers l'Eurasie et l'Afrique sub-saharienne. Ce genre fourni un excellent modle pour permettre d'explorer les mouvements intercontinentaux historiques et les forces qui commandent la spciation dans le sud de l'Afrique. Pour aborder ces questions, nous avons reformul une hypothse des relations entre les espces en utilisant le gne mitochondrial ND2 et le gne du cytochrome-b. Le genre Monticola forme un clade monophyltique bien tabli dans la famille Muscicapidae. Nos rsultats vont dans le mme sens que des tudes antrieures qui suggrent que le genre malgache Pseudocossyphus doit tre subsum en Monticola et que plusieurs espces malgaches (notamment M. bensoni et M. erythronotus) ne sont pas valides. Les donnes squentielles, combines  la morphologie et la rpartition, appuient l'lvation de M. pretoriae au statut d'espce. Les analyses biogographiques historiques suggrent que la rgion aride du nord de l'Afrique + la pninsule saoudienne ou la savane africaine (ou les deux) correspondraient  l'aire d'origine de Monticola. La dtermination de l'volution de la spciation dans le temps suggre que Monticola soit apparu il y a environ 5,5 millions d'annes et que des sparations subsquentes des lignes se sont produites pendant le Pliocne et le Plistocne. Nous proposons que la vicariance cologique cause par le climat ainsi que la dispersion taient importants dans l'histoire biogographique de ce groupe et qu'ils sont responsables des relations entre les espces et de leur rpartition actuelles. 
4087286|To compare the metabolic systems that support the combination of flying and diving with those used to support burst flying and sustained flying, myoglobin concentrations and maximum enzyme activities were determined for selected enzymes of glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and amino acid metabolism in the pectoral, supracoracoideus, and sartorius muscles of the Common Murre (Uria aalge), Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica), Rock Dove (Columba livia; hereafter "pigeon"), and Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus). Glycolytic enzyme levels in the flight muscles were lower in the murre and the puffin than in the pheasant, while both glycolytic and Krebs-cycle enzyme levels resembled those in the pigeon. We believe puffins and murres do not rely extensively on anaerobic glycolysis during diving. In concordance with a role in oxygen storage for diving, the levels of myoglobin in the flight muscles of murres and puffins were higher than those in pigeons or pheasants. They were lower than published values for penguins, however. In contrast to the trends for pigeon and pheasant muscles, the alcid sartorius muscles had a considerably lower aerobic orientation than the flight muscles.
4087858|We gathered life-history data on banded Brandt's Cormorants (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) at Southeast Farallon Island, California, from 1972 to 1984, and documented breeding performance as affected by age and annual variation in food availability. Females bred at a younger age than males, but did not live as long. Birds of both sexes that bred at least once bred the same number of years. Mate fidelity was low (9%) because of poor synchrony in the arrival of mates and low site fidelity by females. Prior breeding experience had little influence on reproductive success. The most successful individuals fledged 10-20 chicks over their lifetime, and averaged 2.5 chicks/breeding year over four to eight years. Cormorants experienced significant interannual differences in food availability. "Poor" food years occurred frequently and, consequently, all adults skipped breeding at least one season during their reproductive lifetimes. Food availability also affected age at first breeding, as well as age-related breeding phenology, reproductive effort and success, and return rates of banded juveniles and adults. The reproductive traits of Brandt's Cormorant allow it to exploit an unpredictable environment; previously proposed life-history models relegate cormorants to stable environments.
4088367|Domestic pigeons were derived from Rock Doves (Columba livia) by artificial selection perhaps 5,000 ybp. Feral pigeon populations developed after domestics escaped captivity; this began in Europe soon after initial domestications occurred and has continued intermittently in other regions. Ferals developed from domestic stocks in North America no earlier than 400 ybp and are genealogically closer to domestics than to European ferals or wild Rock Doves. Nevertheless, North American ferals are significantly closer in skeletal size and shape to European ferals and Rock Doves than to domestics. Natural selection evidently has been reconstituing reasonable facsimiles of wild size and shape phenotypes in feral pigeons of Europe and North America.
10.2307/4088936| The breeding biology of the Spur-winged Plover (Vanellus spinosus) was studied in an agricultural area in central Israel from 1989 through 1993. The breeding season extended from March to September. The average clutch size was 3.4 eggs and modal clutch size was four eggs. Clutch size declined slightly during the season. Eggs were laid at about two-day intervals. The average incubation period was 28 days, but it declined during the season in correlation with increased ambient temperatures and laying order. In four-egg clutches the last egg was incubated 3.4 days less than the first. Hatching of a four-egg clutch was asynchronous and lasted 1.9 days. Field hatchability was 86.4% of all eggs laid. In the laboratory, the highest hatching success (97.7%) occurred at an incubation temperature of 37.5C. Field experiments showed that in four-egg clutches incubation temperature was significantly higher, incubation periods tended to be shorter (but not significantly so), and hatching success was higher (but not significantly so) in comparison with artificially enlarged five-egg clutches. This lends some, but not unequivocal, support to the hypothesis that clutch size may be limited by incubation ability. However, females whose clutches were removed upon completion were capable of laying continuously without altering either clutch or egg size, suggesting that clutch size is not limited by egg-formation abilities. 
4085970|A new species of palm swift, Tachornis uranoceles, is described from a late Pleistocene cave deposit in central Puerto Rico, the only Greater Antillean island on which swifts of the genus Tachornis are not now resident. The fossil species differs most conspicously from the living species T. phoenicobia in being larger. The extinction of T. uranoceles probably resulted from the disappearance of open, dry savanna with scattered palm groves. This corroborates other evidence that shows decreasing aridity in the West Indies to have been a major cause of habitat alteration and extinction at the end of the Pleistocene.
4088683|The use of different habitats during foraging, roosting, social behavior, and nesting was studied in the North Island Brown Kiwi (Apteryx australis mantelli) with the use of radio telemetry. We chose a forest with a patchy distribution of native and introduced habitat types, the Waitangi Forest, to compare habitat availability with habitat use within the ranges of transmitter tagged individuals. During their nocturnal activity phase, Brown Kiwis preferred native forest and seral vegetation over man-made pine forest, marshes, and roads/pasture. During the daytime, kiwis roosted preferentially in marshes and successional vegetation. Social behavior, mostly calling, occurred in the same habitats as did all other nightly activity. Nest sites were preferentially located in or within 25 m of native or seral vegetation. These habitats are selectively used by chicks during foraging in their first weeks after hatching, when chicks are only able to walk short distances. Habitat types seem to be used selectively by kiwis because of their availability of food and shelter sites, regardless of whether they are natural or anthropogenic habitats. Additionally, the needs of young have to be considered when spacing patterns of adults are interpreted. Territories included a certain area of "preferred habitats" irrespective of total territory size. With sufficient access to these patches kiwis are able to survive even in poor habitats like pine forests. Only minor changes in forest management practices (e.g. allowing for wide road margins and preserving remnants of native forest and marshes) would suffice to greatly support the survival and propagation of kiwis. We discuss the importance of the selective use of small habitat patches as a precondition for the ability of kiwis to settle in a wide variety of environments, both natural and modified.
4086531|Seasonal distribution and abundance, habitat preferences and use, and host relationships of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in the Sierra Nevada of California were studied in the Sierra National Forest in 1980 and 1981. From several hundred counts, including many made in 1978 and 1979, the relative numbers of cowbirds and potential hosts were estimated for a variety of habitats and for varying distances from known loci of afternoon foraging aggregations. Intensive searches were made for nests and fledged broods of potential hosts. Cowbirds strongly prefer meadow edges as breeding habitats, using clearcuts and incompletely logged forests to some extent and unlogged forests rarely or not at all. In the preferred meadow habitats, cowbird abundance declined rapidly with increasing distance from human-based sources of food, such as pack stations. The relative abundance of Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) was negatively correlated with that of cowbirds, supporting other evidence of high rates of parasitism on this host species in the Sierra Nevada. Because cowbirds are rare in or absent from many major habitat types and areas remote from human-based sources of supplemental food, however, we doubt that any species in the Sierra Nevada is currently threatened by cowbird parasitism. The problem needs periodic monitoring, however, as human developments become more widespread in the mountains.
10.2307/4090026| Diets of three warbler species were analyzed during a spruce budworm outbreak in the boreal forest of northern Ontario. Beetles constituted a large portion of the food items consumed by Cape May (Dendroica tigrina), Bay-breasted (Dendroica castanea), and Tennessee (Vermivora peregrina) warblers early in the breeding season (7-11 June), and caterpillars were the most frequency used food category shortly later (18-24 June). Differences in diet served to differentiate the warbler species in the earlier period when Bay-breasted Warblers consumed more beetles, Tennessee Warblers consumed more caterpillars, and Cape May Warblers consumed more flies than the other species. Only Bay-breasted Warblers' continuing preference for beetles differentiated the warblers' diets in the later period. Food-niche overlaps increased for two of the three warbler species pairs between the two periods in June, but there was no change in the overlap between Bay-breasted and Cape May warbler diets. /// Se analizaron las dietas de tres especies de parlidos insectvoros durante la erupcin del gusano del abeto en los bosques boreales del norte de Ontario, Canad. Durante el primer perodo de la poca reproductiva (7-11 junio), una gran proporcin de los tems alimenticios consumidos por Dendroica tigrina, D. castanea y Vermivora peregrina consisti en escarabajos, mientras que ms tarde (18-24 junio) el tem alimenticio consumido con mayor frecuencia fue orugas. Las diferencias en la dieta sirvieron para diferenciar las tres especies de parlidos durante el perodo inicial, cuando D. castanea consumi ms escarabajos, V. peregrina consumi ms orugas y D. tigrina consumi ms moscas con relacin a las otras especies. Durante el perodo ms tardo, la dieta slo se diferenci entre las tres especies por la continuacin de la preferencia de escarabajos por parte de D. castanea. La superposicin de los nichos alimenticios aument para dos de los tres pares de especies entre los dos perodos en junio, pero no hubo cambios en la superposicin de la dieta entre D. castanea y D. tigrina. 
4085841|A model for the daily energy requirements during egg production was developed for Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) hens laying a 12-egg clutch. Reproductive requirements are high, because Wood Ducks lay large clutches of relatively large eggs that have a high energy density. Costs totaled 5,996 kJ and included 2,969 kJ for carbohydrates and lipids, 1,595 kJ for protein, and an estimated 1,432 kJ for biosynthesis. Both are the temporal distribution of costs and the use of stored fat reserves are thought to be important factors enabling hens to meet these large requirements. Costs equivalent to that of an entire egg are incurred for only 6 days during the cycle, because costs are distributed over an 18-day period rather than the 12 days of laying. The energy content of body fat expended by hens was sufficient to account for 88% of the estimated requirements for biosynthesis and the nonprotein fraction of the oviduct and clutch. Protein and minerals are primarily dietary requirements and are obtained by foraging for invertebrates during laying. Although an egg contains only about 5 g of protein, hens must consume large numbers of invertebrates to meet this requirement. The ability to meet most nonprotein requirements with stored fat may therefore be essential to ensure that hens have enough time to forage for invertebrates.
4089559| I monitored 278 Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nests in 14 forest fragments (range 7 to 500 ha) in northern Indiana to explore patterns of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater), nest predation, and reproductive success. Density of thrushes was negatively related to area of forest fragments. Cowbirds were common throughout the landscape, but I found no relationship between their abundance and forest area. Overall, 90% of the thrush nests were parasitized by cowbirds (x = 2.4 cowbird eggs per nest). The number of cowbird eggs per thrush nest was not related to forest area, abundance of host species, or distance to a forest edge but was positively related to thrush abundance. Nest predation rates averaged 58% and were lower than those reported in much of neighboring Illinois but also were unrelated to forest area and distance to a forest edge. The combination of cowbird parasitism and nest predation resulted in relatively low reproductive success (x = 0.6 thrush fledglings per nesting attempt). I estimated that Wood Thrushes in northern Indiana made an average of three nesting attempts per breeding season (based on 17 color-marked females) and had relatively low seasonal fecundity (x = 0.9 female fledglings per adult female per season). Nonetheless, considerable annual variation in seasonal fecundity suggested that some sites exceeded the source-sink threshold in some years. Regardless, the overall landscape appeared to be part of a regional sink for Wood Thrushes, although its negative influence on regional demography was not as severe as elsewhere in the midwestern United States. The poor demographic balance in much of the agriculturally dominated Midwest suggests that conservation efforts for Wood Thrushes and other Nearctic-Neotropical migrants should be directed at preserving and enhancing possible source habitats in regions where parasitism by cowbirds and nest predation are reduced. 
10.2307/4090054| We conducted winter censuses of two short-distance migrants, Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) and Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata), over seven years in five different habitats to determine whether their local abundances could be predicted by fruit pulp biomass. Sampled habitats were stands of upland and bottomland hardwood, loblolly pine (Pinus taeda), longleaf pine (P. palustris), and young (<10 years) longleaf pine. Hermit Thrush abundance, which was highest in bottomland hardwood habitats, was positively related to total dry mass of fruit pulp. Those results are consistent with the hypothesis that resource availability affects the local distribution of migrant passerines on their wintering grounds. Our results also indicate that bottomland hardwood habitats in the southeastern United States may be especially important to wintering Hermit Thrushes. Yellow-rumped Warbler abundance was correlated with ripe-fruit pulp dry mass of Myrica cerifera, a major source of winter food for that species. However, because M. cerifera pulp dry mass was confounded with habitat type, we could not distinguish the relative importance of fruit resources and habitat for Yellow-rumped Warblers. Our results underscore the importance of fruit to wintering birds. However, the overall percentage of variation in winter bird abundance explained by differences in ripe-fruit biomass was modest, indicating that other factors are also important. /// Durante un perodo de siete aos realizamos censos invernales, en cinco ambientes diferentes, de dos migrantes de corta distancia, Catharus guttatus y Dendroica coronata, para determinar si las abundancias locales pueden ser predichas a partir de la biomasa de pulpa de fruto. Los ambientes muestreados fueron plantaciones de especies de madera dura en sitios altos y bajos (inundables), de Pinus taeda, de P. palustris y bosques jvenes (<10 aos) de P. palustris. La abundancia de C. guttatus, la cual fue mayor en las plantaciones de sitios bajos, se relacion positivamente con la masa seca total de pulpa de fruto. Estos resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la disponibilidad de recursos afecta la distribucin local de aves migrantes paserinas en sus reas de invernada. Nuestros resultados tambin indican que los ambientes de plantaciones en sitios bajos en el sudeste de Estados Unidos pueden ser especialmente importantes para albergar a individuos de C. guttatus durante el invierno. La abundancia de D. coronata se correlacion con la masa seca de pulpa madura de frutos de Myrica cerifera, la cual representa una fuente importante de alimento durante el invierno para esta especie. Sin embargo, debido a que la masa seca de pulpa de M. cerifera no pudo ser separada del efecto del tipo de hbitat, no pudimos distinguir entre la importancia relativa de los frutos y del hbitat para D. coronata. Nuestros resultados enfatizan la importancia de los frutos para las aves invernantes. Sin embargo, el porcentaje total de variacin en la abundancia invernal de aves explicado por las diferencias en la biomasa de frutos maduros fue modesto, indicando que otros factores son tambin importantes. 
4085663|I studied the White-bearded Flycatcher (Conopias inornata = Myiozetetes inornatus) in Venezuela during its breeding season. Its nest was a small open cup covered on the exterior with applied lichens. The natal down was dense, short, and pale yellow. A single extra parental helper was found in two of the three territories studied. All members of these closely integrated social groups built the nests, fed the nestlings, and defended the territories. Incubation and brooding were shared by both sexes and sometimes by the helper. The White-bearded Flycatcher duetted antiphonally. It was parasitized by the Shiny Cowbird, Molothrus bonariensis. Conopias inornata nest structure, nestling down, and male breeding behavior differed from those of Myiozetetes cayanensis, M. granadensis, and M. similis. These differences support the use of the genus Conopias in place of Myiozetetes.
4089554|We estimated nesting success at real and artificial nests of grassland birds to test the influence of nest type, nest position, and egg size on predation rates. We distributed wicker nests and realistic woven-grass nests baited with a clay egg and either a Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) egg or a House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) egg in four grasslands that were part of the Conservation Reserve Program in east-central Illinois. Nesting success averaged 86.5% for 12 days of exposure for artificial nests. For real nests, nesting success was markedly lower, averaging 39% over the entire nesting cycle and 59% during approximately 12 days of incubation. Wicker nests were depredated more often than woven-grass artificial nests (18% vs. 8%), and nests baited with House Sparrow eggs were depredated more often than nests baited with Northern Bobwhite eggs (22% vs. 9%). Elevated and ground nests were depredated at the same rate. Patterns of nest predation on wicker nests were markedly different from depredation patterns on real nests over time and among fields. In contrast, patterns of nest predation on realistic woven-grass nests corresponded much more closely with predation rates of real nests over time and among fields. We suggest that future artificial nest studies use nests and eggs that mimic as closely as possible the real nests and eggs of target species. Use of unrealistic artificial nests and eggs, at least in grasslands, may result in patterns of predation that do not accurately reflect those of real nests. Artificial nests of any type appear to underestimate predation rates on nests of grassland birds, possibly because of a lack of snake predation on artificial nests.
10.2307/4086776|Males of MacGregor's Bowerbird (Amblyornis macgregoriae) cache fruit. In a study population in eastern Papua New Guinea we found 437 cache sites at 39 bowers. Adult males stored an average total of 17.6 fruits (range 0-82) at 13.6 sites (range 0-55), significantly more than immature males. All sites were located in vegetation above ground within 13 m horizontal and 9 m vertical distance from the males' bowers. For 3 males studied intensively, the rate of replacement of caches averaged 0.13
4090516| Food allocation among nestlings has a strong influence on parental fitness. Maximizing fledging success in a favorable environment requires food distribution based on offspring need signals. However, food limitation, differences among individual nestlings in their quality, or variation in the costs of rearing different young may result in preferential allocation of food by parents. If signals of nestling quality or need change in meaning with age, parents are expected to adjust their feeding rules to those changes. We examined food allocation in broods of Collared Flycatchers (Ficedula albicollis), a sexually size-monomorphic passerine. In a multivariate analysis, we investigated the role of sex, size, condition, position, and begging intensity in two nestling ages. Size, condition, and sex of nestlings did not affect parental decisions. Begging intensity and nestling position, however, had a role in food allocation in both age categories. Both parents preferred the more intensely begging nestlings. Males did not show clear position preference in the "young" age category, but had preferred positions with older nestlings. Female position preference was observed in both age categories. Preferred positions of male and female parents differed; still, we observed overall position preference. /// La asignacin de alimentos entre los pichones tiene una influencia fuerte sobre la adecuacin biolgica de los padres. La maximizacin del xito de emplumamiento en un ambiente favorable requiere que la distribucin de la comida se base en las seales de necesidad emitidas por la progenie. Sin embargo, la limitacin en los alimentos, las diferencias en la calidad entre los pichones o la variacin en los costos de criar a distintos jvenes puede conllevar a la asignacin preferencial de alimentos por parte de los padres. Si las seales de calidad o de necesidad de los pichones cambian de significado con la edad, se espera que los padres ajusten sus reglas de provisin de alimentos en relacin con esos cambios. Examinamos la asignacin de alimentos en nidadas de Ficedula albicollis, una especie paserina en la que el tamao de ambos sexos es igual. En un anlisis multivariado, investigamos el rol del sexo, el tamao, la condicin, la posicin y la intensidad de reclamos para dos edades de pichones. El tamao, la condicin y el sexo de los pichones no afectaron las decisiones de los padres. Sin embargo, la intensidad del reclamo y la posicin de los pichones afectaron la asignacin de los alimentos en ambas categoras de edad. Ambos padres priorizaron a los pichones que reclamaron con mayor intensidad. Los machos no mostraron preferencia clara por una posicin dada de los pichones de edad "joven", pero prefirieron determinadas posiciones en los pichones ms viejos. La preferencia por parte de las hembras de una posicin dada fue observada en ambas categoras de edad. Las posiciones preferidas de los padres y las madres difirieron; an as, observamos una preferencia de posicin generalizada. 
4085813| The behavior of two naturally occurring hybrid male parasitic finches and their related parental species was observed near Lochinvar National Park, Zambia. Morphology and color indicate that the hybrids were Dusky Indigobird (Vidua purpurascens)  Paradise Whydah (V. paradisaea). One hybrid male defended a singing area against the other hybrid as well as against male indigobirds and Paradise Whydahs. The behavior of the hybrids included several characteristics of the Paradise Whydah and others that were intermediate between those of the parental species. Hybrids sang long mimetic sequences of songs of the Melba Finch (Pytilia melba), as well as prolonged whistles, given in flight, and modulated-note and long harsh chatters, all characteristic of local Paradise Whydahs and given in similar contexts. I suggest that the hybrids were reared in the nest of a Melba Finch, the eggs were laid by a female Paradise Whydah that was mated to a Dusky Indigobird, and the hybrid young learned the general features of their foster parents' song. Later, as first-year birds, they copied the songs of Paradise Whydahs that sounded like those of their foster parents. This explanation accounts for the nonintermediacy of the song of the hybrids. Sexual interference, rather than competition for resources or a mistaken identity, accounts for the interspecific territoriality of the parasitic finches, and sexual selection may account for species differences in song. 
10.2307/4087230|The distribution of nesting Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) in coastal Maine was studied by examining the relationship between colony size and availability of food supplies near colonies, the selection of nesting habitat, and the spacing of colonies. Nineteen colonies (size range 4-252 nests) were located, all on marine islands. The number of nests in a colony was correlated positively (r = 0.82) with the area of tidal and inland wetlands within a 20-km radius of a colony. Nest and colony characteristics were highly variable, and suitable nesting habitat did not seem to limit colony size or distribution. The degree of forestation, presence of hardwoods, and distance of an island from towns and other islands with colonies were apparently important factors in selection of nesting islands. Colonies were uniformly distributed along the coast at intervals of about 16 km. We present a model for the observed dispersion of heron nests based on the conclusion that food competition between members of the same colony probably limits the size of colonies, whereas food competition between members of adjacent colonies may determine colony distribution.
25488731|Distance sampling is usually preferred over uncorrected point counts for surveys of forest birds, but rarely has its accuracy been assessed against known numbers, particularly in tropical forests. We compared density estimates of eight species of breeding birdBlack-naped Monarch (
4085451|Some parameters of Gray Catbird song important in species recognition were identified by playback of altered song to territorial individuals. Playback types included normal song, song played backwards, song in which the order of syllables was randomized and song in which the normal frequency excursion of sound energy versus time was altered. In addition, three parameters were measured from spectrographs of songs from five individuals. Statistical analysis of the responses from 67 individuals indicated that catbirds responded to song composed of sound energy traversing an approximately 4-kHz bandwidth at a characteristic rate.
10.2307/4089188| We describe two hybrid zones between Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis) and Townsend's Warblers (D. townsendi) in Washington, and introduce a third zone in Oregon. To quantify phenotypes, we scored eight standardized characters in each age class and summed them to form a hybrid index score. Because no linear geographic feature delimits the hybrid zones between these warblers, we sampled the forests of Washington in a grid-like fashion to define the shape of the zones. For both Washington zones, the shape of the character-transition curves for the hybrid index suggests asymmetries in gene flow, with Townsend's-like phenotypes penetrating farther into the Hermit side of the zone than vice versa. Covariances between character states are high at the phenotypic center of the zone. Following Barton and Gale (1993), we use these covariances and the width of the zone to estimate , the root mean square dispersal distance. Both Washington zones are narrow relative to , indicating that selection is preventing these zones from increasing in width. Hybrid superiority within an ecotone, recency of contact, and habitat modification seem insufficient as explanations for the abrupt transition that takes place in these zones. Asymmetries in the character-transition curves suggest that the zones are moving. We find no evidence that this inferred movement can be attributed to habitat changes or to differences in dispersal between the parental species. Other studies suggest that the primary cause of this inferred movement is behavioral dominance of Townsend's males over Hermit males. The shape of the zone in the Washington Cascades also suggests that Townsend's on the east side of the Cascade Mountains are better adapted to dry forests, possibly due to gene flow from populations derived from the Rocky Mountains. The third, isolated zone in the Cascade Mountains of Oregon offers unique opportunities to test this hypothesis. 
90008066|The fossil bird
4090515| High-value resources are often defended aggressively by consumers, which can alter assemblage structure and dynamics. Here, we describe a system of nectarivorous bird assemblages exploiting pockets of eucalypt woodlands that differ dramatically in flowering and provision of nectar. The behavioral dominant, the Red Wattlebird (Anthochaera curunculata), aggressively reduces the occurrence and activities of other honeyeaters of the genera Lichenostomus and Melithreptus on sites of intense flowering. The latter genera predominate in moderately flowering areas, but few honeyeaters occupy poorly flowering sites. To understand such systems, in which temporal variation in habitat quality can be great, one needs to consider not only the disparity in habitat quality among locations but also the spatial extent of habitats of different quality. Isoleg analysis is a theoretical tool developed to understand how dominant and subordinate species partition habitats as a function of their respective densities. Our results suggest that isoleg analysis needs to be developed with spatial explicitness to capture variation in extent of habitats of different qualities and consequent effects on the usefulness of aggression for domination of resources. /// Muchas veces, los recursos de alto valor son defendidos agresivamente por los consumidores, lo cual puede alterar la estructura y dinmica de los ensambles. En este estudio, describimos un sistema de ensambles de aves nectarvoras que explotan parches de un bosque de eucaliptos que difieren dramticamente en los patrones de floracin y provisin de nctar. La especie de comportamiento dominante, Anthochaera curunculata, reduce la presencia y la actividad en los sitios de floracin intensa de otras aves de los gneros Lichenostomus y Melithreptus que se alimentan de miel. Melithreptus predomina en reas con floracin moderada, pero pocas especies de aves que consumen miel ocupan sitios con baja floracin. Para entender estos sistemas, en los que la variacin temporal de la calidad del hbitat puede ser muy grande, no slo es necesario considerar la disparidad de la calidad del hbitat entre las localidades, sino que tambin debe considerarse la extensin espacial de los hbitats que difieren en calidad. El anlisis de "isoleg" es una herramienta terica desarrollada para entender como las especies dominantes y subordinadas se dividen los hbitats en funcin de sus densidades respectivas. Nuestros resultados indican que el anlisis de "isoleg" debe desarrollarse de manera espacialmente explcita para capturar la variacin en la extensin de los hbitats que difieren en calidad y los efectos resultantes de la utilidad de la agresin como una herramienta para dominar los recursos. 
4088681|In a Costa Rican population of Montezuma Oropendolas (Psarocolius montezuma), high-ranking males defended groups of females at nesting colonies and prevented other males from copulating there. Observed male mating success was strongly biased toward high-ranking males; the top-ranking (alpha) male obtained 90 to 100% of all observed copulations at a focal colony in three of four breeding seasons. The probability of success per copulation attempt was significantly higher for the alpha male than for the beta male, suggesting that females prefer mating with high-ranking males at nesting colonies. However, low-ranking males unable to copulate at the colony followed females and courted them away from the protection of the alpha male. I used multilocus DNA fingerprinting to determine the relative fertilization success of alpha and lower-ranking males. Using M13 and Jeffreys 33.15 probes, I determined the paternity of 21 sampled nestlings from four colony sites. Seven of these nestlings matched with the alpha male at their colony, 4 matched with the beta male, and the remaining 10 did not match up with any sampled male. The fertilization success of alpha males was significantly lower than expected from the observed copulation success at nesting colonies. Paternity assignments and levels of band sharing among nestlings indicate that most nestlings not attributable to the alpha were sired by several low-ranking males copulating away from the colony. These results indicate that alpha males sire more progeny than other males, but that lower-ranking males are able to achieve some reproductive success by copulating with females away from the colony. The combined effect of fertilizations by low-ranking males was to reduce significantly the alpha male's monopolization of fertilizations below that suggested by observed copulation success.
10.2307/4087495|We studied the relative importance of hatching asynchrony and intraclutch egg-size variation in the establishment of a size hierarchy in broods of the Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis). In 3-egg clutches (87% of all clutches), the second egg averaged 3.0% larger than the first and 2.3% larger than the third. Mean hatching intervals were 11.7 h between the first and second chicks, and 48.3 h between the second and third chicks. In broods of three, the first chick weighed on average 1.9 times more than the last chick at the time the last one hatched. This difference was almost entirely a result of hatching asynchrony. For the last two chicks, hatching asynchrony accounted for 95% of mass difference and the variation in egg size for the remaining 5%. We conclude that variation in egg size has little influence in determining the initial size differences within broods. This applies to several other bird species. Hatching asynchrony and variation in egg size seem to result from selection pressures other than those connected with size differences between nestlings.
10.2307/4088943|Existing theory and empirical evidence suggest that body size should have a profound influence upon the composition of flight muscles and the performance of intermittent flight in birds. I examine the relationships between functional morphology and intermittent flight behavior within a closely-related group of birds using six species of woodpeckers (Picidae): Downy Woodpecker (Picoides pubescens, 27.2 g), Red-naped Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus nuchalis, 47.4 g), Hairy Woodpecker (P. villosus, 70.5 g), Lewis' Woodpecker (Melanerpes lewis, 106.6 g), Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus, 148.1 g), and Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus, 262.5 g). In woodpeckers with a body mass less than 100 g, the pectoralis muscle was composed mostly of red (R) fibers, with intermediate (I) fibers either absent or restricted to lateral regions. R and I fibers were found in all regions of the pectoralis in the larger species. Positive scaling of the percent and cross-sectional diameter of I fibers may explain why species larger than 100 g flap-bounded when theory predicts they should not have sufficient power. Differences were evident in staining characteristics of I fibers among (but not within) species. Phylogenetic effects were apparent because hypothesized sister taxa shared similarities in muscle composition. Internal and external wing dimensions scaled according to the predictions of geometric similarity, but the Red-naped Sapsucker and Lewis' Woodpecker possessed slightly higher wing-shape indices (narrower, more-pointed wings) than the other species, which may reflect migratory and flycatching behavior as well as phylogeny. All of the species exhibited flap-bounding. The number of flaps in a flapping phase, wingbeat frequency, flapping-phase duration, and bounding-phase duration all scaled negatively with body mass, whereas the percent time spent flapping and flight speed scaled slightly positively. Lewis' Woodpecker was unusual in its intermittent flight behavior by spending more time flapping, using lower wingbeat frequencies and flying slower than would be expected for its body mass. It was the only species to pursue flying insects using highly maneuvered flights including extended glides, although the Red-naped Sapsucker was observed to flycatch without gliding. Slow flight speed, rather than wing design, was related to gliding in the Lewis' Woodpecker. I fibers in the pectoralis of the Lewis' Woodpecker were unique in showing intense glycolytic potential, perhaps reflecting the species' foraging style.
4087175|A contact zone between Black-capped and Carolina chickadees (Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis) exists in southwestern Missouri. It was less than 15 km wide and paralleled the interface between the relatively treeless Great Plains and the forested Ozark Plateau. Many birds in this zone were intermediate in morphology or vocalizations or both. Moreover, both morphological and vocal discriminant analysis scores of contact zone birds were unimodally distributed and there was no correlation between morphological discriminant scores of mated males and females in the contact zone, indicating little or no assortative mating. Playback experiments demonstrated that birds to the north or south of the contact zone responded aggressively only to their own song type, while contact zone birds responded to either song type. We believe that southwestern Missouri contact zone populations are derived from extensive hybridization between atricapillus and carolinensis.
10.1525/auk.2009.09058|Mercury is a toxic heavy metal that can cause obvious physiological and reproductive problems in animals. Very little is known, however, about its subtle behavioral effects. We examined whether birds that inhabited mercury-contaminated sites exhibited differences in singing behavior compared with birds at uncontaminated reference sites nearby. We recorded the songs of 3 oscines, the Carolina Wren (
4086272|I studied fruit-feeding by nine species of birds of paradise in Papua New Guinea from July 1978 through November 1980 and gathered 1,187 records of foraging at 31 species of trees and vines from 14 botanical families. Fruit consumed was consistently small-to moderate-sized (mean: 1 cm diameter), but fruit of different species of plants showed high morphological diversity. I classify the fruit of 31 plant species into three morphological groups: capsule, fig, and drupe/berry. Each of the primarily frugivorous birds of paradise was recorded taking fruits from 10-21 plant species, including representatives from each class. The monogamous Trumpet Manucode and Crinkle-collared Manucode were fig specialists. More than 80% of their diet was figs. The polygamous species of paradisaeids were more "generalized" fruit-feeders and took significant amounts of fruit from all three morphological categories. The most important types of fruit among the polygamous birds were capsular species (49% of diet). While fig species were visited by birds from many families, most nonfig trees hosted a narrower range of foragers, and two species of trees, Chisocheton weinlandii (Meliaceae) and Gastonia spectabilis (Araliaceae), were visited only by birds of paradise. The frugivorous habits of birds of paradise are similar in several respects to those of the neotropical cotingids and manakins. It is argued that while frugivory is an important component of the evolution of polygamous arena display in these birds, it cannot, by itself, explain why some birds are polygamous and others monogamous. Frugivory in the tropics is a complex syndrome that offers a number of ecological alternatives that, in turn, promote different behavioral adaptations.
10.2307/4089195|We documented blackfly infestations (Simulium canonicolum) at 42 Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) nests in Wyoming. Blackflies caused mortality at 6 of 42 (14%) nests where young hatched (13 of 87 nestlings) and were the only known cause of nestling mortality. The onset of infestations occurred when nestlings were 3 to 20 days old and usually lasted until nestlings died or fledged. Age of nestlings at mortality ranged from 9 to 43 days. Levels of blackfly infestation were highly variable among nests and were affected by weather. The cumulative effects of infestations on nestlings, including physical harassment, Leucocytozoon (a blood protozoan transmitted by blackflies) infection, and direct loss of blood and body fluids from biting flies, apparently resulted in mortalities through sustained physiological damage, trauma associated with early nest departure, or both. Because blackfly infestations can be detected only at close range, are ephemeral at nests, and can cause mortality of nestlings over a wide range of ages, the presence of blackflies and their influence on reproduction probably are undetected during most raptor productivity surveys.
10.2307/4090185| In a previous study we found that survivorship of several species of permanent-resident, temperate-zone birds was positively related to forest fragment size and presence of supplemental food, and negatively related to extent of snow cover (Doherty and Grubb 2002). Here, we test the hypothesis that such trends are related to differential nutritional condition during winter. Employing rate of growth of induced feathers, we found that woodlot size and presence of supplemental food interacted to increase the nutritional condition of Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) and that Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) nutritional condition was reduced in years with high snow cover. Assuming that nutritional condition is positively related to survivorship, these results have possible implications for the vaibility of permanent-resident birds in small woodlots, with the effects on subordinate species in foraging flocks in very small woodlots possibly being the most severe. /// En un estudio previo encontramos que la sobreviviencia de especies de aves residentes permanentes en la zona temperada se correlacion positivamente con el tamao de los fragmentos de bosque y la presencia de alimento suplementario, y negativamente con la cobertura de nieve (Doherty and Grubb 2002). En este estudio, probamos la hiptesis de que estas tendencias estn relacionadas con una condicin nutricional diferencial durante el invierno. Utilizando la tasa de crecimiento de plumas inducidas, encontramos que el tamao del fragmento y la presencia de alimento suplementario interactuaron para aumentar la condicin nutricional de Poecile carolinensis y que la condicin nutricional de Baeolophus bicolor fue reducida en aos con una alta cobertura de nieve. Suponiendo que la condicin nutricional se correlaciona positivamente con la sobreviviencia, estos resultados tienen posibles implicaciones para la viabilidad de aves residentes permanentes en pequeos fragmentos de bosque, con el efecto siendo posiblemente ms severo en las especies subordinadas en bandadas de forrajeo en fragmentos de bosque muy pequeos. 
25488726|Migratory species are of increased conservation concern because of their reliance on multiple, geographically disjunct habitats. An understanding of how long-term ecological processes and contemporary population genetic patterns are related is critical for effective management and conservation of such species. Combining traditional long-term census and markrecapture data with temporally focused molecular genetic data can help inform these efforts. We used 24 years of banding data, 15 years of migration counts, and molecular genetic data from 17 microsatellite loci to describe the migration phenology, direction, and population connectivity of Red-tailed Hawks (
10.1525/auk.2011.10148|The addition of planted grasslands (i.e., fields that have been planted with exotic grass and forb species) to the North American landscape has been beneficial for the conservation of many species, but not necessarily for species that show a preference for native grasslands. Under what conditions these planted fields are attractive to native grassland specialists is unclear. Sprague's Pipit (
10.2307/4085505|Four Red-cockaded Woodpeckers from three clans were radio tracked for 128 hours from October to December 1975 in a pine flatwood community in central Florida. Radio telemetry equipment proved valuable for obtaining data on daily movements, behavior, and range size over a complete dawn to dusk tracking period. The average range of 69.8 ha (172.3 acres) was larger than most previously reported ranges. Foraging was most frequent in pine flatwoods habitat; longleaf and slashed pine were the main species utilized. The roosting area itself was used as a foraging site only during rainy weather. Based on this study a minimum of 58-91 ha of suitable foraging habitat are necessary to support clans of 3-4 Red-cockaded Woodpeckers during fall in a pine flatwoods community.
4086970|We measured eggs, incubation periods, growth of chicks, and masses of adults of 10 species of cranes at the Bronx Zoo and the International Crane Foundation. Growth rate constants of Gompertz equations fitted to the data varied between 0.034 and 0.057/day. These values were 50-90% of those for altricial birds of comparable adult mass, and were considerably greater than those of other precocial species, such as galliforms. Rates of growth intermediate between altricial and precocial species are consistent with the fact that crane chicks, although precocial, are brooded and fed by their parents during much of the early development period. Within species, asymptote (A) and growth-rate constant (K) of the Gompertz equations were negatively correlated, owing to their inherent relationship in the curve-fitting process. Masses of chicks during the first month after hatch were unrelated to the mass asymptote, but correlated strongly with the estimated growth-rate constant. The mass of the neonate was about 60% of the fresh mass of the egg. Egg mass was unrelated to subsequent chick mass during the first month, but correlated with the mass asymptote in two species when the relationship between A and K was accounted for statistically. Egg mass also was correlated with incubation period, fledging period, and the growthrate constant in isolated instances. Growth rate and asymptote among species were inversely related, as found among large samples of diverse bird species. The size of the egg relative to the mass of the adult was related inversely to adult mass, again consistent with patterns in other groups of birds. Fledging period was related strongly to the length of the incubation period and weakly to the asymptote to the growth curve, and it was unrelated to growth-rate constant of the Gompertz equation.
10.1525/auk.2012.11229|Many migrant songbird species use high-elevation habitats for stopovers in fall throughout North America, but whether these are good migration habitats as indicated by high fueling rates or other measures has not been previously quantified. At high-quality stopover sites, birds can refuel while maintaining their optimal or preferred migration schedules. We used plasma metabolite analysis to estimate fueling rates of four songbird species during the fall migration period over 3 years at two high-elevation (1,200 m above sea level) and two low-elevation (<25 m above sea level) sites in southwestern British Columbia. For three species with more frugivorous diets during fallthe Fox Sparrow (
10.2307/4089331|The hummingbird genus Metallura comprises nine species. Six of them live at the treeline and replace each other sharply along the eastern slope of the tropical Andes (williami, baroni, odomae, theresiae, eupogon, and aeneocauda). Their ranges overlap for 3,000 km along the Andes with M. tyrianthina, which lives at lower elevations and is differentiated into several subspecies that show clinal variation. The genus also includes M. phoebe in semiarid western Peru and M. iracunda in the Perija Mountains of the northern Andes. The group could be a good model to study relative differences in diversification between montane forest as such and the narrow transition zone toward the barren highlands. Analysis of nucleotide sequences from three different mitochondrial gene fragments (cytochrome b, ND2, and ND5) show that Metallura forms a monophyletic group whose sister taxon is the genus Chalcostigma. The treeline forms of Metallura, including the morphologically divergent M. phoebe, group in a clade sister to M. tyrianthina, confirming the idea that montane forest and treeline forms are sister taxa in a strict sense. Neighboring treeline species show greater morphological and genetic differentiation relative to neighboring montane forest forms. The split between midelevation and treeline forms is estimated to have occurred during the Pliocene, suggesting that much of the Metallura radiation took place during the Pleistocene.
90008544|The decision to breed influences an individuals current and future reproduction, and the proportion of individuals that breed is an important determinant of population dynamics. Age, experience, individual quality, and environmental conditions have all been demonstrated to influence breeding propensity. To elucidate which of these factors exerts the greatest influence on breeding propensity in a temperate waterfowl, we studied female Lesser Scaup (
10.2307/4087232|The mortality of territorial male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) was determined in a banded population during the breeding seasons of 1973-1978. I used these data to test the hypothesis that sexual selection for characteristics that are advantageous in territory defense or mate acquisition, or both, occurs at the expense of survivorship. Observations of males that returned to the study area to reestablish territories, and of the tenures of these males on their territories, enabled me to partition annual mortality into components that estimate mortality during the nonbreeding and breeding seasons. The mean annual mortality of territorial male Red-wings was 52%, with 29% mortality occurring during the "nonbreeding" season (1 June to approximately 1 March) and 22% mortality occurring during the breeding season before 1 June. The effect of body size on survivorship was investigated by correlating male wing lengths measured in the third year of life with their ages at death. The correlation between wing length and survivorship was negative (-0.438) and statistically significant (one-tailed P < 0.05). I conclude that mortality during the breeding season is a potentially important selective force in this species, and that sexual selection may have occurred at the expense of survivorship. Sexual selection for large males appears to be opposed by survival selection for small males.
10.2307/4090490| We explored characteristics and patterns of nest distribution, and their putative costs and benefits to breeding females, in polygynous Red-collared Widowbirds (Euplectes ardens). Red-collared Widowbirds differ from most other Euplectes species, in that male nest-building is reduced to simple nest-rings used in courtship; females alone position and build nests in the territories. Females used only 37% of available territory area for nesting and aggregated at the centers of territories, possibly to take advantage of male vigilance from prominent central perches or to avoid harassment by neighbors. However, irrespective of territory size or number of females on the territory, females maintained relatively even spacing, with nests 15 m apart. Nest predation rates were higher (28.2% day
10.2307/4088105|We examined dominance hierarchies, mating relationships, and helping by individually marked Harris' Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) at 64 nests in Arizona (1984-1988). Dominance hierarchies were linear and always contained an adult female as the most dominant member. We placed hawks into three dominance categories (alpha, beta, and gamma) based on frequencies of supplanting. Pairs without helpers (16%, n = 64) and groups that contained a beta male helper (63%) were the most common social structures. Some groups (11%) contained a second alpha female (alpha-2) that was subordinate to the alpha female and dominant over the alpha male. Of 68 observations of copulatory behavior, 45 (66%) were copulations between alpha males and alpha females. Beta males attempted to copulate with alpha females (23 observations; 34%) but were unsuccessful because of a lack of female compliance. Observations of movements by marked hawks suggested that most gamma helpers were offspring of the alpha pair and that beta males and alpha-2 females were probably unrelated to the alpha pair. Alpha hawks restricted access to the nest by both beta and gamma helpers, but beta males were tolerated closer to the nest than were gamma helpers. Consequently, beta and gamma helpers rarely participated in the direct care of eggs and young but were active in procuring prey, transporting prey to the nest area, and defending the nest from predation by Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus).
10.2307/4089193| Although the availability of suitable postfledging habitat potentially is pivotal to juvenile Neotropical migratory birds, data on dispersal, habitat use, and home-range size are limited. We used radio telemetry to study the postfledging ecology of juvenile Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) in the Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri. Natal home ranges were in mature oak-hickory forest, and natal home-range size ranged from 2.6 to 24.8 ha. Juveniles dispersed independently from their natal home ranges to post-dispersal ranges, with a mean dispersal direction of 185.2  SD of 77.2 and a mean distance of 2.08  1.48 km. Habitats used after dispersal differed from natal habitats and included early successional oak-hickory and pine forests, mid-successional pine forest, mature riparian forest, and forest/field edges. These habitats were characterized by a dense understory and thick ground cover. Post-dispersal home-range size averaged 1.53 ha. Our data suggest that in large tracts of mature deciduous forest, a mosaic of early and mid-successional forest stands, along with mature riparian forest, will accommodate both the breeding and post-dispersal habitat requirements of Wood Thrushes and other Neotropical migratory birds. 
10.2307/4086032|The reproductive success of Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus), and Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) breeding on a reclaimed surface mine in northern West Virginia was studied from 1978 through 1980. Only Vesper Sparrows showed significant (P < 0.05) annual differences in clutch size. Predation was the major cause of egg and nestling losses during all 3 yr. Of 185 nests located, 80 (43%) were presumed lost to predators. Our study site, surrounded by woodlots and pastureland, apparently concentrated predators. We believe northern black racers (Coluber constrictor constrictor) and Common Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) were the major predators. Generally, predators were equally successful in locating nests during the incubation and nestling periods. Variable nesting success, calculated from exposure for the species during the 3 yr, reflects differential predation pressure. Productivity estimates suggest that adults are not replacing themselves and immigration is necessary to maintain a stable population. Apparently, environmental cues are sufficient to elicit a settling response, but, due to predation, reproductive success is low. Although surface mining is providing new nesting habitat for these species, the inadequate reproductive success experienced on our site suggests that these manmade grasslands may not be of benefit to the sparrow populations in this area. Breeding densities during the 3 yr were variable and may reflect poor breeding success, changes in the vegetation, availability of more suitable nesting habitat, and differential mortality during migration and on the wintering grounds.
4084890|The biology of Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) was studied during the breeding season of 1964 on a
4087180|Morphological and territorial factors that influence female mate choice were examined in the monogamous Middendorff's Grasshopper-Warbler (Locustella ochotensis) on an islet near Fukuoka, Japan. I assumed that pairing date corresponded with female mate choice. Pairing date was correlated with both territory size and food abundance but was not correlated with selected morphological characteristics of males. Territorial quality was assumed to be correlated with territory size because preferable food resources and nest sites were distributed randomly. I conclude that female mate choice was influenced by territory quality rather than by the morphological characteristics of males.
10.1525/auk.2012.11213|Although changes in the mean arrival and breeding dates of some species are expected in response to climate change, other species may respond to direct or indirect climate effects by modifying the duration of their breeding period. We used a 20-year database for two closely related species that breed in sympatry in Europe, the short-distance migrant Dalmatian Pelican (
10.2307/4089449|We map behavioral characters related to mating system onto a phylogeny of the New World blackbirds (family Icteridae) in order to test hypotheses on the evolution of polygyny in Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). The two hypotheses we test are "long-term models" in the sense that, unlike most polygyny hypotheses, they allow the ancestral mating system to differ from the present one in characters other than female preferences for mated versus unmated males. In one model, polygyny evolves from the typical territorial monogamy system of most terrestrial passerines; in the second model, polygyny evolves from a system resembling that of monogamous Agelaius species, with marsh breeding and without male territoriality. Both hypotheses assume that female-biased parental care coevolves with polygyny. Our reconstruction suggests that the closest non-polygynous ancestor of Red-winged Blackbirds was characterized by monogamy, male territoriality, equal sharing of parental care between the sexes, and terrestrial breeding. Further, polygyny and female-biased care are suggested to have evolved on the same branch as marsh nesting. These results refute our second hypothesis in which polygyny evolves from "Agelaius monogamy," while providing provisional support for the first model in which polygyny evolves from territorial monogamy.
25150378| Large-scale oceanographic processes are the main drivers of seabird breeding success, but small-scale processes, though not as well understood, can also be important. We compared the success of Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) breeding at two subcolonies only 1.5 km apart on Triangle Island, British Columbia, Canada, 2002-2005. In addition, we used stable-isotope analysis to test the hypothesis that parental foraging strategies differed between the two subcolonies, potentially underlying the variation in breeding success. Success was concordant across years at the two sites but, overall, Tufted Puffins bred more successfully at Strata Rock than at Puffin Rock. They raised chicks in all four years at Strata Rock, but in only three years at Puffin Rock; in two of those three years, Strata Rock chicks were, on average, 60 g and 100 g heavier than Puffin Rock chicks just before fledging. Discriminant analysis of carbon and nitrogen stable-isotope ratios in egg yolk and chick blood in 2004 and 2005 indicated that parental foraging differed between the two subcolonies, with both spatial (C) and trophic-level (N) differences involved. Thus, our study demonstrates the existence of foraging asymmetries in a pelagic seabird at a small spatial scale (between subcolonies), complementing patterns found at larger scales (between colonies). Moreover, the foraging asymmetries were associated with inequalities in fitness measures. We conclude that small-scale processes-in this case, systematic differences in the foraging ecology of local groups-can interact with large-scale oceanographic processes to determine seabird breeding success. /// Les processus ocanographiques  grande chelle sont les principaux phnomnes influenant le succs de reproduction des oiseaux de mer mais les processus  petite chelle, mme s'ils ne sont pas aussi bien compris, peuvent aussi tre importants. Nous avons compars le succs de Fratercula cirrhata se reproduisant  deux sous-colonies distantes de seulement 1,5 km sur l'le Triangle, en Colombie-Britannique (Canada), de 2002  2005. De plus, nous avons utilis l'analyse des isotopes stables afin de tester l'hypothse selon laquelle les stratgies parentales de qute alimentaire diffrent entre les deux sous-colonies, ce qui peut impliquer une variation du succs de reproduction. Le succs concordait entre les annes aux deux sites mais de faon gnrale les Macareux hupps se reproduisaient avec plus de succs  Strata Rock qu' Puffin Rock. Ils ont lev des pussins  Strata Rock au cours des quatre annes de l'tude mais seulement pendant trois ans  Puffin Rock. Lors de deux de ces trois annes, les poussins de Strata Rock taient, en moyenne, 60 g et 100 g plus lourd que ceux de Puffin Rock juste avant l'envol. Une analyse discriminante des rapports des isotopes stables de carbone et d'azote dans le vitellus des ufs et le sang des poussins en 2004 et 2005 a indiqu que les stratgies parentales de qute alimentaire taient diffrentes entre les deux sous-colonies, avec des diffrences au niveau spatial (C) et trophique (N). Ainsi, notre tude dmontre l'existence d'asymtries dans la qute alimentaire d'un oiseau de mer plagique  une petite chelle spatiale (entre des sous-colonies), ce qui complmente les patrons trouvs  des chelles plus grandes (entre les colonies). De plus, les asymtries dans la qute alimentaire taient associes  des ingalits dans les mesures du fitness. Nous concluons que les processus  petite chelle - dans ce cas-ci, les diffrences systmatiques dans l'cologie de la qute alimentaire de groupes locaux - peuvent interagir avec des processus ocanographiques  grande chelle pour dterminer le succs de reproduction d'oiseaux de mer. 
10.2307/4090057| Food availability during winter may determine habitat use and limit populations of overwintering birds, yet its importance is difficult to judge because few studies have experimentally tested the response of nonbreeding birds to changes in resource abundance. We experimentally examined the link between fruit availability and habitat use by manipulating winter abundance of Myrica cerifera L. (Myricaceae) fruits in managed longleaf (Pinus palustris) and loblolly (P. taeda) pine stands in South Carolina. Myrica cerifera is a common understory shrub in the southeastern United States and provides lipid-rich fruit in late winter (February and March), when insects and other fruits are scarce. On treatment plots, we covered fruiting M. cerifera shrubs with netting in early winter to prevent birds from eating their fruits. In late February, when M. cerifera fruit crops were largely depleted elsewhere on our study site, we uncovered the shrubs and documented the response of the bird community to those patches of high fruit availability. Relative to control plots, total bird abundance (excluding the most common species, Yellow-rumped Warbler [Dendroica coronata]) and species richness did not change after net removal. Yellow-rumped Warblers, however, became significantly more abundant on treatment plots after net removal, which suggests that they track M. cerifera fruit abundance. We suggest that M. cerifera plays a role in determining the local distribution of wintering Yellow-rumped Warblers at our study site. To put these results into a management context, we also examined the effect of prescribed fire frequencies on M. cerifera fruit production. Across pine stands with different fire regimes, M. cerifera fruit abundance increased with the number of years since burning. It takes 4-6 years for individuals to recover sufficiently from a burn to produce large quantities of fruit. Thus, shorter intervals between burns will reduce winter fruit availability. Taken together, these results suggest that within those pine plantations, the local winter distribution of at least one common migratory bird is closely tied to fruit abundance, which in turn is tied to the frequency of prescribed fires. /// La disponibilidad de alimentos durante el invierno puede determinar el uso del hbitat y limitar las poblaciones de aves que permanecen en sus reas de nidificacin durante el invierno. Sin embargo, es difcil determinar su importancia debido a que pocos estudios han evaluado experimentalmente la respuesta de aves no reproductivas a cambios en la abundancia de recursos. Nosotros examinamos experimentalmente el vnculo entre la disponibilidad de frutos y el uso del hbitat manipulando la abundancia invernal de frutos de Myrica cerifera L. (Myricaceae) en plantaciones bajo manejo de Pinus palustris y P. taeda en Carolina del Sur. Myrica cerifera es un arbusto comn del sotobosque en el sudeste de Estados Unidos que provee frutos ricos en lpidos hacia fines del invierno (febrero y marzo), cuando los insectos y otros frutos son escasos. A principios del invierno, en las parcelas experimentales, cubrimos con redes los arbustos de M. cerifera que presentaron frutos para impedir que las aves los comieran. A fines de febrero, cuando se agotaron casi por completo los frutos de M. cerifera en cualquier otro lugar de nuestro sitio de estudio, descubrimos los arbustos y documentamos la respuesta de la comunidad de aves a los parches con alta disponibilidad de frutos. Con relacin a las parcelas de control, la abundancia de aves (excluyendo a la especie ms comn, Dendroica coronata) y la riqueza de especies no cambiaron luego de sacar las redes. Dendroica coronata, sin embargo, se torn significativamente ms abundante en las parcelas experimentales luego de sacar las redes, lo que sugiere que rastrea la abundancia de frutos de M. cerifera. Sugerimos que M. cerifera juega un rol en determinar la distribucin invernal local de Dendroica coronata en nuestro sitio de estudio. Para poner estos resultados en un contexto de manejo, tambin examinamos el efecto de la frecuencia de quemas planeadas sobre la produccin de frutos de M. cerifera. A lo largo de las plantaciones de pino con diferentes regmenes de fuego, la abundancia de frutos de M. cerifera increment con el nmero de aos desde la quema. Los individuos requieren de 4 a 6 aos para recuperarse luego de la quema y producir grandes cantidades de frutos. De este modo, intervalos ms cortos entre quemas reducirn la disponibilidad invernal de frutos. Analizados de modo integral, estos resultados sugieren que dentro de estas plantaciones de pino, la distribucin local invernal de al menos un ave migratoria comn est ntimamente ligada a la abundancia de frutos, la cual a su vez esta ligada a la frecuencia de quemas planeadas. 
4087959| We studied the rejection behavior shown by different Norwegian cuckoo hosts towards artificial Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) eggs. The hosts with the largest bills were grasp ejectors, those with medium-sized bills were mostly puncture ejectors, while those with the smallest bills generally deserted their nests when parasitized experimentally with an artificial egg. There were a few exceptions to this general rule. Because the Common Cuckoo and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) lay eggs that are similar in shape, volume, and eggshell thickness, and they parasitize nests of similarly sized host species, we support the puncture resistance hypothesis proposed to explain the adaptive value (or evolution) of strength in cowbird eggs. The primary assumption and prediction of this hypothesis are that some hosts have bills too small to grasp parasitic eggs and therefore must puncture-eject them, and that smaller hosts do not adopt ejection behavior because of the heavy cost involved in puncture-ejecting the thick-shelled parasitic egg. We compared our results with those for North American Brown-headed Cowbird hosts and we found a significantly higher proportion of rejecters among Common Cuckoo hosts with grasp indices (i.e. bill length  bill breadth) of
10.1525/auk.2010.09138|We investigated the importance of passive sperm loss in the outcome of sperm competition in captive, wild-type Muscovy Ducks (
4090523| I reconstructed the phylogeny of 12 Ramphastos toucan taxa using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences. This analysis identified two major groups, including a monophyletic smooth-billed yelping clade and a clade including most, but not all, the channel-keel-billed croakers. Within the R. tucanus and R. vitellinus groups, uncorrected mtDNA divergences are relatively low and mtDNA sequences from several subspecies are paraphyletic. One exception to low divergences within the R. vitellinus group is R. v. ariel from southeastern Brazil, which on average differs from all other R. vitellinus sampled by 2.9%. Character reconstructions on the phylogeny indicate that the ancestral Ramphastos was most likely a large-bodied channel-keel-billed croaker. Furthermore, an assessment of the patterns of bill shape, voice, and both plumage and bare-part coloration characters suggests that bill shape and voice have significant phylogenetic signal but that color characters do not. Sympatric Ramphastos taxa are not closely related in the phylogeny; therefore, character reconstructions indicate that the extreme similarity in coloration patterns between many sympatric Ramphastos pairs is most likely attributable to a combination of convergence or parallelism (homoplasy) and shared ancestral character states (symplesiomorphy). /// Reconstru la filogenia de 12 taxa del gnero Ramphastos (Ramphastidae) usando secuencias de ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt). Este anlisis identific dos grupos principales, incluyendo un grupo monofiltico compuesto por tucanes de picos lisos que emiten gaidos y un clado compuesto por la mayora de los tucanes de picos acanalados que emiten graznidos. Dentro de los grupos de R. tucanus y R. vitellinus las distancias no corregidas en el ADNmt son relativamente bajas y las secuencias de varias subespecies son parafilticas. Una excepcin al patrn de divergencia limitada dentro del grupo de R. vitellinus es el caso de R. v. ariel, un taxn del sudeste de Brasil, cuyas secuencias difieren en promedio en un 2.9% con respecto a todos los dems R. vitellinus muestreados. Las reconstrucciones de la evolucin de caracteres hechas con base en la filogenia indican que el Ramphastos ancestral probablemente presentaba tamao corporal grande y pico acanalado y sus vocalizaciones eran graznidos. Adems, una evaluacin de los patrones de forma del pico, las vocalizaciones y la coloracin del plumaje y de las partes desnudas sugiere que la forma del pico y las vocalizaciones son buenos indicadores de las relaciones filogenticas, pero los caracteres de color no lo son. Los taxa simptricos del gnero Ramphastos no estn estrechamente relacionados de acuerdo a la filogenia. Por lo tanto, la marcada similitud en los patrones de coloracin de muchos pares de especies simptricas es probablemente atribuible a una combinacin de convergencia o paralelismo (homoplasia) y a la retencin de caracteres ancestrales compartidos (simplesiomorfa). 
4085609|Changes in diet and body composition of Giant Canada Geese (Branta canadensis maxima) were studied before geese initiated spring migration in early April. During the period of hyperphagia in March, body weight of female and male geese increased 36% and 26%, respectively, above average winter weights. Body weights of paired geese averaged 0.34 kg (females) and 0.27 kg (males) more than those of geese without mates before the weight gain period. Some unmated geese did not gain weight, and others gained less weight than paired geese. Geese shifted from a winter diet of corn (Zea mays) to a diversity of food items in spring. Corn remained the primary source of carbohydrate, and bluegrass (Poa pratensis) provided protein for geese. Weight gain of females was composed of 61% lipid, 10% protein, and 21% water, whereas weight gained by males was 47% lipid, 13% protein, and 35% water. Initial weight gains were predominantly protein (and accompanying water), probably required for gut enlargement. Most of the later body weight gain was due to lipid storage. Increase in size of breast and leg muscles at the end of March was largely due to lipid storage and a shift of protein from other body tissues. Lipid and protein storage was adequate to explain energy and nutrient requirements for body maintenance after arrival on the breeding grounds, egg laying, and territorial defense. Females may have to obtain minerals (and possibly additional protein) for egg formation from food sources on the breeding grounds. Lipid reserves of male Giant Canada Geese indicate an ability to sustain energetic costs during nesting equal to those of the female (apart from egg laying) and are greater than reserves of other species of geese and subspecies of Canada Geese investigated to date.
10.2307/4089600| We investigated the use of stable-isotope analysis as a direct means of tracing allocation of endogenous protein and lipid reserves to reproduction in five gulls (Larus canus, L. delawarensis, L. californicus, L. argentatus, L. philadelphia), four terns (Sterna caspia, S. hirundo, S. paradisaea, Chlidonias niger), and one jaeger (Stercorarius parasiticus) breeding on Great Slave Lake (GSL) in the Northwest Territories. Our approach was based on assumptions that (1) body tissues of birds just arriving at GSL from their assumed marine-associated wintering habitats would have stable-isotope ratios more enriched than those of birds in equilibrium with the local GSL foodweb, and (2) mobilization of these reserves to reproduction could be traced by the isotopic measurement of egg macronutrients. As predicted, the pectoral muscle of six species of arriving birds was more enriched in
10.2307/4085262|We watched for Goshawk migration each autumn in the years 1950-74. Two major invasions, composed largely of adults, were seen, one in 1962 and 1963 and the other in 1972 and 1973. The 1972 southward movement was probably the greatest in history. Comparisons of interannual fluctuations in age and sex ratios with those derived from a model population strongly suggest that major invasions of Goshawks indicate a massive reproductive failure and a precipitous decline in population, approaching 70% for 1972-73. We suggest that the magnitude of an invasion is determined by the synchrony of the decline of prey populations in time and space, and also by the size of the Goshawk population. We hypothesize that agonistic interactions between Goshawks play an important role in producing both invasions and massive reproductive failure. Our calculations suggest that the decline in population in 1972-73 was sufficiently great that recovery will take more than 12 years of optimal reproduction. We therefore predict that several 10-year cycles will pass before we witness another major invasion of Goshawks.
4085443|A study of nest site characteristics of five species of herons and egrets on a North Carolina coastal heronry using principal component analysis revealed four components describing sampled nest sites: vegetation structure, accessibility, protection, and shrub/tree-center distance. Comparison of nest sites on the basis of component scores revealed that nest sites of Great Egrets were significantly different from those of the other species. Comparison of mean vectors revealed nest site differences among most of the smaller species. The study suggests that the smaller species may be reducing competition for nest sites through differential use of environmental variables associated with the site. Confirmation of the biological significance of these differences will require additional studies. Great Egrets began nesting the earliest, starting in late March. Cattle Egrets began nesting somewhat later than most other species and were more temporally dispersed in nesting, continuing into June. Horizontal partitioning of nest sites occurred, Great Egrets, Snowy Egrets and Cattle Egrets nesting in significantly different proportions in different areas of the heronry. Great Egrets nested significantly closer to other Great Egrets than to individuals of other species. The smaller herons generally nested closer to contraspecifics than to conspecifics. There was no tendency for the smaller species to nest in exclusively conspecific groups. Conspecific nesting in Great Egrets is most likely related to the unique nest site of the species.
10.2307/4089507| For Neotropical migrants, rates of nest survival and brood parasitism are thought to decline with the area of the forest fragment in which the birds nest. Using the Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), we conducted the first test of the "area" hypothesis based on direct measures of annual production and related demographics of marked individuals. We predicted that productivity per female and per ha, proportion of females nesting successfully each year, and return rates of adults would decrease and that rates of nest predation and brood parasitism and the ratio of yearlings:older adults would increase with a decrease in area of forest. Intensive season-long banding, nest finding, and nest monitoring to determine the annual production of all residents yielded data for two annual (1991 and 1992) tests in which we compared mean results from 14 small fragments (2.1 ha) with those from a 15-ha site, the University of Delaware Woods (UDW). Fledglings per female and per ha, and percent of females fledging 2 young per year, were lower, and percent of nests lost to predation and percent of nests parasitized were higher, in small fragments than in the larger tract at UDW in both years. The ratio of yearlings:older adults was significantly higher in small fragments for males and tended to be so for females in 1991, but neither result occurred in 1992. Return rate for each sex was lower in small fragments in the only year tested. The 17.5 ha of small fragments collectively produced many fewer young per female and per ha than the 15-ha UDW. Three analyses indicated that the small fragments were population sinks, whereas UDW probably was source of recruits. Although a few small fragments equaled the UDW in some measures of quality, our data support the area hypothesis in relation to quality of breeding habitat. 
4087453|The reproductive investment strategies of the sexes during the breeding season are detailed for Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus), a monogamous plover. I measured the energy investments of the sexes in reproductive, mating, and parental effort. As predicted, males expend more mating effort than females; however, the sexes expend equal amounts of parental effort. Total energy expenditure in reproductive effort (mating and parental effort) during a successful nesting attempt was also equal for the sexes. However, early parental effort expenditures by females, early mating effort expenditures by males, and high rates of nest failure combine to result in female reproductive energy expenditures being significantly higher over the breeding season. This suggests that energy expenditure alone is not adequate for accurate comparisons of the relative investments of the sexes. Studies investigating male and female investments need to consider the degree and pattern of nest failures along with patterns of energy expenditure. The advantages to male and female Killdeer of sharing parental care is demonstrated using adult removal experiments. In general, a deserted parent expends more energy in parental effort than a bi-parental parent and has significantly lower reproductive success. However, males are able to hatch chicks, whereas females lose or abandon their nests within a few days of mate removal. Thus, monogamy in Killdeer appears to result from high nest failure rates, the necessity of two parents for any reproductive success, and the generalizable nature of Killdeer parental care.
4085317|Mixed-species flocks of marked individuals were studied for 3 yr in a middle-elevation neotropical forest. Most flock participants maintain pair bonds and defend territories throughout the year. Residents only follow flocks that are in their territories, so intraspecific group size of flocks is limited primarily to pairs and pairs with young. When a flock leaves the territory of one of its members, the member generally drops from the flock, and the neighboring conspecific, whose territory has just been entered, may join. The propensity for birds to join varies with season, time of day, climate, species composition of the flock, and proximity of the passing flock. A three- to four-fold annual cycle in interspecific flock participation is primarily a consequence of more frequent and consistent flocking by year-round residents. Larger mixed-species flocks are not the result of shifts in population structure or densities. Nonresidents from local sources and North American migrants play minor roles in increased flock size. Mixed flocks are structured groupings whose membership is limited to a few resident individuals of relatively few species. A given flock at any time of the year will consist of some subset of those individuals, with identity of the subsets depending on the flock's location.
10.2307/4087760|In some monogamous birds random force-pairing of mates results in successful reproduction. In addition, prior social experience with a mate may enhance subsequent reproductive success. We investigated the influence of force-pairing and prior pair association on reproductive activity in Cockatiels stimulated to breed by long daylengths and nest-box access. Birds force-paired at the onset of long days had reduced reproductive activity compared to birds force-paired prior to long days. Both groups of force-paired birds displayed less activity than established control pairs. Birds force-paired prior to long days but then reunited with former mates at the onset of long days did not show impaired reproductive activity compared with controls. We show that force-pairing can lead to some breeding activity in this species and that mate familiarity improves the reproductive activity resulting from force-pairing. Furthermore, pairs with histories of breeding do not require continuous mate access to maintain pair bonds.
4086117|Overwinter mortality in House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) in eastern Kansas in 1978-1979 accentuated sexual size dimorphism. Males were significantly larger after winter, females significantly smaller, meaning that large females and small males were at a lowered survival fitness. We propose that birds of intermediate size are at a competitive foraging disadvantage under conditions of persistent snowcover. Such an effect would be most pronounced at latitudes higher than that at Lawrence, Kansas. The relationship of this to the possible splitting of the foraging niche suggests a modification of earlier thinking, which put emphasis on interspecific competition for food.
10.1525/auk.2011.10201|When to commence breeding is a fundamental decision made by individuals that inhabit seasonal environments.Although photoperiod determines the timing of breeding in most temperate zones, other abiotic conditions can also play a significant role by influencing food availability and, consequently, reproductive performance throughout a breeding cycle. This study used the multibrooded endangered Cape Sable Seaside Sparrow (
10.2307/4090287| Differences among observers in ability to detect and identify birds has been long recognized as a potential source of error when surveying terrestrial birds. However, few published studies address that issue in their methods or study design. We used distance sampling with line transects to investigate differences in detection probabilities among observers and among three species of grassland songbirds: Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii), Grasshopper Sparrow (A. savannarum), and Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis). Our review of 75 papers published in 1985-2001 found that the most commonly used methods were fixed-width transects (31%, 23 papers) and fixed-radius point counts (20%, 15 papers). The median half-width of fixed-width strip transects used by researchers was 50 m, but our results indicated detection probabilities were <1.0 at distances >25 m for most observers and species. Beyond 50 m from the transect line, we found that as many as 60% of birds were missed by observers and that the proportion missed differed among observers and species. Detection probabilities among observers ranged from 0.43 to 1.00 for Henslow's Sparrow, from 0.44 to 0.66 for Grasshopper Sparrow, and from 0.60 to 0.72 for Grasshopper Sparrow for birds detected within 58-100 m of the transect line. Using our estimates of detection probabilities for Henslow's Sparrows among six observers in a computer simulation of a monitoring program, we found that bird counts from fixed-width transects required an additional 2-3 years of monitoring to detect a given decline in abundance compared to density estimates that used a method to correct for missed birds. We recommend that researchers employ survey methods that correct for detection probabilities <1.0. /// Es ampliamente reconocido que las diferencias entre observadores en la habilidad de detectar e identificar aves es una fuente potencial de error en los muestreos de aves terrestres. Sin embargo, pocos estudios publicados abordan este punto en los mtodos o en su diseo. Usamos muestreos de distancia con transectas lineales para investiar diferencias en las probabilidades de deteccin entre observadores y entre tres especies de aves canoras de pastizales: Ammodramus henslowii, A. savannarum y Passerculus sandwichensis. Nuestra revisin de 75 trabajos publicados entre 1985 y 2001 encontr que los mtodos ms comnmente usados fueron transectas de ancho fijo (31%, 23 trabajos) y puntos de conteo de radio fijo (20%, 15 trabajos). La mediana de la mitad del ancho fijo de las transectas usadas por los investigadores fue de 50 m, pero nuestros resultados indicaron que las probabilidades de deteccin fueron <1.0 a distancias >25 m para la mayora de los observadores y las especies. Ms all de los 50 m desde la lnea de transecta, encontramos que hasta un 60% de las aves no fueron detectadas por los observadores, y que la proporcin no detectada vari entre observadores y especies. Las probabilidades de deteccin entre observadores vari entre 0.43 y 1.00 para A. henslowii, entre 0.44 y 0.66 para A. savannarum, y entre 0.60 y 0.72 para A. savannarum para aquellas aves detectadas entre 58 y 100 m desde la lnea de transecta. Utilizando nuestras estimaciones de las probabilidades de deteccin de A. henslowii basadas en seis observadores en un programa de simulacin de un plan de monitoreo, encontramos que los conteos de aves en transectas de ancho fijo requirieron 2-3 aos adicionales de monitoreo para detectar una disminucin dada en la abundancia, en comparacin con las estimaciones de densidad que usan un mtodo para corregir por las aves no registradas. Recomendamos que los investigadores usen mtodos de muestreo corregidos cuando las probabilidades de deteccin son <1.0. 
10.2307/4089026|The avian status of Mononykus is refuted in this paper through a detailed analysis of its supposed avian characters. An extensive comparison between it and fossorial mammals (especially moles), as well as various bipedal archosaurs, indicates that some of its resemblances to extant birds are digging adaptations. Most of the others can be explained either by its digging adaptation or by its obligatory bipedalism. In addition, many of its features, as compared with birds (including Archaeopteryx), seem to be too primitive for avian flight, and there is no evidence indicating that the absence of flight in Mononykus was secondarily lost.
10.2307/4088762|We document the sequence of molts and plumages in Orange-breasted Buntings (Passerina leclancherii), a nonmigratory passerine that is endemic to southwestern Mexico, and discuss implications of our results for theories of male and female delayed plumage maturation. This species has the same sequence of molts and plumages as all five other species of Passerina. However, in subadult (predefinitively plumaged) males and females, the intensity and extent of molts, as well as the plumage color (definitive malelike versus definitive femalelike) resulting from these molts, differ in many respects from other Passerina. The most significant difference is that female Orange-breasted Buntings exhibit delayed plumage maturation. For males and females, our results strongly support winter- and summer-status-signaling hypotheses for the evolution of delayed plumage maturation, and are inconsistent with winter- and summer-cryptic hypotheses, the female-mimicry hypothesis and the juvenile-mimicry hypothesis.
10.2307/4089818| Philopatry and dispersal distances of female Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) are presented for European populations using data from 25 breeding areas from 40 to 70N. Female annual survival probabilities according to capture-recapture models were similar in two study areas in central Spain (45 and 52%). The present study shows that survival is underestimated by using annual local return rate in one of the two breeding populations under study in central Spain. In southern and central Europe, females were found to return equally regularly to their breeding areas, whereas in northern Europe (latitude >60N) females returned at lower rates. I did not find that median dispersal distance varied among sites, nor was breeding distance related to locate survival rate. Therefore, the present study suggests that the decline in between-year local return rate of female Pied Flycatchers with increasing latitude over Europe may be more probably caused by differences in mortality than by geographical differences in site fidelity. 
10.2307/4089902| We used data on breeding bird communities of the oases of southern Tunisia to investigate variation in species richness and composition among local communities in relation to spatial configuration of the oasis system and to assess significance of the relationship between oasis size and local richness. Oases could be grouped into three regional systems, namely littoral, saharan, and mountainous oases. We found that at the scale of the entire oasis system, species richness and species composition exhibited significant spatial autocorrelation. That result was consistent with our prediction that the particular spatial organization of oases may have led to regional differences in availability of potential colonizers and that higher species exchange within oasis zones than among oasis zones may have played an important role in shaping local communities. With regard to the species-area relationship, we thus found that a model accounting for spatial covariance was more parsimonious than a standard regression model not incorporating information on the spatial location of oases. Overall, oasis size was a good predictor of species richness, but results were sensitive to spatial scale at which the relationship was examined. Aside from oceanic islands and forest patches, oases may constitute interesting systems to study how regional processes affect local diversity. /// Dans ce travail nous prsentons une analyse de donnes sur la richeese et la composition spcifiques des peuplements d'oiseaux nicheurs d'un chantillon d'oasis des trois principales rgions oasiennes de Tunisie (oasis littorales, oasis de pimont et oasis sahariennes). L'objectif est d'examiner le rle de la configuration spatiale du systme d'oasis dans la dtermination de la diversit locale et de tester la relation entre la richesse spcifique locale et la superficie de l'oasis. Nous trouvons qu' l'chelle de tout le systme oasien, la richesse et la composition spcifiques montrent une autocorrlation spatiale significative. Ceci suggre que la configuration spatiale particulire du systme d'oasis ait conditionn des diffrences entre les pools rgionaux de colonisateurs potentiels, et que la plus grande probabilit d'change d'espces entre peuplements locaux au sein d'un mme groupe rgional d'oasis qu'entre oasis de groupes rgionaux diffrents ait jou un rle important dans le faonnement des peuplements locaux. Nos rsultats montrent galement qu'un modle de rgression admettant que les rsidus sont dpendants et que leur covariance est fonction de la distance sparant les oasis est un meilleur candidat pour l'estimation de la relation entre la richesse spcifique et la superficie de l'oasis qu'un modle de rgression standard admettant l'indpendance des rsidus. Quoique le rsultat du test de la relation superficie-richesse spcifique varie avec l'chelle spatiale au niveau de laquelle la relation a t teste, la superficie de l'oasis s'avre globalement un bon indicateur de la richesse spcifique locale. 
4086232|Singing male indigobirds (Vidua raricola and V. funerea) are interspecifically territorial in their local distributions and, as well, respond to experimental presentations of interspecific stimuli. When singing males were experimentally removed from their territories, however, they were replaced by other males of the same species. The distribution of replacements was consistent with an hypothesis of sexual selection but not with one of interspecific competition. Males matched the songs of the males they replaced, suggesting intraspecific song mimicry.
10.2307/4086896|The Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus), a common hole-nesting North American woodpecker, exhibits a highly significant latitudinal increase in clutch size. Using preserved clutches and information on climatic conditions and breeding densities of confamilial species, I examined the hypothesis that this geographic trend is the result of seasonal fluctuations in resources ("Ashmole's hypothesis"; Ashmole 1961, 1963; Ricklefs 1980). Clutch size is significantly correlated both with the ratio of summer productivity to estimated breeding densities of all woodpecker species and with the ratio of summer to winter productivity, supporting Ashmole's hypothesis. In addition, a substantial portion of the latitudinal gradient can be directly explained by the seasonality of resources, primarily because of an inverse correlation between clutch size and winter productivity. These results provide the first corroboration of Ashmole's hypothesis from an examination of intraspecific clutch-size variation and suggest that geographic trends in fecundity in some cases may be largely attributable to trends in seasonal fluctuations of resources.
4087811|We studied foraging ecology of Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) over four breeding seasons to determine if this species exhibited sex-specific or temporal variation in foraging behavior. Significant differences between sexes during the prenestling period were found for foraging height and substrate height (foraging method, plant species/substrate, perch diameter, horizontal location from trunk, and prey location were not significantly different). During the nestling period, this divergence between sexes was evident for foraging height, substrate height, substrate/tree species, and prey location. Additionally, male warblers significantly altered their behavior for all seven foraging variables between the two periods, whereas females exhibited changes similar to those of males for five of the foraging variables. This parallel shift suggests a strong behavioral response by both sexes to proximate factors (such as vegetation structure, and prey abundance and distribution) that varied throughout the breeding season. Sex-specific foraging behavior during the prenestling period was best explained by differences in reproductive responsibilities rather than by the theory of intersexual competition for limited resources. During the nestling period, neither hypothesis by itself explained foraging divergences adequately. However, when integrated with the temporal responses of the warblers to changes in prey availability, reproductive responsibilities seemed to be of primary importance in explaining intersexual niche partitioning during the nestling period. We emphasize the importance of considering both intersexual and intraseasonal variation when quantifying a species' foraging ecology.
10.2307/4089163| The left testis tends to be larger than the right in most avian species. Mller (1994) hypothesized that the degree of directional asymmetry in the testes should be greater in high-quality males and hence should be positively correlated with secondary sexual traits. We examined both directional and absolute testicular asymmetry in Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus), as well as the size of the left and of the larger testis, to determine whether these measures correlated with any of several potential phenotypic indicators of male quality. Such indicators included comb size; body size and condition; and fluctuating asymmetry in skeletal, plumage, and ornamental head traits (because fluctuating asymmetry may reflect an individual's ability to overcome developmental stresses). We found no evidence to support Mller's (1994) hypothesis of a relationship between directional testicular asymmetry and our measures of male quality. Moreover, there was little evidence to suggest a relationship between absolute testicular asymmetry, size of the left testis, or size of the largest testis and any measure of male quality. Finally, unlike some other studies, we did not find a tendency for the left testis to be larger than the right. Only 4 of 16 sexually mature males had a larger left testis at 10 months of age, whereas 10 of 19 males had a larger left testis at 12 months of age. 
4088307|We analyzed the spatial distribution and habitat relationships of pelagic birds on a circumnavigational cruise of Antarctica. Our analysis focused on two issues. First, we present a quantitative description of the structure of Antarctic seabird assemblages. This descriptive information benefits from a much more longitudinally extensive data set than previously available. Second, we used 18 crossings of the edge of the pack ice and 15 crossings of the continental slope to clarify the spatial relationship between aggregations of pelagic birds and these physical features. Our analysis corroborates the uniformity of bird species composition over the longitudinal range we covered. We found that the habitats with light (2/10 to 6/10 coverage) pack-ice cover had the lowest density and biomass of birds of the four ice habitats (open water, icebergs only, light pack ice, heavy pack ice) surveyed. Even though overall bird abundance was not concentrated at the ice edge, aggregations of individual species were statistically likely to appear there. We found only a slight (34%) elevation in bird biomass over the continental slope, despite repeated previous findings of bird aggregations associated with the Antarctic slope front. Finally, 45% of the seabirds we observed were in three large aggregations. We suggest this concentration demonstrates the importance of localized patches of prey to foraging seabirds in the Antarctic.
4085837|We studied the feeding methods of Goliath Herons (Ardea goliath) in Lake St. Lucia, Natal during the September-December 1977 breeding season. The herons captured very large fish (estimated mean length of 30 cm and wet weight of 500-600 g), which they impaled on their bills. In general, Goliath Herons hunted well away from the lake's edge, usually among beds of floating macrophytes. The plants probably attract greater fish populations; they also make the surrounding water clearer for visual penetration. Goliath Herons moving to new feeding sites frequently landed on the macrophytes to effect splashless entry into the water. Finally, the plant mats were used extensively by herons as a place upon which to lay struggling prey for additional killing measures. Goliath Herons are passive hunters, standing motionlessly about three-quarters of the time. They sometimes adopt very tall postures that allow deeper visual penetration during initial scanning. Prey are usually caught near the bottom of the lake and apparently struggle violently. Goliath Herons direct stabs to the fish's gill regions, presumably to stun them. The entire handling process lasts an average of 109 s, with hard-spined fish requiring more time. While thus engaged with the prey, Goliath Herons are commonly attacked by various fish-pirates. Of the captures we observed, 11% were lost during the harrassment. Only Fish Eagles (Haliaeetus vocifer) seem capable of taking fish away from Goliath Herons, but other piscivores sometimes position themselves nearby to get any unattended prey. We suspect that Fish Eagles are effective pirates because they are fast and formidable enough to pose a potential threat to the heron itself. In our study, Goliath Herons consumed an average of 2.3 fish per day, an estimated 23-34% of their body weight. It seems likely that such a low capture frequency is related to the large average prey size, a pattern we call "jackpot strategy." We conclude that the great body size of the Goliath Heron (1.5 m tall, 5 kg) is adapted to efficient handling of these profitable prey and probably not strongly related to interspecific competition with other ardeids.
10.2307/4090149| The phylogenetic relationships between early Tertiary and extant apodiform birds are only poorly understood, and this study is the first cladistic approach to this problem in which the Trochilidae are included. The analysis supports monophyly of the Lower Oligocene Jungornis and extant Trochilidae, as well as monophyly of the Middle Eocene Scaniacypselus and extant Apodidae. The "Jungornithidae" sensu Karhu (1999) are shown to be paraphyletic with the Upper Eocene Argornis being the sister taxon of the taxon (Jungornis + extant Trochilidae). The osteology of Jungornis provides a transition between that of the highly derived extant Trochilidae and that of more generalized apodiform birds. An Argornis-like apodiform bird from the Middle Eocene of Messel shows a completely unexpected combination of a greatly abbreviated, apodiform humerus with a short and broad wing, and might indicate that the Trochilidae evolved from a short-winged ancestor. /// Las relaciones filogenticas entre las aves apodiformes del Terciario temprano y las vivientes son slo pobremente entendidas, y ste es el primer estudio cladstico del problema en el que se incluyen los Trochilidae. El anlisis apoya la monofilia de Jungornis del Oligoceno bajo y los Trochilidae vivientes, as como la monofilia de Scaniacypselus del Eoceno medio y los Apodidae vivientes. Los "Jungornithidae" sensu Karhu (1999) son parafilticos; Argornis del Eoceno superior es el taxn hermano del grupo (Jungornis + Trochilidae vivientes). La osteologa de Jungornis provee una transicin entre aqulla altamente derivada de los Trochilidae vivientes, y la ms generalizada de las aves apodiformes. Un ave similar a Argornis del Eoceno medio de Messel todava no descrita, presenta una combinacin completamente inesperada de un hmero apodiforme muy abreviado con un ala corta y ancha, y podra indicar que los Trochilidae evolucionaron de un ancestro de alas cortas. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09141|Birds use local environmental cues to fine-tune the timing of egg laying such that the nestling period normally coincides with the local peak in food availability. Ambient temperature, vegetation phenology, and insect phenology are often considered the most likely cues, but no previous studies have explicitly compared and partitioned their relative effects. We used confirmatory path analyses and a long-term study of Blue Tits (
10.2307/4086018|The extent to which a flock leader advertises its departure from a colony and recruits flock mates is an important issue of the Information Center hypothesis. At a colony of Black-billed Gulls (Larus bulleri), I found that attractive calls were given by some leaders, that leaders called more often than followers, and that calling leaders recruited followers more often than silent leaders. Playback experiments demonstrated that these "contact" calls were attractive. The results indicate that some benefits, most likely related to group foraging, result from flock membership when the gulls are away from the colony. Benefits of group foraging away from the colony provide a more likely mechanism for explaining food-related selection pressures favoring a colonial foraging system than do the presumed benefits derived from the more complex, information-transfer mechanism envisaged by the Information Center hypothesis.
4088685|We review recent developments in the debate over species concepts, exploring differences between the biological species concept (BSC) and the phylogenetic species concept (PSC). Three principal flaws in the BSC are reviewed: (1) the occurrence of paraphyletic or nonhistorical groups; (2) the misrepresention of the significance of hybridization among differentiated taxa; and (3) the logical difficulty in handling allopatric populations. Simple cline theory shows that likely times to fusion for hybridizing taxa exceed the average duration of most species in the fossil record. We address criticisms of PSCs (of which there are several), including the application of phylogenetic methods to populations, and whether species can be monophyletic. We suggest that the evolutionary species concept and the PSC might be more similar than generally appreciated. Empirical studies of variation in the Brown Towhee (Pipilo fuscus) complex and Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca) reveal that the BSC and PSC can lead to different species limits. Reasons are given for why the PSC is the preferred concept for comparative biology, phylogenetic inference, historical biogeography, estimation of biodiversity, hybrid-zone analysis, conservation biology, and speciation analysis. Despite problems associated with all species concepts, we think that a concept consistent with the PSC should replace "biological" species concepts.
10.1525/auk.2013.12208|Ancient hybridization is difficult to detect and is often surmised from conflicting patterns between phenotypic and genetic data sets that are difficult to explain with alternative hypotheses. Here, a fortuitous macromutation in a microsatellite locus allows an unusually distinctive footprint of ancient introgression to be inferred between two highly divergent bird species that began to speciate in the Late Miocene. A cline of distinctive high-repeat-number (large) alleles at a locus in the Mexican Jay (
10.2307/4088978|We assessed avian nesting success in two forested landscapes (Chippewa and Superior National Forests) in northern Minnesota. We found 311 nests of 33 species in the Chippewa study area and 36 nests of 13 species in the Superior study area. Each nest was classified into one of three general habitat types: open (clearcuts with vegetation <2 m high), regenerating aspen (2-8 m high), or forested (trees >8 m high). Mayfield nesting success for the most common species in the Chippewa (all of which had open-cup nests) averaged 0.43. Nesting success ranged from 0.18 for the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) to 0.76 for the Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia). Nest predation was the most common mortality factor, causing 89.2% of known failures. Nest predation among ground-nesting birds was significantly higher in the Chippewa (55%) than in the Superior (15%) study area (P = 0.038). Nest predation was highest (P = 0.015) in the forest (62.2%) and lowest in open (42.2%) and regenerating (47.4%) habitat types. Only canopy cover explained differences in nesting success, which was higher in more open canopies. Distance to forest edge, nest height, and nest concealment had no effect on nesting success in both forested and open habitats. Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism was low (9.6% in the Chippewa study area), and parasitized nests were relatively unsuccessful (only 1.7% yielded cowbird fledglings). Neither cowbirds nor nest parasitism was observed in the Superior study area.
4086649|Electrophoretic and behavioral evidence corroborate the conclusion that Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) females occasionally copulate with more than one male, which results in the insemination of a single clutch of eggs by those males. In 2 of 12 families from which blood samples were obtained from the mother, the putative father, and the nestlings, at least 2 males were responsible for fertilization of the clutch. We believe this is only the second bird species in which multiple paternity has been documented conclusively in the wild. Our speculation that it may not be uncommon leads to a caution for evolutionary biologists who use apparent reproductive success in birds to address questions about fitness.
4087915|We examined the regulation of plasma osmolality
4090436| The Variable Antshrike (Thamnophilus caerulescens) is arguably the most polytypic thamnophilid, with males ranging from almost entirely jet black to nearly white. The four subspecies that occur in Bolivia are strikingly divergent in male plumage: T. c. aspersiventer (black with white-barred belly), T. c. connectens (black back and bib with white belly), T. c. dinellii (gray throat and back with rufous belly), and T. c. paraguayensis (light gray with white belly). To assess the genetic structure of those taxa in Bolivia, sequence variation at the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene was screened in 126 individuals collected across transects spanning the plumage and vocal variation in the four forms. A 95-km-wide cline in haplotype frequencies from T. c. aspersiventer to T. c. dinellii was centered in the Serrania Cochabamba across an ecotone from humid to dry Andean foothill habitats. Thamnophilus caerulescens connectens is not a valid taxon, instead representing an introgressed population near the dinellii tail of the T. c. aspersiventer-T. c. dinellii hybrid zone. Although direct contact between T. c. dinellii and T. c. paraguayensis remains undocumented, the mitochondrial data were consistent with introgression along a broad cline extending across most of southern Bolivia. Overall, the transitions in mitochondrial frequencies were remarkably concordant with clinal changes in vocalizations among those same populations (Isler et al. 2005). Both studies highlight the need for increased sampling, in both the geographic extent and number of individuals per population, to address adequately the potential for clinal variation between populations that are not isolated geographically. A more restricted sampling design in the present study might have led to the erroneous conclusion that T. c. aspersiventer, T. c. dinellii, and T. c. paraguayensis have reciprocally monphyletic mitochondrial lineages, making them full species according to some species concepts. /// Thamnophilus caerulescens es probablemente el tamnoflido ms poltipico, considerando que los machos varan en coloracin desde casi completamente negra hasta casi blanca. Las cuatro subespecies que se encuentran en Bolivia varan de forma llamativa en trminos del plumaje de los machos: T. c. aspersiventer (negro con el vientre barreteado con blanco), T. c. connectens (espalda y babero negros con vientre blanco), T. c. dinellii (garganta y espalda grises con vientre rufo), y T. c. paraguayensis (gris claro con vientre blanco). Para determinar la estructura gentica de estos taxa en Bolivia, se examin la variacin en secuencias del gen mitocondrial citocromo-b en 126 individuos colectados a travs de transectos que cubran la variacin en plumaje y vocalizaciones existente entre las cuatro formas. Una clina en la frecuencia de haplotipos de T. c. aspersiventer a T. c. dinellii de 95 km de ancho estuvo centrada en la Serrana Cochabamba, a travs de un ecotono entre hbitats hmedos y secos en el piedemonte andino. Thamnophilus caerulescens connectens no es un taxn vlido; en cambio, representa una poblacin en la que ha sucedido introgresin cerca del extremo dinelli de la zona de hibridacin entre T. c. aspersiventer y T. c. dinellii. Aunque an no se ha documentado contacto directo entre T. c. dinellii y T. c. paraguayensis, los datos mitocondriales son consecuentes con la ocurrencia de introgresin a lo largo de una clina amplia que se extiende a travs de buena parte del sur de Bolivia. En general, las transiciones en las frecuencias mitocondriales fueron notablemente concordantes con cambios clinales en las vocalizaciones entre las mismas poblaciones (Isler et al. 2005). Ambos estudios destacan la necesidad de tener muestreos amplios tanto en trminos del mbito geogrfico como del nmero de individuos por poblacin para examinar adecuadamente la posibilidad de que existan variaciones clinales entre poblaciones que no estn aisladas geogrficamente. Un diseo de muestreo ms restringido que el empleado en este estudio podra haber llevado a la conclusin errnea de que T. c. aspersiventer, T. c. dinellii y T. c. paraguayensis representan linajes mitocondriales recprocamente monofilticos, lo que a la luz de algunos conceptos de especie sera considerado evidencia para tratarlos como especies distintas. 
10.2307/4089115|Between 1994 and 1996, we determined the density and pairing success of territorial male Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) in 31 forest fragments in southern Ontario. The density and pairing success of territorial males increased significantly with area of the woodlot core. We tested the hypotheses that area-related changes in food abundance and the availability of suitable nest sites are the causal mechanisms limiting female settlement in small forest fragments. Our results indicated that Ovenbirds chose territories with significantly higher prey biomass than occurred at randomly selected sites in the woodlot. Within Ovenbird territories, prey biomass was 10 to 36 times higher in large woodlots than in small woodlots. Invertebrate biomass at randomly located quadrats in large woodlots was more than twice that found at random sites within small woodlots, and was slightly greater than prey biomass within Ovenbird territories in small fragments. Leaf litter was deeper within Ovenbird territories in large woodlots than at random sites in both large and small forests, and within Ovenbird territories in small woodlots. Ovenbirds in large woodlots selected nest sites that were more than 250 m from the forest edge, distances that were not obtainable in small forest fragments. The lack of potential nest sites, combined with lower food abundance in small fragments, may explain why female Ovenbirds find small fragments unsuitable as breeding sites, and hence why so few males secure mates in small fragments. Understanding the cause of deterioration of breeding sites with decreasing woodlot area should underscore efforts to preserve larger tracts of forest to provide adequate nesting habitat for forest-interior migrants.
10.1525/auk.2012.12122|Recent research on reproduction in animals has emphasized phenology and prey matching in the long term and on large spatial scales (e.g., linked to global climate change). We studied how individuals within one reproductive cycle and at small spatial scales may try to maximize access to food resources that vary in space and time. Herbivorous mammals are known to track favorable phenological stages of their food plants and move seasonally on the landscape. Whether phenology similarly affects spatial movements of birds on their breeding grounds is largely unknown. We studied postfledging movements of Blue Tits (
10.2307/4089458|Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) is one of several grassland bird species that has declined during the last several decades. Although several studies have characterized the habitat requirements of breeding Henslow's Sparrows, winter habitat requirements for the species remain poorly known. The purpose of our study was to identify habitat variables associated with occupancy by Henslow's Sparrow on silvicultural lands in the core of its winter range in the Gulf Coastal Plain. Forty-one study sites were chosen on lands managed for timber production in Baldwin County, Alabama. Henslow's Sparrows selected moist sites that occurred as pitcher plant bogs or as transition areas between wet pitcher plant bogs and drier upland areas. A multiple logistic regression model identified the density of the grass Panicum verrucosum and the density of pitcher plants as the variables best able to explain the presence of Henslow's Sparrows. Sites occupied by Henslow's Sparrows had higher herbaceous vegetation densities and had been disturbed by timber harvest and/or fire more recently than unoccupied sites. Within occupied sites, Henslow's Sparrows chose areas with higher densities of herbaceous vegetation, especially P. verrucosum.
4085083|Osprey nest success and factors influencing nest success were studied by frequent annual visits to active nests in a defined area. Of the eggs found in the 1970's, 52% failed to hatch. Eggs disappearing between nest visits and those found damaged (cracked, punctured, etc.) or addled made up 90% of the failures. Shells from failed eggs averaged 11% thinner than eggs collected prior to 1947. The additive effect of increasing human disturbance to Ospreys incubating eggs with shells thinned by environmental contaminants is responsible for the high egg attrition resulting in poor nest success. Constructing artificial nest platforms aids nest success by retaining nesting pairs at established sites where potential for success is greater than if the Ospreys are forced to use an alternate site. Terrestrial nests are 14% less successful than nests on offshore structures. Brood size (1.9) and population productivity (1.08) are among the best in the country, but below brood sizes of Ospreys prior to 1947 and estimated production requirements for population stability.
4086965|Sexual differences in resource defense and foraging behaviors during the nonbreeding season are detailed for Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) in California. Female harriers hunted more frequently in high (>0.5 m) vegetation than males. In addition, females hunted at slower speeds and used different hunting behaviors than males. Females in high vegetation showed a significantly greater response (i.e. attack) rate to approaching harriers than males, and females won nearly all (28/29) aggressive interactions with males. These results suggest that sexual differences in harrier foraging behavior during the nonbreeding season result from females excluding males from preferred foraging areas and males adopting alternative foraging strategies. Foraging strategies of harrier sexes are compared with foraging strategies of sexes of birds in which males are larger than females to examine the role of body size in determining sexual foraging strategies.
10.1525/auk.2011.10024|We assessed how individual foraging preferences and cognitive performance affect foraging bout interval and the flexibility of foraging behavior in the nectarivorous Green-backed Firecrown (
4085744|Breeding Herring Gulls defend three territory types, which vary in size depending on the stage in the reproductive cycle. Territory types are a function of the nature of the conspecific intruders and consist of a primary territory defended against neighbors, a secondary territory defended against non-neighbors, and a unique territory defended against all intruders under all conditions. In all three territory types, defense activity is highest at the nest. The unique area is smallest, the primary territory is intermediate in size and nonoverlapping with neighbors, and the secondary territories are largest and overlapping. The defense of each territory type is discussed in terms of the costs and benefits to the territory defender during each stage in the reproductive cycle. I suggest that one advantage of breeding synchrony within subcolonies is to prevent egg and chick loss due to territory size differences of the unsynchronized pairs.
4087437| I studied the mating patterns and foraging-trip durations for a colony of Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) over two consecutive breeding seasons. Foraging-trip duration was not predicted by the time spent fasting before leaving the nest, but was consistent with the time remaining until hatching of the chicks. Consequently, foraging trips of pairs that successfully coordinated their incubation routine were complementary. The complementarity was due at least in part to the assortative effects of mate choice. Pairs that successfully coordinated the first three foraging trips remained together the next season; pairs that did not, separated. I argue that Adlie Penguins should retain their mates if partners are synchronous in their arrival at the rookery the next year and that, therefore, pairs unable to coordinate incubation must also be unlikely to coordinate their arrival at the rookery the next season. 
4090456| After publication of the Larus phylogeny in Crochet et al. (2002), the taxonomic status of the "Larus thayeri" and the "L. occidentalis" specimens that were used in that study came into question. For each of those species, we sequenced the same mitochonrial DNA regions in new specimens of known identity. In addition, specimens of L. glaucescens were included. Results from using those specimens confirm that L. occidentalis was the first to diverge from the large white-headed gulls. Larus glaucescens, on the contrary, is part of the Arctic species clade, which also includes L. hyperboreus, L. glaucoides, L. thayeri, and L. schistisagus. The three new L. thayeri specimens differ substantially in mitochondrial DNA from the previously used sample of L. thayeri and share the same haplotype with L. glaucescens. The significance of this finding is unclear, because relationships within the "Arctic species" clade are still unresolved; that is attributable to the unusually high incidence of lineage sharing and extremely low divergence of haplotypes in the group. /// Cette tude complte la phylognie des grands golands publie dans Crochet et al. (2002), o le statut taxonomique des spcimens "thayeri" et "occidentalis" tait incertain. Les mmes fragments d'ADN mitochondrial ont t squencs sur de nouveaux spcimens de chaque espce, dont l'origine n'est pas ambigu. Des chantillons de L. glaucescens ont galement t utiliss. L'ajout de ces spcimens confirme que le taxon L. occidentalis a diverg en premier au sein des grands golands. L. glaucescens au contraire est inclus dans le clade des espces Arctiques, qui regroupe L. hyperboreus, L. glaucoides, L. thayeri et L. schistisagus. Les trois nouveaux spcimens de thayeri diffrent substantiellement de l'chantillon utilis prcdemment et partagent le mme haplotype avec les spcimens de L. glaucescens. La signification de ce rsultat ne peut cependant pas tre value pour l'instant, les relations au sein du groupe des grands golands n'tant pas encore rsolues du fait de la forte frquence de polymorphisme partag et de la faible divergence entre taxons. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09159|The Haida Gwaii archipelago (formerly the Queen Charlotte Islands) off northern British Columbia hosts many endemic taxa of plants and animals, including 9 endemic subspecies of birds. Genetic studies suggest that some of these taxa originated in a glacial refugium in the area, whereas other taxa apparently arose after the recession of the glaciers. The Orange-crowned Warbler (
4087450|A new genus and species of condor-like vulture (Ciconiiformes: Vulturidae) is described from the middle Miocene (Barstovian) of North America and is the earliest condor now known in the New World. The fossil record at present indicates that the Vulturidae originated in the Old World, but diversified in the New World. Large body size in vultures developed in North America at least 4 million years (Ma) earlier than thought previously, and the condors probably evolved in North America. Condors were most diverse in the late Pleistocene but are now near extinction.
10.2307/4089244|We investigated the dynamics of a wintering population of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) using data from a long-term capture-recapture study. Goodness-of-fit and likelihood-ratio tests indicated that the standard Jolly-Seber model was inadequate for the data, so we explored different parameterizations of a model in which survival probability for new captures differed from that of previously marked birds. One possible explanation for the lower local survival rate of new captures is that some of the birds were transients that had no chance of being recaptured. Average survival probability over the entire period was 0.62, and the estimated fraction of transients among unmarked birds was 0.27. We found evidence that chickadee survival rates were lower in years immediately following establishment of the Tufted Titmouse (Parus bicolor) as a territorial species (after 1967) than during years immediately preceding this event. We found no evidence that chickadee survival rates were lower in the years immediately following establishment of territorial raptors (after 1984) than during preceding years. Evidence suggested a long-term decline in survival probability from 1959 to 1991.
4087321|We found both the song rate and the rate of song-type change of male Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus) in winter were positively correlated with ambient temperature. When the effect of temperature was controlled statistically, food supplementation significantly increased both the song rate and the rate of song-type change. Song playback did not significantly increase either song rate or rate of song-type change, however. Because foraging and singing are mutually exclusive behaviors in Carolina Wrens, the increase in vocal territorial behavior associated with warmer temperatures and food supplementation may reflect a decrease in the time required for foraging. The rate of vocal territorial behavior in winter may be more dependent on the amount of food available to wrens than on the presence of intruders.
4085934|Recent work has demonstrated that Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) display food preferences as a result of observational learning. Also, individual birds learn to avoid food the ingestion of which has been paired with sickness. Such preferences or aversions depend on visual cues associated with the food. A related but unanswered question is whether observational learning is sufficient for birds to associate visual cues with sickness. In the present experiments, Red-wings observed a conspecific consume a food paired with a color cue (CS) and toxin-induced illness (UCS). The observers were subsequently given two-choice preference tests between a food (either the food consumed by the gavaged bird or another food) paired with the CS or with another color. The birds avoided consumption of any food paired with the CS (but not of the other color) during all tests. Such results are consistent with the notion that opportunistic foragers, such as Red-wings, readily learn to avoid conspicuous foods paired with aversive consequences. Moreover, the results support the notion that Batesian model-mimic systems could be maintained, at least in part, by observational learning of models and subsequent generalization of that learning to mimics. Observational learning could provide an efficient strategy to protect against the ingestion of potentially dangerous food.
10.2307/4088726|On Tatoosh Island, off the Olympic Peninsula in Washington, Common Murres (Uria aalge) nest either in small subcolonies located in crevices in vertical, rocky cliff walls, or in large subcolonies located on the island top, usually at cliff's edge. Nesting murres are subject to predatory pressure from Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) and Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus), which are resident egg predators, as well as from Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) and Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), which are transient predators on adults. Although subcolony size dilutes the effects of egg predators, the presence of raptors in the system negates this simple effect of dilution. Relative to conspecifics in crevice subcolonies, murres in cliff-top subcolonies are more likely to be attacked by raptors, as well as to temporarily evacuate the subcolony in response to the presence of raptors. During subcolony evacuations, egg predators gain unhindered access to abandoned eggs. As a result, murres nesting in cliff-top subcolonies experience both delays in phenology and lowered reproductive success relative to murres nesting in crevice subcolonies. Despite continued raptor-facilitated egg predation, the majority of the murre population nests in cliff-top subcolonies, which are less than 20 years old and are growing rapidly. This suggests that new colonists are constrained by a lack of accurate information into making incorrect decisions about which subcolonies to join.
10.2307/4087616|Although Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida and Venezuela fed mostly on Pomacea snails, I documented three alternative foods. In Florida, kites fed on five species of small turtles, but especially on Sternotherus odoratus and Kinosternon bauri. During the height of a drought, one kite in Florida fed on a small aquatic snail (Viviparus georgianus) for 5 weeks. In Venezuela, freshwater crabs (Dilocarcinus dentatus) made up on average 10% of the Snail Kite's diet, but more than 25% during September and October. Kites consumed alternative foods with techniques that resemble snail-eating behavior, such as entering a turtle's body cavity by piercing the only leg shaped like a snail operculum. Handling times for turtles (76 min) and crabs (5.4 min) were much longer than for Pomacea snails (1.5 min). Viviparus snails required approximately one-third less handling time but contained one-fifth less body mass than Pomacea snails. Handling time (30 s) for V. georgianus did not differ between the Snail Kite and the Boat-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus major), a diet generalist. These findings are related to the factors that reinforce diet specialization and the ecological conditions that promote diet diversification in specialists. Like Pomacea snails, alternative foods have shells or carapaces and move relatively slowly. Alternative foods are probably less profitable than Pomacea snails, except for large crabs. Although crabs were regularly eaten by kites in Venezuela, turtles and Viviparus snails were eaten in Florida only during times of food scarcity.
10.1525/auk.2011.10284|A developing organism faces a dilemma: whether to allocate available resources to building its body structures (growth) or to the development of its immune system. The outcome of this tradeoff is likely to be modified by parasites. We manipulated the abundance of ectoparasitic Hen Fleas (
10.2307/4089249| Physiologists have long contended that consumption of a diet of marine invertebrates imposes a high salt load on animals. I measured water and salt contents in the food, excreta, and body fluids of Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) chicks to determine patterns of osmoregulation in a bird that eats almost exclusively marine invertebrates. Adlie Penguins eat krill (Euphausia spp.) and feed the same to their chicks by regurgitation. Adlie chicks sometimes receive food that is significantly saltier than their body fluids, but on average the food has salt concentrations similar to those in their plasma. Adlie chicks excrete excess solutes via the salt glands, which are fully functional at hatching, and via the kidneys, which produce urine that is more concentrated relative to urine of other bird species. Larger chicks receive food that is drier than that eaten by smaller chicks, and larger chicks may compensate by excreting more of a given salt load via the salt glands, thus conserving water. Regurgitated food has significantly less Na
4084895|Systematic mist netting of male and female Yellow-breasted Chats on study tracts in southern Indiana and northeastern Georgia revealed that unbanded birds were captured regularly after the end of spring migration. Resettlement of males on experimentally vacated territories demonstrated that the new arrivals were potential settlers that normally were excluded from settling by established males, and these potential settlers were probably not members of a nonbreeding surplus population. Because of the importance to general theory of the existence of surplus populations, it was emphasized that the existence of potential settlers was necessary but not sufficient evidence that a nonbreeding surplus population existed. The removal experiments demonstrated that the number of breeding males was normally limited in some habitats by the presence or resistance of established males.
4087379|We critically reviewed recent attempts to identify the ancestor of Darwin's finches (Emberizidae, "Geospizinae"), and summarized new information on taxa that have been suggested as sister groups of the geospizines, specifically the emberizines Tiaris, Melanospiza, and Volatinia. Reproductive behaviors and displays are conservative among Darwin's finches, and have been neglected in discussions of the ancestry of the group. We concentrate on these characters. We found that Tiaris and Melanospiza share a large number of apparently derived epigamic behaviors with the geospizines, none of which are exhibited by Volatinia.
10.2307/4088196|I studied the breeding chronology, courtship activities, pair-bond relationships, and parental-care behavior of a sedentary population of White-cheeked Pintails (Anas bahamensis bahamensis) in the Bahamas from 1985 to 1987. The timing and duration of breeding seasons was variable and associated with variation in the onset and amount of winter and spring rainfall. Year-around courtship, mate switches, courtship of brood females, and the formation of extrapair liaisons all reflected intense and continuous competition for quality mates. Most White-cheeked Pintails paired monogamously, but a low level of polygyny occurred regularly: each year, 4 to 9% of paired males had two mates during the breeding season, despite a strongly skewed sex ratio in favor of males (1.45:1). Polygynous males were particularly effective at guarding their mates during the breeding season, an important determinant of female breeding success. The term "male-quality polygyny" is proposed to characterize this form of polygyny. Both long-term pair bonds and mate changes between years were recorded: 10 of 23 marked pairs (43%) stayed together for two or more breeding seasons, while 13 pairs (57%) divorced. Mate retention in the second year was not related to breeding success in the first year. Only females provided parental care, but some males continued to escort and guard their mate for at least part of the brood-rearing period. Although highly variable, male attendance declined with both hatch date and duckling age. Some birds associated as pairs year around, and several pairs stayed together during the wing molt. The sedentary lifestyle in this subtropical climate and the potential for variable and extended breeding seasons appear to be the key ecological factors influencing the complex and variable mating system of this species.
10.2307/4089069| We tested the hypothesis that exposure of Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to acute temperature stressors impairs their immune-system function and resistance to disease. Birds were randomly assigned to either a thermoneutral (constant 21C), cold-stress (cycled from 3.6 to -20C over 24 h), or heat-stress (cycled from 30.8 to 39.0C over 24 h) treatment for four consecutive days. Immunocompetence of each bird was evaluated on day 5 using a panel of assays, including a measure of resistance to a Pasteurella multocida Type 3 challenge. Neither thermal stressor had an influence on spleen mass or measures of cell-mediated and humoral immunity. Disease resistance of Northern Bobwhites to P. multocida was not influenced by heat stress but increased following cold stress. Cold stress may have increased the activity of phagocytic leukocytes, which are important in resistance of birds to bacterial pathogens. A concomitant decrease in lymphocyte numbers suggested that resistance to viral pathogens was compromised during cold stress. 
4090665| Point-transect sampling is widely used for monitoring trends in abundance of songbirds. It is conceptualized as a "snapshot" method in which birds are "frozen" at a single location. With conventional methods, an observer records birds detected from a point for several minutes, during which birds may move around. This generates upward bias in the density estimate. I compared this conventional approach with two other approaches: in one, the observer records locations of detected birds at a snapshot moment; in the other, distances to detected cues (songbursts), rather than birds, are recorded. I implemented all three approaches, together with line-transect sampling and territory mapping in a survey of four bird species. The conventional method gave a biased estimate of density for one species. The snapshot method was found to be the most efficient of the point-sampling methods. Line-transect sampling proved more efficient than the point-sampling methods for all four species. This is likely to be generally true, provided that terrain and habitat allow easy use of a design with random transect lines. I concluded that the snapshot method is more appropriate than the conventional timed-count method for surveying songbirds. Although precision was rather poor with the cue-based method (partly because too few resources were devoted to cue rate estimation), it may be particularly useful for some single-species surveys. In addition, it is the only valid method for estimating abundance from surveys in which acoustic equipment is used to detect birds. /// El mtodo de muestreo por transectos puntuales es utilizado con frecuencia para el monitoreo de las tendencias de la abundancia de aves canoras. Este mtodo es conceptualizado como una "fotografa" en la que las aves son "congeladas" en un punto determinado. Con los mtodos convencionales, el observador registra las aves detectadas desde un punto por varios minutos, un perodo durante el cual las aves pueden moverse. Esto genera un sesgo que sobrestima la densidad. Compar este mtodo convencional con otros dos mtodos: uno en que el observador registra la posicin de las aves detectadas en un punto en un instante (i.e. "fotografa"), y otro en que se registran las distancias a los cantos y no a las aves mismas. Implement estos tres mtodos junto con muestreos utilizando conteos en transectos lineales y mapeo de territorios para cuatro especies de aves. El mtodo convencional result en una estimacin sesgada de la densidad para una especie. El mtodo de "fotografa" result ser el ms eficiente de los muestreos en puntos. El muestreo en transectos lineales result ser ms eficiente que los mtodos de muestreo en puntos para las cuatro especies. Esto es probablemente generalizable, siempre y cuando el terreno y el hbitat permitan la utilizacin de un diseo de transectos lineales distribuidos al azar. Concluyo que para muestrear aves canoras, el mtodo de "fotografa" es ms apropiado que el mtodo convencional de conteo en puntos en un tiempo determinado. Aunque la precisin fue relativamente pobre para el mtodo basado en el registro de cantos (en parte debido a que se asignaron muy pocos recursos a la estimacin de este tipo de registros), ste puede ser particularmente til para muestreos de una sola especie. Adems, es el nico mtodo vlido para estimar la abundancia a partir de muestreos en los que se utilizan equipos acsticos para detectar a las aves. 
4090514| We studied the relationship between the occurrence of extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) and mating status and nesting cycle of mates, respectively, in a population of Black-browed Reed Warblers (Acrocephalus bistrigiceps). Overall, 6.4% (9 of 140) of the chicks were sired by extrapair males, and 13.5% (5 of 37) of the broods contained at least one extrapair chick. Socially polygynous males were cuckolded more frequently than socially monogamous males (40.0% and 3.7%, respectively). In three of four cases where cuckolded males were polygynous, the fertile periods of their mates overlapped. Except for two floating males that obtained EPFs, five out of seven cuckolder males were paired. Males succeeded in EPFs when the fertile period of the extrapair females largely overlapped the incubation period of their own mates. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that there are trade-offs between extrapair copulation activity and both mate guarding and rearing of nestlings. /// Nous avons tudi la relation entre l'occurrence de fertilisation extraconjugale (FEC) et le statut de couple en premier lieu puis entre cette mme occurrence et le cycle de nidification de partenaires, dans une population de Acrocephalus bistrigiceps. De manire gnrale, 6.4% (9 sur 140) des oisillons taient issus de mles infidles, et 13,5% (5 sur 37) des couve contenaient au moins un oisillon d'origine extraconjugale. Les mles socialement polygyniques ont t cocufis plus souvent que les mles socialement monogames (40,0% et 3,7%, respectivement). Dans trois cas sur quatre o les mles cocufis taient polygyniques, les priodes fertiles de leurs partenaires se chevauchaient. Except le cas de deux mles instables qui ont obtenu une FEC, cinq mles infidles sur sept taient en couple. Les mles russissaient leur FEC quand la priode fertile des femelles extraconjugales se chevauchaient en grande partie avec la priode d'incubation de leur propre partenaire. Ces rsultats concordent avec l'hypothse qu'il existe des compromis entre les activits de copulation extraconjugale et les activits de surveillance et d'levage des oisillons par le couple. 
10.2307/4087229| Western Gull (Larus occidentalis) chicks on Santa Barbara Island, California, had a sex ratio at hatching of 1.12 M/F (n = 609); the sex ratio of chicks 35 days of age was 0.89 (n = 189). The sex ratio at hatching and fledging did not vary significantly from 1.0 or from each other, but the data suggest that male mortality before fledging exceeded that of females. Depressed growth rates of male chicks hatched third may be responsible for these higher male mortality rates. We found no evidence for seasonal or hatching-order effects on sex ratios at hatching. We suggest that postfledging differences in mortality between the sexes are in part responsible for the skewed sex ratio (0.67 males/female) observed in the adult breeding population. 
4088370|In a color-marked population of Smith's Longspurs (Calcarius pictus) near Churchill, Manitoba, I recorded the timing and frequency of copulatory and mate-guarding behavior in relation to breeding season and time of day. Longspurs formed mating associations best described as female-defense polygynandry. Females copulated with two (rarely three) males (designated alpha, beta and gamma according to mating order), and each male with one to three females for an estimated average of 365 (range 214-629) copulations per clutch. This is one of the highest copulation rates reported in birds. More than 99% of all copulations were preceded by female solicitation but only about one-third of all solicitations were followed by mounting. Copulations began three to five days before clutch initiation and ceased just before or shortly after the penultimate egg was laid. Female copulations with alpha males peaked at clutch initiation at a rate of 5.3 copulations per hour. The copulation rate of beta and gamma males peaked two days after laying was initiated at 2.6 copulations per hour. All copulations probably occurred within the female's fertilization period and, thus, potentially could have resulted in fertilization of eggs. Copulations were most frequent during morning and late evening; they were rare during the afternoon. This diurnal pattern also corresponds to the period when inseminations were most likely to fertilize eggs. During the copulation period, males guarded their mates by closely following females and chasing away intruding males. Guarding and chasing by alpha males were most intense just before the first egg was laid, while guarding by beta and gamma males peaked on the day the third egg was laid. As with copulations, mate guarding and chasing were most intense in the morning and evening. The occurrence of multiple mating by females and the lack of territorial behavior in males suggests that frequent copulations in this species evolved as an adaptation to sperm competition.
10.1525/auk.2013.12164|Although interspecific avian brood parasitism usually lowers host productivity, some species lack any defense against parasites. We analyzed the effect of parasite egg removal or nest desertion following a parasitism event on the breeding productivity of the Rufous-collared Sparrow (
4086646|Individuals of the colonial Yellow-rumped Cacique (Cacicus cela) in Amazonian Peru can defend their nests against predators in three ways. First, by nesting on islands and around wasp nests, caciques are safe from arboreal mammals such as primates, which destroy many more-accessible colonies. Caimans and otters that live in lakes also protect island colonies from snakes, which are vulnerable when crossing open water. Second, by clustering nests together and mobbing as a group, caciques can deter many avian predators, which take spatially isolated nests in small colonies. The effectiveness of mobbing increases with group size, which in turn is correlated with colony size. Third, by mixing their enclosed, pouchlike nests with abandoned nests, caciques can hide their nests from some predators. Overall, nests in clusters on islands and around wasp nests suffer the least predation, largely because they are well protected against the cacique's major predators. Females switch colonies after losing nests to a predator, usually to sites that offer protection against that predator. By this mechanism, the best colony sites accumulate the largest numbers of nests. It is unclear, however, why all females do not nest in the safest colony sites. I argue that nest predation favors coloniality because of the scarcity of nest sites that are safe from mammals and the increased effectiveness of group defense.
4085935|Species that are typically monogamous, but occasionally show polygyny, allow tests of several hypotheses about mating systems. We describe seven cases of natural polygyny observed during a 5-yr study of the Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia). We also report on an experiment designed to test whether or not altering sex ratios causes polygyny and to measure some costs associated with polygyny in the Song Sparrow. Natural polygyny occurred in two circumstances: when males died during the breeding season and when the breeding population contained an excess of females. Most bigamous male Song Sparrows fed only the young of their primary females, but unaided secondary females were able to raise some young to independence. In 1979, we removed nine male Song Sparrows soon after their first-brood young hatched. Four of the nine widowed females subsequently formed polygynous associations with already mated males, compared to a natural polygyny rate of 3%. In one case, a male paired with three females. Only one of the widowed females received aid from her new male in feeding the young in her first brood. Young of unaided females grew more slowly and died more often in the nest than young of control females, and only half as many of them survived to independence. Unaided females fed their young twice as often as did control females. Removed males were replaced either by neighbors or by nonterritorial males. The latter group were also removed until all replacements were neighbors. When females remated with these replacements, 8 of their 9 previous mates were released, and 2 of them regained their previous territories. Neither was known to have fed the second-brood young of its regained mate. Foster fathers showed little "altruistic" behavior. Our results demonstrate that biased sex ratios are a proximate cause of polygyny in the Song Sparrow. We suggest that Song Sparrows are usually monogamous because males with high quality territories outnumber females at the onset of the breeding season. When females are not in short supply, polygyny occurs.
10.2307/4089461|We sequenced a 433-bp region of the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal subunit gene for 15 of the 18 recognized species of cockatoos and also examined previously published data on allozymes. Tests showed that the allozyme and mtDNA data have similar phylogenetic signals. The mtDNA phylogeny placed the Palm Cockatoo (Probosciger aterrimus) as the first extant cockatoo to split, followed by a subclade containing the black-cockatoos (Calyptorhynchus spp.), the Cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus), and the Gang-gang Cockatoo (Callocephalon fimbriatum); followed by the Galah (Eolophus roseicapillus) and Major Mitchell's Cockatoo (Cacatua leadbeateri), respectively; and finally followed by two subclades of "white" cockatoos: (1) the "corella" clade (Red-vented Cockatoo [Cacatua haematuropygia], Goffin's Cockatoo [C. goffini], Little Corella [C. sanguinea], Ducorps's Cockatoo [C. ducorpsii]); and (2) the "galerita" clade (Sulphur-crested Cockatoo [C. galerita], Salmon-crested Cockatoo [C. moluccensis], White Cockatoo [C. alba], Blue-eyed Cockatoo [C. ophthalmica], and Lesser Sulphur-crested Cockatoo [C. sulphurea]). If the mtDNA phylogeny accurately represents the evolutionary history of the cockatoos, then several of the phylogenetic problems within the group are resolved, including the positions and relationships of Nymphicus hollandicus, Callocephalon fimbriatum, Eolophus roseicapillus, and Cacatua leadbeateri. The mtDNA phylogeny supports some but not all of the nomenclature recently proposed for the Australian species. Biogeographic analysis of the mtDNA phylogeny supports the hypothesis that the cockatoos originated in Australia and that a combination of vicariant speciation and dispersal may have contributed to the diversification of the genus Cacatua in two separate radiations to the island regions of Indonesia, New Guinea, and the South Pacific.
10.2307/4090117|Molting females of Monteiro's Hornbills (Tockus monteiri) seal themselves in nest cavities to breed until chicks are about half grown. To gain insight into the chronology of energy requirements of the Monteiro's Hornbill family unit in relation to this peculiar breeding strategy, we measured a number of ecological, physiological, and environmental variables during the Monteiro's Hornbill's breeding season. Those measurements included rates of energy expenditure of female Monteiro's Hornbills while in the nest cavity, characterizing their thermal environment, timing of egg laying, molt, hatching and fledging of chicks, as well as measuring clutch size and chick growth. Temperatures within the nest box varied between 12 and 39C and did not affect the female energy expenditure. Female body mass and energy expenditure averaged 319 g and 5 W, respectively, at the start of concealment and decreased by on average 1.1 g day<sup>-1</sup> and 0.05 W day<sup>-1</sup> during at least the first 30 days of the 52-58 day concealment period. Clutch size varied between 1 and 8 averaged 4.1 eggs, with eggs averaging only 66% of the mass predicted for a bird of this size. Over the range of chick ages at which the female might leave the nest, the predicted energy requirements for maintenance and tissue growth for a Monteiro's Hornbill chick increase sharply from 1.2 W at age 8 to 3.0 W at age 25. Reduction of the female energy requirement with time, the relatively low growth rate and therewith low energy requirements of Monteiro's Hornbill chicks, and an appropriate timing of the female's exodus from the nest cavity all aid in containing peak energy demands to levels that are sustainable for the food provisioning male. /// Les femelles en mue du Calao de Monteiro (Tockus monteiri) s'enferment dans les cavits o elles nidifient jusqu' ce que les poussins aient atteint la moiti de leur dveloppement. Pour mieux comprendre la chronologie des besoins nergtiques de la famille de Calao de Monteiro en relation avec cette singulire stratgie de reproduction, nous avons mesur diffrentes variables cologiques, physiologiques et environnementales au cours de la saison de reproduction du Calao de Monteiro. Ces mesures incluent la dpense nergtique des femelles de Calao de Monteiro durant leur claustration, la caractrisation de leur environnement thermique, la cintique de la ponte, de la mue, de l'closion et du dveloppement du plumage des poussins, ainsi que le nombre d'ufs et la croissance des poussins. La temprature  l'intrieur des nichoirs a vari entre 12 et 39C et n'a pas affect les dpenses nergtiques des femelles. La masse corporelle des femelles et leurs dpenses nergtiques ont t en moyenne de 319 g et 5 Watt, respectivement, au dbut de la claustration et ont diminu en moyenne de 1.1 g/jour et 0.05 Watt/jour pendant au moins les 30 premiers jours des 52-58 jours de la priode de claustration. Le nombre d'ufs a vari entre 1 et 8 et a t en moyenne de 4.1, leur masse atteignant en moyenne seulement 66% de la masse prdite pour un oiseau de cette taille. Pour la gamme d'ges des poussins auxquels la femelle est susceptible de quitter le nid, les besoins nergtiques prdits pour l'entretien et la croissance des tissus d'un poussin de Calao de Monteiro augmentent brusquement de 1.2 Watt  l'ge de 8 jours  3.0 Watt  l'ge de 25 jours. La diminution des besoins nergtiques de la femelle au cours du temps, le taux de croissance relativement faible, et de ce fait les faibles besoins nergtiques des poussins du Calao de Monteiro, et l'abandon du nid par la femelle au moment opportun, sont autant de facteurs qui permettent de restreindre la demande nergtique  un niveau compatible avec l'approvisionnement en nourriture par le mle.
10.1525/auk.2010.09263|Studies on the sonations (nonvocal communicative sounds) of birds have revealed a wide diversity of mechanisms and functions. We describe the kinematics and sounds of the display dive and shuttle display of the male Black-chinned Hummingbird (
10.2307/4088272| We measured the metabolic rate of active-phase American Goldfinches (Carduelis tristis) with and without illumination at 10C and four wind speeds. We observed the birds via closed-circuit television. Illumination alone increased metabolism 37%. Metabolic rate increased linearly with activity and wind speed. A decrease in activity as wind speed increased tended to counteract the increase in thermoregulatory metabolism caused by convection, and reduced the slope of metabolism-vs.-wind-speed plots. The increase of metabolism with activity was reduced by the presence of illumination, which suggests relatively more compensation for thermoregulatory metabolism by activity metabolism when illumination is present. Stepwise linear regression was used to correct for nonthermal effects of illumination and wind to improve estimates of their purely thermal effects. 
10.2307/4089844|Understanding ecological consequences of avian developmental modes requires knowledge of energy requirements of chicks of different positions in the precocial-altricial spectrum, but those have rarely been measured in birds with self-feeding precocial young. We studied prefledging energy budgets in chicks of Black-tailed Godwit (Limosa limosa) and Northern Lapwing (Vanellus vanellus) in the field and in the laboratory. Lapwings show slower growth than godwits, reaching a 29% lower fledging mass (142 vs. 201 g) in a 32% longer period (33 vs. 25 days). Daily energy expenditure (DEE), measured by the doubly labelled water (DLW) technique, and daily metabolized energy (DEE plus energy deposited into tissue) increased proportionally to body mass at similar levels in both species. Total metabolized energy (TME) over the fledging period was 8,331 kJ in godwits and 6,982 kJ in lapwings, 39 and 29% higher than an allometric prediction (Weathers 1992). That suggests that self-feeding precocial chicks have high energy requirements compared with parent-fed species, due to costs of activity and thermoregulation associated with foraging. Those components made up 50-53% of TME in the shorebirds, more than twice as much as in seven parent-fed species for which DLW-based energy budgets are available. In captive lapwings and godwits growing up under favorable thermal conditions with food readily accessible, thermoregulation and activity costs were 53-58% lower and TME was 26-31% lower than in free-living chicks. The proportion of TME allocated to tissue formation (13-15% deposited as tissue plus 10-12% synthesis costs) was low in the shorebirds, and reductions in food intake may therefore sooner lead to stagnation of growth than in parent-fed chicks. Furthermore, the need to forage limits potential for saving energy by reducing activity in periods of food scarcity, because that will further decrease food intake. Self-feeding precocial chicks thus seem to operate within fairly narrow energetic margins. At the same time, self-feeding may allow birds to use food types that could not be profitably harvested if they had to be transported to the young.
4086962| Alternative hypotheses of hybrid zones make specific predictions about reproductive components of fitness in the hybrids. The dynamic-equilibrium and reinforcement hypotheses are premised on reduced hybrid fitness, which should be apparent as reduced clutch or brood size or as increased embryonic mortality. The hybrid-superiority and introgression hypotheses predict normal clutch and brood size and embryonic mortality. Reproductive success was measured at four study sites on a transect across the hybrid zone between the Yellow- (Colaptes auratus auratus) and Red-shafted (C. a. cafer) subspecies of the Northern Flicker. Two additional clutch size samples representing pure Yellow- and Red-shafted flickers were obtained from museum egg collections. Mean clutch size did not differ significantly among the six samples. Factorial ANOVAs showed that early clutches and broods are larger than late clutches and broods, but no significant difference was detected between hybrid and parental study sites. Analyses of the effect of phenotype (yellow-shafted, red-shafted, hybrid) also suggest that neither clutch size nor brood size is affected, with the exception that hybrid males sired significantly smaller broods. Finally, there were no significant effects of type of cross (red-shafted male  hybrid female, etc.) on the ratio brood-size/clutch-size. The only evidence for reduced hybrid fitness was in the test where males with hybrid phenotypes appear to have sired small broods. This may indicate that abnormal behavior of hybrid males affects female fecundity, but it is also plausible that this marginally significant result is a type I statistical error. The overall lack of evidence for reduced hybrid fitness is inconsistent with either the dynamic-equilibrium or reinforcement models. Of the two remaining alternatives, the bounded hybrid-superiority model appears the more likely explanation of the Northern Flicker hybrid zone because earlier work (Moore and Buchanan 1985) showed that the hybrid zone is not becoming broader, as predicted by the introgression model. 
4088687| The Lesser Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) colony on Howe Island, near Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, is the only established nesting colony of this species in the United States. A study was initiated to follow the dynamics of this small population in 1980 when it became clear that oil development would proceed near the nesting colony and in nearby brood-rearing areas. Virtually all brood-rearing Snow Geese in the study area were banded in late July of 1980 through 1993 to determine return rates of banded birds and to determine whether immigration contributed significantly to the maintenance and growth of the population. This was a critical question if, in the future, a local catastrophe (e.g. foul cholera, oil spill) were to affect most or all of the birds in this small population. During this 15-year study, the Snow Goose population expanded from 39 to 412 nesting pairs. Based on mark-recapture data from the banding programs, the immigration rates for females and males are estimated to be 12.8  SD of 4.39% and 60.7  12.85%, respectively. Exceptionally high immigration rates for males were recorded in 1990 and 1993, when large numbers of two- and three-year-old females (banded as goslings) returned with unbanded mates from other populations. Many females apparently immigrated when they were juveniles. The origins of immigrants is still unclear because of limited banding at neighboring colonies. Resightings of neck-banded Howe Island geese indicate emigration of primarily males to Wrangel Island, Russia, and Banks Island and the Anderson River Delta, Northwest Territories, Canada. 
4085740|We collected Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in southwestern Ontario in 1976 to determine the relative importance of nutrient reserves and dietary nutrients to laying females; males were used as controls. Lean dry weight and leg and breast muscle weights were used to index protein reserves, ether-extractable fat to index fat reserves, and leg and breast bone weights to index calcium reserves. Gizzard contents were examined to evaluate diet composition. Females neither stored fat or protein before they began egg laying nor utilized fat or protein reserves for egg production. Calcium reserves of females, however, increased before egg laying and were used for egg production. The diets of males and females changed from mainly seeds before egg laying began to mainly insects during the laying season and back to mainly seeds after the laying season. The shift to insects, however, was much more pronounced for females. Additionally, the gizzards of nearly all laying females contained mollusc shells. We conclude that female cowbirds obtain the nutrients for egg production directly from their diet. The relevance of this to the egg-laying pattern of female cowbirds is discussed.
10.2307/4087533|True olfactory navigation necessitates that homing pigeons (Columba livia) employ an odor "map" when determining their position relative to the home loft. Two models exist currently to explain the nature of this olfactory map. The "mosaic" map model suggests that pigeons learn a patchwork of olfactory cues by direct experience with local odors and determine displacement from the home loft by recognizing these familiar odors upon release. The "gradient" map model postulates the existence of stable odor gradients that extend over distances of up to 1,000 km. Pigeons learn the home value of an olfactory gradient while growing up, and then determine their positions with respect to home by comparing this learned value with the gradient value detected at the point of release. I analyzed both the mosaic and gradient olfactory map models in light of new data on the long-range transport of atmospheric aerosols. These data, obtained in 1983 as part of the Cross-Appalachian Tracer Experiment (CAPTEX '83), cover the region of New York state where extensive experiments on pigeon homing have been conducted from the Cornell University pigeon loft during the past 18 yr. The CAPTEX '83 data provide the first opportunity to assess accurately the atmospheric plausibility of an odor-based navigation system for homing pigeons flown in the northeastern United States. I conclude that the observed patterns of long-range aerosol transport place important limits on the type of olfactory navigation system potentially utilized by homing pigeons. Moreover, a comparison of the CAPTEX '83 data with meterological information relevant to atmospheric conditions in other geographic locations suggests that regionally specific atmospheric patterns may dictate whether pigeons can reliably employ odors during navigation. This regional specificity is proposed as an explanation for the observed discrepancy between results obtained in olfactory navigation tests conducted in Italy and those performed in the northeastern United States.
4086068|Audiospectrograms of chick twitter, peep, and trill vocalizations showed that denervation of the extrinsic syringeal muscles reduced frequency ranges and amplitudes of all three calls but that appreciable frequency modulation remained. Electromyograms from freely moving, awake chicks showed that the abominal (expiratory) muscles twitch and relax for each sound pulse of trills (up to 40-50/s). Comparison of these results with reports for songbirds supports the idea that the extrinsic syringeal and expiratory muscles play similar roles in both groups.
10.2307/4089857|Intensity of nest defence against a human intruder was recorded for 42 male and 43 female Northern Hobbies (Falco subbuteo) from 1992 to 1994. Defense did not vary between repeatedly and rarely visited nests. Except during incubation, intensity of nest defense by females was higher than that by males. For both sexes, defense intensity increased from incubation to fledging, within the nestling stage, and from fledging to the first 10 days of the postfledging period. Intensity of nest defense was positively correlated with brood size in females, but not in males. Experiments with dummy nests showed that defense was effective in deterring nest predation, and that its effect was positively related to its intensity. Hobby nest defense was an individually varying "plastic" trait, probably tuned to the reproductive value of the offspring. Parents apparently trade off the costs and risks of the behavior against the increasing likelihood of offspring survival.
10.2307/4089452|Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) at Hastings Reservation in central California prefer to nest in dead limbs in large, dead valley oaks (Quercus lobata) and California sycamores (Platanus racemosa) that are also frequently used as acorn storage trees. Based on 232 nest cavities used over an 18-year period, we tested whether preferred or modal nest-site characters were associated with increased reproductive success (the "nest-site quality" hypothesis). We also examined whether more successful nests were likely to experience more favorable microclimatic conditions or to be less accessible to terrestrial predators. We found only equivocal support for the nest-site quality hypothesis: only 1 of 5 preferred characters and 2 of 10 characters exhibiting a clear modality were correlated with higher reproductive success. All three characteristics of nests known or likely to be associated with a more favorable microclimate, and two of five characteristics likely to render nests less accessible to predators, were correlated with higher reproductive success. These results suggest that nest cavities in this population are built in part to take advantage of favorable microclimatic conditions and, to a lesser extent, to reduce access to predators. However, despite benefits of particular nest characteristics, birds frequently nested in apparently suboptimal cavities. We also found a significant relationship between mean group size and the history of occupancy of particular territories and the probability of nest cavities being built in microclimatically favorable live limbs, suggesting that larger groups residing on more stable territories were better able to construct nests with optimal characteristics. This indicates that there may be demographic, as well as ecological, constraints on nest-site selection in this primary cavity nester.
10.2307/4090478| Recent evidence suggests that migration may be extremely important in limiting populations of migratory songbirds. Understanding the relationship between changes in corticosterone secretion and energy reserves during migration is essential to understanding how environmental conditions such as weather, food availability, predation pressure, and habitat quality may be affecting birds en route. Several studies have found that baseline corticosterone is often elevated, and response to capture and handling stress reduced (migration modulation hypothesis), in birds sampled during the migratory period. However, because neither corticosterone secretion nor energetic condition within groups of birds sampled either in laboratory or in field varied significantly (Holberton et al. 1996, Holberton 1999), it was unknown whether corticosterone secretion could be modulated to track changes in energetic condition within the migratory period. Here, we investigated patterns of corticosterone secretion associated with variation in energetic condition in 18 free-living Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) sampled during autumn migration. Mean baseline corticosterone (mean  SE) was 37.22  7.70 ng mL
10.2307/4090096|There is growing awareness that costs associated with egg production play a significant role in shaping avian life histories. The life-history strategy of the Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia), a colonial, cliff-breeding seabird of Arctic waters, is characterized by a high annual adult survival rate, deferred breeding, and laying of a single-egg clutch. The single-egg clutch is a widespread phenomenon among seabirds and is generally thought to reflect demands of chick provisioning, rather than egg production. We compared composition of eggs laid by Thick-billed Murres most likely to be physiologically constrained in their capacity to produce eggs (young females with no prior experience, and females forming replacement eggs) to that of first eggs laid by early laying females (typically older, more experienced members of the population). Young, inexperienced females laid 4-18 days past the population-wide median laying date, and their eggs averaged 13% lighter in mass than those laid by early layers. Compared to early laid eggs, shell mass on young females' eggs was similar to that predicted from egg mass, but their eggs had a lower yolk-to-albumen ratio. There was little difference between the two groups in relative protein content of albumen, relative protein or lipid content of yolk, or amino acid makeup of protein in yolk or albumen. Replacement eggs averaged 6% lighter in mass than first eggs laid by the same females earlier that season. As with young females' eggs, replacement eggs had shells similar in mass to that predicted from egg mass, but lower yolk-to-albumen ratios, when compared to early laid eggs. Both protein and lipid concentrations in yolk were similar in first and replacement eggs, but replacements were deficient in albumen protein. Amino acid makeup of protein in yolk and albumen was similar in the two groups. Those results suggest that any limitations on egg production acting on young, inexperienced females are manifested in delayed laying and reductions in overall egg mass and proportional yolk content, but not in variation in biochemical composition of their eggs. Limitations on females forming replacement eggs are manifested not only in reduced egg mass and yolk content (as with young females), but also in changes in the biochemical composition of eggs; in particular, evidence suggests that relaying females may face a deficit of endogenous protein. The existence of such limitations suggests that demands of egg production can be significant even in a species that lays a single-egg clutch. /// Il y a une prise de conscience grandissante concernant les cots associs  la production d'ufs qui jouent un rle significatif en faonnant les traits d'histoire de vie chez les oiseaux. Chez le Guillemot de Brnnich (Uria lomvia), un oiseau des mers Arctiques, colonial et nichant sur les falaises, la stratgie en matire de traits d'histoire de vie se caractrise par un taux de survie annuel trs lev chez l'adulte, une reproduction pouvant tre diffre, et la ponte d'un seul uf. Ce type de couve est un phnomne rpandu chez les oiseaux de mer. Ce phnomne est gnralement considr comme le reflet de la demande en approvisionnement par les jeunes, plutt que la demande pour la production d'ufs. Nous avons compar la composition d'ufs pondus par des Guillemots de Brnnich caractriss par une plus grande tendance  tre contraints physiologiquement quant  leur capacit  produire des ufs (i.e. les juenes femelles sans exprience, et les femelles produisant des ufs de remplacement)  des ufs pondus par des femelles pondant plus tt (typiquement plus ges et possdant une plus grande exprience). Les jeunes femelles inexprimentes, ayant pondu de 4  18 jours aprs la date mdiane de ponte de la population, prsentaient des ufs 13% plus lger en moyenne que ceux pondus par les femelles ayant pondu plus tt. Comparativement aux ufs pondus plus tt, la masse de la coquille des ufs des jeunes femelles tait similaire  ce qui pouvait tre prdit  partir de la masse des ufs, mais leurs ufs prsentaient un rapport vitellus/albumen plus bas. Il y avait peu de diffrences entre les deux groupes dans la teneur relative en protines de l'albumen, la teneur relative en protines et en lipides du vitellus, et la constitution en acides amins des protines du vitellus ou de l'albumen. Les ufs de remplacement taient 6% plus lgers en moyenne que les premiers ufs pondus par les mmes femelles mais plus tt en saison. Comme pour les ufs pondus par les jeunes femelles, les ufs de remplacement avaient des masses de coquille similaires  ce qui pouvait tre prdit  partir de la masse des ufs, mais un rapport vitellus/albumen plus faible par rapport aux ufs pondus plus tt. Les concentrations en protines et en lipides dans le vitellus taient similaires dans les ufs initialement pondus et les ufs de remplacement, mais ces derniers taient dficients quant  la quantit de protines contenue dans l'albumen. La composition en acides amins des protines contenues dans le vitellus et l'albumen tait similaire dans les deux groupes. Ces rsultats suggrent que toute limitation agissant sur la production d'ufs par des jeunes femelles inexprimentes se manifeste par une ponte retarde, une rduction de la masse des ufs et de la teneur relative en vitellus, mais pas dans la composition biochimique de leurs ufs. Les limitations agissant sur les femelles produisant des ufs de remplacement se manifestent non seulement par une rduction de la masse des ufs et de la teneur en vitellus (comme dans le cas des jeunes femelles) mais aussi dans des changements de leur composition biochimique. En particulier, les rsultats suggrent que ces femelles pourraient faire face  un dficit en protines endognes. L'existence de telles limitations suggre que la demande ncessaire  la production d'ufs peut tre significative et ce mme au sein d'une espce qui ne pond qu'un seul uf par couve.
4086722|Currently accepted paradigms that demonstrate numerous parallels between human language learning and species-specific song acquisition fail to account adequately for recent findings on avian vocal learning. Human social modeling theory, with its emphasis on live, interacting tutors to effect otherwise inhibited learning, may provide an appropriate framework for understanding a wide range of avian vocal behaviors, particularly the flexible strategies of song acquisition observed in species generally thought to have restrictions on their learning capabilities. Social modeling theory also is proposed as a consistent schema for relating additional human and avian learning behaviors, and as a means of providing clues as to which aspects of song might serve as isolating mechanisms.
10.1525/auk.2013.12229|Determining the distribution of stopover and overwintering areas of migratory animals is essential for understanding population dynamics and building predictive models. Tree Swallows (
4085982|American Robins (Turdus migratorius) displayed four classes of approach to a Screech Owl (Otus asio): silent approach, vocal approach, mobbing, and attacking. Mobbing and attacking were confined to the breeding season. Mobbing first appeared in March and reached a maximum duration per mobbing bird in May and a maximum frequency in June. Mobbing and attacking were most often performed by pairs of robins or by single birds. These responses were directed at a Screech Owl located on the territory of the pair or individual. Silent approach and vocal approach occurred at all times of the year. During the breeding season, birds approached a Screech Owl located on a territory other than their own, observed the owl being mobbed, but joined in mobbing only if the owl flew. Outside the breeding season, robins gathered in large mobile flocks. Birds in such flocks sometimes approached a Screech Owl but did not mob. I suggest that the contexts in which these responses occurred indicate that mobbing and attacking are beneficial for robins only when birds are confined to territories or home ranges. The presence of young on territories further increases the amount of parental mobbing.
4086611|Eggs collected from captive and wild Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) were used to examine variation in eggshell thickness, length, breadth, and initial weight to resolve questions about eggshell data from wild falcons. For captive falcons, shell thickness of first clutches did not change over the years a falcon laid or with embryonic development. Eggshells in third clutches, but not second clutches, were significantly thinner than those from first clutches. Greatest variation in shell thickness existed between eggs within a clutch and did not differ significantly between wild and captive eggs. Entire clutches of wild falcons should be represented in future studies to maximize the chance of obtaining a representative sample in regard to shell thickness. Egg size (L, B, and fresh weight) decreased over the years a captive falcon laid. A significant decrease in size (B and fresh weight) also occurred in second and third clutches laid the same year. Ratcliffe's Index generally appeared to be a reliable indicator of shell thickness in captive-laid eggs.
10.1525/auk.2013.12134|Populations of nocturnal burrow-nesting seabirds are notoriously difficult to measure because of their cryptic behavior at remote breeding sites. However, there is an urgent need to identify factors that influence recovery of these populations, because of the increasing number of introduced-predator eradication projects whose ultimate goal is to facilitate seabird and, thus, ecosystem recovery. We asked whether the relative status of nocturnal burrow-nesting seabirds across the Aleutian Islands, Alaskainferred from levels of vocal activity collected with automated acoustic recording devicescan be explained in terms of ecological factors such as time since eradication, island size, and distance to source population. We deployed a total of 19 acoustic recorders on six islands during 20082010. Overall nocturnal call activity (mean number of calls night
4088046|Two song categories, distinguished by their acoustic structure, contextual usage, and potency in provoking responses from territorial males, are found in repertoires of individual male Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla). Simple songs are sung spontaneously throughout the day and in long-distance countersinging by territorial males. Complex songs are sung most frequently during the dawn chorus and during territorial boundary chases. Most males sing one simple and one complex song type. Males responded more strongly to playback of complex songs than to simple songs. Our experiment supports the hypothesis that male songbirds respond differently to songs that are sung in different contexts.
25150340|Numerous studies have addressed the potential consequences of increasing the density of edges through human activities, but most have documented responses to existing edges. Here, we monitored the response of seven forest bird species to experimentally created edges around five plots (10 ha, n = 3; 25 ha, n = 2) in the boreal mixed-wood forest of Alberta, Canada. We also mapped bird detections in six control plots (10 ha, n = 5; 25 ha, n = 1). The focal species were Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus), Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata), Black-throated Green Warbler (D. virens), Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla), Mourning Warbler (Oporornis philadelphia), and White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis). In the two breeding seasons following experimental clearcutting, we quantified birds' responses to edges in the absence of substantial edge-induced changes in vegetation by comparing the distribution of detections between treatment and control plots. We predicted that forest-edge specialists would be attracted to edges, forest-interior specialists would avoid them, and interior-edge generalists would show a neutral response. None of these predictions was consistently supported among plots and years, except in the Mourning Warbler. However, none of the significant responses was the opposite of predictions. We also predicted that postharvest colonization of treated plots would mainly involve forest-edge specialists, whereas most local extinctions would involve forest-interior specialists. Only the colonization of 10-ha fragments followed the predicted pattern. The relatively neutral response to forest edges we observed suggests that, in general, boreal forest birds do not respond to the edge itself or to proximate cues of edge proximity. Rather, significant responses may be delayed until edge-to-interior gradients in vegetation are established. /// Muchos estudios han abordado las potenciales consecuencias del aumento de la densidad de bordes generados por las actividades humanas. Sin embargo, la mayora de stos han documentado las respuestas a bordes previamente existentes. En este estudio, monitoreamos la respuesta de siete especies de bosque a bordes creados experimentalmente alrededor de cinco parcelas (10 ha, n = 3; 25 ha, n = 2) en el bosque boreal mixto de Alberta, Canad. Tambin mapeamos las detecciones de las aves en seis parcelas control (10 ha, n = 5; 25 ha, n = 1). Las especies focales fueron Empidonax minimus, Vireo olivaceus, Dendroica coronata, D. virens, Seiurus aurocapilla, Oporornis philadelphia y Zonotrichia albicollis. En dos pocas reproductivas subsecuentes a los cortes experimentales, cuantificamos las respuestas de las aves a los bordes en ausencia de cambios substanciales en la vegetacin inducidos por el borde, comparando la distribucin de detecciones entre las parcelas control y de tratamiento. Predijimos que las especies especialistas de borde seran atradas a los bordes, que las especies de interior de bosque los evitaran y que las especies generalistas de interior y de borde tendran una respuesta neutra. Ninguna de estas predicciones se cumpli sistemticamente entre parcelas y aos, excepto para O. philadelphia. Sin embargo, ninguna de las respuestas significativas fue opuesta a las predicciones. Tambin predijimos que la colonizacin post-cosecha de las parcelas de tratamiento involucrara principalmente a especies especialistas de borde, mientras que la mayora de las extinciones locales involucrara a especies especialistas de interior de bosque. Slo la colonizacin de fragmentos de 10 ha sigui el patrn predicho. La respuesta relativamente neutra a los bordes de bosque que observamos sugiere que, en general, las aves de los bosques boreales no responden al borde en s ni a seales directas de la proximidad del borde. Las respuestas significativas podran ocurrir ms tarde, una vez que los gradientes en la vegetacin desde el interior del bosque hacia los bordes se hayan establecido.
10.1525/auk.2013.12052|The propensity to replace a clutch is a complex component of avian reproduction and poorly understood. We experimentally removed clutches from an Arctic-breeding shorebird, the Dunlin (
10.2307/4090097|According to the hypothesis that has been invoked most frequently to explain seasonal fattening patterns for birds-the "adaptive winter-fattening hypothesis"-individuals respond to worsening foraging conditions by increasing body mass and energy reserves. Two hypotheses have been proposed equally frequently to explain daily weight gain patterns for birds: according to the "state-dependent foraging hypothesis," energy reserves should be amassed early during the day, when starvation risk increases; according to the "mass-dependent predation-risk hypothesis," mass gain should be delayed for as long as possible, to minimize predation risk. Those hypotheses have been tested previously, using statistical methods (e.g. multiple-regression analysis) that assume independence among environmental variables (e.g. photoperiod and temperature). We conducted path analyses that included four predictor variables (day-in-season, hour-in-day, mean daily temperature, and daily precipitation) to model body-mass fluctuations for two small, nonhoarding (noncaching) passerine species that inhabit central eastern Sweden. Data were partitioned hierarchically into species, age class, gender, and season subgroups. As reported in many small passerine species studies, body mass increased during the day and maximized at dusk; over seasons, body mass increased during autumn, maximized by midwinter, and declined toward breeding in spring. Path analysis models accounted for 9.5-49.9% (mean 26.3%) for Blue Tit (Parus caeruleus) body mass variance and 1.8-52.3% (mean 16.8%) for Great Tit (P. major) body mass variance; for both species, accountability was lowest for autumn (Blue Tit, 12.2%; Great Tit, 7.3%), highest for winter (Blue Tit, 33.4%; Great Tit, 21.9%), and intermediate for spring (Blue Tit, 22.7%; Great Tit, 11.8%); for Blue Tits, it was greater for adults than for juveniles (33.2 and 21.7%); whereas negligible for Great Tits (15.9 and 17.3%) and slightly greater for males than for females (Blue Tit, 27.4 and 23.5%; Great Tit, 23.1 and 21.3%). Those results are consistent with predictions formulated on the basis of the adaptive winter-fattening, partially with state-dependent foraging, and, possibly, mass-dependent predation-risk hypothesies and reveal that body-mass fluctuations are associated to a greater extent with photoperiod than with temperature. /// Selon l'hypothse la plus souvent invoque pour expliquer les patrons saisonniers d'engraissement chez les oiseaux - l'hypothse "adaptative de l'engraissement hivernal"- les individus rpondent  des conditions alimentaires de plus en plus dfavorables en augmentant leur poids corporelle et leurs rserves nergtiques. Deux hypothses ont t proposes avec une frquence quivalente pour expliquer les patrons journaliers de gain en poids chez les oiseaux. D'aprs l'hypothse "de la qute de nourriture dpendante de l'tat", les rserves nergtiques devraient tre accumules tt dans la journe, quand le risque de manque de nourriture augmente. Selon l'hypothse "des risques de prdation dpendants du poids", le gain de poids devrait tre diffr aussi longtemps que possible pour minimiser les risques de prdation. Ces hypothses ont dj t testes par le pass en utilisant des mthodes statistiques (e.g. analyse de rgression multiple) qui considrent l'indpendance des variables environnementales (i.e. photopriode et temprature). Nous avons ralis des "path analyses" qui incluaient quatre variables prdictives (jour de la saison, heure de la journe, temprature journalire moyenne et prcipitations journalires). Ces analyses ont permis de modliser les fluctuations de la masse corporelle pour deux petites espces de passereaux, du centre-est de la Sude, qui ne font pas de provision de nourriture (et qui n'en cachent pas). La partition des donnes a t ralise hirarchiquement par espce, classe d'ge, sexe et sous-groupe saisonnier. Comme mentionn dans plusieurs tudes portant sur des petites espces de passereaux, la masse corporelle augmentait au cours de la journe et atteignait son maximum au crpuscule. Au cours des saisons, la masse corporelle augmentait l'automne, tait maximale au milieu de l'hiver, et dclinait  l'approche de la reproduction au printemps. Les modles de "path analyses" expliquaient 9,5-49,9% (moyenne 26,3%) de la variance de la masse corporelle chez la Msange bleue, (Parus caeruleus) et 1,8-52,3% (moyenne 16,8%) chez la Msange charbonnire (P. Major). Pour les deux espces, l'explication tait la plus faible en automne (Msange bleue: 12,2%; Msange charbonnire: 7,3%), la plus haute en hiver (Msange bleue: 33,4%; Msange charbonnire: 21,9%) et intermdiaire au printemps (Msange bleue: 22,7%; Msange charbonnire: 11,8%). En ce qui concerne la Msange bleue, l'explication tait plus grande pour les adultes que pour les juenes (33,2 et 21,7%) alors qu'elle tait ngligeable chez la Msange charbonnire (15,9 et 17,3%) et lgrement plus grande pour les mles que pour les femelles (Msange bleue: 27,4 et 23,5%; Msange charbonnire: 23,1 et 21,3%). Ces rsultats sont en accord avec les prdictions formules  partir de l'hypothse "adaptative de l'engraissement hivernal", partiellement avec celle "de la qute de nourriture dpendante de l'tat" et possiblement avec celle "des risques de prdation dpendants du poids". Les rsultats rvlent galement que les fluctuations de la masse corporelle sont d'avantage associes avec la photopriode que la temprature.
4085150|We observed color-banded individuals of Plocepasser mahali, the White-browed Sparrow Weaver (Ploceidae), in Kenya during dry and rainy periods. Colonies usually consisted of five or six birds that slept singly in different nests in one tree and spent more than half of each day foraging in small group territories near the nest tree. The birds of a colony built nests the year round and all might join in building a new nest. Each colony was organized into a dominance hierarchy, but with strong intragroup tolerance. Each colony had only one breeding nest at a time, eggs were incubated intermittently by one female, and all or nearly all birds of a colony fed the one or two young. The most dominant bird took the lead in territorial defense, but did relatively little feeding of the young. Loss of the most dominant bird to a predator resulted in the invasion of a group's territory by a neighboring group. When a hawk or other predator was present all foraging and feeding stopped, and about 18% of foraging time was lost by such harassment. After the predator departed the adults fed the young in rapid succession, thus helping to compensate for the delay, a clear advantage of cooperative feeding. In its communal nest-building and cooperative feeding, this species resembles Philetairus socius, the Sociable Weaver of southwestern Africa.
10.1525/auk.2012.11269|Populations of Red Knots (
10.2307/4088827| The incidental catch of seabirds in high-seas drift nets was recorded in 1990-1991 by scientific observers on commercial squid and large-mesh fishery vessels operating in the North Pacific Transitional Zone. Twenty-six Synthliboramphus murrelet deaths were recorded in the months of August through December. All but one were from the Korean squid fishery in a small area bounded by 38-44N and 142-157E. Five specimens of the dead birds were collected and later identified as Japanese Murrelets (S. wumizusume). As fishing effort was widely distributed over a large area east of Japan, these data suggest that postbreeding Japanese Murrelets migrate north to winter in a relatively small area southeast of Hokkaido, where persistent eddies form at the confluence of the Oyashio and Kuroshio currents. Fronts between cold Oyashio water and Kuroshio warm-core eddies promote the aggregation of zooplankton and pelagic fishes, which in turn may attract murrelets during the nonbreeding season. The estimated total mortality of Japanese Murrelets in high-seas drift-net fisheries represents a significant proportion of the total world population of this rare and endangered species. 
4085158|Each summer at Tioga Pass, California, Clark's Nutcrackers participate in a nightly pre-roosting flight beginning in mid- to late July. Before sunset, nutcrackers are active on the sunlit, west-facing Mt. Dana slope. As light intensity rapidly decreases, they fly in small groups to the east-facing Gaylor Ridge slope to roost-a distance of 2 km. Gaylor Ridge is the first slope in the study area to receive sunlight at sunrise. In 1974, 1975, and 1976, the number of pre-roosting flight participants peaked at 30, 33, and 47, respectively, and dwindled to a few birds by the end of August. Irregular pre-roosting movements of nutcrackers were also observed in 1973 in the Minaret Summit area. Data on temperature and solar radiation gathered at Tioga Pass in summer 1974 suggest two explanations for this behavior: 1) nutcrackers may derive some energetic benefit by remaining in the warmest area at sunset and by roosting in the first area to be warmed at sunrise, or 2) nutcrackers may extend their activity time for foraging, feeding young, and socializing by being in the last sunlit area at sunset and in the first sunlit area at sunrise. Observations of the feeding habits and pre- and post-roosting activities of nutcrackers suggest that light intensity may be the primary factor triggering pre-roosting flights.
10.1525/auk.2013.13043|Both baseline and stress-induced concentrations of corticosterone (CORT) vary seasonally in a predictable fashion in many wild birds. Hypotheses about why these patterns exist include the behavior hypothesis, which predicts that animals will down-regulate stress-induced CORT when CORT-induced behaviors are too likely to cause reproductive failure; and the preparative hypothesis, which posits that baseline and stress-induced CORT will both be high at times of year with a higher incidence of predictable stressors. We tested predictions made by the behavior and predictive hypotheses about the CORT sensitivity of tissues involved in breeding: whole brain, hippocampus, and gonads. We used radioligand binding assays to examine glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) binding in free-living House Sparrows (
10.2307/4087994|Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) use Mono Lake in eastern California as a rest stop during spring migration. Some nonbreeders remain for the summer, and in the autumn the lake becomes a staging area that may accommodate 750,000 returning breeders and young of the year. There the birds become obese by feeding on invertebrates and, if they have not already done so, molt. Most grebes remain several months until a decline in prey populations stimulates further migration. During this period the birds become flightless, and the flight muscles may lose up to 50% of their mass. Myofibers from atrophic birds show evidence of mitochondrial division (or fusion). Even severely atrophic fibers retain a high mitochondrial density (27% vs. 33% in migratory condition), so that relative volume remains stable although absolute volume is reduced. In contrast, intracellular triglyceride droplets are extremely sparse in atrophic fibers, even though most of the birds are carrying >200 g of subcutaneous fat. Mean myofiber diameter increases and decreases with atrophy and hypertrophy. In late autumn, as food availability declines, the birds engage in conspicuous flapping exercises. In the same period, intracellular lipid reappears in the muscles. Within several weeks the muscles are rebuilt to full size and the grebes emigrate. The benefits, if any, of this cycle of muscle atrophy and concomitant obesity, followed by muscle hypertrophy and weight loss, remain obscure.
10.2307/4089460|We investigated the mechanisms by which helpers contribute to breeder reproduction in a Costa Rican population of White-throated Magpie-Jays (Calocitta formosa). Helpers provided a substantial proportion of all feedings to female breeders and their offspring, proportionately more than most species of cooperatively breeding New World jays. Breeding males typically fed breeding females and offspring less frequently than expected, however. There was little evidence of brood division in the sense of individual provisioners (breeders or helpers) preferentially feeding particular fledglings within a brood. The rate of provisioning per recipient increased as a function of group size only during the pre-incubation period (provisioning of the laying female). Provisioning rates per nestling and per fledgling were not correlated with group size, and the number of offspring fledged per successful nest did not increase with group size. Helpers did reduce the provisioning burden on breeders, however, and occasionally were the primary care-providers of fledglings, which allowed breeders to renest. More successful nests were produced in groups with many helpers than few, resulting in more fledged young per year. Mechanisms contributing to this "helper-effect" included more nesting attempts per year and a higher likelihood of renesting after a successful attempt. We conclude that the contributions of magpie- jay helpers increased breeder fitness, and the indirect and direct benefits gained by helping probably favored its expression by nonbreeding group members.
4087798|We studied activity budgets of hatching-year Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) in northern Alabama in August and September 1986, and from July to mid-September 1987. We divided observations among four time blocks (three diurnal, one nocturnal) and six habitats during nonhunting and hunting seasons. Hatching-year Mourning Doves spent an average of 24% of the time alert, 23% preening, 21% resting, 20% feeding, 13% traveling, and <1% in agonistic activities. Feeding, resting, and agonistic activities did not change (P > 0.05) between years or seasons, but varied (P < 0.05) among diurnal time blocks. Locomotor and alert activities differed (P < 0.05) between years and seasons (in 1987), but did not differ (P > 0.05) among diurnal time blocks. Preening activity varied (P < 0.05) between years, between seasons, and among time blocks (in 1987). Resting was the major (87%) nocturnal activity. Feeding activities were concentrated in upland agricultural fields. The daily activity patterns of hatching-year Mourning Doves centered around feeding, roosting, and loafing areas that minimized energy expenditures and predation risks.
10.1525/auk.2011.10113|Although the monophyly and Cretaceous origins of galloanserines have been established beyond a reasonable doubt, no stem galloanserine has ever been identified and very few fossils help to date the early phylogeny of the clade. We describe a very late Cretaceous quadrate that was previously assigned to
10.2307/4089987| Hughes (1997) hypothesized that the blue coloration of Black-billed (Coccyzus erythropthalmus) and Yellow-billed (C. americanus) cuckoo eggs evolved in response to egg discrimination by their hosts. From that hypothesis, we predicted that cuckoo hosts would eject ancestral nonmimetic (white) eggs, but be more likely to accept mimetic (blue) eggs. American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) were used to test that hypothesis because they are ejecter species that lay blue eggs and have been parasitized by Coccyzus cuckoos. Hughes' egg-mimicry hypothesis was not supported because robins and catbirds did not significantly eject white cuckoo eggs more frequently than blue cuckoo eggs. Indeed, most robins accepted both egg types. Furthermore, the observational evidence for egg mimicry is not convincing because only 5 of the 15 host species that Hughes (1997) described as having eggs that "fully or nearly match" the egg color of Black-billed and Yellow-billed cuckoos actually do so. /// Hughes (1997) a mis l'hypothse que le coloration bleue des ufs du Coulicou  bec noir (Coccyzus erythropthalmus) et du Coulicou  bec jaune (C. americanus) a volu en rponse  la discrimination des ufs par leurs htes. A partir de cette hypothse, nous avons prdit que les htes du Coulicou rejetteraient les ufs ancestraux non mimtiques (blancs), mais accepteraient plus probablement les ufs mimtiques (bleus). Le Merle d'Amrique (Turdus migratorius) et le Moqueur chat (Dumetella carolinensis) ont t utiliss pour tester cette hypothse car ce sont des espces qui rejettent les ufs, pondent des ufs bleus et qui ont t parasits par des Coulicous Coccyzus. L'hypothse d'imitation des ufs de Hughes n'a pas t supporte car les Merles et Moqueurs n'ont pas rejet de manire significative les ufs blancs plus frquemment que les ufs bleus de Coulicous. En effet, la plupart des Merles acceptaient les deux types d'ufs. De plus, les observations concernant le mimtisme des ufs n'taient pas convaincantes dans le sens que 5 des 15 espces htes que Hughes (1997) a dcrit comme ayant une couleur d'uf "tout a fait ou presque semblable"  celle des ufs de Coulicous  bec noir et jaune ont galement accept les deux types d'ufs. 
10.2307/25150228|Point counts are commonly used to obtain indices of bird population abundance. We present an independent-observer point-count method, a generalization of the dependent-observer approach, based on closed-population capture-recapture methods. The approach can incorporate individual covariates, such as detection distance, to account for individual differences in detection probabilities associated with measurable sources of variation. We demonstrate a negative bias in two-observer estimates by comparing abundance estimates from two- and four-observer point counts. Models incorporating data from four independent observers were capable of accounting for this bias. Modeling individual bird differences in detection probabilities produced abundance estimates 15-21% higher than models that did not account for individual differences, in four out of five data sets analyzed. Although independent-observer methods are expensive and impractical for large-scale applications, we believe they can provide important insights into the sources and degree of perception bias (i.e., probability of detecting an individual, given that it is available for detection) in avian point-count estimates. Therefore, they may be useful in a two-stage sampling framework to calibrate larger surveys based on single-observer estimates. /// Los conteos en puntos son empleados comnmente para obtener ndices de la abundancia de las poblaciones de aves. En este estudio presentamos un mtodo de conteo en puntos para observadores independientes el cual es una generalizacin del enfoque de observadores dependientes basada en mtodos de captura-recaptura para poblaciones cerradas. El enfoque puede incorporar covariables (ej. la distancia de deteccin) para tener en cuenta las diferencias en las probabilidades de deteccin entre individuos asociadas con fuentes de variacin medibles. Comparando conteos hechos por dos y por cuatro observadores, demostramos que existe un sesgo negativo en los parmetros estimados con base en datos de dos observadores. Los modelos que incorporaban datos de cuatro observadores independientes tuvieron la habilidad de corregir este sesgo. En cuatro de los cinco conjuntos de datos analizados, al modelar las diferencias en las probabilidades de deteccin de las aves se obtuvieron parametros estimados de 15 a 21% mayores que los obtenidos mediante modelos que no tuvieron en cuenta las diferencias individuales. Aunque los mtodos que emplean observadores independientes son costosos y poco prcticos para aplicaciones a gran escala, creemos que stos pueden proveer informacin importante para los parmetros estimados con base en conteos en puntos en cuanto a las fuentes que causan el sesgo de percepcin (i.e., la probabilidad de detectar un individuo, dado que est disponible para ser detectado) y en cuanto a la magnitud de ste. Por lo tanto, estos mtodos podran ser de utilidad si se incorporan en diseos con muestreos en dos etapas para calibrar censos ms amplios basados en parmetros estimados a partir de censos hechos por un solo observador.
4085708|The breeding behavior of the Little Blue Heron (Florida caerulea) was studied from 1975 to 1977 on the Alafia Banks, Hillsborough Bay, Hillsborough County, Florida. The mate-attracting Stretch is performed only by males. The number of each component of the Stretch varies greatly among individuals and adults and subadults. Little Blue Herons lack a Snap. The Circle Flight is performed infrequently and is relatively less stereotyped than the standing displays. Both male and female engage in Bill-nibbling, which functions in appeasement behavior. The Greeting functions in pair-bond reinforcement and is performed during nest reliefs and while passing twigs during nest construction. The hostile displays also are described; an increase in degree of hostility exists from the Upright to Forward to Full Forward. Both males and females exhibit shifts in behavioral repertoire during courtship, precopulatory, and postcopulatory periods. Males shift from a high frequency of aggressive signals and Stretches to a low frequency of aggression and a high frequency of Bill-nibbling. Females exhibit a high frequency of Bill-nibbling, but shift to a high frequency of twig manipulation in preparation for nest construction. The male brings twigs to the female, who constructs the nest. Both sexes incubate. The pair engages in the Greeting and Bill-nibbling at nest reliefs. Incubation behavior exhibits little variation. The increase in size, activity, and food demands of the young, however, are responsible for shifts in parental behavior during the nestling period.
10.1525/auk.2013.13123|Past studies of the replacement rules for flight feathers of cuckoos have been plagued by the erroneous assumption that the primaries constituted a single molt series. Instead, we show that the primaries of the Yellow-billed Cuckoo (
10.2307/4088720|In the first seven years of our Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus) study (1985-1991), 1990 was atypical in several respects. Only 68% of adults alive in 1989 returned to breed in 1990, compared to about 90% in other years. In addition, adults were delayed in their diurnal occupation of the colony and in egg laying in 1990. Eggs laid in 1990 were the smallest of any year. However, head-bill length, body mass, and condition index of breeding birds that returned in 1990 were within the normal annual variation established for earlier years. None of the noddies that failed to return in 1990 has been seen through June 1993, and we suggest that they died, most likely as a result of Hurricane Hugo as it passed through the area in mid-September 1989. Despite the loss of a significant proportion of adults from the colony in 1990, the number of breeding pairs did not dramatically decline in that year, which suggests that a pool of young or inexperienced birds was available to recruit into the breeding population. The loss of regular breeders thus had the effect of reducing the average age or breeding experience in the colony, and also increasing the number of new pair bonds. These changes were the likely cause of late breeding and small egg size observed in 1990, and indicate the importance of a stochastic event such as Hugo on the population biology of a tropical seabird.
10.2307/4089290|Bird populations and habitat were monitored each year before (1984 to 1986), during (1987 to 1988), and after (1989 to 1996) a major gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) outbreak in the eastern panhandle of West Virginia. Extensive tree mortality caused by repeated defoliations by gypsy moths resulted in the release of understory vegetation. Densities of Eastern Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) were significantly higher in the period following the gypsy moth outbreak. Both before and after the outbreak, Eastern Towhee densities were higher in areas of the forest with less overstory (particularly high canopy) and lower densities of live trees (particularly small trees). This indicates that not all forms of early successional habitat, specifically areas with a high density of small-diameter trees, are suitable for species deemed as "early successional." Although the gypsy moth outbreak resulted in an increase in the number of saplings, it also opened up the canopy and created a dense layer of shrubs in many areas. Because Eastern Towhees forage and nest on the ground and in shrubs, the outbreak increased the amount of suitable habitat for this species. Given that densities of Eastern Towhee are declining in the state, it is useful to document habitat features that are important for sustaining towhee populations.
10.2307/4088606|Gull numbers in pelagic habitats off the southeastern United States were weakly associated with seasonal variability in mean wind speeds, but strongly associated with accumulated air-sea heat flux (a surrogate for temperature inversions; i.e. pre-thermal conditions) and wind-speed variance (an energy source for flight, as well as a thermal inducement). Single meteorological variables accounted for as much as 59 to 93% of seasonal changes in gull abundance. Gulls (including nonbreeders) delayed dispersal to oceanic waters until onset of winter meteorological conditions, several months after cessation of breeding. Our findings support Woodcock's convective-soaring hypothesis, which ascribed gull dispersal in winter to boundary-layer dynamics along eastern continental margins. We extend this model by linking gull morphology and flight to energy-efficient reliance on air-sea interactions and spatial patterns in seasonal wind fields. Summer meterological conditions in much of the western North Atlantic Ocean facilitate coastal foraging by gulls, but act to preclude efficient foraging to and in offshore habitats. The presence or absence of coherence (meteorological consistency) in the aerial environment may have acted to select and maintain divergent life-history strategies in gulls and certain other inshore feeders.
4085652|The Wager Bay area in northeastern Keewatin was surveyed for nests of raptorial birds during late July and August in 1976 and 1977, and the southwestern part of Melville Peninsula was also surveyed in August 1977. These surveys established Wager Bay and Melville Peninsula as the most productive nesting areas known for the endangered Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus tundrius). More Peregrine Falcon sites producing young were located at Wager Bay than are known to exist in any other area of the North American Arctic. The production of young Peregrine Falcons at Wager Bay in 1976 and 1977 exceeded that of any area surveyed during the 1975 North American Peregrine Falcon Survey. In 1976 we located 14 nest sites occupied by Peregrine Falcons, 5 sites occupied by Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus), 11 sites occupied by Rough-legged Hawks (Buteo lagopus), and 1 nest site of a Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). In 1977, 27 Peregrine Falcon sites, 5 Gyrfalcon sites, 2 Rough-legged Hawk sites, and 1 eagle site were located. In 1977, Peregrine Falcons reoccupied at least 54%, and possibly as many as 91%, of the nesting territories occupied in 1976. Of the 13 peregrine sites visited in 1976, 85% produced young; young/occupied site averaged 2.08, and young/successful nest averaged 2.45. In 1977, 84% of the 22 visited sites produced young; young/occupied site averaged 2.21, and young/successful nest averaged 2.95. The Peregrine Falcon sites did not differ significantly between years in percent successful sites, young/occupied site, or young/successful nest. There was no correlation between the number of young Peregrine Falcons produced at nest sites in 1976 and the number produced at the same sites in 1977. The nests that had been visited in 1976 produced 2.16 young/successful nest in 1977, as compared with 3.3 young/successful nest among the nests not previously visited. This difference was significant. Fifteen occupied Peregrine Falcon sites were located on Melville Peninsula, at least 10 of which produced young. The average number of young/successful nest was 2.6. The Peregrine Falcon populations at Wager Bay and Melville Peninsula did not differ significantly in either number of young/successful nest or in mean distance between occupied sites. Both the Wager Bay and the Melville Peninsula Peregrine Falcon populations are considered to be undepleted populations. A total of 30 Peregrine Falcon chicks from 11 nests were banded at Wager Bay and 6 chicks from 3 nests on Melville Peninsula. One of the banded birds was later captured on North Padre Island, Texas.
10.2307/4088190|We studied diving patterns and performance (dive depth, duration, frequency and organization during the foraging trip) in relation to diet in nonbreeding Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua) over 59 days (involving 5,469 dives) in winter. We estimated foraging ranges and prey capture rates, and compared foraging behavior with that of breeding (chick-rearing) birds. Foraging was highly diurnal with 98% of foraging trips completed during the same day. Foraging-trip frequency was 0.8/day, trip duration was 6-8 h, and birds spent 51-62% of the foraging trip diving. Dive depth and duration were bimodal. Shallow dives (<21 m; 42% of total number and 16% of total dive time) averaged 5-7 m and 0.5-1.3 min. Deep dives (>30 m; 55% of total number and 81% of dive time) averaged 74-105 m and 2.7-3.5 min, respectively. Deep-dive duration exceeded the subsequent surface interval, but shallow dives were followed by surface intervals two to three times dive duration. Deep dives showed clear diel patterns, averaging 10-20 m at dawn and dusk and 70-90 m at midday. These results are consistent with the patchy vertical and horizontal distribution and diel movements of Antarctic krill, the main winter prey of Gentoo Penguins (including study birds). We suggest that shallow dives are mainly searching dives, and deep dives mainly for feeding. Foraging activity of nonbreeding Gentoo Penguins in winter is similar to that of chick-rearing birds. The only major differences are that foraging-trip frequency is 20% less and stomach-content mass on return ashore 30% less in winter. We conclude that foraging activity in Gentoo Penguins is changed by varying the frequency and duration of foraging trips, rather than by changing the pattern and rate of diving.
10.2307/4088426|Clutch-size determination in the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) was evaluated in a colony in northern Norway. Females in good body condition (determined from mass at hatching) produced large clutches and had a shorter incubation period than females with small body reserves. Females in good body condition cared for young (including adoption of the young of other females), while females in poor body condition abandoned their young soon after hatching. Repeatability (an upper limit to heritability) of clutch size, which for individual females varies from three to six eggs, does not differ significantly from zero. A hypothesis is proposed, suggesting that there is a trade-off involved in allocating body reserves to eggs, incubation, and care of chicks and that females use a particular clutch-size strategy related to their body condition and ability to care for young.
25150396|Double sampling involves combining information from inexpensive rapid counts with intensive complete counts to provide an efficient population estimate. This technique is a valuable approach for calibrating population indices based on incomplete counts and improving the precision of monitoring studies. Data collected through a double-sampling protocol can be analyzed with either a ratio or a regression estimator. The ratio estimator is recommended when the relationship of the actual count to the rapid count is a straight line through origin, which may not be valid when surveying populations that have a small number of individuals per site and a low detection probability. In such situations, the regression estimator may be more appropriate. I investigated the properties of these two different estimators through a simulation study and tabulated sample sizes to control bias of the population average and standard error. Further, I used the results to evaluate when double sampling is a cost-effective design and how to design surveys that meet precision requirements. The design process is illustrated with the Spring Eastern Waterfowl Survey, which shows that double sampling is not always appropriate. /// L'chantillonnage double implique la combinaison d'informations provenant de dcomptes rapides et peu coteux et de dcomptes intensifs complets afin de fournir un bon estim de population. Cette technique est une approche trs utile pour calibrer les indices de population bass sur des dcomptes incomplets et amliorer la prcision des tudes de suivi. Les donnes recueillies  l'aide d'un protocole de double chantillonnage peuvent tre analyses soit par un rapport, soit par une rgression. Le rapport est recommand lorsque la relation entre le dcompte rel et le dcompte rapide est une ligne droite passant par l'origine, ce qui peut ne pas tre valide lorsque l'on tudie des populations qui ont un petit nombre d'individus par site et une faible probabilit de dtection. Dans de telles situations, la rgression peut tre plus approprie. J'ai tudi les proprits de ces deux diffrents estimateurs par une simulation et j'ai calcul les tailles d'chantillon afin de contrler les biais de la moyenne et de l'erreur-type de la population. De plus, j'ai utilis les rsultats pour valuer quand l'chantillonnage double est rentable et comment laborer un suivi qui rencontre les besoins de prcision. Ce processus de conception est illustr avec le Spring Eastern Waterfowl Survey, qui montre que l'chantillonnage double n'est pas toujours appropri.
10.2307/4085265|The breeding biology of the Louisiana Heron, Snowy Egret, Cattle Egret, Little Blue Heron, and the Great Egret was studied on Riomar Island, a 2.8-ha mangrove island in Indian River County, Florida from March through May 1973. The Louisiana Heron and Cattle Egret nests were built increasingly more distant from the shoreline as the breeding season advanced. Nests of the Little Blue Heron were not horizontally stratified and the seasonal differences in siting of the Snowy Egret and Great Egret nests were not significant. The Louisiana Heron nests showed vertical stratification and were built significantly higher as the season advanced. Snowy Egret and Great Egret nests were built at lower elevations in midseason, but later nests were at the same height as the earlier nests. The heights of Cattle Egret and Little Blue Heron nests did not change during the season. The Louisiana Heron, Snowy Egret, Cattle Egret, and Great Egret completed clutches the last week of March and the first week of April. Little Blue Herons completed their clutches the second and third weeks in April. The louisiana Heron, Snowy Egret, and Cattle Egret laid eggs on the average at slightly greater than 2-day intervals and the Little Blue Heron and Great Egret at slightly less than 2-day intervals. All five laid replacement clutches when the original clutch was destroyed. Little Blue Heron clutches were significantly larger than Snowy Egret and Great Egret clutches. Louisiana Heron clutches were significantly larger than Great Egret clutches. Incubation began after the first egg was laid in most Snowy Egret, Cattle Egret, and Great Egret nests and was delayed until after the second egg in Louisiana Heron and Little Blue Heron nests. The time interval between hatching of successive eggs in the clutch increased in all species except the Little Blue Heron, which showed a decrease in interval. Nests failures were caused mainly by Brown Pelicans, whose clumsy landings at or near their own nests knocked eggs from nearby heron nests or crushed them. Still nesting success of the Riomar herons was better than any reported in the literature. The Little Blue Herons had the highest nest success because of their relative isolation from the other nesting species.
4090520| In many situations, selection should favor females that bias the sex ratio of their offspring. Two commonly examined factors potentially influencing offspring sex ratio are paternal ornamentation and maternal condition. Male junglefowl with larger combs are attractive to females. I housed female Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus) with sterile male consorts and artificially inseminated them with sperm from other males that the females never saw. I found no relationship between either the comb size of the consort or the comb size of the sperm donor and the sex ratio of the offspring. I previously reported a significant sex ratio bias related to maternal mass in Red Junglefowl. However, that analysis was based on sex ratio data not weighted for brood size and assuming a normal distribution. Here, I show that this effect disappears when I conduct a more appropriate analysis weighting sex ratio according to brood size and accounting for the binomial error distribution. I also failed to find evidence that male chicks hatch from larger eggs than female chicks. These results suggest that Red Junglefowl females may not bias the sex ratio of their brood in response to either their own condition or the attractiveness of the males with whom they copulate. Furthermore, these results demonstrate the importance of choosing the correct methods of sex ratio analysis. /// En muchas situaciones, la seleccin natural debera favorecer a las hembras que sesgan el cociente de sexos de su progenie. Dos factores comnmente examinados que potencialmente influencian el cociente de sexos de la progenie son la ornamentacin paterna y las condiciones maternas. Los machos de Gallus gallus con crestas ms grandes resultan atractivos para las hembras. Hosped a hembras de G. gallus con consortes machos estriles y las insemin artificialmente con esperma proveniente de otros machos que las hembras nunca vieron. No encontr una relacin entre el tamao de la cresta del consorte o el tamao de la cresta del donante de esperma y el cociente de sexos de la progenie. Con anterioridad publiqu que existe un sesgo significativo en el cociente de sexos que se relaciona con la masa materna en G. gallus. Sin embargo, ese anlisis se bas en datos de cociente de sexos que no haban sido ajustados por el tamao de la nidada y que suponan una distribucin normal. Aqu muestro que este efecto desaparece cuando realizo un anlisis ms apropiado ajustando el cociente de sexos en relacin con el tamao de la nidada, y considerando la distribucin binomial del error. Tampoco pude encontrar evidencia de que los pichones macho eclosionan de huevos ms grandes que los pichones hembra. Estos resultados sugieren que las hembras de G. gallus no podran sesgar el cociente de sexos de sus nidadas en respuesta a su propia condicin o con relacin al atractivo de los machos con los que copulan. Ms an, estos resultados demuestran la importancia de elegir los mtodos correctos de anlisis del cociente de sexos. 
4087909|Bachman's Sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis) has declined over much of its range in the last fifty years. To understand the role of habitat loss in this decline, we examined patterns of habitat occupancy by this species in two areas of South Carolina. At both sites we recorded relatively high densities of breeding sparrows in mature (>80 yr old) pine stands, and relatively low densities in young pine stands. Habitat occupancy varied between sites in clearcuts and middle-aged pine stands. Sparrows used areas with open understories and dense ground covers of grasses and forbs. Habitat occupancy differed between the two main study areas because these preferred vegetation characteristics were found in different habitats in the two areas. Timber management practices (especially burning rotations, site-preparation techniques, and thinning) have a strong effect on understory vegetation and, therefore, habitat suitability for the sparrow. Management practices that produce suitable habitat for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) also provide habitat for Bachman's Sparrow. We believe that, even though the sparrow may use open habitats that appear to be relatively common, its habitat requirements are relatively strict, and that habitat loss may be an important factor in this species' population decline.
4085094| The biology of Field Sparrow nestlings was studied during two breeding seasons in central Illinois, on a 23.6-ha tract composed of mixed vegetation. Predominant nestling foods were lepidopteran larvae, orthopteran nymphs, homopterans, and spiders. Foods given to nestlings ranged in size from less than 0.005 cc to 0.38 cc, the upper size limit increasing with nestling age. The food size class most frequently fed to the young contained items smaller than 0.05 cc, although its importance decreased as the nestlings grew older. Girth rather than length limited the size of food the young successfully ingested. The number of feeding trips per hour to 6-day-old broods ranged from 0 to 21 and averaged 9, divided about equally between male and female. The feeding frequency peaked shortly after dawn and just before dusk, and was lowest near midday. There was a significant inverse relationship between the female feeding rate and brooding time. Ambient temperature significantly influenced brooding time, with the least brooding at 60 to 69F. The rate of feeding individual nestlings decreased slightly (nonsignificant) as brood size increased. The overall nestling growth rate index (weight) averaged 0.568, and ranged 0.444 to 0.712. No nestling starvation was evident. The rate of weight gain in broods of four was significantly higher during early summer than late summer, while broods of three showed a significant opposite trend. The dependence of thermoregulatory maintenance costs upon brood size is discussed. Growth rates of the youngest nestlings were significantly less than those of their siblings. It was concluded that Field Sparrows forage opportunistically for their nestlings, and that food availability did not limit breeding success on the study tract. 
4086972|The relationships of seabirds to the holopelagic macroalga Sargassum were studied during a 2-yr survey in the South Atlantic Bight off the southeastern United States. Seabirds were significantly more abundant in waters with large (>5 m
10.2307/4087541|Using captive pairs of White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis), I tested the nonexclusive hypotheses that the vigilance of social foragers has two components, (1) vigilance for predators and (2) vigilance for dominant conspecifics, and thus is mediated by the size of the foraging group as well as by an individual's dominance status. Evidence from pairs of nuthatches, tested while solitary and while together, revealed that males increased their vigilance when solitary, that females were subordinate to and more vigilant than males when both sexes were housed together in the aviary, and that the advantage of foraging socially in terms of a reduction in vigilance was greater for males. My results demonstrate that vigilance in White-breasted Nuthatches was sex specific and that male social dominance was the responsible mechanism. I suggest that subordinate social foragers have the additional constraint on their foraging time of keeping higher-ranking flock mates under surveillance.
10.2307/4089408|Radio trasmitters emitting continuous signals were mounted on Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) and Veerys (C. fuscescens) during two spring migration seasons. Wingbeats modulated the continuous signals, and signal-processing techniques permitted examination of wingbeat frequency (WBF) during nocturnal migration. Distinct takeoff and cruising-flight phases were evident in both species. As birds climbed during the takeoff phase (which usually lasted about 15 min), WBF typically declined exponentially by at least 4 Hz. Median cruising WBF from seven flights varied from 9.2 to 10.9 Hz, values similar to those calculated from published equations predicting WBF based on flight mechanics. Cruising WBF typically varied slowly and irregularly throughout all flights by about 1 Hz. During takeoff and cruising flights, all birds flapped continuously, showing no evidence of the flapcoasting pattern common in passerine migrants previously studied with other techniques such as radar. All five birds exhibited departure times, course directions, and flight distances typical for migrating thrushes.
10.2307/4086767|Hummingbird species inhabitating restricted geographic regions exhibit morphological patterns that differ significantly from those predicted by null models in which species are selected at random from appropriate species pools. Temperate North American hummingbirds are convergent: more similar in bill length, body weight, and wing length than predicted by several null models. These temperate species also are more similar to each other than they are to more closely related (congeneric) species from subtropical and tropical habitats. Hummingbirds of the Greater and Lesser Antilles show a nonrandom distribution of species among islands: all islands inhabitated by hummingbirds have at least two species, and these fall into two distinctly different size categories. Allometric scaling of bill length with respect to body mass is distinctive in Antillean hummingbirds; bill length increases more rapidly with increasing body weight in West Indian hummingbirds than in random samples of hummingbirds of the world or in other birds. These morphological patterns appear to reflect two ecological processes: interspecific competition among hummingbirds and mutualistic coevolution with flowers. Hummingbird species of similar morphology use similar floral resources but rarely coexist in the same local areas. Species of divergent morphology exploit different food resources and frequently coexist locally. Length of the bill, which influences access to different kinds of flowers, is particularly important in the organization of these simple hummingbird associations.
auk.2012.11164|Despite recent progress in avian demography, much still needs to be learned about patterns of survival and dispersal across different ages and sexes of birds. This is expressly true for Brown-headed Cowbirds (
4086522|The Pallid Falcon (Falco kreyenborgi), a rare form from southern Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, has, since its discovery in 1925, gained acceptance as a full species. In 1981, we observed 13 Pallid Falcons on the Patagonian Steppe. Four adult Pallid Falcons were paired with normal Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus cassini) mates. Two normal-phased peregrine pairs produced mixed broods of normal and pallid young. One pair of pallid adults produced only pallid young. These observations lead to the conclusion that the Pallid Falcon is conspecific with and a color phase of the Peregrine Falcon.
10.1525/auk.2010.09160|We used radiotelemetry to investigate the spatial behavior of wintering Bicknell's Thrushes (
10.2307/4089119|Using museum specimens, we determined that Eastern (Vireo gilvus) and Western (V. swainsonii) warbling-vireos have contrasting schedules for their prebasic molt relative to fall migration. Adult gilvus replace their primaries rapidly (38 days) and complete prebasic molt after breeding but while still on the breeding grounds. In contrast, adult swainsonii that breed north of Mexico begin prebasic body molt on the breeding grounds and appear to continue it during migration. These birds leave the United States and Canada before initiating remigial molt, and our data suggest that many of them stop in northwestern Mexico to begin replacing flight feathers. Adult swainsonii take longer to replace their primaries (55 days) than do adult gilvus, presumably because most or all of their migration has been accomplished prior to the initiation of molt. Hatching-year swainsonii that breed north of Mexico remain in the United States and Canada until their first prebasic molt (body only) is completed, and thus are present long after adults have left. Both species undergo a prealternate molt of body plumage, and occasionally innermost secondaries and the innermost pair of rectrices, on the wintering grounds. Our results, along with previous studies of molt and migration, highlight the importance of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico to the nonbreeding biology of several species of passerines that breed in western North America.
10.1525/auk.2011.11192|We describe a stem group representative of Diomedeidae from the early Oligocene (Rupelian) of Belgium. The fossil remains, wing, and pectoral girdle bones of two individuals are described as
40406712|Seeking more precise knowledge of avian endemism on the east slope of the Andes in Peru and Bolivia, one of the most diverse faunal regions on Earth, we used distribution models based on locality records and 1012 uncorrelated environmental variables to map the distributions of 115 species. Both maximum-entropy and deductive models reveal three areas of endemism, broadly supporting previous assessments of endemism in the region but showing much more detail. Regions such as the southwestern Cordillera de Vilcabamba and the Ro Mapacho-Yavero valley in Cusco, Peru, and the Cordillera de Apolobamba in western Bolivia support a greater richness of endemic species than has been recognized, a result likely attributable to the ability of predictive models to partially control for biases in survey effort. National-level protected areas cover 1,000 km
10.2307/4089859|Birds are unique among vertebrates in that they protect their eggs with rigid, calcium-rich shells. Thus, for a short period of time during the annual reproductive cycle, birds experience extraordinarily high demands for calcium. Two strategies appear to exist for meeting those temporally high demands. Some birds apparently seek out calcium-rich foods immediately prior to and during egg laying whereas others may store calcium in their skeletons over a much longer period of time, mobilizing those reserves only when they are needed for production of eggshells. In this study, we used dual energy, X-ray absorptiometry and inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy to monitor annual shifts in bone mineral content in the legs of White-tailed Ptarmigans (Lagopus leucurus). The study organisms were known to live on calcium-poor soils. Despite an apparent shortage of calcium in their diets, the test subjects stored substantial amounts of calcium in their leg bones in months prior to reproduction. Those stores were subsequently depleted during the egg-laying period. We suggest ability to store calcium in the skeleton may afford this species more flexibility in selecting suitable breeding habitats than would be possible otherwise.
4085615|Measurements of the propagation of sound in a forest have shown that signal degradation is unavoidable but to some degree predictable. Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus) have a song structure suited for the estimation of distance by a comparison of the relative degradation of the components of the signal. Playback experiments using song recorded at two distances from a singing wren demonstrated that wrens can use cues other than the absolute attentuation of the sound for the estimation of the distance of the singer. The wrens responded to the near-sounding song by attack and to the far-sounding song by countersinging. The ability of the wrens to use the distance information in the song serves the same purpose as the recognition of familiar neighbors: conservation of time and energy used in territorial defense.
4087720|We examined territorial relationships of breeding Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) and Mountain Chickadees (P. gambeli) in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains in southwestern Alberta, where the two species are sympatric in mixed forests of river valleys. Both the minimum convex polygon method and Anderson's (1982) utilization distribution method indicated that territory size did not differ significantly between species. There was no indication of interspecific territoriality, with little intraspecific overlap of territories (0-8%) but considerable interspecific overlap (30-70%). Discriminant function analysis of habitat variables measured on randomly located plots on territories showed no interspecific differences. However, an analysis that weighted plots by relative use by birds showed a significant difference. Mountain Chickadees used areas with large conifers and dead trees more than did Black-capped Chickadees. Our results indicate that habitat preferences shown by the two species in allopatry persist in sympatry, and that local coexistence is permitted by the mosaic nature of the habitat.
25150386|To evaluate the possibilities and limitations of using white-blood-cell (WBC) counts to characterize investment in immune-system function, we compared the prevalence and intensity of malaria infections and concentrations of WBCs in the American Robin (Turdus migratorius) in Michigan and Missouri and in the Clay-colored Robin (T. grayi) in central Panama. We ascertained infection by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening and quantified infection intensity and WBC concentrations by visual inspection of blood smears. Because few parasites were observed on smears, we assumed that most cases of malaria represented chronic, rather than acute, infections. Prevalence of haemosporidian infection (Panama 41%, Missouri 57%, Michigan 63%) did not differ significantly between locations. However, most infections in Panama were undetected on blood smears, whereas more than half were apparent on smears in Michigan and Missouri. Among WBCs, lymphocytes were the most abundant type, followed by heterophils; eosinophils and lymphocytes were more common in the North American sample than in Panama, and their numbers in Michigan were significantly higher in infected than in noninfected individuals. Tropical T. grayi apparently maintained infections at lower intensities but appeared to accomplish this in spite of lower abundances of immune-system cells. Furthermore, analyses of blood smears of Turdus spp. from elsewhere in the tropics revealed a wide range of prevalence, which suggests that either the regional presence of haemosporidians or the ability of hosts to control infections cannot be learned from limited samples. Additional species surveyed in Michigan and Panama revealed no consistent pattern in either infection intensity or WBC concentrations. Infection and response appear to be highly idiosyncratic. In agreement with other authors, we caution that blood parameters are difficult both to interpret and to sample adequately in tests of regional or other effects. /// Para evaluar las posibilidades y limitaciones del uso de conteos de glbulos blancos para caracterizar la inversin en la funcin del sistema inmune, comparamos la prevalencia e intensidad de infecciones de malaria y las concentraciones de glbulos blancos (GB) en Turdus migratorius en Michigan y Missouri, y en T. grayi en la regin central de Panam. Determinamos la infeccin mediante exploracin con PCR y cuantificamos la intensidad de la infeccin y las concentraciones de GB a travs de la inspeccin visual de frotis sanguneos. Debido a que pocos parsitos fueron observados en los frotis, suponemos que la mayora de los casos de malaria representaron infecciones crnicas, no agudas. La prevalencia de infeccin de hemosporidios (Panam 41%, Missouri 57%, Michigan 63%) no fue significativamente diferente entre localidades, pero la mayora de las infecciones en Panam no se detectaron en los frotis sanguneos, mientras que en Michigan y Missouri ms de la mitad fueron aparentes en los frotis. Entre los GB, los linfocitos fueron el tipo ms abundante, seguidos por los heterfilos. Los eosinfilos y linfocitos fueron ms comunes en la muestra de Norte Amrica que en la de Panam y sus nmeros en Michigan fueron significativamente ms altos en individuos infectados que en los no infectados. La especie tropical T. grayi aparentemente mantuvo infecciones a intensidades ms bajas, pero parecera lograr esto a pesar de tener menor abundancia de clulas del sistema inmune. Adems, los anlisis de frotis sanguneos para Turdus spp. de otras reas tropicales revelan un amplio rango de prevalencia, sugiriendo que la presencia regional de hemosporidios o la habilidad de los hospederos para controlar las infecciones no pueden ser determinadas con base en un nmero limitado de muestras. Otras especies estudiadas en Michigan y Panam no revelaron un patrn consistente en cuanto a la intensidad de infeccin o a las concentraciones de GB. La infeccin y la respuesta parecen ser altamente idiosincrticas. De acuerdo con lo documentado por otros autores, advertimos que los parmetros sanguneos son difciles de interpretar y de muestrear adecuadamente en estudios sobre los efectos regionales o de otros tipos.
10.2307/4089019| Seasonal physiological adjustments are similar for migration and winter acclimatization in passerine birds, as both involve endurance muscular activity. Consequently, migratory disposition should elevate maximal thermogenic capacity
10.2307/4090183| Geographic patterns of variation in morphological characters in the Curve-billed Thrasher (Toxostoma curvirostre) have been recognized by the description of seven subspecies. Twelve standard measurements, as well as three colorimetric characters and two color pattern characters, were analyzed to test whether subspecies limits predict patterns of variation. Measurement error was addressed by measuring each character three times and calculating the mean. A total of 821 male study skins were used, representing 29 locations. A variety of analysis revealed two major groups, an eastern and western group, divided by the Sierra Madre Occidental. Those two groups had previously been recognized as the curvirostre and palmeri groups, respectively. Those groups were also recovered by analysis of mtDNA. The two groups fulfill the requirements for species. The Tiburn Island (T. c. insularis) sample was distinct for several characters; however, small sample size precludes formal taxonomic recommendation. Within the two major groups, most characters showed incongruent clinal patterns of variation that did not match subspecies limits. /// Los patrones geogrficos de la variacin en caracteres morfolgicos en Toxostoma curvirostre han sido reconocidos a travs de la descripcin de siete subespecies. Se analizaron 15 caracteres, 12 morfolgicos y tres de coloracin, adems de dos patrones de coloracin en el plumaje, esto con el objetivo de probar si las subespecies predecan los patrones de variacin. El error de medicin fue tratado midiendo tres veces cada caracter y utilizando el promedio. Fueron usados un total de 821 ejemplares, representando 29 unidades geogrficas. Diversos anlisis revelaron la existencia de dos grupos mayores, uno en el este y otro en el oeste, divididos por la Sierra Madre Occidental. Previamente, estos grupos han sido reconocidos como curvirostre y palmeri, respectivamente. Estos grupos tambin fueron obtenido por otros autores mediante el anlisis de ADN mitocondrial, por lo que ambos grupos cubren los requerimientos para ser reconocidos como especies. La poblacin de Isla Tiburn (T. c. insularis) fue distinta en diversos caracteres; sin embargo, la muestra tan reducida la excluye de recomendaciones taxonmicas. Dentro de cada uno de los dos grandes grupos, existieron patrones de variacin clinal incongruente que no corresponden con los lmites geogrficos propuestos para cada una de las subespecies. 
10.2307/4089374|We studied size-selective predation by Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima) feeding on blue mussels (Mytilus edulis). Selection varied with location, season, and prey availability, and for the most part ducks preferred smaller mussels than those that would have been the most energetically profitable on a per prey basis. We tested predictions from two related hypotheses concerning optimal prey selection: (1) the shell-mass minimization hypothesis, which states that predators select food that minimizes shell ingestion, as opposed to maximizing energy intake per prey item; and (2) the risk-averse foraging hypothesis, which, assuming large prey are not preferred (because of high shell content, low energy value, or some other reason), states that predators feed on smaller prey when the risk of mistakenly taking large prey increases. We found support for both hypotheses, although the risk-averse foraging hypothesis should be tested further due to conflicting results and small sample sizes. During most of the year, Common Eiders selected relatively small mussels that minimized shell ingestion, even though larger available prey would have provided higher net energy gain per prey item. In winter, differences among length classes in shell ingestion became small, and birds switched to feeding on larger prey that provided more energy per unit work and probably were more profitable. During times when small and mid-sized prey were preferred, ducks foraging where large mussels were abundant usually selected smaller length classes of prey than did those feeding where large mussels were less common. Birds avoided the risk of inadvertently ingesting large prey by selecting smaller mussels. Our results provide insight into the mechanisms of prey selection by Common Eiders and may also help explain some of the discrepancies reported in previous studies of prey-size selection in this species.
4088052| We performed experiments on pure, wild-strain Mallards (Anas platyrynchos), American Black Ducks (A. rubripes), and first filial (F1) Mallard-Black Duck hybrids to investigate whether duckling survival and growth varied with salinity, and whether hybrids acquired salt tolerance. Ducklings were assigned to treatments in a 4  3 factorial experiment that involved a salinity gradient (0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5% NaCl) and duckling age (7, 14, 21 days). An additional experiment subjected ducklings to 3% NaCl at 48 h post-hatch. Black Duck ducklings had higher survival and growth rates than did Mallards with salt concentration increasing up to 1.5%. Hybrids were more similar to Black Ducks than to Mallards in that regard. Salinities >2% were uniformly fatal to all 48-h-old ducklings. Salt glands obtained from fully grown individuals from each treatment were heaviest in Black Ducks and hybrids, and glands increased in size with increasing age and salinity. Salt glands hypertrophied to a maximum size at 1% NaCl, which indicates that even Black Duck ducklings possessed salt glands capable of osmoregulation only at low levels of salinity. Interspecific differences with respect to salt tolerance are probably insufficient to serve as a postmating reproductive isolating mechanism between these species in estuarine habitats. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12009|Greater Sage-Grouse (
25150352|We have developed a system for simulating the conditions of avian surveys in which birds are identified by sound. The system uses a laptop computer to control a set of amplified MP3 players placed at known locations around a survey point. The system can realistically simulate a known population of songbirds under a range of factors that affect detection probabilities. The goals of our research are to describe the sources and range of variability affecting point-count estimates and to find applications of sampling theory and methodologies that produce practical improvements in the quality of bird-census data. Initial experiments in an open field showed that, on average, observers tend to undercount birds on unlimited-radius counts, though the proportion of birds counted by individual observers ranged from 81% to 132% of the actual total. In contrast to the unlimited-radius counts, when data were truncated at a 50-m radius around the point, observers overestimated the total population by 17% to 122%. Results also illustrate how detection distances decline and identification errors increase with increasing levels of ambient noise. Overall, the proportion of birds heard by observers decreased by 28  4.7% under breezy conditions, 41  5.2% with the presence of additional background birds, and 42  3.4% with the addition of 10 dB of white noise. These findings illustrate some of the inherent difficulties in interpreting avian abundance estimates based on auditory detections, and why estimates that do not account for variations in detection probability will not withstand critical scrutiny. /// Desarrollamos un sistema para simular las condiciones de los muestreos de aves en donde los individuos son identificados por sonido. El sistema emplea una computadora porttil para controlar un juego de reproductores MP3 amplificados ubicados en sitios conocidos alrededor de un punto de conteo. El sistema puede simular de modo realista una poblacin conocida de aves canoras dentro de un rango de factores que afectan las probabilidades de deteccin. Los objetivos de nuestra investigacin son describir las fuentes y el rango de variabilidad que afectan las estimaciones en los puntos de conteo, y encontrar aplicaciones de la teora y las metodologas de muestreo que produzcan mejoras prcticas en la calidad de los datos de censos de aves. Los experimentos iniciales en un campo abierto mostraron que, en promedio, los observadores tienden a subestimar el nmero de aves en conteos de radio limitado, aunque la proporcin de aves contadas por los observadores individuales vari entre 81% y 132% del total real. A diferencia de los conteos con radio ilimitado, cuando los datos fueron truncados a un radio de 50 m alrededor del punto, los observadores sobreestimaron la poblacin total entre 17% y 122%. Los resultados tambin ensean cmo las distancias de deteccin disminuyen y cmo los errores de identificacin aumentan con mayores niveles de ruido ambiental. En general, la proporcin de aves escuchadas por los observadores disminuy un 28  4.7% bajo condiciones de brisa, 41  5.2% con la presencia adicional de aves de fondo y 42  3.4% con la adicin de 10 dB de ruido blanco. Estos hallazgos ilustran algunas de las dificultades inherentes para interpretar las estimaciones de abundancia de aves basadas en detecciones auditivas, y por qu las estimaciones que no tienen en cuenta las variaciones en las probabilidades de deteccin no soportarn un escrutinio crtico.
10.2307/4089422|We assessed Barred Owl (Strix varia) home range and habitat selection in the boreal forest of central Saskatchewan from 1993 to 1995 using radio telemetry (11 females and 4 males). Breeding, nonbreeding, and annual home-range sizes averaged 149, 1,234, and 971 ha, respectively. Breeding and nonbreeding home ranges overlapped entirely for all but two owls. Relative to habitat composition at random areas, Barred Owl breeding home ranges had greater proportions of old (80+ years) mixedwood forest, and nonbreeding home ranges contained greater proportions of old and mature (50 to 79 years) mixedwood and deciduous forest. Both breeding and nonbreeding home ranges contained low proportions of young (<50 years) forest and treed muskeg. Breeding home ranges contained higher proportions of old mixed wood than nonbreeding home ranges. Habitats used for foraging and roosting differed from the proportions of habitat available within the study area. During the breeding period, Barred Owls strongly selected old mixedwood, with lesser selection for mature mixedwood and deciduous forests. Similarly, in the nonbreeding period, old mixedwood was selected most strongly, with lesser selection for mature mixedwood and mature and old deciduous forests. During the breeding period, owls used habitats in proportion to their availability within home ranges, with the exception of young mixedwood forest, which was selected against. Owls selected old mixedwood within their nonbreeding home ranges and avoided young and coniferous forests, treed muskeg, open areas, and water.
4087951|We assessed reproductive success of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) with natural or experimentally manipulated broods to determine if females produced as many offspring as they could rear successfully in each attempt. The number of nestlings fledged and nestling mass at 12 days old measured success. In nonmanipulated nests, the number of nestlings fledged increased with clutch size. The larger clutches fledged more young. Nestling mass and fledging success did not differ among natural brood sizes. However, the most common clutch size was smaller than the most productive clutch size. Experimentally enlarged broods fledged more offspring than control or reduced broods, but the nestlings weighed significantly less. Reduced broods fledged fewer offspring than control or enlarged broods, but the nestlings weighed significantly more. Thus, parents with a smaller clutch size were able to fledge additional offspring, but at the cost of reduced fledgling mass. Further, nestlings from enlarged broods were significantly lighter than nestlings from natural broods of the same size. Nestlings from reduced broods were significantly heavier than those from natural broods of the same size. Second broods of double-brooded females were not manipulated. However, nestlings from second broods of females that reared enlarged first broods were significantly lighter than nestlings from second broods of females that reared control first broods. Nestlings from second broods of females that reared reduced first broods were significantly heavier than nestlings from second broods of females that reared control first broods.
4085978|Anatomical variants of the musculature of the pelvic limb in Apteryx, based on a review of the published literature, are considered from the aspect of (1) errors in descriptive myology, (2) probable misidentification or misrepresentation of muscles, and (3) variations in a given muscle set that have not been thoroughly examined in terms of a form-function complex. A more accurate interpretation of these relationships is suggested as a basis for further studies of the pelvic limb myology in birds.
10.2307/4090408| Resource availability and distribution are hypothesized to be the primary ecological mechanisms driving variation in avian mating systems. Although food supplementation experiments have been used to examine plasticity in mating strategies, variation in avian mating strategies across naturally occurring gradients of prey availability has rarely been examined. Here, we test the hypothesis that the polygynandrous mating system of Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) results from food limitation on female home ranges in the species' harsh montane breeding environment. In 2000, number of chicks fledged per nest was significantly positively correlated with prey biomass on a female's home range, and number of male feeders at a nest was significantly negatively correlated with prey biomass. Neither relationship was significant in 2001, a year with high nest-predation rates, which suggests that nest predation may ultimately limit the species' productivity. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that (1) female productivity is limited by prey biomass, and (2) female mating decisions may be influenced by their assessment of home-range food abundance prior to egg laying. /// Se hipotetiza que la disponibilidad y la distribucin de recursos son los principales mecanismos ecolgicos que determinan la variacin en los sistemas de apareamiento de las aves. Aunque se han empleado experimentos en los que se suplementa alimento para examinar la plasticidad en los sistemas de apareamiento, la variacin en las estrategias de apareamiento de las aves ha sido raramente estudiada a lo largo de gradientes naturales de disponibilidad de presas. En este trabajo ponemos a prueba la hiptesis de que el sistema de apareamiento poliginndrico de Catharus bicknelli es consecuencia de la escasez de alimentos en las reas de hogar que ocupan las hembras en sus hostiles ambientes montanos de reproduccin. En el 2000, el nmero de volantones que emergieron por nido estuvo significativa y positivamente correlacionado con la biomasa de presas en el rea de hogar de las hembras, y el nmero de machos que proveyeron alimentos en los nidos estuvo significativa y negativamente correlacionado con la biomasa de presas. Ninguna de estas relaciones fue significativa en el 2001, un ao con altas tasas de depredacin de nidos, lo que sugiere que la depredacin de nidos podra en ltima instancia limitar la productividad de la especie. Los resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la productividad de las hembras est limitada por la biomasa de presas, y de que las decisiones de apareamiento de las hembras pueden estar influenciadas por sus evaluaciones de la abundancia y la calidad de alimentos del rea de hogar antes de la puesta de huevos. 
4087965|I investigated the nestling feeding, nest sanitation, and brood defense components of parental effort during the nestling period at 46 Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) nests to test the hypothesis that males contribute less parental effort than females in monogamous bird species. I observed sexual differences in parental effort during the nestling period. Females fed young and removed fecal sacs more frequently than did males. Within pairs, sexual differences in feeding nestlings and removing fecal sacs were associated with female plumage class. Parents with larger broods fed young and removed fecal sacs more often than did parents with smaller broods. However, feeding rates were not always proportional to brood size. Breeding female plumage class and parent sex both influenced the feeding rate per nestling at different brood sizes. During the nestling period the patterns of feeding and fecal-sac removals by males and females resembled a nestling weight-gain curve. Males chased conspecific intruders more often than did females. Within pairs, sexual differences in brood defense were associated with breeding female plumage class. Brood size had no effect on the rate at which parents chased intruders in pairs where the breeding female was in adult plumage. Mates of females in subadult plumage that were tending larger broods chased intruders more often than did males with smaller broods. Parents chased intruders more often when their nestlings were older.
4087281| Changes in body and organ mass and body composition of postbreeding female Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) were investigated in the prairie-pothole region of southwestern Manitoba. Body mass was lowest during the wing molt and peaked during the migratory period. Most digestive organs gradually increased in mass through the postbreeding season. Lipid reserves remained relatively constant from the preflightless through the postflightless periods (x = 43 g). The marked increase in lipids in the migratory period (x = 183 g, P < 0.05) corresponded with premigratory hyperphagia. Time spent feeding explained 87% of the variation in lipid levels during the postbreeding season. Protein reserves declined with the onset of wing molt (P < 0.001) and increased during the postflightless period (P < 0.05). Breast muscle mass followed a similar pattern and was strongly correlated with molt intensity (r = 0.799, P < 0.001). Protein reserves, in particular the breast muscles, provide at least part of the protein required for feather production. Low body mass and lipid reserves during molt may not indicate energetic or nutritional stress but, alternatively, may be part of a postbreeding strategy to minimize energy demands and to reduce the length of the flightless period. 
4087023|I studied Louisiana (Seiurus motacilla) and Northern (S. noveboracensis) waterthrushes during an exceptionally dry spring to determine if environmental stress elicited interspecific competition. Previously, I had found little evidence for competition between these species despite wide overlap in foraging methods, use of foraging microhabitats, and characteristics of breeding habitat. I observed breeding adults forage by placing them in a portable flight cage located in natural habitat, and concurrently gathered data on the influence of waterthrush foraging on aquatic invertebrate prey and prey abundance. The species selected different prey. Louisiana Waterthrushes fed predominantly on Trichoptera larvae and on larger average prey than did Northern Waterthrushes, which fed predominantly on Diptera larvae. The species had similar foraging methods and attack rates, indicating that, unlike many Parulinae, their principal foraging differences were in prey selection rather than in means of locating prey. Experiments with foraging exclosures gave no clear evidence that waterthrushes affected prey biomass or composition. There was no significant relation between territory size vs. prey biomass and water cover. No interspecific aggression was observed, and territories overlapped widely, indicating that interference competition did not occur. Divergence in prey selection implies exploitive competition, but invertebrate and habitat data indicate that prey were not limiting, thus making competition for prey unnecessary. Therefore, from these data I cannot eliminate the alternative hypothesis that observed differences between the species may only reflect independent specialization.
4090562| Recent studies suggest that a linear correlation exists between the age of individual birds and accumulation of the advanced glycation endproduct pentosidine (Ps). We compared Ps accumulation in skin tissue of Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus). Skin samples were taken from the breasts of 52 Ruffed Grouse of known ages ranging from a few days to 10 years. Skin was cleaned of feathers and adipose tissue, acid hydrolyzed, and measured for collagen content via hydroxyproline spectrophotometric assay. Pentosidine concentrations were determined using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Fluorescent detection (excitation: 310 nm, emission: 385 nm) revealed that concentrations of Ps per milligram of collagen increased curvilinearly with age (r
4086282|Field and laboratory studies support recent hypotheses that Sirystes sibilator is closely allied with the myiarchine flycatchers rather than with Tyrannus or with the cotingids. The first confirmed nest of this tyrant (located in a natural tree cavity), its foraging behavior, and the derived character states of the nasal septum and of the syrinx argue convincingly for its placement in an assemblage with Myiarchus, Rhytipterna, and Casiornis. Data, still lacking, on the color of the eggs and nature of the nest lining are needed for Sirystes (and for Rhytipterna and Casiornis) before consideration can be given to the generic relationships within the myiarchine flycatchers.
10.1525/auk.2010.09220|We analyzed population change for 420 bird species from the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) using a hierarchical log-linear model and compared the results with those obtained through route-regression analysis. Survey-wide trend estimates based on the hierarchical model were generally more precise than estimates from the earlier analysis. No consistent pattern of differences existed in the magnitude of trends between the analysis methods. Survey-wide trend estimates changed substantially for 15 species between route-regression and hierarchical-model analyses. We compared regional estimates for states, provinces, and Bird Conservation Regions; differences observed in these regional analyses are likely a consequence of the route-regression procedures inadequate accommodation of temporal differences in survey effort. We used species-specific hierarchical-model results to estimate composite change for groups of birds associated with major habitats and migration types. Grassland, aridland, and eastern-forest-obligate bird species declined, whereas urbansuburban species increased over the interval 19682008. No migration status group experienced significant changes, although NearcticNeotropical migrant species showed intervals of decline and permanent resident species increased almost 20% during the interval. Hierarchical-model results better portrayed patterns of population change over time than route-regression results. We recommend use of hierarchical models for BBS analyses.
10.2307/4089028|Many species of birds line their nests with feathers, presumably because of the insulative qualities of feathers and because feathers may act as a barrier between nest parasites and nestlings. In 1993, we experimentally examined the role of feathers as nest insulation on the incubation behavior, nestling growth, and reproductive performance of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) nesting in boxes in western Michigan. There were no significant differences between the incubation rhythms of females with experimental nests (i.e. no feathers) and females with control nests (i.e. with feathers). Nestlings that were reared in control nests had significantly longer right tarsi and right wing chords; their masses were significantly greater than nestlings reared in experimental nests. In addition, nested analyses of variance indicated that both female age class (i.e. second year, after second year, or after hatching year) and the brood within which a nestling was reared had significant effects on nestling growth until nestling day 12. Whether an individual nestling was infected with ectoparasites was independent of whether it was reared in an experimental or control nest. Nest insulation affected reproductive performance: females with experimental nests had significantly longer incubation periods and produced significantly fewer fledglings than did females with control nests. These results suggest that nest insulation may be an important factor influencing incubation behavior, nestling growth, and reproductive performance of Tree Swallows in western Michigan.
10.2307/4089516|During at least one of three nesting seasons, 13 breeding pairs of Crested Caracaras (Caracara plancus) in south-central Florida made a second nesting attempt following a successful first attempt. Ten pairs successfully fledged young in both attempts. Only early nesting pairs attempted a second brood. Most double-brooded pairs fledged their first brood before 1 March. The time interval between first and second nesting attempts was positively correlated with the number of young fledged from the first attempt. Clutch size declined between first and second nests of double-brooded pairs, and second nests failed more often, but pairs that attempted two broods in a season fledged significantly more young than did single-brooded pairs. Estimates of survivorship to recruitment were higher for young from first broods than for young from single or second broods. Although the influence of double brooding on annual productivity seems only marginal, this strategy likely persists because of the potential increase in fitness incurred by individuals that successfully fledge two sets of young in a single nesting season.
10.2307/4090142| Virtually all female Common Murres (Uria aalge) continued to visit the colony after their mate had taken the chick to sea. There were significant differences among years, but the average time between a chick fledging and a female last being seen at the colony was 13 days (range 0-36). In over 99% of instances, the female was at her breeding site. On 5% of days she was joined by another male, and in a few cases (8% of those days) copulation was observed. None of those transient matings persisted into the next season, even when the original male did not return; thus, we found no support for the hypothesis that females might be looking for replacement mates in case they were widowed. The most successful females (in terms of breeding output over several years) tended to have the longest periods of postfledging visiting, apparently because such birds fledged their chicks early in the season, but there was no difference in daily frequency of attendance. We conclude that successful males and females were maximizing time spent occupying the best breeding sites, even to the extent that only one adult took the chick to sea to complete its development. /// Prcticamente todas las hembras de Uria aalge continuaron visitando la colonia luego de que su pareja haba llevado al pichn al mar. Aunque existieron diferencias significativas entre aos, el tiempo promedio desde el abandono del nido por el pichn hasta la ltima vez que se observ la hembra en la colonia fue de 13 das (rango 0-36). En ms del 99% de los casos la hembra estuvo en el sitio de su nido. En aproximadamente el 5% de los das estuvo acompaada por otro macho, y en otros pocos casos (8% de esos das) se observaron cpulas. Ninguno de estos apareamientos temporales persisti hasta la temporada siguiente, an cuando el macho original no regres. Entonces, no encontramos apoyo para la hiptesis de que las hembras podran estar buscando parejas de reemplazo en caso de que enviudaran. Las hembras ms exitosas (en trminos de rendimiento reproductivo a lo largo de varios aos) tendieron a presentar los perodos de visita post-emplumamiento ms largos, aparentemente porque los polluelos de estas aves emplumaron ms temprano en la estacin, pero no existi diferencia en la frecuencia diaria de visitas al nido. Concluimos que los machos y hembras exitosos estaban maximizando el tiempo invertido ocupando los mejores sitios de anidacin, incluso hasta el punto de que slo uno de los adultos llev al pichn al mar para completar sudesarrollo. 
10.2307/4089861|Visits to nest holes by birds other than their owners is a familiar phenomenon for students of breeding biology. In this study, we evaluate that behavior using a transponder reading system. Eighty-five males and females were fitted with transponders at the end of the incubation period or just after hatching. Nest boxes were fitted with transponder readers from just after hatching until all nestlings fledged. That system revealed 123 visits by birds to nest boxes other than their own, a visit being defined as at least one visit to a separate nest box on a separate day. Males were more often detected at other nests than females (53% of males vs. 29% of females visited) and males on average made more visits than females did (4.8 vs. 2.5 visits). However, both males and females devoted time to visiting other nests while still feeding nestlings. That behavior is more common than previously suspected and is consistent with birds prospecting for future nest sites or investigating patch reproductive success.
10.2307/4089598|We compared predation of artificial open-cup nests baited with Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix) eggs with predation of natural open-cup nests during 1997 and 1998 in a Louisiana pine forest to assess the assumption that predation of artificial nests is an index to that of natural nests. Cameras were placed at randomly selected natural and artificial nests in shrubs to document predators. Predation at artificial-nest plots was positively correlated with predation at adjacent natural-nest plots overall, although inconsistently by year. Artificial nests were almost exclusively depredated by corvids, but quail eggs were too large to be broken by small-mouthed mammalian predators. American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) appeared to be important predators of natural nests. Predation of natural nests was independent of predation at other nests, but predation of artificial nests by crows was spatially and temporally clumped. Crows may have learned the location of artificialnest plots, and predation of artificial nests increased significantly between years, contrary to predation of natural nests. Predation of artificial nests did not exhibit seasonal variation like that of natural nests. Overall, predation of artificial shrub nests did not accurately mimic that of natural shrub nests. Changes in procedures for artificial-nest studies that reduce spatially and temporally clumped predation and prevent the exclusion of small-mouthed predators could increase the suitability of such studies as a model for predation at natural nests. However, the difference in labor effort between studies of natural nests versus artificial nests that incorporate the changes we recommend likely would disappear, which would reduce the attractiveness of artificial-nest studies as an experimental model.
4085441| Verdin time budgets in southern Arizona varied depending on temperature. Time spent foraging remained constant until temperatures exceeded 30-35C. At higher temperatures the majority of time was spent sitting. Diurnal patterns are generally masked by the strong temperature dependency. The suppression of activity when environmental heat gain is greatest has definite energetic implications. 
10.2307/4089973| Annual survival probability estimates for songbirds are generally biased low because dispersal is not differentiated from mortality. Presently, knowledge of between-year breeding dispersal is lacking for most songbirds. To assess adult survival probabilities and dispersal, we color-banded and resighted 436 Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) over five breeding seasons at 11 study sites in the Bitterroot Valley, Montana. During the last two of those seasons, we searched extensively for marked warblers between and surrounding those sites. We compared survival probabilities estimated with and without this added dispersal information and assessed the effectiveness of adjusting survival probabilities with transient-type models. Survival probabilities were calculated using open population models, and model selection was based on Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) within program MARK. The best model indicated that survival probabilities differed between males and females and varied among years. We found that dispersal off the study site was common (in 1999, 30% of resighted birds were found off their original study site), and survival probabilities increased by 6.5-22.9% (0.02  0.07-0.106  0.06) with the inclusion of dispersed birds. We suggest that emigration can have substantial effect on survival probabilities and advise against the use of return rates from small study areas or spatial or temporal comparisons of return rates because of spatial and temporal variation in extent of emigration. In addition, our results suggest that additional assessments of the reliability of transient-type models under some sampling schemes may be warranted. /// Las estimaciones de las probabilidades de supervivencia anual de aves canoras generalmente se encuentran sesgadas hacia valores menores debido a que no se diferencia dispersin (i.e. emigracin) de mortalidad. Actualmente, para la mayora de las aves canoras existe una falta de conocimiento de la dispersin desde los sitios de nidificacin entre aos. Para determinar las probabilidades de supervivencia de adultos, marcamos con anillos de colores y volvimos a observar 436 individuos de Dendroica petechia durante cinco perodos reproductivos en 11 sitios de estudio en Bitterroot Valley, Montana. Durante las ltimas dos pocas reproductivas, buscamos intensivamente aves marcadas dentro de los sitios estudiados y en sus alrededores. Comparamos las probabilidades de supervivencia estimadas con y sin la informacin adicional sobre dispersin y determinamos la efectividad de ajustar las probabilidades de supervivencia con modelos de tipo transitorio. Las probabilidades de supervivencia fueron calculadas utilizando modelos poblacionales abiertos, y la seleccin del modelo se bas en el Criterio de Informacin de Akaike (CIA) en el programa MARK. El mejor modelo indic que las probabilidades de supervivencia difirieron entre hembras y machos y variaron entre aos. Encontramos que la dispersin hacia afuera del sitio de estudio fue comn (en 1999, 30% de las aves vueltas a observar fueron encontradas fuera de su sitio de estudio original), y las probabilidades de supervivencia incrementaron en un 6.5-22.9% (0.02  0.07-0.106  0.06) con la inclusin de las aves que se dispersaron. Sugerimos que la emigracin puede tener efectos substanciales sobre las probabilidades de supervivencia y recomendamos no usar tasas de retorno provenientes de reas de estudio pequeas o comparaciones espaciales o temporales de tasas de retorno debido a variaciones espaciales y temporales del grado de emigracin. Adems, nuestros resultados sugieren que la evaluacin adicional de la confiabilidad de los modelos de tipo transitorio estara justificada para ciertos esquemas de muestreo. 
10.2307/4090267| A recent study of New World orioles (Icterus spp.), which traced a large number of plumage characters onto a mitochondrial DNA phylogeny, reported high frequencies of evolutionary convergence and reversal of plumage characters (Omland and Lanyon 2000). Although those results are consistent with other smaller scale studies that have documented plumage homoplasy, the mitochondrial genome is inherited as a single linkage group, so mitochondrial data represent only one gene tree. The mitochondrial (mt) DNA tree may not reflect the true evolutionary history of a lineage; therefore, it remains possible that the plumage characters could reflect the true species phylogeny. Other rapidly evolving regions of DNA can provide independent phylogenetic hypotheses useful for evaluating mitochondrial gene trees. A novel phylogenetic marker, a region of the nuclear gene ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) spanning from exon 6 to exon 8, was sequenced in 10 oriole species. The resultant nuclear gene tree reconstructs the same three major oriole clades as the mtDNA tree (Omland et al. 1999), supporting the conclusion that plumage evolution in the New World orioles has been highly homoplastic. Although most phylogenetic studies that have employed introns report greatest resolution at the genus or family level, ODC appears to offer some degree of phylogenetic resolution for infrageneric analyses. However, that intron has clearly not sorted to monophyly within or between closely related species. /// Un estudio estudio reciente de Icterus, que analiz la evolucin de un gran nmero de caracteres del plumaje sobre una filogenia basada en ADN mitocondrial, document una alta frecuencia de convergencias y reversiones evolutivas en caracteres del plumaje (Omland y Lanyon 2000). Aunque esos resultados son consistentes con otros estudios a menor escala que han reportado homoplasia en el plumaje, el genoma mitocondrial se hereda como un solo grupo de ligamiento, por lo que los datos mitocondriales representan slo un rbol gnico. Como el rbol de ADN mitocondrial podra no reflejar la verdadera historia evolutiva de un grupo, es an posible que los caracteres de plumaje reflejen la filogenia real de las especies. Otras regiones de ADN que evolucionan rpidamente pueden proveer hiptesis filogenticas independientes de utilidad para evaluar los rboles de genes mitocondriales. Un marcador filogentico nuevo, una regin del gen nuclear ODC ("ornithine decarboxylase") que va del exn 6 al exn 8, fue secuenciada para 10 especies de Icterus. El rbol resultante del gen nuclear reconstruye los mismos tres clados principales de Icterus que el rbol de ADNmt (Omland et al. 1999), apoyando la conclusin de que la evolucin del plumaje en Icterus ha sido altamente homoplsica. Aunque la mayora de los estudios que han empleado intrones documentan una resolucin mxima al nivel de gnero o familia, ODC parece ofrecer algn grado de resolucin filogentica para anlisis infragenricos. Sin embargo, este intrn claramente no se ha separado hasta la monofilia entre o dentro de especies estrechamente relacionadas. 
4087864|During incubation, female Canada Geese (Branta canadensis moffitti) nesting near Brooks, Alberta, derived 87% of their energy requirement from body reserves, more than that used by any other subspecies of Canada Goose studied to date. The use of exogenous food was negligible during early incubation, but it appeared to be important to many individuals during the final week of incubation.
10.2307/4089372|Can the diverse styles of song development in songbirds be understood in an evolutionary context? Are song imitation and song improvisation strategies that evolved in identifiable ecological circumstances? Differences among Cistothorus wrens suggested that song imitation was used in stable, resident populations by Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris), but that song improvisation evolved in the more nomadic populations of North American Sedge Wrens (C. platensis). Toward understanding this seemingly unique strategy of improvisation by North American Sedge Wrens, we reexamined song development in the laboratory and singing behavior and population movements among free-ranging males. Nestling Sedge Wrens were collected in North Dakota and during their first year of life tutored with 10 Sedge Wren song types; throughout the experiment, males were in adjacent cages and could both hear and see each other. Songs of the laboratory birds were not close imitations of songs from the training tape or immediate neighbors; rather, songs were either improvised (different from but most likely derived from training songs) or invented (no similarity to other songs in their environment). In nature, males at a Nebraska site also had unique song repertoires, a pattern that is consistent with the improvisational mode of song development. Our field surveys also verified that Sedge Wren populations are highly mobile, arriving at or departing from breeding sites at seemingly odd times of the summer breeding season. These data, together with evidence of song imitation among sedentary populations of Sedge Wrens in Central and South America, reinforce the idea that song improvisation among North American Sedge Wrens is a developmental strategy. Because songs are improvised, each male is unique, but songs do not vary geographically; hence, it seems likely that males and females can communicate with one another no matter where they find themselves in the geographic range of the species.
4090355| The diet of adult Canada Geese (Branta canadensis interior) and their goslings was determined during the brood-rearing season in a freshwater tundra habitat using esophageal contents from 25 adult females, 27 adult males, and 59 goslings. Habitat use by geese and the availability and quality of aboveground biomass in wet sedge meadows and around ponds in lichen-heath tundra were also evaluated throughout the summer. During the first four weeks of brood-rearing, adult Canada Geese ate primarily graminoids (>65%), especially leaves of the short form of Carex aquatilis and Eriophorum spp., which had the highest nitrogen concentration (2.5-3.5%). Although graminoids were also important for goslings, they consumed a greater variety of other plant species (68%) than adults, especially in the first two weeks, possibly because of their inexperience. Late in the brood-rearing period, as the nitrogen concentration of graminoid plants declined, adults shifted to a diet composed mainly of berries (>40%, mostly Empetrum nigrum). At that time, goslings consumed fewer berries (24%) and maintained a higher proportion of nitrogen-rich plants in their diet (53% leaves, mostly graminoids) than adults, presumably to complete their growth. Plant species consumed by geese over the summer indicated a preference for highquality plants (i.e. those with a high nitrogen concentration). Consequently, wet sedge meadow, the habitat that offered plant species of highest quality, was the habitat most heavily used throughout the summer, particularly around peak hatch. Goose grazing had no effect on seasonal production of aboveground biomass of graminoids, probably because of the relatively low density of the goose population. /// Le rgime alimentaire des adultes et des juvniles de la Bernache du Canada (Branta canadensis interior) a t dtermin pendant la priode d'levage des jeunes, dans un milieu d'eau douce,  partir de contenus d'sophage (25 femelles adultes, 27 mles adultes et 59 juvniles). L'utilisation de l'habitat ainsi que la disponibilit et la qualit de la biomasse vgtale des prairies humides de Carex et des bords d'tang situs dans des arbustaies lichniques ont aussi t values pendant l't. Pour les quatre premires semaines de la priode d'levage, les adultes de la Bernache du Canada ont consomm davantage des plantes graminodes (>65%), surtout des feuilles de Carex aquatilis de petite taille et d'Eriophorum spp., dont les concentrations en azote taient les plus leves (2.5-3.5%). Malgr que les graminodes soient galement importants pour les oisons, ces derniers ont consomm une plus grande varit d'autres espces de plantes (68%) que les adultes, particulirement durant les deux premires semaines, possiblement en raison de leur inexprience. Plus tard durant la priode d'levage, lorsque la concentration en azote des plantes graminodes diminuait, les adultes se sont tourns vers un rgime principalement compos de fruits (>40%, surtout d'Empetrum nigrum). Pour leur part, les oisons n'ont pas consomm autant de fruits (24%) et ils ont maintenu une plus grande proportion de plantes riches en azote dans leur rgime alimentaire (53% de feuilles, principalement de graminodes) comparativement aux adultes, vraisemblablement afin de complter leur croissance. Les espces de plantes consommes par les bernaches au cours de l't dmontrent une prfrence pour les plantes de meilleure qualit, i.e. celles ayant une concentration en azote leve. Ainsi, la prairie humide de Carex, l'habitat offrant les espces de plantes de plus haute qualit, a t le plus utilis au courant de l't, particulirement autour du pic d'closion. Finalement, le broutement des bernaches n'a eu aucun effet sur la production saisonnire de la biomasse arienne des plantes graminodes, probablement en raison de la densit relativement faible de la population de bernaches. 
4090629| In waterfowl, offspring survival and the effects of extrinsic (i.e. weather, hatching date) and intrinsic (i.e. physical and nutritional traits of individual females and ducklings, brood sizes) factors on it are poorly understood. In 2000 and 2001, we estimated duckling and brood survival of White-winged Scoters (Melanitta fusca deglandi) at Redberry Lake, Saskatchewan, Canada, to 30 days of age to examine relationships between duckling survival and (1) hatch date, (2) initial brood size at hatch, (3) duckling size and body condition at hatch, (4) offspring sex, (5) maternal female size and body condition at hatch, and (6) weather. We estimated survival with Cormack-Jolly-Seber models, in program MARK, from observations of individually marked adult females (n = 94) and ducklings (n = 664). Most mortality (i.e. 0.80 and 0.95 for each year, respectively) occurred within six days of hatch in both years. Duckling survival probability decreased with advancing hatch date; increased with larger initial brood sizes; was higher for larger, better-conditioned ducklings; and increased with favorable weather. Brood survival decreased with advancing hatch date, increased with larger initial brood sizes, and increased with favorable weather. For 2000 and 2001, our models predict survival probabilities of ducklings (0.0061 and 0.0027, respectively) and broods (0.015 and 0.00048, respectively) that are lower than any previously reported. We suspect that intense gull (Larus spp.) predation shortly after hatch had the largest influence on duckling survival, though results also underscore the significance of intrinsic factors. /// Chez la sauvagine, la survie de la progniture et les effets des facteurs extrinsques (i.e. conditions climatiques, date d'closion) et intrinsques (i.e. traits physiques et nutritionnels des femelles et des jeunes, taille de couve) sur cette mme survie sont encore mal compris. En 2000 et 2001, nous avons estim la survie des jeunes et des couves de Melanitta fusca deglandi  Redberry Lake, Saskatchewan, Canada, jusqu' l'ge de 30 jours afin d'examiner les relations entre la survie des jeunes et (1) la date d'closion, (2) la taille de couve initiale  l'closion, (3) la taille et la condition physique des jeunes  l'closion, (4) le sexe de la progniture, (5) la taille de la mre et sa condition physique lors de l'closion, et (6) les conditions climatiques. Nous avons estim la survie avec des modles de Cormack-Jolly-Seber, dans le programme MARK,  partir d'observations de femelles adultes individuellement marques (n = 94) et de jeunes (n = 664). La plupart des mortalits (i.e. 0,80 et 0,95 pour chaque anne, respectivement) ont eu lieu dans une priode de 6 jours aprs closion pour les deux annes. La probabilit de survie des jeunes a diminu avec des dates d'closions prcoces, elle a augment avec des tailles de couves initiales plus grosses, elle tait meilleure pour les jeunes de plus grande taille et en meilleurs conditions, et elle augmentait avec des conditions climatiques favorables. La survie des couves a diminu avec des dates avances d'closion, augmentait avec une taille de couve initiale plus grosse, et augmentait avec des conditions climatiques favorables. Pour 2000 et 2001, nos modles prdisent des probabilits de survie plus faibles, que ce qui a t prcdemment rapport, chez les jeunes (0,0061 et 0,0027, respectivement) et les couves (0,015 et 0,00048, respectivement). Nous suspectons que la prdation intense par les mouettes et les golands (Larus spp.) peu de temps aprs l'closion a eu la plus grande influence sur la survie des jeunes, bien que les rsultats sous-estiment galement la signification des facteurs intrinsques. 
10.2307/4089797|Using food supplementation, we tested whether food limits juvenile survival in a population of Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) in northeastern Utah. The influence of additional food on female nest attendance also was investigated because those strategies may influence predation mortality rates of juveniles. We provided supplemental food near 13 nests from close to hatching until close to independence during the 1996 and 1997 breeding seasons. Thirteen additional nests served as controls and received no supplemental food. We compared the following variables at treatment and control nests: (1) adult female mass, (2) nestling mass and size, (3) female nest attendance, and (4) juvenile survival. Following supplemental feeding, adult females from treatment nests were heavier than their control counterparts, and remained closer to the nest during the latter part of the nestling period and throughout the postfledging period. Nestlings from supplemented nests were significantly heavier than those from unsupplemented nests, but results for size measurements were equivocal. Survival rates for treatment nestlings were significantly higher than controls in 1997, but not in 1996. Those results support the hypothesis that food does not limit avian reproductive success on an annual basis. Most deaths in 1997 were the result of starvation or sibling competition. That observation, and the fact that fed nestlings were heavier, is consistent with the idea that treatment nestlings were in improved nutritional condition. Overall patterns of mass and nest-attendance for adult female goshawks supports the hypothesis that female condition and behavior are adjusted in response to food supplies. However, it is less clear what role the females' presence in the nest stand plays in mediating juvenile deaths, because we did not document predation as a primary mortality factor during the two years of this study. The apparent flexibility in female nest attendance behavior suggests that such plasticity may be an adaptation to lower the risk of predation.
4087338|Levels of parental care by male Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) were predicted to be lower and the tendency to pursue extrapair matings greater when (1) the opportunity of additional matings (extrapair copulations) was high, (2) the male was cuckolded, and (3) the clutch or brood size was small. Observations of male care revealed that approximately 10% of all males fed nestlings at least once, whereas more than 30% fed fledglings. Males in their first breeding season were never seen feeding young. Males made more trips off their territories when females were fertilizable on nearby territories, but other measures of parental care (feeding young and time spent within 10 m of nest) were not affected. Cuckolded males (known through genetic analyses of parents and offspring) tended to feed young less often, but forayed off their territories significantly less than apparently uncuckolded males. Finally, males with small clutches or broods gave slightly, but not significantly, less care than males with large clutches or broods. These results suggest that the relationship between mating effort and parental effort is complicated by the presence of extrapair copulations as a type of mating effort, and that factors not included in current theory on parental care might influence a male's parental care.
25488515|We analyzed genetic variation in the Emerald Toucanet (
10.2307/4088984|Habitat sampling can allow much more effective habitat selection for long-term activities such as nesting and may be directly linked to fitness. We studied the process of habitat sampling and selection in female Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) in the Arkansas Ozarks. In particular, we tested the prediction that movements prior to selecting nesting habitat correlate with the quality of selected habitat. Our results supported the prediction that greater habitat sampling (as reflected by greater area covered prior to nesting) allows acquisition of better nesting habitat; greater movements were correlated with choice of better nesting sites with more cover that allow higher nest survival. Attributes of individual birds and habitat dispersion influenced movement patterns and access to quality habitats. In addition, extent of habitat sampling early in the season correlated with reproductive performance by affecting renesting. Distance between subsequent nest locations was inversely related to the movements early in the season and also depended upon length of incubation before nest predation. Females that sampled larger areas after depredation of their first nest and did so outside of their prenesting range were more successful than other females.
4088678|Long-term population dynamics of colonial wading birds (Ciconiiformes) were examined using data from Audubon Christmas Bird Counts (CBC, 1949-1988) and Breeding Bird Surveys (BBS, 1966-1989). Winter populations of Louisiana wading birds increased dramatically over the 40-year period, with the sharpest increases occurring during the last 20 years. Several species populations grew exponentially from 1968 to 1988. High overall positive covariance was found in the abundance of the various species over time, and cluster analysis showed that the species with similar dietary requirements and foraging habits covaried most strongly and positively with each other. Trend analysis of CBC and BBS data from 1966-1989 and 1980-1989 showed a close correspondence between CBC and BBS trends in Louisiana. Most species increased in Louisiana at the same time as they declined in Florida and Texas. Several factors might explain increases in populations of wading birds in Louisiana, including long-term recovery from the effects of human exploitation, expansion of breeding populations in more northern states, changes in weather, recovery from DDT and similar pesticides, and regional movements due to habitat loss in other coastal states. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive and merit further study. However, based on several inferential lines of evidence, increased acreage devoted to crayfish (Procambarus) aquaculture in Louisiana appears to be the most significant factor explaining observed population trends in the state. First, populations of colonial wading-bird species that use crayfish were correlated positively with the wild crayfish harvest in Louisiana, and even more strongly with commercial crayfish pond acreage. Second, the regularity with which these ponds are managed provides a more predictable foraging habitat than do corresponding natural areas. Third, the use of crayfish ponds by wading birds peaks during pond drawdowns, which may increase reproductive success by concentrating prey available to wading birds during their nesting season. Fourth, those species of wading birds that specialize on crayfish showed the greatest population increases and the strongest correlation with crayfish pond acreage. These findings have important implications for conservation and management of Louisiana's wading-bird populations.
10.2307/4090491| In many bird species, Arctic-breeding and temperate-zone-breeding populations may have different behavioral and physiological adaptations that reflect trade-offs between immediate survival and reproductive success. Compared with their temperate-zone-breeding counterparts, Arctic breeders face shorter breeding seasons and less predictable environments. As a result, it may be necessary for Arctic breeders to employ immediate life-saving responses (facilitated through an acute adrenocortical response) that might come at the expense of immediate reproductive success. Regardless of latitude, the sexes may also face differences in the trade-off between immediate survivorship and reproductive effort. To investigate those hypotheses, we (1) measured the adrenocortical response of male and female Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) at both ends of a north-south breeding distribution and (2) examined within- and between-sex variation in corticosterone secretion during distinct stages of the breeding season that represent significant differences in parental investment (e.g. incubation and nestling provisioning). As predicted, Arctic-breeding males showed a significantly reduced adrenocortical response during the nestling period (when their parental contribution was highest; mean reduction = 39%), whereas temperate-zone-breeding males showed no significant reduction (mean reduction = 12%). Arctic-breeding and temperate-zone-breeding females did not differ in their adrenocortical responses during incubation and provisioning stages, showed reduced responses when compared with temperate-zone-breeding males, and showed responses similar to those of Arctic-breeding males during the provisioning stage. These data support the hypothesis that, during the breeding season, a reduced adrenocortical response (1) is more likely to occur when the potential for brood loss is greatest and (2) is associated with the degree of parental investment by the sexes. The balance between cost(s) and benefit(s) of the adrenocortical response may vary with the relative risks to survivorship and breeding success, and may vary between populations facing different time and energy constraints. /// En muchas especies de aves, las poblaciones reproductivas del rtico y de las zonas templadas pueden tener adaptaciones comportamentales y fisiolgicas diferentes que reflejan compromisos entre la supervivencia inmediata y el xito reproductivo. Las aves reproductivas del rtico enfrentan estaciones reproductivas ms cortas y ambientes menos predecibles, comparadas con las aves reproductivas de las zonas templadas. Como resultado, los individuos reproductivos del rtico pueden verse en la necesidad de emplear respuestas inmediatas para salvar sus vidas (facilitadas a travs de una respuesta adenocortical aguda) que pueden darse a expensas del xito reproductivo inmediato. Independientemente de la latitud, los sexos tambin pueden enfrentar diferencias en los compromisos entre la supervivencia inmediata y el esfuerzo reproductivo. Para investigar estas hiptesis, (1) medimos la respuesta adenocortical de machos y hembras de Dendroica petechia en los extremos norte y sur de su distribucin reproductiva y (2) examinamos la variacin entre y dentro de los sexos en la secrecin de corticosterona durante distintos estadios de la estacin reproductiva, los cuales presentan diferencias significativas en la inversin de los padres (e.g. incubacin y aprovisionamiento de los pichones). Como predijimos, los machos reproductivos del rtico mostraron una reduccin significativa en la respuesta adenocortical durante el perodo con pichones (cuando su contribucin paterna fue mayor; reduccin media = 39%), mientras que los machos reproductivos de la zona templada no mostraron una reduccin significativa (reduccin media = 12%). Las hembras reproductivas del rtico y de las zonas templadas no difirieron en sus respuestas adenocorticales durante los perodos de incubacin y aprovisionamiento, mostraron respuestas reducidas comparadas con las de los machos reproductivos de las zonas templadas, y mostraron respuestas similares a las de los machos reproductivos del rtico durante la etapa de aprovisionamiento. Estos datos apoyan la hiptesis de que durante la estacin reproductiva una respuesta adenocortical reducida (1) tiene mayor probabilidad de ocurrir cuando la prdida potencial de la nidada es mayor y (2) est asociada con el grado de inversin parental de los sexos. El balance entre costo(s) y beneficio(s) de la respuesta adenocortical puede variar con el riesgo relativo de supervivencia y el xito reproductivo, y puede variar entre poblaciones con diferentes restricciones de tiempo y energa. 
10.1525/auk.2011.11057|The Barred Owl (
25150384|Inferences based on counts adjusted for detectability represent a marked improvement over unadjusted counts, which provide no information about true population density and rely on untestable and unrealistic assumptions about constant detectability for inferring differences in density over time or space. Distance sampling is a widely used method to estimate detectability and therefore density. In the standard method, we model the probability of detecting a bird as a function of distance alone. Here, we describe methods that allow us to model probability of detection as a function of additional covariates-an approach available in DISTANCE, version 5.0 (Thomas et al. 2005) but still not widely applied. The main use of these methods is to increase the reliability of density estimates made on subsets of the whole data (e.g., estimates for different habitats, treatments, periods, or species), to increase precision of density estimates or to allow inferences about the covariates themselves. We present a case study of the use of multiple covariates in an analysis of a point-transect survey of Hawaii Amakihi (Hemignathus virens). /// L'infrence base sur des comptages ajusts pour la dtectabilit reprsentent un progrs marqu par rapport aux comptages non ajusts, ces derniers ne fournissant pas d'information sur la densit relle d'une population et reposant sur des hypothses non testables et non ralistes d'une dtectabilit constante pour infrer des diffrences de densit dans le temps ou dans l'espace. L'chantillonnage par la distance est une mthode largement utilise pour estimer la dtectabilit et donc la densit. Dans la mthode standard, la probabilit de dtecter un oiseau est modlise comme une fonction de la distance seulement. Ici, nous dcrivons des mthodes qui permettent de modliser la probabilit de dtection comme une fonction de covariables supplmentaires - une approche disponible dans le logiciel DISTANCE mais encore peu applique. Les avantages principaux de ces mthodes sont d'augmenter la fiabilit des estimations de densit faites sur des sous-ensembles de donnes compltes (par exemple des estimations pour diffrents habitats, traitements, priodes de temps ou espces), d'augmenter la prcision des estimations de densit ou de permettre l'infrence sur les covariables elles-mmes. Nous prsentons un cas d'tude de l'utilisation de covariables multiples: une analyse de donnes obtenues via un chantillonnage par transects ponctuels de Hemignathus virens.
25150392|In alternate plumage, the White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) is polymorphic, such that individuals exhibit a median crown stripe that is either white or tan in color. This plumage polymorphism is believed to be caused by a chromosomal inversion and predicts many aspects of an individual's aggressive and parental behavior, which makes this species an interesting and valuable subject for the study of the genetic basis of social behavior. Although the plumage polymorphism is well described, in practice the determination of morph for individual birds is not perfectly straightforward. Whereas morph can be assessed relatively easily in alternate plumage, birds in basic plumage tend to show coloration characteristic of both morphs. During the winter and fall, therefore, plumage morph cannot be determined with 100% accuracy by visual inspection alone. Here, we describe a genotyping assay that reliably predicts morph in alternate plumage. DNA from one drop of blood is amplified by PCR, digested and run on an agarose gel. The resulting banding patterns are used to distinguish white-striped from tan-striped birds with 100% accuracy. This method is fast and economical compared with karyotyping, is far less subjective than assessment of morph by plumage characteristics, and can be performed using any kind of sample from which DNA can be extracted. /// En plumage alternatif, Zonotrichia albicollis est polymorphe, de sorte que les individus prsentent une rayure mdiane de la calotte qui est blanche ou d'un brun clair. Ce polymorphisme du plumage serait caus par une inversion chromosomique et prdit plusieurs aspects du comportement agressif et parental d'un individu, ce qui fait de cette espce un sujet intressant et trs utile pour l'tude des bases gntiques du comportement social. Mme si le polymorphisme du plumage est bien dcrit, la dtermination de la forme des oiseaux n'est pas si simple en pratique. Alors que les formes peuvent tre tablies relativement aisment en plumage alternatif, les oiseaux en plumage de base tendent  exhiber une coloration caractristique des deux formes. Ainsi, en hiver et en automne, la forme du plumage ne peut tre dtermine avec 100% d'exactitude en utilisant seulement l'inspection visuelle. Nous dcrivons un test gnotypique qui prdit avec fiabilit la forme en plumage alternatif. L'ADN obtenu  partir d'une goutte de sang est amplifi par PCR, digr et spar par une lectrophorse sur gel d'agarose. Les patrons des bandes rsultantes sont utiliss pour distinguer avec 100% d'exactitude les oiseaux portant une rayure blanche de ceux portant une rayure brune. Cette mthode est rapide et conomique en comparaison du caryotypage, elle est beaucoup moins subjective que la dtermination de la forme  partir des caractristiques du plumage et peut tre excute en utilisant n'importe quel chantillon duquel l'ADN peut tre extrait.
4090513| Intraspecific patterns of autumn migration timing are not well known, particularly in the western United States. Here, we (1) describe autumn migration timing and age ratios of landbird migrants in southwestern Idaho, (2) examine differences in timing among age and sex classes, and (3) demonstrate how prebasic molt strategies affect migration timing differences between age classes. As a group, Neotropical migrants were most common from late July through early September, whereas temperate migrants were most common from mid-September into early October. Proportion of hatch-year birds was 74.5% for all migrants combined and ranged from 33.3% to 100% for individual species. Timing differences between sex classes were detected in only a few species and no general patterns emerged. In 22 of 31 Neotropical and temperate migrants examined, there were significant differences in timing between adults and hatch-year birds. In species in which adults begin fall migration before replacing flight feathers, adults migrated earlier than hatch-year birds. Conversely, in species in which adults molt flight feathers on or near the breeding grounds before departing on fall migration, hatch-year birds migrated earlier than adults in all but one case. Therefore, it appears that molt strategy is a powerful determinant of intraspecific migration timing differences and, to our knowledge, this is the first study to document this pattern among migrant passerines of North America. /// Los patrones intraespecficos del momento en que tiene lugar la migracin de otoo no son bien conocidos, particularmente en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. En este estudio (1) describimos el momento en que sucede la migracin de otoo y los cocientes de edades de migrantes terrestres en el suroeste de Idaho, (2) examinamos las diferencias en el momento en que sucede la migracin entre sexos y clases de edad y (3), demostramos cmo las estrategias de muda prebsica afectan las diferencias en el momento de migracin entre clases de edad. Como un grupo, los migrantes neotropicales fueron ms comunes desde finales de julio hasta comienzos de septiembre, mientras que los migrantes de la zona templada fueron ms comunes entre mediados de septiembre y principios de octubre. La proporcin de aves nacidas durante el ao fue del 74.5% para todos los migrantes combinados y vari entre especies entre el 33.3% y el 100%. Slo se detectaron diferencias entre sexos en el momento de migracin en pocas especies, y no existieron patrones generales. En 22 de los 31 migrantes neotropicales y de la zona templada que se examinaron existieron diferencias significativas en el momento de migracin entre los adultos y las aves en su primer ao de vida. En las especies en que los adultos inician la migracin otoal antes de reemplazar sus plumas de vuelo, los adultos migraron antes que las aves jvenes. Por el contrario, en las especies en que los adultos mudan sus plumas de vuelo en sus sitios de cra o cerca de stos antes de iniciar la migracin, las aves en su primer ao de vida migraron antes que los adultos en todos menos un caso. Por lo tanto, parece que la estrategia de muda es un determinante importante de las diferencias intraespecficas en el momento en que tiene lugar la migracin, y de acuerdo a lo que conocemos, nuestro estudio es el primero que documenta este patrn en paserinos migrantes de Amrica del Norte. 
25488612|Provisioning calls given by nest attendants immediately before or while they feed nestlings have been recorded in many avian species. Although the adaptive significance of these vocalizations has rarely been examined, their most obvious function seems to be to stimulate begging in blind altricial nestlings. Bell Miners (
10.2307/4088514|We compared use of seven habitat types to availability of those types within the home ranges of eight radio-tagged Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida). When all habitat types were considered simultaneously, habitat use differed from habitat availability for each owl. Patterns of habitat use varied among individuals and with respect to activity. Owls generally foraged more than or as frequently as expected in virgin mixed-conifer and ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests, and less than expected in managed forests. Owls roosted primarily in virgin mixed-conifer forests. We also compared habitat characteristics among foraging, roosting, and randomly available sites. Habitat characteristics differed significantly among plot types. Both roosting and foraging sites had more big logs, higher canopy closure, and greater densities and basal areas of both trees and snags than random sites. Roosting sites had greater canopy closure, more big logs, and greater densities of both trees and snags than foraging sites. Mature forests appear to be important to owls in this region, and different forest types may be used for different activities.
25150312|Shorebird roosts are often considered traditional, on the basis of predictable occupancy by large numbers of birds over long periods. However, fidelity of individuals to roosts at fine spatial and temporal scales, particularly at night, has rarely been described. We compared diurnal and nocturnal use of high-tide roosts by radiotagged Dunlin (Calidris alpina pacifica) wintering (November-March) at Humboldt Bay, California. Despite high fidelity to the study area, fidelity to particular roosts was relatively low and highly variable. At night, Dunlin used fewer roosts, were more faithful to primary roosts, and moved shorter distances between successive roosts than during the day. Day and night roosts differed in location, habitat, and distance from tidal flats. At night, Dunlin made greater use of pasture, and less use of islands and manmade structures. Day and night strategies of high-tide space use by Dunlin may be related to differences in food availability or predation danger. Our results illustrate that notions of tradition and site fidelity are scale-dependent and that knowledge of space use across the full range of environmental conditions is necessary for appropriate management of shorebird habitat. /// Los sitios de descanso de las aves playeras son frecuentemente considerados como tradicionales debido a que stos son ocupados predeciblemente por un gran nmero de aves durante perodos prolongados. Sin embargo, la fidelidad de los individuos a los sitios de descanso a escalas espaciales y temporales finas, particularmente durante la noche, rara vez ha sido descrita. Comparamos el uso diurno y nocturno de sitios de descanso durante los perodos de marea alta en individuos Calidris alpina pacifica marcados con transmisores de radio que se econtraban invernando entre noviembre y marzo en la Baha de Humboldt, California. A pesar de que existi una alta fidelidad al rea, la fidelidad a cada sitio de descanso fue relativamente baja y altamente variable. Durante la noche, las aves emplearon pocos sitios de descanso, fueron ms fieles a los sitios principales y se movieron distancias ms cortas entre sitios de descanso sucesivos que durante el da. Los sitios de descanso del da y la noche difirieron en su ubicacin, hbitat y distancia a los planos mareales. Durante la noche, las aves emplearon ms los pastizales, mientras que las islas y las estructuras hechas por el hombre fueron menos utilzadas. Las estrategias de uso del espacio durante las mareas altas en el da y la noche podran estar relacionadas con diferencias en la disponibilidad de alimento o en el peligro de depredacin. Nuestros resultados ilustran cmo las nociones de tradicin y fidelidad al sitio dependen de la escala, y que es necesario contar con conocimiento acerca del uso del espacio a travs del rango completo de condiciones ambientales para manejar el hbitat de las aves playeras adecuadamente.
4086601|The effects of a 500-kV transmission line on bird populations were assessed by comparing paired treatment areas [which included a transmission line and right-of-way (ROW)] with similar control areas in six different habitat types during the breeding and migration seasons. Habitat structure was measured to examine the inherent differences between control and treatment areas. Using two census methods, territorial mapping and transect counts, we determined that Sedge Wrens and LeConte's Sparrows had lower breeding-population densities in treatment areas than in control areas. LeConte's Sparrows and Connecticut Warblers occurred at greater mean distances from the transmission line in treatment areas than from a similarly positioned line in control areas. Fifteen paired t-tests (five habitats in 3 yr), in which territorial mapping data were used, revealed that community densities were lower in one treatment habitat (high shrub) in 1 of 3 yr (P < 0.05). A two-way analysis of variance with transect counts, however, was not confirmatory when yearly variation was included. Transect counts revealed lower population densities in one treatment habitat (low shrub) in 2 of 3 yr (P < 0.05). In contrast, we observed greater species richness (P < 0.05) in two treatment habitats (closed spruce and sedge fen) than in controls. Treatment habitats were most similar in habitat structure to their paired control habitats, but each habitat of the pair was significantly different (P < 0.05) from the other in at least 2 of 10 habitat characteristics analyzed. We suggest that the avian differences observed between paired areas were primarily attributable to (1) the inherent habitat differences between control and treatment areas, and (2) the new habitat created under the transmission line. Our data indicated negligible effects of this transmission line on bird populations, but interpretations are difficult, because the effects varied with (1) habitat, (2) season, and (3) method considered. Postimpact studies, which compare control and treatment areas, are less effective than before-and-after studies, because differences in habitat structure exist between any two areas.
4085659| Galpagos Mockingbirds (Nesomimus parvulus) were studied on Isla Genovesa, January to May and November 1978. They started egg-laying 1 week after the first rainfall of the wet season and produced an average of 3.2  0.5 fledglings per pair from two broods. Breeding characteristics were similar to those of the related Mimus longicaudatus on the mainland, although breeding success was slightly higher and the nestling period distinctly longer. Adult foraging and nestling diets were varied; most food items were arthropods taken from the ground. Nestlings were fed by parents and one or two helpers at seven nests. In two instances young of the first brood helped their parents in the feeding of the second brood. Cooperative behavior within families probably facilitates the formation of territorial groups, composed of one or more families, outside the breeding season. 
4086273|Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) nesting on the exposed lake bed surrounding Mono Lake, California lose up to 40% of their clutches. Most are destroyed by predators, predominantly California Gulls (Larus californicus). In 1978 Snowy Plover reproduction was estimated at 0.49-0.70 fledged young per female. Population stability was estimated to require 0.80 fledged young per female. A series of experiments with artificial clutches placed at different densities in the nesting area demonstrates that the predators can have an effect on the plovers' nesting success that is dependent upon their nest density. The maintenance of low nesting density is an important antipredator adaptation. We consider predation on clutches and broods to be the major limiting factor on the Snowy Plover population at Mono Lake.
25150341|Approximately 60% of the 45 species of terns (Sternae) have an unusual form of wing molt in which a variable number of inner primaries and outer secondaries are replaced two or three times in a single year - a process that has been called "repeated molt." Although several hypotheses have been proposed for the maintenance of repeated molt, few data exist regarding potential selective forces that may have favored the evolution of this molt strategy, and there are no explanations for the high degree of interspecific variation in the extent of repeated molt. Preliminary investigations indicated that large terns tended to have less repeated molt than small terns and that the presence of repeated molt appeared to be associated with migratory behavior. We examined these initial findings by combining data from the literature, from examinations of museum specimens, and from a recent molecular phylogeny of the terns to perform phylogenetic-comparative tests. First, we used independent contrasts to verify that the association between large terns and less repeated molt was significant and not a result of shared ancestry. Second, we used tests for binary character association to evaluate the apparent link between repeated molt and migratory behavior. The results of these tests, along with reconstructions of ancestral states, led to a potential explanation for the origin of repeated molt, in which a tropical, sedentary ancestor gave rise to several lineages that spread to temperate areas and adopted a migratory life history. With this shift to a more seasonal regime came shortened breeding periods and perhaps more time for molt, which could have led to modifications of the ancestral molting strategy and the origin of repeated molt. /// Aproximadamente el 60% de las 45 especies de gaviotines (Sternae) presentan una forma inusual de muda del ala en la que un nmero variable de primarias internas y secundarias externas son reemplazadas dos o tres veces en un mismo ao, un proceso denominado muda repetida. Aunque muchas hiptesis han sido propuestas para el mantenimiento de la muda repetida, existen pocos datos sobre las fuerzas selectivas potenciales que pueden haber favorecido la evolucin de esta estrategia de muda, y no existen explicaciones sobre el alto grado de variacin interespecfica en el patrn de la muda repetida. Las investigaciones preliminares indicaron que los gaviotines grandes tendieron a presentar menos mudas repetidas que los gaviotines pequeos y que la presencia de la muda repetida pareci estar asociada con el comportamiento migratorio. Examinamos estos hallazgos iniciales combinando datos de la literatura, del examen de especimenes de museo y de una filogenia molecular reciente de los gaviotines para realizar evaluaciones filogenticas comparativas. Primero, usamos contrastes independientes para verificar que la asociacin entre los gaviotines grandes y la existencia de menos mudas repetidas era significativa y no el resultado de ancestros compartidos. Segundo, usamos pruebas de asociacin de caracteres binarios para evaluar la vinculacin aparente entre la muda repetida y el comportamiento migratorio. Los resultados de estas pruebas, junto con las reconstrucciones de los estados ancestrales, condujeron a una explicacin potencial del origen de la muda repetida, en la que un ancestro tropical sedentario dio origen a varios linajes que se distribuyeron a reas templadas y que adoptaron una forma de vida migratoria. Este cambio a un rgimen ms estacional trajo consigo perodos reproductivos ms cortos y tal vez ms tiempo para la muda, lo que puede haber conducido a modificaciones de la estrategia de muda ancestral y al origen de la muda repetida.
25150390| The Central Valley of California is an important breeding area for Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), but estimating recruitment rates for this population has been hampered by lack of data on duckling survival. To gain a better understanding of factors affecting brood and duckling survival, we radiomarked 56 brood hens and 112 ducklings (two per brood) on two actively managed wetland complexes in the San Joaquin Valley during 1996-1997. Total brood mortality was extensive, affecting 27 of 53 broods (51%). Survival of individual ducklings from hatching until 30 days of age was 24.8% (95% confidence interval: 0.178-0.335), with most mortality resulting from predation during the first 12 days of life. Survival differed between years and study areas but was unaffected by hatching date. Broods preferred reverse-cycle seasonal wetlands to more permanent wetlands throughout their first 30 days of life, and ducklings also had higher 2- to 30-day survival probabilities in reverse-cycle wetlands (x  SE = 0.755  0.095) than in semipermanent-permanent wetlands (0.189  0.056) or moist-soil units (0.173  0.067). We recommend that waterfowl managers in the Central Valley provide reverse-cycle seasonal wetlands during the brood-rearing period to enhance survival of locally breeding Mallards. /// El Valle Central de California es un rea importante de cra de Anas platyrhynchos, sin embargo ha sido difcil estimar las tasas de reclutamiento para esta poblacin debido a la falta de datos sobre la supervivencia de los pichones. Para alcanzar un mejor entendimiento de los factores que afectan la supervivencia de los pichones y de los juveniles, marcamos con radios 56 pichones y 112 juveniles (dos por nidada) en dos complejos de humedales manejados activamente en el Valle de San Joaqun durante 1996 y 1997. La mortalidad total de la nidada fue importante, afectando a 27 de las 53 nidadas (51%). La supervivencia de los juveniles desde la eclosin hasta las edad de 30 das fue de 24.8% (intervalo de confianza del 95%: 0.178-0.335). La mortalidad estuvo dada principalmente por depredacin durante los primeros 12 das de vida. La supervivencia difiri entre los aos y las reas de estudio, pero no estuvo afectada por la fecha de eclosin. Las nidadas prefirieron los humedales estacionales de ciclo revertido, ms que los humedales permanentes, a lo largo de sus primeros 30 das de vida, y los juveniles tambin presentaron probabilidades de supervivencia de los 2 a los 30 das ms altas en los humedales de ciclo revertido (x  EE= 0.755  0.095) que en los humedales semipermanentes o permanentes (0.189  0.056) o en las unidades de suelo hmedo (0.173  0.067). Recomendamos que las autoridades encargadas del manejo de las aves acuticas en el Valle Central brinden humedales estacionales de ciclo revertido durante el perodo de cra de los pichones, para aumentar la supervivencia de los individuos de A. platyrhynchos que cran en esas reas. 
4087280|Positive correlations of brood size with some parental activities [vigilance (in females), approaching young (in males and females), and attack (in males)] and a negative correlation of female feeding time with brood size were found in a sample of 23 semicaptive Bar-headed Goose (Anser indicus) families. Detailed examination of these correlations suggests that some components of parental care in geese represent "shared parental investment" (Lazarus and Inglis 1978, 1986). The benefits of parental care are divided among the offspring, so that in precocial birds, as in altricial birds, clutch size may be adapted to selection pressures that act after the young hatch.
10.2307/4090197| Defense of group-held resources is a common and widely accepted function of territorial interactions between neighboring groups. In addition, territorial interactions could provide opportunities to assess members of neighboring groups and reproductive opportunities there, or to solidify status in the home group. We studied group-level characteristics and individual participation in territorial encounters in the cooperatively breeding Brown Jay (Cyanocorax morio). Intergroup encounters at stable territory boundaries include both aggressive and affiliative behavior, which suggests that a territorial encounter could function as both a resource defense mechanism and as an arena for social interactions. Territory characteristics that increase the probability of contact between groups (long boundaries, large combined group size, and home range overlap) explain much of the variation in frequency of territorial encounters. Male-biased dispersal was more common to neighboring groups with long boundaries, supporting the idea that frequent interactions between neighbors facilitate dispersal. Females usually inherit breeding positions on their natal territories, and participation in intergroup encounters by females does not vary with age or breeding status. In addition to defending group resources, females on their natal territories could be defending their positions in the breeding queue. Immigrant females are not likely to breed successfully, or to disperse again, and they participated less than expected. Participation by both natal and immigrant males varied by age; young males, at the ages when dispersal and intergroup forays are most likely, participated more than expected, whereas older males (4 years) participated less. That is consistent with the hypothesis that participation in intergroup encounters facilitates dispersal and improves integration into social groups. Because extragroup matings occur in this population, both breeding females and males could be assessing neighboring individuals for mating opportunities. Resource defense and social facilitation are not mutually exclusive hypotheses, and our observations suggest that both are important components of territorial encounters in Brown Jays. /// Una funcin ampliamente aceptada de la interaccin territorial entre grupos vecinos es la defensa de los recursos que son mantenidos por el grupo. Adems, las interacciones territoriales pueden proveer oportunidades para evaluar a miembros de grupos vecinos y oportunidades reproductivas, o para solidificar el estatus en el propio grupo. Estudiamos caractersticas a nivel de grupo y la participacin individual en los encuentros territoriales en la especie de cra cooperativa Cyanocorax morio. Los encuentros entre grupos a lo largo de los lmites territoriales estables incluyeron comportamientos agresivos y de afiliacin, lo que sugiere que un encuentro territorial puede servir tanto como un mecanismo para la defensa de recursos como una arena para interacciones sociales. Las caractersticas de los territorios que aumentan la probabilidad de contacto entre grupos (lmites largos, gran tamao de grupo combinado y coincidencia de los rangos de hogar) explican gran parte de la variacin en la frecuencia de encuentros territoriales. La dispersin sesgada hacia los machos fue ms comn entre grupos con fronteras largas, lo que confirma la idea de que las interacciones frecuentes entre vecinos facilitan la dispersin. Las hembras generalmente heredan posiciones de cra en sus territorios natales y la participacin de las hembras en encuentros grupales no vara con la edad ni con el estatus reproductivo. Adems de defender los recursos del grupo, las hembras que se encuentran en sus territorios natales podran tambin estar defendiendo su oportunidad para criar. Las hembras inmigrantes presentan una probabilidad menor de reproducirse con xito o de dispersarse nuevamente y participaron menos de lo esperado. La participacin de los machos nativos e inmigrantes vari con la edad; machos jvenes, de edades a las cuales la dispersin e incursiones intergrupales son ms probables, participaron ms de lo esperado, mientras que machos de mayor edad (4 aos) participaron menos. Esto es consistente con la hiptesis de que la participacin en encuentros intergrupales facilita la dispersin y mejora la integracin en grupos sociales. Debido a que apareamientos extragrupales ocurren en esta poblacin, tanto las hembras como los machos podran estar evaluando a los individuos vecinos como oportunidades de apareamiento. La defensa de los recursos y la facilitacin social no son hiptesis mutuamente exclusivas y nuestras observaciones sugieren que ambas son componentes importantes en los encuentros territoriales de C. morio. 
4088559|Satellite telemetry of Wandering Albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, southwestern Indian Ocean, revealed two distinct foraging strategies during successive stages of the breeding season: systematic foraging over extensive distances; and use of specific areas close to the colony. During early incubation, Wandering Albatrosses foraged over pelagic waters at an average range of 1,284 km. The length of the foraging trips decreased towards the end of the incubation period. During the first month of chick rearing when parents brood alternately for short periods, the foraging range, distance covered, and area prospected were further reduced. Males tended to return to an individual foraging area, located at the edge of the continental shelf, that had previously been visited during the long trips of the incubation period. Females mostly prospected pelagic waters just off the shelf. After the chick had been left alone on the nest, birds exhibited a two-fold strategy, combining long foraging trips over pelagic waters with short trips over the shelf. Generally, both sexes headed for and foraged over an extensive pelagic secotr. Some males also foraged over the Kerguelen shelf. Females tended to forage over more northerly waters than males. The duration of the foraging trips was most closely related to the total distance covered, but also to the maximum range during the long trips of the chick-rearing period and to a lesser extent during the incubation period. There were no such significant relationships in the case of short trips. During long pelagic foraging trips, the birds had a looping course that was determined by the wind direction, suggesting random foraging with respect to prey distribution. We were able to show that Wandering Albatrosses use two foraging strategies to cope with the constraints imposed by the different stages of the breeding cycle, the availability of prey, and the distribution of the prey. Use by Wandering Albatrosses of two foraging strategies may be a compromise based on the simultaneous need to satisfy the different food requirements of chicks and parents.
25488691|Most scrubshrub bird species are declining in the northeastern United States, and these declines are largely attributed to regional declines in habitat availability. American Beaver (
25150349|The increasing prevalence of selective logging in Southeast Asian tropical rainforests compels much-needed studies to examine its effects on the vital life-cycle events of their resident understory birds, which are particularly sensitive to such degradation. Food abundance, which can be an important factor in avian phenology, may be affected by selective logging. Therefore, studies that compare food abundance and breeding and molting occurrence simultaneously at the same sites are important for the ecological monitoring of such logging regimes. Using bimonthly mist netting in two rainforest areas in Peninsular Malaysia, we assessed the breeding and molting occurrence and diets of understory birds and compared the abundance of food resources in unlogged forests and forests that had been selectively logged 30 years before. Our study revealed no differences between forest types in overall understory-resident bird abundance; comparative species richness; feeding-guild composition; breeding and molting occurrence and temporal variation; or arthropod, fruit, and flower abundance. The similarity in food resources could account for the similarity in avian phenological characteristics between forest types. Increased breeding corresponded with increased food abundance at the feeding-guild level, and dietary data supported these findings. Breeding cycles of sensitive indicator groups such as understory resident birds are likely to depend on food abundance and forest structure and, thus, on selective logging. Our observation of undiminished avian breeding and molting occurrence in selectively logged forests is an encouraging indication of their conservation potential. However, we emphasize that differences in selective logging practices could affect the forest structure and avifauna differently. Setting thresholds for extraction and regeneration time and subscribing to minimum-impact methods that reduce collateral damage are essential if selectively logged areas are to maintain most of their initial biodiversity. /// El incremento de la prevalencia de actividades de tala selectiva en los bosques tropicales lluviosos del sudeste asitico hace que sea muy necesario realizar estudios para examinar sus efectos sobre eventos vitales del ciclo de vida de las aves residentes del sotobosque, las cuales son particularmente sensibles a dicha degradacin. La abundancia de alimento, que puede ser un factor importante en la fenologa de las aves, podra ser afectada por la tala selectiva. Por lo tanto, los estudios que comparan la abundancia de alimento con la ocurrencia de la reproduccin y la muda simultneamente en los mismos sitios, son importantes para el monitoreo ecolgico de dichas prcticas de tala. Utilizando capturas con redes de niebla realizadas bimensualmente en dos reas de bosque lluvioso en Malasia peninsular, evaluamos la dieta y la ocurrencia de la reproduccin y la muda en aves del sotobosque, y comparamos la abundancia de recursos alimenticios entre bosque no talados y bosques que haban sido sometidos a tala selectiva 30 aos atrs. Nuestro estudio no mostr diferencias entre tipos de bosque en la abundancia general de aves residentes del sotobosque, en la riqueza de especies, en la composicin de gremios alimenticios, en la ocurrencia y variacin temporal del muda y la reproduccin, ni en la abundancia de artrpodos, frutos y flores. La similitud en los recursos alimenticios podra explicar la similitud en las caractersticas de la fenologa de las aves entre tipos de bosques. Los incrementos en la actividad reproductiva correspondieron a incrementos en la abundancia de alimento al nivel de gremios alimenticios, un hallazgo que fue apoyado por los datos de dieta. Los ciclos reproductivos de grupos indicadores sensibles como las aves residentes del sotobosque probablemente dependen de la abundancia de alimento y de la estructura del bosque, y, por lo tanto, de la tala selectiva. Nuestra observacin de que la ocurrencia de la reproduccin y la muda no es menor en bosques expuestos a tala selectiva es una indicacin alentadora de su potencial de conservacin. Sin embargo, hacemos nfasis en que diferentes prcticas de tala selectiva podran afectar la estructura del bosque y a la avifauna de modos diferentes. Establecer lmites para la extraccin y para el tiempo de regeneracin, y adoptar mtodos de mnimo impacto para reducir los daos colaterales, es esencial para que las reas expuestas a tala selectiva puedan mantener la mayor parte de su biodiversidad inicial.
10.2307/25150217| Associations between birds and social Hymenoptera (ants, wasps, bees) are common in tropical regions and are usually assumed to be commensal relationships that benefit birds but neither help nor harm the arthropods. However, benefits to birds have been documented in only four such associations, and no previous research has rigorously investigated costs or benefits to associated hymenopterans. We followed the nesting cycles of an estrildid finch, the Red-cheeked Cordonbleu (Uraeginthus bengalus), and a common nesting associate, the wasp Ropalidia cincta, during 2002 and 2003 in northern Ghana to compare reproductive success of birds and wasps nesting in association with that of birds and wasps nesting separately. Red-cheeked Cordonbleus and wasps nested together in the same tree 3.7 as often as expected if nesting decisions were made independently, with 74% of bird nests and 74% of wasp colonies occurring in associations. Bird nesting was initiated 33 days after founding of an associated wasp colony; bird nests and wasp colonies were, on average, 42 cm apart. In both years, Red-cheeked Cordonbleus in nesting associations with wasps were twice as likely to fledge young as birds nesting in trees without wasps. Reduced predation was apparently a major reason for increased fledging success: we documented four cases of nest predation on 122 Red-cheeked Cordonbleu nests associated with wasps, and 11 cases on 90 nests not associated with wasps. Association with birds did not affect the success of wasp colonies. Although our observational study cannot rule out the possibility that both species coincidentally shared a preference for a habitat feature in limited supply, suitable nest sites did not appear to be limiting (74% of potential nest trees had neither bird nor wasp nests). Reproductive success of Red-cheeked Cordonbleu populations in this region may be limited by the number of available wasp colonies. By designing our study to address four working hypotheses (commensalism, mutualism, parasitism, coincidence of habitat preference), we have provided strong evidence that this relationship is commensal. /// Les associations entre les oiseaux et les hymnoptres sociaux (fourmis, gupes, abeilles) sont courantes dans les rgions tropicales et sont gnralement considres comme des relations de commensalisme qui bnficient aux oiseaux sans pour autant aider ou causer des torts aux arthropodes. Nanmoins, les bnfices qu'en tirent les oiseaux n'ont t documents que pour quatre associations de ce genre et aucune recherche prcdente n'a rigoureusement tudi les cots ou les bnfices pour les hymnoptres associs. Nous avons suivi les cycles de nidification de Uraeginthus bengalus et de la gupe Ropalidia cincta qui s'associent lors de leur nidification, en 2002 et 2003 dans le nord du Ghana. Ceci a t ralis afin de comparer le succs de reproduction des oiseaux et des gupes nichant en association avec ceux des oiseaux et des gupes nichant sparment. Uraeginthus bengalus et les gupes nichaient ensemble dans le mme arbre aussi souvent qu'attendu dans le cas d'une dcision de nidification indpendante, avec 74% des nids d'oiseaux et 74% des colonies de gupes survenant en association. La nidification des oiseaux tait initie 33 jours aprs la dcouverte d'une colonie de gupes associe. Les nids d'oiseaux et les colonies de gupes taient, en moyenne, spars de 42 cm. Au cours des deux annes, lorsque U. bengalus tait en association avec des gupes, cette espce avait une probabilit deux fois plus grande d'amener ces jeunes  l'envol en comparaison aux oiseaux nichant dans les arbres sans gupes. Une diminution de la prdation tait visiblement une raison majeure pour expliquer l'augmentation du succs  l'envol. En effet, nous avons document quatre cas de prdation de nids sur 122 nids de U. bengalus associs avec des gupes, et 11 cas sur 90 nids non associs avec des gupes. L'association avec les oiseaux n'a pas affect le succs des colonies de gupes. Bien que notre tude, base sur des observations, ne permet pas de statuer sur la possibilit que les deux espces partagent par hasard la mme prfrence pour une caractristique limitante en termes d'habitat, les sites adapts pour les nids ne semblaient pas tre en nombre limit (74% des arbres potentiels pour des nids n'avaient ni nid d'oiseaux, ni nid de gupes). Le succs de reproduction des populations de U. bengalus dans cette rgion pourrait tre limit par le nombre de colonies de gupes disponible. En concevant notre tude dans le but d'examiner quatre hypothses de travail (commensalisme, mutualisme, parasitisme, concidence de prfrence d'habitats), nous avons fourni de solides preuves que cette relation est du commensalisme. 
4085098|This paper presents the lipid, nonlipid dry matter, and water contents of the eggs of the Starling, Coturnix Quail, Mourning Dove, Laughing Gull, and Mallard and compares the data with published accounts of the eggs of other species. The lipid level of the yolk and the percentage of yolk in the egg increase in direct relation to the precocity of the young at hatching. The high lipid content of the eggs of precocial species is related primarily to their long incubation periods, resulting in a larger total metabolic requirement than for the embryos of altricial species. The high water levels of the eggs of altricial species are a direct consequence of the high water levels of the chicks at hatching.
4087726|Ptilochronology is the study of the growth rates of feathers by the measuring of growth bars. Growth bars are cross-bands on feathers that denote 24-h periods of growth. If a rectrix is plucked from a bird that is released, and then recaptured more than a month later, the width of the growth bars on the replacement (or induced) rectrix can provide a day-by-day record of the nutritional regime under which the bird had lived. Growth rate of induced rectrices varies among ages, sexes, and species of birds. I measured growth bars on feathers induced in Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) that wintered in Ohio woodlots without supplemental food. On a daily basis, females grew feathers significantly more slowly than males. In other woodlots, where the woodpeckers were given supplementary food, daily feather growth did not differ between sexes. I concluded that male Downy Woodpeckers normally have a better nutritional status than females during the winter. A difference in nutritional status may explain why male Downy Woodpeckers use their social dominance to exclude females from parts of the species niche during winter. Ptilochronology could permit new insights into the nutritional ecology of free-ranging birds. Hypotheses that predict even minor variation in the nutritional status of birds should become accessible to testing.
25150353|We describe a new species of smoky honeyeater from the Foja Mountains, an isolated range in western New Guinea (Papua Province, Indonesia). A common inhabitant of montane forest and forest-edge in this little-known north coastal range, this species possesses a fleshy pendant suborbital wattle, unique in the genus Melipotes, among other characteristics that distinguish it from all congeners. This fleshy wattle provides a morphological link between Melipotes and the monotypic genus Macgregoria, an alpine inhabitant of the Central Ranges of New Guinea, traditionally treated as a bird of paradise (e.g., Frith and Beehler 1998) but now regarded as the sister genus to Melipotes (Cracraft and Feinstein 2000). The presence of an endemic meliphagid species in the Foja Mountains highlights the biogeographic significance and conservation importance of this geographically isolated upland forest tract, which is also home to the endemic Golden-fronted Bowerbird (Amblyornis flavifrons) and Berlepsch's Parotia (Parotia berlepschi), a distinctive, recently rediscovered species of six-wired bird of paradise (B. M. Beehler unpubl. data). /// Describimos una especie nueva de Meliphagidae de las montaas Foja, una cadena aislada del oeste de Nueva Guinea (Provincia de Papua, Indonesia). Esta especie es un habitante comn de los bosques montanos y los bordes de bosque de esta cadena montaosa poco conocida de la costa norte. Una de las caractersticas que distinguen a esta especie de las dems especies del gnero Melipotes, es que sta presenta una carncula carnosa colgante suborbital que es nica en el gnero. La carncula carnosa representa una conexin morfolgica entre Melipotes y el gnero monotpico Macgregoria, que habita las zonas alpinas de las cordilleras centrales de Nueva Guinea y que tradicionalmente haba sido tratado como un ave del paraso (e.g., Frith y Beehler 1998), pero que ahora se considera como el gnero hermano de Melipotes (Cracraft y Feinstein 2000). La presencia de una especie de Meliphagidae endmica en las montaas de Foja resalta la importancia biogeogrfica y para la conservacin de este bosque de tierras altas aislado, en el que tambin habitan la especie endmica Amblyornis flavifrons y la recientemente redescubierta ave del paraso Parotia berlepschi (B. M. Beehler datos no publicados).
10.2307/4086908|Although it has a wide range in tropical South America, the Maguari Stork (Ciconia maguari) is poorly known. In an 11-yr study of its breeding biology in the llanos of Venezuela I found the mean clutch size for 3 yr to be 3.2 eggs. The young hatched asynchronously at 29-32 days and usually made their first flight at 60-72 days. Data on egg sizes, weights, and a probable dump egg are given. The weight and growth of two siblings, plumage succession, and nestling and fledgling behaviors are described. The fledging success of eggs from 55 nests, over 9 yr, was 61%. Loss of eggs (presumably from snake predation) was higher than nestling loss. Although the asynchronously hatched young in a clutch varied greatly in weight and continued this difference throughout nestling life, no case of brood reduction was found in 123 nests during the study. Nestlings were fed mainly frogs and tadpoles, fish, eels, and aquatic rats; food classes and food sizes brought by adults varied with the age of their young. Maguari Stork nestlings do not grasp with their hallux and so are confined to their nests until they can fly. I suggest that the two black plumages of nestlings, between the white hatching down and the white first basic plumage, are for crypsis of the nest-bound young.
4087452|We studied the intensity of molt of capital, down, and contour plumages of male and female Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) from late fall through winter, spring migration, and nesting. Molt intensities in both juvenile and adult males were highest among arriving fall migrants and during prewinter fat deposition, and molt in juvenile males increased during early spring migration. Among females, capital molt was high among arriving migrants in fall, and molt of all plumage types increased during spring migration and courtship. Paired females tended to molt more heavily than unpaired females during spring migration, but many females initiated intensive prebasic molt before pairing. Molt in females peaked in spring migration and early breeding, concurrently with accelerated fat storage and ovarian growth. Capital and contour molt in females decreased during laying and essentially ceased during incubation, perhaps to mitigate energetic constraints during these periods. Prewinter nutrient storage appeared independent of molt intensity, except for body protein among juveniles. During spring migration, molt intensities were greater in adult females with higher levels of body fat and protein, indicating that molt did not necessarily precede or interfere with nutrient storage. We suggest that outside the laying, incubation, and wing molt periods, the energetic costs of molt in Canvasbacks are not sufficient to mandate temporal separation of molt from nutrient storage, migration, courtship, or early stages of rapid ovarian growth.
10.2307/4087542|We collected 3 eggs from each of 35 female Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa). Fresh-egg mass averaged 44.2 g and consisted of 53.1% albumen, 36.4% yolk, and 9.6% shell. Albumen and yolk contained 86.2% and 44.9% water, respectively. Lipids comprised 65.1% of the dry yolk. All egg components except dry albumen increased in direct proportion to fresh-egg mass. Variation among females explained 52-80% of the total variation in mass and composition of eggs. Body mass of hens during early incubation was correlated with estimates of pre-egg-laying lipid reserves (
4085651|Mayfield's method for calculating the success of a group of nests is examined in detail. The standard error of his estimator is developed. Mayfield's assumption that destroyed nests are at risk until the midpoint of the interval between visits leads to bias if nests are visited infrequently. A remedy is suggested, the Mayfield-40% method. I also present a competing model, which recognizes that the actual destruction date of a failed nest is unknown. Estimated daily mortality rates and standard errors are developed under this model. A comparison of the original Mayfield method, the Mayfield-40% method, and the new method, which incorporates an unknown date of destruction, shows that the original or modified Mayfield method performs nearly as well as the more appropriate method and requires far easier calculations. A technique for statistically comparing daily mortality rates is offered; the one proposed by Dow (1978) is claimed to be misleading. Finally, I give a method for detecting heterogeneity among nests and an improved estimator, if it is found.
10.2307/4089796|We monitored the apparent survival of territorial and nonterritorial Pacific Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis fulva) for 20 consecutive nonbreeding seasons at a wintering ground within Bellows Air Force Station (BAFS) on the eastern shore of Oahu, Hawaii. Territorial birds were especially site-faithful from season to season, and each surviving individual reoccupied the same territory held in previous seasons. On average, territorial birds were resighted for about twice as many postbanding seasons (4.2) as nonterritorial birds (1.8). Open-population modeling indicated that apparent survival varied by age and territorial status. Our most parsimonious model estimated apparent annual survival rates in territorial plovers as 0.90 for young birds (age determined from retained juvenal primaries) from their first through their second wintering season, and 0.80 for adults over numerous seasons. For nonterritorial plovers, the corresponding values were 0.82 and 0.67, respectively. Despite lower apparent survival in nonterritorial plovers, it remains uncertain whether nonterritoriality actually results in shorter life spans. Some surviving nonterritorial birds may have gone undetected (detection probability of 0.70) because of permanent emigration from the study area. Given strong site-fidelity of territorial birds and the relative certainty of detecting them (probability = 1.0), we regarded the disappearance of a plover from its territory as an indicator of mortality. From last-recorded sightings, we concluded that territorial birds died with about equal frequency during the nonbreeding and breeding seasons. Because the latter is of much shorter duration, time-relative hazards were greatest while birds were away from the wintering grounds. Winter mortality was caused by accidents (collisions with overhead wires and other obstructions), and probable predation by owls. We estimated mean additional life expectancy among territorial plovers at 5.1 years for first-year birds, and 4.5 years for unknown-age adults. The oldest known-age individual was a male that lived 13 years 10 months; in adults of uncertain ages, one male survived to a minimum age of 18 years 10 months, and two females to at least 17 years 10 months. Pacific Golden-Plovers wintering at BAFS, especially territorial birds, demonstrated relatively high rates of apparent survival combined with adaptability for coexistence with humans in an urban environment.
10.2307/4088855|I studied a color-banded population of Bushtits (Psaltriparus minimus) in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona from 1986 through 1991. Overall, 37% of nests had one to four supernumerary birds, most of which were adult males. Indirect and direct evidence suggested that most supernumeraries were males that had not acquired a mate, or were failed breeders of either sex. Sex ratios were consistently skewed in favor of males, although males almost always were associated with a nest, and years in which nest loss was high had a correspondingly high incidence of multibird (>2 bird) nests. Some supernumeraries may have contributed genetically to the contents of nests they attended, either by laying eggs or by mating with the female, resulting in possible polygynous, polyandrous, and polygynandrous groups. I suggest that a primary route to multibird nests in Bushtits is via competition for existing nests and mates. Birds without nests (individuals or pairs) attempt to evict the residents and, if unsuccessful, sometimes compromise and join as helpers or additional breeders.
10.2307/4089686|Recent evidence suggests that the nesting success of forest-interior Neotropical migrants is lower in fragmented habitat. We examined the nesting success of Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) in a large contiguous forest from 1993 to 1997. From a sample of 416 nests we tested for predictors of daily nest survival rates, including activity at the nest and vegetation parameters at the nest site. We tested whether disturbance during nest checks (as measured by the behavior of the adults) was related to subsequent nest predation. Females were more likely to vocalize when brooding chicks than when incubating eggs. However, we found no evidence that observer disturbance or Wood Thrush activity influenced daily nest survival rates. Wood Thrushes nested predominately in small hemlocks, generally surrounded by many other small hemlocks. However, survival rates of nests in hemlocks were not significantly different from those in other substrates. Overall, neither activity at the nest nor habitat in the vicinity of the nest was a good predictor of nesting success, and only one vegetation characteristic, a measure of concealment, was significantly correlated with successful nesting. Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was extremely low (<2% of nests parasitized). However, nesting success was moderate (daily survival rate = 0.958) when compared with other published studies from more-fragmented landscapes. Our results suggest that daily nest survival rates do not increase monotonically from small to very large forest patches.
4090437| In avian taxa in which vocalizations are considered innate, such as suboscine passerines, vocal characters are increasingly being used to help determine whether populations have achieved species status. In comparing vocal characteristics of distant populations, however, one must be concerned with the possibility of character gradation through intermediate populations. The first quantitative study of a species in a suboscine family to test for clinal vocal variation, our vocal study found clinal variation in the pace (number of notes per second) of male loudsongs, and revealed that the geographic pattern of the clines was consistent with genetic variation found in the companion molecular study (Brumfield 2005). The result underscores the necessity of searching for intermediacy when analyzing vocalizations of geographically distant populations. Furthermore, given that male loudsong pace was the only vocal character that varied across the intergrading populations, the result also provides support to the guideline that one should expect thamnophilid species to differ in at least three vocal characters (Isler et al. 1998) and indicates that this degree of vocal character differences can be a valuable "yard stick" in determining which thamnophilid populations have achieved biological species status. /// En las aves en que las vocalizaciones se consideran innatas, como en los Passeriformes suboscinos, los caracteres vocales han sido empleados cada vez ms frecuentemente para ayudar a determinar si distintas poblaciones han alcanzado el estatus de especies diferentes. Sin embargo, al comparar las caractersiticas vocales de poblaciones distantes, es importante prestar atencin a la posibilidad de que exista variacin gradual en los caracteres a travs de poblaciones intermedias. Este estudio es el primer trabajo cuantitativo que pone a prueba la posibilidad de que exista variacin clinal en vocalizaciones en una familia de suboscinos. Nuestro anlisis de vocalizaciones indic que existe variacin clinal en la cadencia (nmero de notas por segundo) de los cantos fuertes de los machos, y que el patrn geogrfico de las clinas concuerda con la variacin gentica documentada en un estudio molecular conjunto (Brumfield 2005). Los resultados recalcan la necesidad de buscar rasgos intermedios al analizar las vocalizaciones de poblaciones geogrficamente distantes. Ms an, considerando que la cadencia de los cantos fuertes de los machos fue el nico caracter que vari a travs de las poblaciones, el resultado tambin apoya el lineamiento de que debera esperarse que las especies de Thamnophilidae difieran en por lo menos tres caracteres vocales (Isler et al. 1998), e indica que este grado de diferenciacin en vocalizaciones puede ser una "vara medidora" valiosa para determinar cules poblaciones de Thamnophilidae han alcanzado el estatus de especies biolgicas. 
10.2307/4086773|We examined genetic variation in a California population of the highly social Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus) using starch-gel electrophoresis of 580 blood samples collected between 1975 and 1982. Eighteen genetic loci were resolvable from blood, 2 of which (Mpi and Np) were polymorphic. One additional locus (Est-2) showed variation that was not easily interpreted as an outcome of simple Mendelian inheritance. Average heterozygosity (0.032) was comparable to that of other bird species. Both variable loci showed a slight but not significant deficiency of heterozygotes relative to Hardy-Weinberg expectation. Of 186 nestlings from 62 nests, the genotypes of 4 nestlings (2.2%) from 2 nests (3.2%) were inconsistent with the genotypes of the group breeding males, thus indicating kleptogamy (cuckoldry) in our study population. The low level of genetic variation and the high degree of relatedness between males within groups prevented us from making definitive conclusions concerning the patterns of within-group paternity. Nonetheless, at 1 one-female nest the brood was probably, but not certainly, multiply sired.
10.2307/4089814|Arabian Babblers (Turdoides squamiceps) are territorial, cooperative breeding passerines that inhabit extreme deserts and live in groups all year round. All members of the group feed nestlings in a single nest, and all group members provision at similar rates. Nestlings are altricial and fledge at about 12 to 14 days, which is short for a passerine of its body mass. Because parents and helpers feed nestlings, we hypothesized that the growth rate of nestlings is fast and that they fledge at a body mass similar to other passerine fledglings. Using a logistic growth curve, the growth rate constant (k) of nestlings was 0.450, which was 18% higher than that predicted for a passerine of its body mass. Asymptotic body mass of fledglings was 46 g, which was only 63% of adult body mass, a low percentage compared to other passerines. Energy intake retained as energy accumulated in tissue decreased with age in babbler nestlings and amounted to 0.29 of the total metabolizable energy intake over the nestling period. However, energy content per gram of body mass increased with age and averaged 4.48 kJ/g body mass. We concluded that our hypothesis was partially confirmed. Growth rate of babbler nestlings was relatively fast compared to other passerine species, but fledgling mass was relatively low.
10.2307/4090275| Although multiple male feeders and multiple paternity for a single brood are taxonomically widespread among nonmigratory birds, they appear to be exceedingly rare among migrants. During a demographic study of Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) in Vermont, we observed groups of 2-4 males and one female feed each of 14 broods (78% of 18 broods observed). One male and one female fed each of the remaining four broods. Three males fed broods of two females concurrently or consecutively. Genetic analysis using microsatellite markers revealed multiple paternity in 9 of 13 broods (69%). Four males had offspring in more than one brood in the same year, but no females did. Ten of 17 males (59%) sired offspring in the broods they fed, and 10 of 13 sires (77%) fed the broods in which they sired young. Females fed nestlings more than twice as often as males. Both males and females tended to increase feeding rates as brood size increased. Possible factors influencing the reproductive behavior of Bicknell's Thrush include harsh montane weather, food limitation, a male-biased sex ratio, and reproductive synchrony. Additional research is needed to examine the interaction of ecological and demographic variables that shape the complex breeding ecology of Bicknell's Thrush. /// Aunque la presencia de varios machos alimentadores y paternidad mltiple en una misma nidada est ampliamente distribuida taxonmicamente entre aves no migratorias, esto parece ser extremadamente raro entre las migratorias. Durante un estudio demogrfico de Catharus bicknelli en Vermont, Estados Unidos, observamos grupos de 2-4 machos y una hembra alimentando a cada una de 14 nidadas (78% de las 18 nidadas observadas). Un macho y una hembra alimentaron a cada una de las cuatro nidadas restantes. Tres machos alimentaron nidadas de dos hembras al mismo tiempo o consecutivamente. Anlisis genticos usando marcadores microsatlites revelaron la existencia de paternidad mltiple en 9 de 13 nidadas (69%). Cuatro machos tuvieron cras en ms de una nidada en el mismo ao, cosa que ninguna hembra hizo. Diez de 17 machos (59%) engendraron cras en las nidadas que alimentaron, y 10 de 13 padres (77%) alimentaron las nidadas en las que engendraron cras. Las hembras alimentaron a los pichones con una frecuencia ms del doble que la de los machos. Tanto los machos como las hembras tendieron a incrementar sus tasas de alimentacin al aumentar el tamao de la nidada. Los posibles factores que influencian el comportamiento reproductivo de C. bicknelli incluyen el clima montano severo, la limitacin de alimento, una proporcin de sexos sesgada hacia los machos y la sincrona reproductiva. Se necesitan investigaciones adicionales para examinar la interaccin entre las variables ecolgicas y demogrficas que moldean el complejo sistema reproductivo de C. bicknelli. 
25150388|We examined the relationship between mass late in the first summer and survival and return to the natal breeding colony for 12 cohorts (1986-1997) of female Black Brant "(Branta bernicla nigricans)". We used Cormack-Jolly-Seber methods and the program MARK to analyze capture-recapture data. Models included two kinds of residuals from regressions of mass on days after peak of hatch when goslings were measured; one based on the entire sample (12 cohorts) and the other based only on individuals in the same cohort. Some models contained date of peak of hatch (a group covariate related to lateness of nesting in that year) and mean cohort residual mass. Finally, models allowed survival to vary among cohorts. The best model of encounter probability included an effect of residual mass on encounter probability and allowed encounter probability to vary among age classes and across years. All competitive models contained an effect of one of the estimates of residual mass; relatively larger goslings survived their first year at higher rates. Goslings in cohorts from later years in the analysis tended to have lower first-year survival, after controlling for residual mass, which reflected the generally smaller mean masses for these cohorts but was potentially also a result of population-density effects additional to those on growth. Variation among cohorts in mean mass accounted for 56% of variation among cohorts in first-year survival. Encounter probabilities, which were correlated with breeding probability, increased with relative mass, which suggests that larger goslings not only survived at higher rates but also bred at higher rates. Although our findings support the well-established linkage between gosling mass and fitness, they suggest that additional environmental factors also influence first-year survival. /// Examinamos la relacin del peso al final del primer verano con la supervivencia y el regreso a la colonia natal de cra para 12 cohortes (1986-1997) de hembras de Branta bernicla nigricans. Usamos los mtodos de Cormack-Jolly-Seber y el programa MARK para analizar los datos de captura-recaptura. Los modelos incluyeron dos tipos de residuos obtenidos a partir de las regresiones entre el peso y los das luego del punto mximo de eclosin, cuando se midieron los pichones; uno basado en la muestra entera (12 cohortes) y otro basado slo en los individuos de la misma cohorte. Algunos modelos incluyeron la fecha del punto mximo de eclosin (una covariable de grupo relacionada al atraso en la nidificacin en ese ao) y el peso residual promedio de la cohorte. Finalmente, los modelos permitieron que la supervivencia variara entre las cohortes. El mejor modelo de la probabilidad de encuentro incluy un efecto del peso residual sobre la probabilidad de encuentro y permiti que la probabilidad de encuentro vare entre las clases de edad y entre los aos. Todos los modelos competitivos contuvieron un efecto de uno de los estimadores del peso residual; los pichones relativamente ms grandes sobrevivieron su primer ao a una tasa ms alta. Los pichones de las cohortes de los ltimos aos del anlisis tendieron a presentar una supervivencia ms baja en el primer ao, luego de controlar por el peso residual. Esto reflej un peso promedio generalmente menor para estas cohortes, pero fue potencialmente tambin el resultado de los efectos de la densidad de la poblacin adems de los efectos del crecimiento. La variacin entre las cohortes en el promedio del peso signific el 56% de la variacin entre las cohortes en el primer ao de supervivencia. Las probabilidades de encuentro, las que se correlacionaron con la probabilidad de cra, incrementaron con el peso relativo, lo que sugiere que los pichones ms grandes no slo sobrevivieron a tasas ms altas sino que tambin nidificaron a tasas ms altas. Aunque nuestros hallazgos apoyan el nexo entre el peso de los pichones y la adecuacin biolgica, ellos sugieren que los factores ambientales adicionales tambin influyen en la supervivencia del primer ao.
4088047|Juvenile African Pied Starlings (Spreo bicolor) have a dark brown iris, but after the first year iris color changes progressively until adult birds have a creamy-white iris. Using light and electron microscopy, we found that the pigment epithelium of the iris remains pigmented, while changes occur in the pigmentation of the anterior border layer and the stroma of the subadult and adult iris. In the juvenile iris the anterior border layer is darkly pigmented, but in the subadult iris this pigmentation is lost progressively, while pigment granules are deposited in the stroma. In adults, the stroma is heavily pigmented with a solid refractory pigment, and the anterior border layer is clear.
4090637| The adaptive basis of plumage color has received much attention, including the finding that color can reveal information about parasite loads to potential mates. A related possibility, that color may be a direct defense against parasites, has received less attention. Melanin makes feathers tough and more resistant to wear and tear. Melanin may also make feathers more difficult for feather-feeding parasites to eat. We explored the role of melanin as a possible ectoparasite defense using Rock Pigeons (Columba livia) and their feather-feeding lice (Insecta: Phthiraptera). Rock Pigeons are an ideal species for such work because of the extreme variation in the feathers of different color morphs, ranging from melanin-rich black to melanin-free white individuals. We tested the effect of melanin on lice in several ways. First, we compared the natural louse loads of free-ranging pigeons to see whether the more melanistic color morphs had fewer lice. We also did laboratory assays in which we measured the survival and reproductive success of pigeon lice forced to feed on feathers with different amounts of melanin, and we compared the quantities of feather material consumed by these lice. Finally, we tested the habitat and feeding preferences of lice exposed to feathers with different amounts of melanin. None of our tests revealed any effect of melanin on lice. We conclude that melanin is not, at least in Rock Pigeons, a defense against feather lice. /// La base adaptativa del color del plumaje ha recibido mucha atencin, incluyendo el descubrimiento de que el color puede revelar informacin sobre la carga parasitaria de las potenciales parejas. La posibilidad de que el color pueda ser una defensa directa contra los parsitos ha recibido menos atencin. La melanina hace que las plumas sean duras y ms resistentes al uso y a desgarrarse y tambin puede hacer que las plumas sean ms difciles de comer para los parsitos que se alimentan de ellas. Exploramos el rol de la melanina como una posible defensa contra los ectoparsitos usando a Columba livia y a los piojos que se alimentan de sus plumas (Insecta: Phthiraptera). C. livia es una especie ideal para este trabajo debido a la variacin extrema del color de las plumas de las distintas formas, que van desde individuos negros ricos en melanina hasta individuos blancos libres de melanina. Evaluamos el efecto de la melanina sobre los piojos de distintas maneras. Primero, comparamos las cargas naturales de piojos de palomas libres para ver si las formas con ms melanina tenan menos piojos. Tambin realizamos ensayos de laboratorio en donde medimos la supervivencia y el xito reproductivo de piojos forzados a alimentarse de plumas con diferentes cantidades de melanina y comparamos las cantidades de material de las plumas consumidas por estos piojos. Finalmente, evaluamos las preferencias de hbitat y alimenticias de los piojos expuestos a plumas con diferentes cantidades de melanina. Ninguna de nuestras pruebas revel un efecto de la melanina sobre los piojos. Concluimos que la melanina no es una defensa contra los piojos de las plumas, al menos en C. livia. 
4085154|Censuses of the known geographical range of the rare and endangered Palila were conducted in January (nonbreeding season) and September (breeding season) 1975. The habitat (mamane and naio forest of Mauna Kea, Hawaii) was divided into five major areas, with each analyzed for vegetational composition, phenology of the predominant tree species, and Palila density. Using a line transect census technique, we determined that: 1) the Palila occupied 5,560 ha, approximately 10% of its former range; 2) Palila populations were more restricted in the nonbreeding season, possibly reflecting their flocking tendency; 3) Palila densities were 38 birds per km
10.2307/4089107|Several studies have documented elevated rates of nest predation for passerines and grouse in small forest patches and near anthropogenic edges. We examined patterns of predation on artificial nests in aspen (Populus tremuloides) woodlots and fencerows surrounded by agricultural land in Alberta. Nests were intended to mimic those of ground-nesting grouse and shrub-nesting passerines. We evaluated the relative importance of factors at the nest site, the forest patch, and the landscape to risk of nest predation by different predators. Total predation rates were highest in fencerows. Among woodlots, predation rates did not differ with woodlot area except in 1992, when predation on ground nests was higher in large woodlots. Most shrub nests were depredated by birds (corvids and House Wrens [Troglodytes aedon]). Corvid predation on shrub nests was higher in smaller woodlots and was highest on nests closest to the woodlot edge. Predation by small mammals was highest in larger woodlots and woodlots closer to farms and showed no edge effect. House Wren predation of shrub nests did not vary by any woodlot feature, nest cover, or distance to edge. We suggest that corvids forage mainly at the edges of forest patches and can fully penetrate small patches and fencerows. Small mammals are present in all woodlots, but avian predators take the eggs in small woodlots before they are detected by small mammals. Nest predators living within woodlots, such as wrens and small mammals, may be equally or more important than those living outside of woodlots in determining nest-predation risk for birds in woodlots.
10.1525/auk.2009.09073|The tail morphology of many birds is shaped by both natural and sexual selection. Models of tail aerodynamics predict that functions related to flight naturally select for moderately forked tail shapes, constraining the tendency of sexual selection to generate interspecific morphological diversity. Moreover, models predict that small birds will have low variation in tail morphology. Although hummingbirds (family Trochilidae) depend exclusively on flight for locomotion, the diversity of their tail morphology is among the greatest in all bird families. Hummingbird tail length exhibits positive allometry, scaling as approximately mass
4085738|The maintenance of feeding territories by Brown Skuas (Catharacta lonnbergi) was observed in a pygoscelid penguin rookery on King George Island during the 1977-1978 austral summer. Brown Skuas fed exclusively on penguin eggs and chicks once they became available in late October, and skua pairs holding feeding territories in the penguin rookery defended these areas against intruders that attempted to obtain food items from these territories. These intruders included conspecifics, Southern Black-backed Gulls (Larus dominicanus), and American Sheathbills (Chionis alba). Although territorial Brown Skuas attacked and chased overflying intruder conspecifics and gulls indiscriminately, only intruding skuas elicited the long call display from the territorial pair. Male skua energy investment in hunting and territorial defense was significantly greater than that of the female. Brown Skua territories were defined as optimal or suboptimal based on their available food resources. Analysis of skua breeding data suggests that an adaptive advantage in maintaining an optimal feeding territory appears to be increased reproductive success. Although there were no statistical differences in egg production, Brown Skuas defending optimal territories fledged significantly more chicks per pair than all other skuas [i.e. suboptimal territorial Brown Skua, nonterritorial Brown Skua, mixed Brown Skua-South Polar Skua (C. maccormicki), and South Polar Skua pairs]. This increased reproductive success of optimal territorial pairs may be linked to the proximity of an abundant food source.
4088550|We studied the ecology and behavior of pelagic seabirds in the Eastern Tropical Pacific (1984-1992). We hypothesize that the absence of kleptoparasitism (hereafter "parasitism") by jaegers and skuas (subfamily Stercorariinae, hereafter "skuas") on Kermadec Petrels (Pterodroma neglecta) and Herald Petrels (P. arminjoniana) observed in this study, compared to regular attack on procellariids of similar size, resulted from Batesian mimicry by the former of skuas. As mimics of skuas, Kermadec and Herald petrels avoided being kleptoparasitized because skuas do not parasitize conspecifics. We also document regular parasitism by Kermadec Petrels on other large procellariids, and further hypothesize that this petrel is successful as a parasite because it is a foraging mimic of the subadults of the larger skuas (Pomarine Jaegers [Stercorarius pomarinus] and South Polar Skuas [Catharacta maccormicki]) through its similarity of color pattern, flight profile, and behavior when initiating an attack, and because the large skuas (its models) are very effective as parasites. This petrel's incidence of attack and frequent use of alternate feeding methods suggests that it is a less specialized parasite than are the skuas. Kermadec Petrels prefer the same hosts and use a similar method of attack as do the large skuas, which achieve a very high rate of success in the Eastern Tropical Pacific because of their ability to threaten hosts through size-mediated aggressiveness. The Kermadec Petrel is smaller or similar in size to its preferred hosts and is not as aggressive as large skuas, but its rate of success as a parasite is higher than expected.
25488641|Western Scrub-Jays (
4088226|Two forms of golden-plover have long been considered subspecies, Pluvialis dominica dominica and P. d. fulva. Prior studies have shown differences between forms in breeding distributions, wintering distributions, plumage, morphology, molt, and maturation schedules. We report clear and consistent differences in breeding vocalizations and nesting habitat, and strict assortative mating in areas of sympatry in western Alaska. These results indicate a greater degree of differentiation between the forms than was previously appreciated. They are appropriately treated as separate species and should be referred to under the names Pluvialis dominica, for the American Golden-Plover, and Pluvialis fulva, for the Pacific Golden-Plover.
25150252|Seven living species of passerines are identified or tentatively identified from the early Pliocene Fox Canyon locality (4.3-4.8 mya), Rexroad Formation, Meade Basin, southwestern Kansas. All seven species occur in Kansas today, primarily as winter residents or transients, and their migratory behavior may extend to the early Pliocene as well. A review of all known passerines from the Neogene of North America indicates that many modern taxa began to appear in the early Pliocene, much earlier than previously believed. This fossil evidence agrees with some mitochondrial DNA analyses for the estimated age of divergence for living species of longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus and C. mccownii), but similar estimates for the divergence of C. ornatus using cytochrome-b analyses is at least 3 my younger than indicated by the fossil evidence. The fossil songbirds, as well as other vertebrate taxa from the Meade Basin, also indicate a paleoenvironment of short-grass prairie and shrubland with wetlands and ponds nearby, similar to that found in the area today. This prairie-steppe habitat first appeared in the Meade Basin by the early Pliocene and remained relatively stable until the Pleistocene, when it periodically appeared and disappeared with climate change. High seasonal productivity associated with this habitat in the early Pliocene may have promoted migratory behavior and speciation events in songbirds during a period of relative climatic stasis. /// Siete especies de aves paserinas que existen en la actualidad han sido identificadas o identificadas tentativamente en la Formacin Rexroad del Plioceno temprano (4.3-4.8 ma) en la localidad Fox Canyon, Meade Basin, suroeste de Kansas. Las siete especies se encuentran en Kansas en la actualidad, principalmente como residentes de invierno o transentes, y su comportamiento migratorio podra extenderse tambin al Plioceno temprano. Una revisin de todos los paserinos del Neogeno de Norte Amrica indica que muchos taxa modernos empezaron a aparecer en el Plioceno temprano, mucho antes de lo que se crea anteriormente. Esta evidencia fsil concuerda con algunos anlisis de ADN mitocondrial en cuanto a la edad estimada de la divergencia entre las especies vivientes Calcarius lapponicus y C. mccownii, pero estimados similares de la divergencia de C. ornatus obtenidos mediante anlisis del citocromo b son al menos tres millones de aos ms recientes que lo que indica el registro fsil. Las aves canoras fsiles, adems de otros taxa de vertebrados del Meade Basin, tambin indican la existencia de un paleoambiente de praderas de pastos cortos y matorrales con humedales y estanques, similar al ambiente que se encuentra en el rea actualmente. Este hbitat de praderas y estepas apareci por primera vez en el Meade Basin en el Plioceno temprano y permaneci relativamente estable hasta el Pleistoceno, cuando apareci y desapareci peridicamente con los cambios climticos. La alta productividad estacional asociada con este hbitat en el Pleistoceno temprano podra haber promovido el comportamiento migratorio y eventos de especiacin en las aves canoras, durante un perodo con clima relativamente esttico.
4085409|Land bird populations were censused on four islands and three matching mainland sites in southern Baja California. Island densities (summed totals for all species) were more than twice as high as mainland densities in the dominant desert scrub habitat, and slightly higher in the secondary, riparian woodland habitat. Island-mainland ratios varied greatly in most species, ranging from 8.25:1 in the Black-throated Sparrow to 0.18:1 in the White-winged Dove. Contrary to the predictions of density compensation theory the consuming biomass of the various foraging guilds also differed greatly between island and mainland sites, island-mainland ratios ranging from 4.31:1 in the flower probers, to 0.15:1 in the large terrestrial granivores. Environmental factors of food supply, predators, and climate apparently do not account for these differences in island vs. mainland densities. Instances of high island density are tentatively attributed to: a) higher mean adaptedness to local conditions due to isolation from the swamping and diluting effects of mainland interdeme gene flow, and/or b) overcrowding due to the blocking of normal, socially-induced dispersal movements by island coastline barriers (fence effect). Instances of low island density were encountered only in woodland species and are tentatively attributed to high extinction rates and tenuous population survival associated with the scarcity and small size of woodland habitat patches on islands.
25150269| Although the ultimate factors that influence the duration of avian incubation periods are well known, we know much less about the proximate mechanisms by which birds adjust incubation period in response to selection. We tested the hypothesis that an adjustment in eggshell porosity is one such proximate mechanism (i.e., that avian species with higher ratios of incubation period to egg size lay eggs with less porous shells). Eggshell porosity affects the rate of gaseous exchange between the developing embryo and the external environment; thus, to the extent that embryonic metabolism is diffusion-limited, eggshell porosity could directly determine incubation period. To test that hypothesis, we collected eggs from seven species of Alcidae, a family of marine birds that exhibits an unusual degree of interspecific variation in incubation period, and measured egg mass and eggshell porosity (determined by the number and size of pores and the thickness of the shell). Incubation periods were obtained from the literature. Egg mass and eggshell porosity combined explained 87% of the variation in incubation period among the seven species, which included at least one member of each of the six main alcid lineages. As predicted, eggshell porosity and incubation period were negatively related, after controlling for egg mass. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that evolutionary changes in avian incubation period may be attributed, at least in part, to adjustments in eggshell porosity. /// Les facteurs fondamentaux qui influencent la dure de la priode d'incubation chez les oiseaux sont bien connus. En revanche, nous connaissons peu les mcanismes immdiats par lesquels les oiseaux ajustent leur priode d'incubation en rponse  la slection naturelle. Nous avons test l'hypothse qu'un ajustement de la porosit de la coquille soit l'un de ces mcanismes immdiats (i.e. les espces aviaires dont les rapports de la priode d'incubation sur la taille de l'uf sont levs pondent des ufs avec des coquilles moins poreuses). La porosit de la coquille affecte le taux d'changes gazeux entre l'embryon en dveloppement et l'environnement extrieur; ainsi, dans la mesure o le mtabolisme embryonnaire est limit par la diffusion, la porosit de la coquille peut directement dterminer la priode d'incubation. Pour tester cette hypothse, nous avons rcolt des ufs de sept espces d'alcids, une famille d'oiseaux marins qui prsente un degr inhabituel de variation interspcifique de la priode d'incubation, de la masse des ufs mesure et de la porosit de la coquille (dtermine par le nombre et la taille des pores et l'paisseur de la coquille). Les priodes d'incubation ont t obtenues  partir de la littrature. La combinaison de la masse des ufs et de la porosit de la coquille expliquait 87% de la variation de la priode d'incubation parmi les sept espces, incluant au moins un membre de chacune des six principales lignes d'alcids. Comme prvu, aprs avoir tenu compte de la masse des ufs, la porosit de la coquille et la priode d'incubation taient ngativement relies. Nos rsultats soutiennent l'hypothse que les changements volutifs de la priode d'incubation chez les oiseaux peuvent tre attribus, du moins en partie, aux ajustements de la porosit de la coquille. 
10.2307/4089924|We sequenced the complete mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene (1,143 nucleotides) for representatives of each species in the cardinalid genera Passerina (6 species), Guiraca (1 species), and Cyanocompsa (3 species), and used a variety of phylogenetic methods to address relationships within and among genera. We determined that Passerina, as presently recognized, is paraphyletic. Lazuli Bunting (P. amoena) is sister to the much larger Blue Grosbeak (Guiraca caerulea). Indigo Bunting (P. cyanea) and Lazuli Bunting are not sister taxa as generally thought. In all weighted parsimony trees and for the gamma-corrected HKY tree, Indigo Bunting is the sister of two sister groups, a "blue" (Lazuli Bunting and Blue Grosbeak) and a "painted" (Rosita's Bunting [P. rositae], Orange-breasted Bunting [P. leclancherii], Varied Bunting [P. versicolor], and Painted Bunting [P. ciris]) clade. The latter two species form a highly supported sister pair of relatively more recent origin. Uncorrected (p) distances for ingroup (Passerina and Guiraca) taxa range from 3.0% (P. versicolor-P. ciris) to 7.6% (P. cyanea-P. leclancherii) and average 6.5% overall. Assuming a molecular clock, a bunting "radiation" between 4.1 and 7.3 Mya yielded four lineages. This timing is consistent with fossil evidence and coincides with a late-Miocene cooling during which a variety of western grassland habitats evolved. A reduction in size at that time may have allowed buntings to exploit that new food resource (grass seeds). We speculate that the Blue Grosbeak subsequently gained large size and widespread distribution as a result of ecological character displacement.
10.2307/4089683|Variation in the extent of extrapair paternity among avian species could result from ecological differences in breeding synchrony and/or density, or the existence or absence of paternity guards. We studied the extrapair mating system and paternity-assurance behaviors of an asynchronously breeding tropical songbird, the Mangrove Swallow (Tachycineta albilinea), and compared this species with the synchronously breeding temperate zone Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor). Mangrove Swallows had a moderate level of extrapair paternity (26% of broods, 15% of nestlings), low breeding synchrony (8% of females fertile simultaneously), and low breeding density (average nearest-neighbor distance 313 m). The spatial and temporal distribution of nests with and without extrapair young did not differ significantly. Males did not follow their mates closely during the female's fertile period, and within-pair copulation frequency was low (0.33 copulations/h). Mangrove Swallows had a significantly lower proportion of extrapair young compared with Tree Swallows. Differences in breeding synchrony may explain the difference in extrapair paternity between the two congeners.
25488713|We estimated apparent annual survival probability of adult Purple Martins (
10.2307/4088407|I investigated the stability of parent-offspring bonds, and sibling-sibling bonds of neck-banded Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) during winters (September-May) in California and southern Oregon from 1979 to 1989. Geese captured at feeding sites were more likely to be in social groups than those captured at roosting sites. Offspring remained associated with their parents longer than reported for other geese, as 69% of yearlings, 39% of two-year-olds, and 38% of three-year-olds and older were observed with their parents during winter. The proportion of time offspring spent with their parents declined as they grew older, being 76% for juveniles, 32% for yearlings, and 15% for two-year-olds and older. The prevalence of extended family groups was corroborated by counts of landing groups of unmarked geese. Sibling bonds also persisted after the first year of life, with 74%, 50%, and 39% of siblings maintaining some degree of social contact at ages of one, two and three years or older, respectively. Older offspring were more likely to associate with brood mates than with parents. Intensive observations ended when the oldest known-age geese were 34 months old. Incidental sightings in subsequent years revealed that some offspring up to eight years of age still associated with their parents and/or siblings. The benefits of maintaining long-term family bonds were not readily apparent, as there was no difference in the reproductive success of parents with and without attendant offspring, and yearlings that associated with parents were not more likely to survive than yearlings that did not associate with parents. However, older offspring and their parents may benefit by remaining together if extended families are more dominant and have better access to limited food and safe roost sites. Parents benefit if their fitness is enhanced due to nest defense provided by older offspring, and subadults probably benefit from staying with their parents by learning foraging and predator avoidance strategies from parents and older siblings.
4085892|Relationships between area and number of species and individuals of birds were examined for 69 forest islands (shelterbelts) in eastern South Dakota for 2 yr. The relatively homogeneous habitat of shelterbelts allowed assessment of area effects with minimal bias due to habitat heterogeneity. The number of species increased with area with a steep slope (z =0.39). The total numbers of individuals increased linearly with area but not proportionally; density decreased with increasing area. The total numbers of individuals increased proportionally with area (constant density with increasing area) when abundances of three common species that foraged outside of shelterbelts were excluded. This suggested that individuals interacted to distribute themselves among shelterbelts relative to resources. A model developed for interacting species was applied to three ecological (primary food habits) groups; the group (insectivores) that was most restricted to feeding within shelterbelts provided a good fit to the model, while the group (granivores) that was least restricted to feeding within shelterbelts provided a poor fit. Minimum area requirements restricted colonization for some species in smaller shelterbelts, but species often were absent from shelterbelts larger than their minimum size requirements. The number of species that coexisted in a moderately small
10.2307/4089381| Avian species differ markedly in the extent to which males contribute to prehatching and posthatching parental care. In a recent comparative study, Mller and Birkhead (1993) concluded that diversity in male parental care was associated with differences among species in extrapair paternity. Specifically, their results showed a significant inverse relationship between extrapair paternity and male contributions to feeding of nestlings. We used a revised and updated data set in an attempt to replicate their study. In contrast to their results, we found no evidence that the evolution of male posthatching care was strongly correlated with paternity. Instead, our results showed that male participation in incubation tends to be negatively associated with extrapair fertilization rates, thereby providing tentative support for Ketterson and Nolan's (1994) hypothesis that this particular form of parental care may be especially restrictive to male extrapair mating activities. 
4086167|The 18 May 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens deposited about 3.5 cm of ash on a nesting colony of Ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and California (L. californicus) gulls at Sprague Lake, Washington. No adult mortality was noted, but adults of both species apparently left their nests unattended during the ashfall, with the result that their eggs became buried beneath the ash blanket. Using both their feet and bills, significantly more California than Ring-billed gulls excavated their ash-covered nests. The success of Ring-billed Gulls at excavation varied with habitat. Of the gulls not excavating, few California Gulls renested, but most Ring-billed Gulls renested within 6 weeks, although with lower than normal success. Inspection of two other affected gull colonies suggested that reproductive success varied inversely with ash depth. Large breeding populations at the colony sites in 1981 indicated that the nesting substrate had not become so altered by the previous year's ash deposit that these sites were avoided by the gulls for nesting.
25488693|Avian researchers often uniquely mark birds, and multiple estimators could be used to estimate population size using individually identified birds. However, most estimators of population size require that all sightings of marked birds be uniquely identified, and many assume homogeneous detection probabilities. Bowden's estimator can incorporate sightings of marked birds that are not uniquely identified and relax assumptions required of other estimators. I used computer simulation to evaluate the performance of Bowden's estimator for situations likely to be encountered in bird studies. When the assumptions of the estimator were met, abundance and variance estimates and confidence-interval coverage were accurate. However, precision was poor for small population sizes (
4086421|We switched eggs among nests of European Starlings soon after the eggs were laid, and we measured incubation periods to within 2 h in most cases. Data from two years were analyzed to determine how much the natural parent of the egg and the incubating parent contributed to variation in the length of the incubation period. In one year, the relative size and composition of the yolk of one egg from each clutch were measured in order to assess the additional influence of egg composition on the length of the incubation period. In both sets of experiments, nest (incubating parent) had a significant effect, whereas clutch (natural parent) had either no effect or a marginally significant effect on the length of the incubation period. The standard deviation of incubation periods within nests was 2.6 and 3.5 h in the two experiments. Incubation periods increased significantly both with the percentage of yolk in eggs laid by the natural parent and with the percentage of yolk in eggs laid by the incubating parent. Our results suggest that the length of the incubation period is determined primarily by the incubating behavior of the adult, thermal properties of the nest, or both. Genetic differences in the growth rates of embryos and maternal effects expressed through egg composition were small and generally insignificant. Incubation period was, however, weakly related to egg composition of both the natural parent and the incubating parent, suggesting a phenotypic correlation between egg formation and incubation behavior.
4087184|A phylogenetic analysis of all Recent genera of the Anseriformes using 120 morphological characters supports much of the current consensus regarding intraordinal relationships. I found that (1) Anseranas should be placed in a monotypic family; (2) Dendrocygna, Thalassornis, geese and swans, and Stictonetta are paraphyletic to the rest of the Anatidae; (3) Cereopsis is the sister group to Anser and Branta, and Coscoroba is the sister group to Cygnus and Olor; (4) Plectropterus is the sister group to the Tadorninae (shelducks) and the Anatinae (typical ducks); (5) the shelducks are monophyletic and include Sarkidiornis (provisionally), Malacorhynchus, Hymenolaimus, Merganetta, and Tachyeres; (6) the tribe "Cairinini" ("perching ducks") is an unnatural, polyphyletic assemblage and is rejected; (7) the dabbling ducks (including the smaller "perching ducks") comprise an unresolved, probably paraphyletic group; (8) tribal monophyly of the pochards (including Marmaronetta and Rhodonessa), sea ducks (including the eiders), and stiff-tailed ducks (including Heteronetta) is confirmed; and (9) the retention of Mergellus and resurrection of Nomonyx are recommended based on clarifications of intratribal relationships. Problematic groups, effects of homoplasy, phenetic comparisons, life-history correlates, biogeographic patterns, and fossil species are discussed, and a phylogenetic classification of Recent genera is proposed.
4086714|We studied the cooperatively breeding Gray-backed Fiscal Shrike (Lanius excubitorius) near Naivasha, Kenya, to explore the roles of social and ecological factors in the maintenance of group-living. Gray-backs occurred in groups of 2-9 or more individuals, with only one breeding pair per group. Supernumeraries act as helpers to the breeders. Habitat of this species varied in the amount of perennial shrub cover. In the dry months high-cover areas had significantly more prey items than did low-cover areas. Group size was significantly positively correlated with shrub cover at 3 of the 4 times tested during the 3-yr study, and mean group size over an 18-month period also was correlated with shrub cover. Both individual survivorship and production of young increased with increasing cover. Group size also was correlated with survivorship and production of young. Partial correlation analysis could not separate the influences of group size and cover on survivorship. However, cover was significantly associated with the production of young when group size was held constant, and not vice versa. Pairs or small groups occasionally colonized low-cover areas; typically, however, the birds immigrating into these areas disappeared without having bred successfully. In contrast, high-cover areas held a constant number of breeding pairs and a varying number of supernumeraries. Supernumerary birds appeared to have a choice between dispersal and natal-territory fidelity, with the decision to disperse apparently weighed against the probability of eventual attainment of breeding status within or near the natal territory.
90008164|The polytypic species concept unites populations that theoretically could and would interbreed were the opportunity to arise. This concept places the burden of proof of reproductive incapability and species status on those claiming species or higher rank. Advances in our understanding of the nature of reproductive isolation, the genetics of speciation, the limited role of gene flow, the power of directional selection, and the dynamics of hybridization support a different null hypothesis for taxonomic decisions, one that places the burden of proof on lumping rather than on splitting taxa at the species level. Switching the burden of proof provides an improved conceptual basis for the recognition of many allopatric island taxa and subspecies groups that merit species status. Taxonomic revisions based on these advances predictably confirm that distinct sister populations once lumped as polytypic species are independent evolutionary lineages that exhibit essential reproductive isolation. Release from the concerns about hybridization also positions proposed species for timely taxonomic decisions. The stage is set to proactively redefine polytypic species to separate component species for the 21
40406073|Researchers commonly collect blood samples from wild birds, and most workers assume that blood sampling has no adverse effect on the birds' survival. Few studies, however, have done controlled comparisons among bled and non-bled individuals and estimated survival using modern statistical methodology. We used a data set on Cliff Swallows (
4086705|Conspicuous coloration may evolve through aggressive competition either for mates, in sexual selection, or for any limiting resource, in social competition. Most species of hummingbirds (Trochilidae) have polygynous (promiscuous) mating systems, bright male plumage, and conspicuous sexual dichromatism. These patterns have led to the view that their iridescent plumage has evolved by sexual selection. I report an iridescent polychromatism in females of the Andean hummingbird Heliangelus exortis exortis that suggests the evolution of iridescent plumage via aggressive feeding behavior. Female H. e. exortis vary within and among populations in the development of the large iridescent gorget characteristic of males. I document a regular north-south pattern of geographic variation in the polychromatism. In samples from northern Colombia, female gorgets vary from a noniridescent (femalelike) to a fully iridescent (malelike) condition, whereas females from southern Colombia have only the discrete noniridescent and fully iridescent morphs. Samples of females from Ecuador are comprised predominantly of the noniridescent morph. The color forms are not due to seasonal plumage differences or ontogenetic changes. A significant negative correlation between bill length and degree of iridescence in the largest geographic sample suggests that females with iridescent gorgets are more aggressive territorial foragers than less iridescent females.
10.2307/4089410| We documented gosling size in late summer, adult body size, and clutch size of known-age Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) females nesting on the Tutakoke River colony between 1986 and 1995. During this period, the colony increased from 1,100 to >5,000 nesting pairs. Gosling mass at 30 days of age declined from 764  SE of 13 g and 723  15 g for males and females, respectively, in the 1986 cohort, to 665  18 g and 579  18 g in the 1994 cohort. Gosling size was directly negatively correlated with number of Black Brant broods. We detected no trend in adult body size for individuals from these cohorts; in fact, adults from the 1992 and 1994 cohorts had the largest overall masses. Clutch size increased with age from 3.4 eggs for 2-year-old females to 4.4 eggs for 5-year-old females. Clutch size declined during the study by 0.20 (3-year-old females) to 0.45 (2-year-old females) eggs. Clutch size did not decline between the 1986 and 1990 cohorts for females that were >5 years old. Our results for clutch size and gosling size are similar to those recorded for Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens). Our failure to detect a trend in adult body size, however, differs from the response of other geese to increasing population density. We interpret this difference in effects of density on adult size between Black Brant and other geese as an indication of stronger selection against the smallest individuals in Black Brant relative to other species of geese. 
4090455| Phylogenetic relationships among the antpitta genera were studied using DNA sequence data from the mitochondrial genome. The clade representing the traditional "antpitta" genera (Grallaria, Grallaricula, Hylopezus, Myrmothera, and Pittasoma) was found to be paraphyletic, owing to the sister relationship of Pittasoma and Conopophaga. In a previously unreported relationship, Pittasoma was strongly supported as the sister genus to Conopophaga (Conopophagidae). The remaining antpitta genera form a fully resolved and well-supported monophyletic lineage with two major subclades. The first clade consists of the genus Grallaria and supports the subgenera identified by Lowery and O'Neill (1969). The second antpitta clade has Hylopezus as the sister genus to Myrmothera, with Grallaricula as their sister genus. The results here allow for a new interpretation of the morphological characters used in previous studies. /// Las relaciones filogenticas entre los gneros de tororoes ("antpittas" en ingls) se estudiaron con base en datos de secuencias del ADN del genoma mitocondrial. Se encontr que el clado que representa a los gneros tradicionalmente considerados en el grupo (Grallaria, Grallaricula, Hylopezus, Myrmothera y Pittasoma) es parafiltico, debido a que Pittasoma y Conopophaga (Conopophagidae) son gneros hermanos, una relacin fuertemente apoyada que no haba sido documentada previamente. El resto de los gneros de tororoes forman un linaje monofiltico totalmente resuelto y bien apoyado, que contiene dos subclados principales. El primer clado consiste del gnero Grallaria y apoya los subgneros identificados por Lowery y O'Neill (1969). El segundo clado tiene a Hylopezus como el gnero hermano de Myrmothera, y Grallaricula como el gnero hermano de ambos. Los resultados de este trabajo permiten una nueva interpretacin de los caracteres morfolgicos utilizados en estudios previos. 
10.2307/4089764|Molecular methods have brought new insight to the study of mating patterns. Extrapair fertilizations (EPF) have proven to be widespread among bird species irrespective of social relationships. Ecological factors, such as breeding density and synchrony, have been suggested as contributors to variation in EPF rates. Absence of a male during the female fertile period may also increase the probability of EPFs. In this study, we examined experimentally whether breeding density and male absence before egg-laying influence the EPF rate in Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca). DNA fingerprinting revealed that 4.4% (10/225) of nestlings were the result of EPFs and 7.0% (3/43) of broods included at least one offspring sired by a male other than that attending the nest. We did not find any evidence of higher EPF rate with higher breeding density as stated by the density hypothesis. Contrary to expectation, EPFs were more frequent, though not quite statistically significantly, at low breeding density: all three EPF nests were found in low-breeding-density areas. There was no evidence that EPF rate was affected by a 4 h male removal. In all cases of EPF, an old female was mated with a yearling male, which suggests that older females mated with browner yearling males may have adjusted their initial mate choice through EPCs to acquire indirect genetic benefits. Pied Flycatcher females may be constrained to accept a mate of lower than preferred quality, especially at low breeding density, due to the cost of searching for alternative males.
10.1525/auk.2013.12187|Proliferation of wind energy across the Great Plains of the United States has the potential to negatively affect many grassland birds through displacement, avoidance, or changes in nesting ecology. This is troublesome because grassland birds have had the highest average annual rate of decline over the past several decades. We studied the potential indirect effects of wind turbines on nesting success in Dickcissels (
25488608|Most male passerines do not develop brood patches. Despite this, some, including Barn Swallows (
10.2307/4089375|We examined variation in the onset of nocturnal incubation by female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). Many females began nocturnal incubation after laying the prepenultimate egg, which resulted in asynchronous hatching. This pattern of incubation is consistent with a model that predicts hatching asynchrony when the ratio of nest predation in the egg stage to predation in the nestling stage is near unity. Using 13 years of nest data, however, we found no significant relationship between the natural degree of hatching asynchrony and fledging success, and a significant negative relationship between hatching asynchrony and nestling quality. Therefore, we considered three hypotheses to explain the early onset of nocturnal incubation in this species: (1) increased egg viability, (2) protection of clutches from predators, and (3) protection of clutches from brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). We found no evidence that early onset of nocturnal incubation increased egg viability. Incubation was not related to ambient temperature or precipitation, and early onset of incubation was not associated with increased hatching success. Nocturnal incubation was similar at depredated and nondepredated nests, which does not support the hypothesis that nest predation selects for early onset of incubation. Onset of nocturnal incubation occurred significantly later at nests parasitized by cowbirds than at unparasitized nests, however, in one of two years. These data suggest that protection against cowbird parasitism favors early onset of nocturnal incubation in Red-winged Blackbirds.
10.2307/4090493| Songbirds apply ants to their feathers during anting behavior, possibly as a method of reducing feather parasites. We tested polar and nonpolar ant secretions and pure formic acid for bactericidal and fungicidal effects on microbial ectoparasites of feathers. Microbial inhibition trials were run with the bacteria Bacillus licheniformis (strains OWU 138B and OWU 1432B) and B. subtilis; and with the fungi Chaetomium globosum, Penicillium chrysogenum, and Trichoderma viride. Ant chemicals were derived from Camponotus pennsylvanicus, Pheidole dentata, Aphaenogaster rudis, Crematogaster lineolata, and Lasius flavus worker-caste ants. Although pure formic acid strongly inhibited all bacteria and fungal hyphae tested, concentrations of formic acid found in the bodies of formicine ants did not. Neither hexane ant-chemical extracts nor ant suspensions in deionized water inhibited the microbial species. Consequently, the hypothesis that birds apply ants to control feather parasites was not supported. /// Las aves paserinas aplican hormigas a sus plumas en el comportamiento de hormigueo, posiblemente como un mtodo para reducir la carga parasitaria de las plumas. En este estudio probamos la capacidad bactericida y fungicida de secreciones polares y no polares de hormigas y formas puras de cido frmico sobre ectoparsitos microbianos de plumas. Las pruebas de inhibicin bacteriana fueron realizadas con Bacillus licheniformis (cepas OWU 138B y OWU 1432B) y B. subtilis, y con los hongos Chaetomium globosum, Penicillium chrysogenum y Trichoderma viride. Los qumicos de hormigas fueron derivados de las castas obreras de las especies Camponotus pennsylvanicus, Pheidole dentata, Aphaenogaster rudis, Crematogaster lineolata y Lasius flavus. A pesar de que las formas puras de cido frmico inhibieron fuertemente a todas las bacterias e hifas micticas probadas, las concentraciones de cido frmico encontradas en los cuerpos de las hormigas de la subfamilia Formicinae no lo hicieron. Los extractos qumicos de hexanos de hormigas y hormigas suspendidas en agua deionizadas tampoco inhibieron a las especies de microbios. Consecuentemente, la hiptesis de que las aves se aplican hormigas para controlar los parsitos de las plumas no fue apoyada. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10234|Guira Cuckoos (
10.1525/auk.2009.09035|Endangered species are sensitive to the genetic effects of fragmentation, small population size, and inbreeding, so effective management requires a thorough understanding of their breeding systems and genetic diversity. The Greater Sage-Grouse (
25488562|Few studies have investigated the vocal communication of ratites, and none has investigated the spectral and temporal structure of vocalizations of
4085097|This study reports on the brood-related behavior of Ruddy Ducks at Farmington Bay Waterfowl Management Area, Farmington, Utah. Drake accompaniment of hens and broods apparently resulted from a residual mate attraction rather than from a paternal relationship with the brood. Hen Ruddy Ducks accomplished inter- and intraspecific brood defense by means of agonistic displays and actual aggression. Communication between hen and brood was accomplished through visual and, occasionally, auditory signals. Calls were used to regroup ducklings, whereas visual displays were used to stimulate specific brood response. Brood behavior varied according to the age of the ducklings and the site occupied.
4090590| In the great majority of animal taxa, males do not participate in parental care, but substantial paternal care is common across avian species. We examined male and female incubation contributions in House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), quantifying the incubation behavior of free-living, individually color-banded parents during 47 nesting cycles. We also measured the relative warmth of male and female incubation surfaces. Females spent more time incubating than their male partners, and female time incubating served as the best single predictor for hatching success. Considered alone, male time incubating correlated negatively with hatching success, but that effect was nullified when female incubation was taken into account. Females had warmer abdomens than males, a difference that may reflect greater development of brood patch and effectiveness of incubation in that sex. Here, male badge size was not demonstrably associated with either male or female incubation patterns or hatching success. /// En la mayora de los taxa animales los machos no participan en el cuidado parental; sin embargo, un cuidado paterno substancial es comn en las aves. Examinamos las contribuciones de los machos y las hembras durante la incubacin en la especie Passer domesticus, cuantificando el comportamiento de incubacin de parejas en libertad y marcadas individualmente con anillos de colores durante 47 ciclos de nidificacin. Tambin medimos la temperatura relativa de las superficies de incubacin de las hembras y de los machos. Las hembras permanecieron incubando por un periodo de tiempo mayor que sus parejas macho y el tiempo de incubacin por la hembra fue la variable nica que mejor predijo el xito de eclosin. Al considerar slo el tiempo de incubacin de los machos, ste se correlacion negativamente con el xito de eclosin, pero este efecto se anul cuando se tom en cuenta la incubacin por parte de la hembra. Las hembras tuvieron abdmenes ms clidos que los machos, una diferencia que puede reflejar un mayor desarrollo del parche de incubacin y una mayor efectividad de la incubacin por parte de las hembras. En este estudio, el tamao del parche del macho no se asoci con los patrones de incubacin del macho ni de la hembra, ni con el xito de eclosin. 
25488512|Elaborate male and female plumage can be maintained by mutual sexual selection and function as a mate-choice or status signal in both sexes. Both male and female Turquoise-browed Motmot (
10.2307/25150215|We used an allometric approach to compare the minimum nitrogen requirements (MNR) and the total endogenous nitrogen loss (TENL) of nectar- and fruit-eating birds with those of omnivorous birds. These two parameters were 4 higher in omnivores than in nectarivores and frugivores. In nectarivorous-frugivorous birds, MNR was
10.2307/4086819| Egg temperatures
10.2307/4090479| I investigated the causes and consequences of adult breeding-site fidelity, territory fidelity, and natal philopatry in Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) in southeastern Oregon over a 10-year period, testing the general hypothesis that fidelity and dispersal distances are influenced by previous breeding performance. Willow Flycatchers adhered to the generally observed tendencies of passerine birds for low natal philopatry and high breeding-site fidelity. Site fidelity (return to the study area) of adult males (52.0%) and females (51.3%), and median dispersal distances between seasons (16 m vs. 19 m) were similar. Previous breeding performance and residency (age-experience), but not study-site quality, explained site fidelity in females. Site fidelity of females rearing 4-5 young (64.4%) exceeded that of unsuccessful females (40.0%), breeding dispersal was less (successful: 15 m; unsuccessful: 33 m), and novice residents were more site-faithful than former residents. Probability of site fidelity was higher for previously successful females (odds ratio = 4.76), those with greater seasonal fecundity (odds ratio = 1.58), novice residents (odds ratio = 1.41), and unparasitized females (odds ratio = 2.76). Male site fidelity was not related to residency, site quality, or previous breeding performance. Territory fidelity (return to the previous territory) in females was best explained by previous breeding performance, but not by site quality or residency. Previously successful females were more likely to return to their territory of the previous season than either unsuccessful (odds ratio = 14.35) or parasitized birds (odds ratio = 6.38). Male territory fidelity was not related to residency, site quality, or previous breeding performance. Natal philopatry was low (7.8%) and similar for males and females. Site quality appeared to influence philopatry, given that no birds reared at a low-quality study site returned there to breed, and birds reared there dispersed farther than birds reared at two other study sites. My results partially support the hypothesis that site fidelity is an adaptive response: (1) previously successful females that switched territories underperformed those that did not switch (P = 0.01); and (2) previously unsuccessful females that switched territories outperformed those that did not switch, but not significantly (P = 0.22). /// Investigu las causas y consecuencias de la fidelidad al sitio de nidificacin, fidelidad al territorio y filopatra natal de adultos en la especie Empidonax traillii en el sureste de Oregon durante un perodo de 10 aos con el fin de probar la hiptesis de que la fidelidad y las distancias de dispersin son influenciadas por el desempeo reproductivo en aos anteriores. Empidonax traillii concuerda con la tendencia general observada en aves paserinas a una baja filopatra natal y una alta fidelidad a los sitios de nidificacin. La fidelidad al sitio (retorno al rea de estudio) de los machos adultos (52%) y de las hembras (51.3%), y las medianas de las distancias de dispersin entre estaciones (16 m vs. 19 m) fueron similares. La fidelidad al sitio de las hembras estuvo explicada por el desempeo reproductivo en aos anteriores y por su residencia (experiencia asociada a la edad), pero no por la calidad del rea de estudio. La fidelidad al sitio de las hembras que criaron 4-5 polluelos (64.4%) fue mayor que la de las hembras no exitosas (40%), y la dispersin reproductiva fue menor (exitosas: 15 m; no exitosas: 33 m). Las hembras residentes novatas fueron ms fieles a sus sitios que las residentes de aos anteriores. La probabilidad de fidelidad al sitio fue mayor para las hembras previamente exitosas (cociente de probabilidad = 4.76), para aquellas con mayor fecundidad estacional (cociente de probabilidad = 1.58), para las residentes novatas (cociente de probabilidad = 1.41) y para las hembras no parasitadas (cociente de probabilidad = 2.76). La fidelidad al sitio de los machos no se relacion con su residencia, con la calidad del sitio ni con su desempeo reproductivo. La fidelidad al territorio (retorno al territorio anterior) de las hembras fue mejor explicada por el desempeo reproductivo anterior, y no por la calidad del sitio ni por el estatus de residencia de las hembras. Las hembras previamente exitosas tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de volver a sus territorios de la temporada anterior que las hembras no exitosas (cociente de probabilidad = 14.35) y que las hembras parasitadas (cociente de probabilidad = 6.38). La fidelidad al territorio de los machos no se relacion con su estatus de residencia, la calidad del sitio ni con su desempeo reproductivo anterior. La filopatra natal fue baja (7.8%) y similar para hembras y machos. La calidad del sitio aparentemente influenci la filopatra, dado que ninguna de las aves criadas en sitios de baja calidad volvi a criar ah, y las aves criadas en sitios de baja calidad se dispersaron ms lejos que las aves criadas en otros dos sitios de estudio. Mis resultados apoyan parcialmente la hiptesis de que la fidelidad al sitio es una respuesta adaptativa: (1) las hembras previamente exitosas que cambiaron de territorio tuvieron un menor desempeo que aquellas que no se cambiaron (P = 0.01); y (2) las hembras previamente no exitosas que cambiaron de territorio tuvieron un mejor desempeo que aquellas que no se cambiaron, aunque esto no fue significativo (P = 0.22). 
25150346|Species limits in the genus Plectrophenax have been difficult to assess. McKay's Buntings (Plectrophenax hyperboreus) are very similar both morphologically and behaviorally to Snow Buntings (P. nivalis). However, their breeding ranges are allopatric, and there is limited evidence of gene flow. The juvenal plumage of McKay's Buntings has never been described as different from that of Snow Buntings. Comparison of a series of McKay's Buntings in juvenal plumage with a series of Snow Buntings in juvenal plumage showed clear differences between the two forms. We used color spectrophotometry to quantify the differences between the two taxa in two areas of the body that appeared to be consistently different, the throat and back. The relative magnitude of the difference between McKay's and Snow buntings was greater than homologous differences between two subspecies of Snow Bunting (P. n. nivalis and P. n. townsendi). Four out of six variables were significantly different between McKay's and Snow buntings, whereas none of the variables were significantly different between the two subspecies of Snow Bunting. Bonferroni corrected t-tests of sexual dimorphism and regression of the variables against year of collection showed that these factors were not associated with these differences. Discriminant analysis accurately separated 100% of the specimens into their respective groups. These differences are notable given the evolutionarily conservative nature of juvenal plumage. Our results support continued recognition of McKay's Bunting as a species and reconfirm the use of juvenal plumage to help determine species limits. /// Los lmites entre especies del gnero Plectrophenax han sido difciles de establecer. Plectrophenax hyperboreus es muy similar en morfologa y comportamienento a P. nivalis. Sin embargo, sus rangos de cra son aloptricos y la evidencia de flujo gentico es limitada. El plumaje juvenil de P. hyperboreus nunca ha sido descrito como diferente del de P. nivalis. Una comparacin de series de especmenes de P. hyperboreus y P. nivalis en plumaje juvenil mostr claramente que existen diferencias entre las dos formas. Utilizamos espectrofotometra de color para cuantificar las diferencias entre los dos taxones en dos regiones del cuerpo que parecan diferir consistentemente, la garganta y la espalda. La magnitud relativa de la diferencia entre P. hyperboreus y P. nivalis fue mayor que la de diferencias homlogas observadas entre dos subespecies de P. nivalis (P. n. nivalis y P. n. townsendi). Cuatro de seis variables fueron significativamente diferentes entre P. hyperboreus y P. nivalis, mientras que ninguna de las variables fue significativamente diferente entre las dos subespecies de P. nivalis. Pruebas de t corregidas mediante Bonferroni para evaluar dimorfismo sexual y anlisis de regresin de las variables contra el ao de coleccin, mostraron que esos factores no estn asociados con las diferencias. Anlisis discriminantes separaron el 100% de los especmenes con exactitud en sus grupos respectivos. Estas diferencias son notables dada la naturaleza evolutivamente conservada del plumaje juvenil. Nuestros resultados apoyan el reconocimiento continuado de P. hyperboreus como una especie, y reconfirman el uso del plumaje juvenil para ayudar a determinar los lmites entre especies.
4087190|The putative cormorant Phalacrocorax subvolans Brodkorb 1956, from the early Miocene of Florida, is moved from the Phalacrocoracidae to the Anhingidae and should be known as Anhinga subvolans (Brodkorb 1956). This species is the earliest known anhinga and demonstrates that the family Anhingidae has been present in North America for at least 18 million years. It has been at least 30 million years since the Anhingidae and the Phalacrocoracidae shared a common ancestor.
4086112|Seabirds commonly gather into mixed-species flocks to feed on fish schools and other concentrations of prey. We group Alaskan and Washington seabird feeding flocks into three types on the bases of flock size and longevity and the nature of the food source. Small, short-lived flocks over tightly clumped prey are called Type I; larger (5,000+ individuals), longer-lasting flocks over less tightly clumped and less reactive prey are called Type II; Type III flocks form where zooplankton and other organisms are concentrated by downwelling. Birds participating in the flocks are assigned to four functional groups (some species fit into two groups): catalysts (larids and shearwaters) are highly visible birds that other birds watch and follow to food sources; divers (alcids, loons, cormorants) exploit the food sources underwater by pursuit diving; kleptoparasites (jaegers and gulls) steal food from other flock members; and suppressors (shearwaters and cormorants) interfere behaviorally with the feeding of other flock members by reducing the effective prey availability. Most flocks occurred within a few kilometers of shore. Type I flocks on the Washington coast averaged larger, lasted longer, and contained more species than Alaskan Type I flocks. The Washington and Alaska flocks contained about the same number of locally breeding species, but the Washington flocks also contained several migrant species that breed elsewhere in North America. Both contained shearwaters, migrants from the southern hemisphere, but the shearwaters were much more important in the Alaskan flocks. Black-legged Kittiwakes and shearwaters (catalysts) initiated most Alaskan flocks and were important in the development of flocks initiated by other birds. Once a flock was initiated, it grew until the food source became unavailable or until the local pool of prospective flock members was exhausted. The divers were able to discriminate from considerable distances between kittiwakes feeding on single fish and kittiwakes feeding on fish schools and approached only the latter. The various species tended to occupy characteristic positions within Type I flocks. Gulls and kittiwakes were central, and the various divers took peripheral positions. Kleptoparasitism by jaegers did not appear to influence Type I flock organization. Shearwaters, the most important suppressors, sometimes pursuit-plunged into fish schools and euphausiid shoals in such numbers that the prey concentrations were drastically reduced, scattered, or driven downward in seconds, and other birds were then unable to feed. Type II flocks were divisible into two groups, one consisting largely of kittiwakes and shearwaters and feeding on capelin, and the other dominated by shearwaters and feeding on pelagic crustaceans. Kleptoparasitism by Pomarine Jaegers in the capelin-based Type II flocks was frequent and differed from the kleptoparasitism of solitary birds in that the jaegers preferentially attacked birds carrying fish in their bills. Suppression appeared unimportant in capelin-based Type II flocks but probably kept alcids and gulls from joining the crustacean-based flocks. In some island groups Type III flocks occurred daily. They were less regular in structure and composition than Type I or Type II flocks. Kleptoparasitism by gulls and kittiwakes tended to keep puffins and other alcids on the edges of the flocks. The alcids' underwater approaches to the fish schools from the sides may have tended to keep the schools compact and near the surface. It has been hypothesized that the antipredator function of schooling by baitfish involves predator satiation and the difficulty of locating schools. Schooling does not function as a deterrent to aerial predators in the same way that it does to swimming ones, however. Either birds are less important as predators, or schooling confers a different advantage in escaping aerial predation. Apparently, fish schools can escape rather quickly from bird flocks by descending away from the surface out of visual contact.
4088322|Slope and texture of substrate influenced distribution of penguin burrows at a large colony of Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) at Punta Tombo, Argentina. Burrows were most numerous in substrate that consisted mostly of fine particles (silt and clay), with small amounts of sand or gravel. Few burrows were found in substrate with large proportions of sand or gravel. Burrows were more common on slopes than on level ground. More chicks were fledged from burrows in substrates with high amounts of silt and clay and low amounts of sand than from burrows in other substrates. These patterns reflect differences in burrow stability, susceptibility to flooding, and excavation effort. Slope, depth, and texture of substrate should be considered in decisions about protection of penguin breeding habitat.
25150271|Two attributes of many temperate passerine species are short-term territoriality and strongly fluctuating annual testosterone (T) profiles. Circulating T of temperate passerines can vary from undetectable levels in the nonbreeding season to higher, but fluctuating, levels during the breeding season. Males of many temperate species respond to territorial instability during the breeding season with transitory increases in T. In females, the hormonal response to aggression is more complex. Most temperate-zone passerine species that have been studied exhibit territoriality for less than three months. Here, I describe the year-round T profile of male and female Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis), a temperate-zone species with prolonged territorial behavior (7+ months). Circulating levels of T in female Northern Cardinals is relatively stable. Males show variation in T levels over the year and they may respond to territorial intrusions with increases in T. Of particular interest are the relatively high levels of T observed in female Northern Cardinals throughout the year, and measurable amounts of T in both sexes in the winter. /// La territorialidad por perodos cortos y las fluctuaciones anuales marcadas en los perfiles de testosterona (T) son dos caractersticas tpicas de muchas especies de aves paserinas de la zona templada. La T circulante de estas aves puede variar desde niveles no detectables en la poca no reproductiva hasta niveles mayores, pero con fluctuaciones, durante la poca reproductiva. Los machos de muchas especies de la zona templada responden a la inestabilidad territorial durante la poca reproductiva con incrementos transitorios en la T. En las hembras, la respuesta hormonal a la agresin es ms compleja. La mayora de las especies de aves paserinas de la zona templada que han sido estudiadas exhiben territorialidad por perodos inferiores a tres meses. En este estudio, describo los perfiles de T a lo largo del ao para machos y hembras de Cardinalis cardinalis, una especie de la zona templada que presenta comportamiento territorial prolongado (por ms de siete meses). Los niveles circulantes de T en las hembras son relativamente estables. Los machos presentan variacin en los niveles de T a lo largo del ao, y pueden responder a la aparicin de intrusos en sus territorios con incrementos en la T. Los niveles relativamente altos de T observados en las hembras a lo largo del ao, y la presencia de cantidades medibles de T en ambos sexos durante el invierno, resultan de particular inters.
10.2307/4088148| We used image-intensification radiology to examine gut function in six Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) fed artificial fruits that contained barium-labeled pulp and seeds. Despite the absence of an anatomical crop, waxwings were able to store fruits orad to the gizzard in a distensible portion of the esophagus. By doing so, they were able to increase meal sizes above what their gizzards could contain at any one time. Thus, they could partially overcome the digestive bottleneck that results from a bulky diet. Gizzard contraction increased in frequency with gizzard fullness. Seeds and pulp were separated in the gizzard; most pulp passed into the intestine before the seeds. Once in the intestine, however, seeds moved especially quickly (x = 0.14 cm/s) into the rectum. Both pulp and seeds resided for a relatively long time in the rectum, where antiperistalsis was clearly visible. Unlike other birds that have been studied, the functions of antiperistalsis in waxwings probably do not include cecal filling, since ceca of waxwings are minute. We hypothesize that the function of antiperistalsis in waxwings (and other fruit-eating birds) is to mix digesta in the intraluminal zone adjacent to the rectal mucosa, thereby increasing nutrient absorption. This hypothesis is consistent with the observation that fruit-eating birds typically have low digestive efficiencies. In particular, absorption of nutrients in the rectum may be important, given that digesta therein may still contain significant amounts of nutrients. Indeed, active uptake of D-glucose, a primary constituent of fruit pulp, was as high in the rectum as elsewhere in the gut. We also found that waxwings typically defecated only the distal 50% of rectal contents. Presumably, digesta in the proximal portion was higher in nutrients and so was retained longer for more thorough absorption. This pattern contrasts to most other vertebrates in which the rectum empties completely and sugar uptake in the rectum is negligible. We suggest that functional adaptations to frugivory (i.e. how fruit is processed) are likely more important than structural adaptations. 
4090667| We used a multiscale approach to examine use of riparian forests by Acadian Flycatchers (Empidonax virescens) at three distinct scales: microsite (nest or territory), local stand (3-ha patch of forest), and landscape (1-km-radius area). We examined the extent to which understory arthropod biomass, vegetation structure, and breeding productivity affected habitat use by Acadian Flycatchers across 36 mature riparian forests along an urbanization gradient in central Ohio, 2001-2002. Using an information-theoretic approach, we found that although vegetation structure and understory arthropod biomass were associated with nest and territory location at small spatial scales, they failed to explain habitat use across stands. Instead, percentage of urban cover in the landscape best explained variation in the abundance of Acadian Flycatchers among stands. In fact, Acadian Flycatchers were >3 more abundant in the most rural (1% urban) riparian forests than in the more urban (10% urban) riparian forests. Nest survival and productivity also declined as urban development increased within the landscape. We suggest that increased nest predation in urban riparian forests, coupled with either reduced productivity or site fidelity or both, may be an underlying mechanism of landscape-scale patterns. Results suggest that explicit consideration of multiple spatial scales, and especially landscape matrix composition, is critical for understanding habitat use. /// Utilizamos un enfoque de mltiples escalas para examinar el uso de bosques de ribera por Empidonax virescens a tres escalas distintas: micrositio (nido o teritorio), rodal de bosque (parche de bosque de 3 ha) y paisaje (rea de 1 km de radio). Examinamos el grado al cual la biomasa de artrpodos del sotobosque, la estructura de la vegetacin y la productividad reproductiva afectaron el uso del hbitat por parte de E. virescens en 36 bosques de ribera maduros a lo largo de un gradiente de urbanizacin en el centro de Ohio en los aos 2001 y 2002. Utilizando un enfoque de informacin terica, encontramos que aunque la estructura de la vegetacin y la biomasa de insectos se encontraron asociadas a la localizacin de los nidos y territorios a una escala espacial pequea, estos factores no predijeron el uso del hbitat entre parches de bosque. Por el contrario, el porcentaje de cobertura urbana en el paisaje fue la variable que mejor explic la variacin de la abundancia de E. virescens entre parches de bosque. De hecho, E. virescens fue > 3 veces ms abundante en los bosques de ribera ms rurales (1% cobertura urbana) que en los bosques ms urbanos (10% cobertura urbana). La sobrevivencia de los nidos y la productividad tambin disminuyeron con el aumento del desarrollo urbano en el paisaje. Sugerimos que el aumento de la depredacin de nidos en boques de ribera urbanos junto con una reduccin en la productividad o de la fidelidad de sitio o de ambos, pueden ser los mecanismos responsables de los patrones a nivel del paisaje. Estos resultados sugieren que la consideracin explcita de mltiples escalas, y en especial de la composicin de la matriz en el paisaje, es crtica para el entendimiento del uso del hbitat. 
4087273|We studied Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) behavior in marsh and prairie habitats to determine whether courting males provide cues of their nest defense, whether females prefer males that defend nests vigorously, and whether male nest defense affects nest success. We found no evidence that courtship behavior provides cues of male nest defense, or that females prefer males that court intensely. We found evidence that females nesting in marshes prefer males that defend nests intensely, but no evidence that intensely defending males in the prairie habitat achieve high nest success. We found differences, however, between marsh and prairie habitats that suggest a coarse-grained relationship between male parental quality and female choice of mate in this species.
4086595|Many nocturnally migrating birds show at least some degree of winter site fidelity. Laboratory tests of nocturnal activity, or Zugunruhe patterns, and displacement experiments indicate that migratory distances may be under endogenous control. Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata auduboni) displayed a southerly nocturnal orientation well into winter months, past the conventional migratory period. Additionally, population shifts between highly isolated, limited, desert riparian habitats reflected a facultative migration from north to south. The magnitude of movement was correlated with food-resource abundance, which was dependent on climatic conditions. This suggests that the birds maintain a physiological state that enables them to winter as far north as possible but allows for a correctly oriented movement if conditions become unfavorable. Our results indicate considerable plasticity in what is generally considered a more rigidly fixed process.
10.2307/4089325|To determine if Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) were affected by persistent shoreline oil from the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill, I identified contaminated foraging sites of oystercatchers, quantified diet and foraging behavior, assessed hydrocarbon uptake, and measured breeding success and mass gain of chicks. Hydrocarbon concentrations in sediments at foraging sites indicated that some oystercatchers potentially were exposed to shoreline oil that persisted into 1992 or 1993. Direct evidence of hydrocarbon exposure was obtained from feces of chicks raised on persistently oiled shorelines. Elevated concentrations of total hydrocarbons, even-numbered aliphatics, and unresolved complex mixtures were indicative of petroleum hydrocarbon exposure. Mussels (Mytilus trossulus) were an important component of the diet of adults and chicks. Oystercatchers foraged for mussels on low-sloping, mixed sand-and-gravel beaches that often retained oil but spent less time foraging on contaminated substrates than on unoiled substrates. Effects of persistent shoreline oil on measures of breeding success were negligible and likely were overridden by the influence of egg and chick predation. Chicks raised on shorelines that were heavily oiled in 1989 gained mass at a slower rate than did chicks raised on shorelines that were not heavily oiled; however, slower mass gain did not translate into reduced fledging success of chicks raised on heavily oiled shorelines. Although some oystercatchers were exposed to persistent shoreline oil, areas of contamination were patchily distributed, and relatively few adults and young were exposed. The lack of a large-scale change in oystercatcher numbers inhabiting the oiled area of Prince William Sound suggests that the negative effects of oil exposure operated locally. Consequently, oiled mussel beds present little additional risk to the population of Black Oystercatchers inhabiting Prince William Sound.
10.1525/auk.2010.09033|Roads may have detrimental effects on many bird species, but areas adjacent to roads also provide habitat and food for some species. To address the influence of roadside habitat on the federally threatened Florida Scrub-Jay (
10.2307/4086826|The dark and light color forms of the Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occidentalis) are defined in this study by bill color. Considerable overlap between the phases was found in all plumage color characteristics except facial patterns. The feathers of the head are molted twice annually, and most facial intermediacy of juvenile and wintering birds disappears as the breeding season approaches. Most body feathers are molted once, except those of the flanks, scapular region, and base of the leg, which appear to be in a state of molt throughout the year. These feathers, especially those of the flanks, are believed to be those ingested regularly by the birds. Some birds molt the remiges with the annual (Prebasic) molt in late summer, but some, possibly birds in their first winter, molt them in midwinter. The measurement data indicate that the dark-phase birds on Clear Lake, California are larger and may be descendents of wintering birds from the north.
10.2307/4088729|A comparative study of the winter body composition between resident and migrant birds was made on the partially migratory Tasmanian race of the Grey-breasted Silvereye (Zosterops l. lateralis). Each year some members migrate from Tasmania to winter on mainland sites, while other members remain in Tasmania year-round. Resident birds were those captured at Mt. Nelson, Tasmania, during midwinter; migrant birds were those captured during midwinter at Armidale, New South Wales, 1,500 km to the north. Nighttime winter temperatures at the two locations are very similar. Both residents and migrants showed diurnal increases in lipid content, but not in other major body components. Despite differences in photoperiod and feeding conditions at the winter grounds, lipid content accumulated in the late afternoon was similar (8% of live body mass) for residents and migrants. Fractional differences in major body components between residents and migrants were negligible, being less than 0.01 in all cases. Therefore, body composition is not related to whether an individual bird is a resident or a migrant. Low night temperatures alone do not explain why the species migrate from Tasmania to places like Armidale in New South Wales. The birds could migrate for reasons such as better food conditions, higher daytime temperatures, and longer daylength for foraging on the mainland.
4086412|I analyzed the occurrences of 217 species of migrant landbirds on Southeast Farallon Island, 43 km west of San Francisco, California, from 10 yr of daily censuses, fall 1968 to spring 1978. I divided species into 12 subgroups to reflect seasonal and geographical distributions on the mainland. The abundances of the various subgroups on the Farallones, in both fall and spring, were directly related to the proximity to the island of their breeding and wintering ranges and normal migration routes. For most subgroups, abundances were greater in fall than in spring. The great majority of fall individuals were hatching-year birds, and I suspect that many, if not most, spring individuals were second-year birds. Highly significant year-to-year variations occurred in the number of individuals that arrived on the Farallones and in the proportion of individuals in the various subgroups, despite the fact that the number of species and proportion of species in the various subgroups remained statistically invariant from year to year. Of particular interest were 5 fall days and 4 spring days when exceptional numbers of birds arrived on the island. These wave days were probably the result of local weather conditions near the Farallones. The numbers of individuals of most subgroups of wintering and summering species, especially coastal subgroups, increased significantly on wave days, but the numbers of vagrants did not. The annual variations in abundance of Farallon landbirds were probably caused by variations in the number of young produced each summer, by long-range weather patterns acting over large areas of the continent, and by variations in local weather conditions. Vagrant species significantly increased in abundance in both fall and spring during the second 5 yr of this study. I suggest that this could be caused by a selective increase in the proportion of dispersing individuals (including vagrants) in populations subjected to increased rates of habitat change.
4087276|In a 5-yr study of a partially marked population of Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) in North Carolina, turnover among marked birds in a large winter roost averaged 34% each night. Roost attendance and areawide resighting rates differed among age classes; juveniles remained site faithful while young adults ranged far, and adults were intermediate in movement. Local breeders were more consistent in year-round attendance at roosts near their nest sites than were other marked adults using these roosts, and local breeders were likewise overrepresented on initial days at baited feeding sites. During aggressive interactions at roosts and at food, adults won over young birds and juveniles lost to older birds. Breeding adults won more fights close to their nest sites than farther away. Winners of fights at roosts were more likely to be present on subsequent evenings than were losers. The results suggest that food-finding adults, primarily local breeders, can to some extent control local roost membership by means of aggressive interactions in roosts. Successful foragers can reduce the costs of being followed and sharing food by limiting the number and identity of potential followers through aggression.
4085747|We examined the food habits of the Barn Owl (Tyto alba) in the mediterranean-climate areas of central Chile and southern Spain. In both areas most prey were small mammals (95% and 87% in Chile and Spain, respectively). Spanish Barn Owls frequently fed on reptiles and amphibians (4.5% of the diet), whereas such prey were not consumed by Chilean Barn Owls. The most noticeable difference involved mean body weight of small mammal prey (70.7 g in Chile vs. 21.2 g in Spain), which was associated with the different weight ranges of small mammals present in the two areas (40-320 g in Chile vs. 2.5-390 g in Spain). The narrower diet and specialization on mammals by Chilean Barn Owls was probably accounted for by the greater availability of larger small mammals and also perhaps by their greater overall density. In spite of the different prey weights taken by the owls, their body weights were similar in the two areas. These results are discussed in relation to the species configuration of the owl communities in Chile and Spain.
4085350|The breeding behavior of a pair of Harpy Eagles (Harpia harpyja) in southwestern Guyana, South America was observed over 947 h between 13 May and 6 December 1974 and 15 March to 5 April 1975. The nest was located 38.4 m above ground in a huge silk-cotton tree (Ceiba pentandra). The pair constructed most of the nest between 14 May and 1 June. From 1 to 17 June copulation in the nest tree occurred nine times but on no occasion were preliminary courtship displays noticed. Also during this period, both sexes frequently collected green sprigs to line the bowl of the nest. With but two exceptions, only the female collected green springs during the incubation and early rearing period. The male resumed vigorous sprig collecting when the young was half grown. The first of two eggs was laid on or just before 17 June and the second around 19 June. Incubation began after the second egg appeared and continued for 56 days, when one of the eggs hatched. The remaining egg did not hatch and was eventually buried with nesting material. The female performed 97% of the incubation, fed the eaglet (usually in the morning and late afternoon), and protected the chick from insects, potential predators, and inclement weather. The male arrived with prey about once every 7 days during incubation and once every 3.5 days during the first half of the nestling period. He incubated while the female fed. His attendance at the nest became irregular in the second half of the nestling period, when the female resumed hunting. With both adults hunting, prey were brought to the nest about once every 2.5 days. At 115 days of age, the nestling, which we believe was a male, weighed 4,032 g and was 5/6 as large as the adult male. Fledging occurred at 141-148 days. After fledging, the juvenile was generally inactive and made only occasional short flights within the vicinity of the nest tree. From 15 March to 5 April, the adults arrived six times with prey. During this time, the juvenile was totally dependent on the adults. Fifteen species of mammals were identified from prey remains, 13 of which were arboreal.
10.2307/4090398| In many avian species, including Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), females that lay eggs earlier in the season have higher fitness. It has been hypothesized that nonheritable variation in individual quality could explain how variation in laying date persists in the face of this apparently directional selection. Previous experimental work on Tree Swallows has suggested that natural variation in flight ability enables early-laying females to attain feeding rates high enough to support egg production on earlier, sparser food than later-laying females. We tested that hypothesis with standardized flights through a 9.75-m flight-performance test tunnel. One group of female swallows was tested at the height of the breeding season on 28 May regardless of their nesting phenology; another group was tested on the 11th day of incubation. Average acceleration in the tunnel was negatively correlated with clutch initiation date for the females tested on 28 May. Daily variation in ambient environmental conditions had strong effects on swallow flight performance in the tunnel, and no relationship was observed in the day-11 birds. Because natural variation in foraging performance is correlated with variation in female Tree Swallows' clutch initiation dates, flight ability appears to be a key element of individual quality in this species. /// En muchas especies de aves, incluyendo a la golondrina Tachycineta bicolor, las hembras que ponen huevos ms temprano en la estacin presentan una adecuacin biolgica mayor. Se ha presumido que la variacin no heredable en la calidad individual podra explicar por qu persiste variacin en la fecha de puesta, a pesar de que esta fuerza de seleccin es aparentemente direccional. Trabajo experimental previo en T. bicolor ha sugerido que la variacin natural en la habilidad de volar le permite a las hembras que ponen huevos ms temprano alcanzar tasas de alimentacin suficientemente altas para sustentar la produccin de huevos basada en alimentos tempranos y esparcidos, a diferencia de las hembras que ponen huevos ms tardamente. Evaluamos esta hiptesis con vuelos estandarizados en un tnel de prueba de rendimiento de vuelo de 9.75 m. Un grupo de golondrinas hembras fue evaluado durante el pico de la estacin reproductiva el 28 de mayo, sin consideracin de su fenologa de nidificacin; otro grupo fue evaluado el da 11 de incubacin. La aceleracin promedio en el tnel se correlacion negativamente con la fecha de inicio de la nidada para las hembras evaluadas el 28 de mayo. La variacin diaria en las condiciones ambientales tuvo fuertes efectos en el rendimiento del vuelo en el tnel, y no se observ una relacin en las aves del da 11. Debido a que la variacin natural en el desempeo de forrajeo est correlacionada con la variacin en la fecha de inicio de la nidada en T. bicolor, la habilidad de vuelo parece ser un elemento clave de la calidad individual en esta especie. 
10.2307/4089245|Current forestry practices radically modify habitat, particularly by increasing the frequency of early seral stages. We examined the demography of two secondary cavity nesters, the Mountain Bluebird (Sialia currucoides) and the Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor), with respect to landscape changes. The study area contained a mosaic of clearcuts ranging from 3 to 27 years in age. The initial distribution of both species was uneven with respect to patch age. Experimental addition of nest boxes: (1) increased the number of nesting pairs of both species, and (2) expanded the age range of occupied patches. Nest-site availability was the primary limiting factor in young patches, but vegetation structure was increasingly important in determining occupation in older patches. Mountain Bluebird patch occupation and Tree Swallow density were best predicted by the proportion of trees 1 to 3 m in height. Although some patches contained multiple pairs of Mountain Bluebirds in natural cavities, experimental patches typically contained no more than one pair, even though excess nest boxes were available. The presence of nonbreeding floaters was an indication of nest-site limitation and suggested that Mountain Bluebirds sometimes defer breeding attempts rather than nest close to conspecifics. At low densities, Tree Swallows also were over-dispersed, but pairs saturated available nest boxes as density increased. Clutch size and number of chicks fledged from successful nests did not vary with patch age for either species, although swallows initiated clutches later in younger compared with older patches. Nest predation varied consistently with patch age; mean nest predation for both species was 86% (n = 30 pairs) in the youngest patches, 37% (n = 34) in mid-age patches, and 25% (n = 22) in the oldest patches. The low densities of both species in older patches was not associated with low productivity, suggesting that habitat selection occurred independently of potential productivity in this novel habitat.
90008571|Imperfect detection during animal surveys biases estimates of abundance and can lead to improper conclusions regarding distribution and population trends. Farnsworth et al. (2005) developed a combined distance-sampling and time-removal model for point-transect surveys that addresses both availability (the probability that an animal is available for detection; e.g., that a bird sings) and perceptibility (the probability that an observer detects an animal, given that it is available for detection). We developed a hierarchical extension of the combined model that provides an integrated analysis framework for a collection of survey points at which both distance from the observer and time of initial detection are recorded. Implemented in a Bayesian framework, this extension facilitates evaluating covariates on abundance and detection probability, incorporating excess zero counts (i.e. zero-inflation), accounting for spatial autocorrelation, and estimating population density. Species-specific characteristics, such as behavioral displays and territorial dispersion, may lead to different patterns of availability and perceptibility, which may, in turn, influence the performance of such hierarchical models. Therefore, we first test our proposed model using simulated data under different scenarios of availability and perceptibility. We then illustrate its performance with empirical point-transect data for a songbird that consistently produces loud, frequent, primarily auditory signals, the Golden-crowned Sparrow (
4086228|Growth studies of a tropical seabird, the Wedge-tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus), were conducted over 3 yr at three locations in Hawaii. Basic growth patterns of body dimensions are described. The range of asymptotes and maximal recorded weights suggests that feeding and the availability of food may influence growth from year to year and in different colonies within the same year.
10.2307/4090023| We studied the early morning cage orientation of nocturnally migrating Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) during three fall migration seasons. The results were compared with earlier free-flight release tests under starry skies and were found to be consistent with continuation of migratory flights in the expected seasonally appropriate direction. Energetic condition proved decisive: fat birds chose directions in accordance with migration across the Gulf of Mexico, whereas lean birds oriented away from the coast, possibly in search of habitats suitable for refuelling. Whereas the orientation of fat Swainson's Thrushes was affected by experimental shifts of the magnetic field, the response during morning tests was larger than expected. A parallel series of orientation cage experiments performed during evening twilight showed a response to deflected magnetic fields that was close to the expected shift, which suggests a difference in integration of directional information between early morning and evening twilight activity. However, within-individual response to deflected magnetic fields was of the same magnitude during both morning and evening tests. /// Estudiamos la orientacin al amanecer de individuos de la especie migratoria nocturna Catharus ustulatus en jaulas durante tres estaciones migratorias de otoo. Los resultados fueron comparados con datos anteriores de ensayos de liberacin de vuelo libre bajo cielos estrellados y resultaron consistentes con la continuacin de los vuelos migratories en la direccin esperada (adecuada para la estacin). La condicin energtica result ser decisiva: las aves con ms grasa corporal eligieron direcciones hacia el Golfo de Mxico, mientras que las aves con poca grasa corporal se orientaron en direccin opuesta a la costa, posiblemente en busca de hbitats apropiados para reabastecerse. Aunque la orientacin de los individuos de C. ustulatus con mayor contenido de grasa fue afectada por cambios experimentales en el campo magntico, la respuesta durante las pruebas realizadas en la maana fue mayor que la esperada. Una serie paralela de experimentos de orientacin en jaulas realizados durante el ocaso mostr un cambio cercano al esperado con los cambios del campos magntico. Esto sugiere que existe una diferencia entre el amanecer y el ocaso en la manera en que la informacin direccional es integrada. Sin embargo, la respuesta de un individuo en particular a los cambios en el campo magntico fue de la misma magnitud durante las pruebas realizadas en la maana y en la tarde. 
10.2307/4089846|We developed deterministic models on the basis of nest survival rates and renesting behavior capable of predicting annual fecundity in birds. The models calculate probabilities of fledging from one to four nests within a discrete breeding season. We used those models to address theoretical issues related to clutch size. In general, birds require at least one day to lay an egg, and many species delay incubation until their entire clutch is laid. Because it takes longer to complete a larger clutch, and fewer such clutches can fit into a limited breeding season, there exists a clutch size for which annual fecundity is maximized. We asked, for a given amount of reproductive effort (i.e. a set number of eggs), does the age-old maxim "don't put all your eggs in one basket" apply? If so, in how many "baskets" should a nesting bird place its eggs? The answer depends on both likelihood of nest predation and length of the breeding season. Those results are consistent with the observed increase in clutch size with latitude (shorter breeding season length) and larger clutch sizes characteristic of cavity-nesting species (with higher nest survival rates). The models also predict that the size of replacement clutches should decrease as the breeding season progresses, and that intraseasonal decline in clutch size should be more pronounced when the breeding season is short.
10.2307/4089988| We experimentally parasitized Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) nests to determine whether that species is more likely to eject immaculate eggs of the Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) or the spotted eggs of the Brown-headed Cowbird (M. ater); the latter species lays eggs that more closely resemble mockingbird eggs. Mockingbirds ejected 69% of model Bronzed Cowbird eggs, indicating that contrary to previous evidence Northern Mockingbirds eject Bronzed Cowbirds eggs at a high frequency. Mockingbirds also ejected 60% of model and real Brown-headed Cowbird eggs. Bronzed Cowbird eggs were ejected faster than Brown-headed Cowbird eggs (1.3 and 2.1 days, respectively). Ejection by mockingbirds may account for the lack of observed parasitism at our study sites in southern Texas, but it is more likely that cowbirds did not parasitize mockingbirds. /// Nous avons exprimentalement parasit des nids de Moqueur polyglotte (Mimus polyglottos) pour dterminer si cette espce est plus susceptible de rejeter les ufs immaculs du Vacher bronz (Molothrus aeneus) ou les ufs tachets du Vacher  tte brune (M. ater); cette dernire espce pondant des ufs qui ressemblent davantage aux ufs de Moqueur. Les Moqueurs ont rejet 69% des ufs artificiels du Vacher bronz, indiquant que, contrairement  des preuves antrieures, les Moqueurs polyglottes rejettent les ufs de Vacher bronz avec une grande frquence. Les Moqueurs ont aussi rejet 60% des ufs artificiels et rels de Vacher  tte brune. Les ufs de Vacher bronz taient rejets plus rapidement que ceux du Vacher  tte brune (1.3 et 2.1 jours, respectivement). Le rejet d'ufs par les Moqueurs pourrait expliquer le manque de parasitisme observ dans nos sites d'tude dans le sud du Texas, mais il est plus probable que les Vachers n'aient pas parasit les Moqueurs. 
10.2307/4085490|Near Manaus, Brazil, McConnell's Flycatcher (Pipromorpha macconnelli), a small Amazonian tyrant-flycatcher very like the sympatric Ochre-bellied Flycatcher (P. oleaginea), tends to be a bird of forest and oleaginea a bird of second-growth. Calls of male macconnelli at singing areas near forest creeks are more like those of the southern Brazilian P. rufiventris than calls of oleaginea; in contrast to both, macconnelli displays close to the ground. Nests of macconnelli are oven-shaped and hang over forest creeks. Three small white eggs are laid on alternate days. Incubation and nestling periods are about 19 days each. Incubation and brooding constancy are low, and young grow very slowly. There is considerable brood reduction or loss of nestlings (one out of every three), although loss of nests is only 1.4% per day (45% loss in 43 days). One case of brood reduction was associated with rainy weather, but the species is nesting January-March, at the height of the rainy season. Possibly females care for nests alone because males would raise predation or lower uncertain food supplies near nests, especially in rainy or difficult periods. Promiscuity of males in this and other lek species may thus arise because of female rejection of male help, not because of male dominance of good sites as in polygamous species.
4085088|Both albatross species have diverse acoustical repertoires ranging from simple bill sounds to stereotyped vocalizations. Most of the vocalizations have basic frequencies around 3 kHz but frequencies range from below 85 Hz to 25 kHz. Evidence suggests that many of the sounds are important in communication and as potential isolating mechanisms. Calls used in epigamic displays are interspecifically dissimilar while agonistic calls are similar between species.
10.2307/4086022|Nonbreeding populations of three species of larids were studied off Deer Island, New Brunswick, Canada prior to migration to determine the extent of feeding interaction. The distribution of birds in the area followed prey distribution, with the Bonaparte's Gull frequenting areas with surface euphausiid concentrations and the Common and Arctic terns occupying areas harboring schools of small fish. Feeding distribution patterns were associated with the combined effects of tide phases and bottom topography on the availability of surface prey. The Bonaparte's Gull fed predominantly on euphausiids and insects. The Arctic Tern fed frequently on euphausiids and a variety of small fish, whereas the Common Tern took only small fish.
10.2307/4089766|Scissor-tailed Flycatchers (Tyrannus forficatus) exhibit elongated tails in both sexes, and sexual dimorphism in tail length. At Fort Sill, Oklahoma, during 1991 and 1992, Scissor-tailed Flycatchers exhibited sexual dimorphism (male-female) in tail length (1.48), with more moderate sexual dimorphism in wing length (1.09) and beak length (1.04). Based on an analysis of museum specimens, immature birds (<1 year of age) of both sexes in their first calendar year exhibited significantly shorter tails than adults (measured in the field). Furthermore, tail length was highly variable among both sexes relative to other morphological traits. Male tail length was correlated with early clutch initiation by the male's mate and, in 1991, with larger clutch size. Similarly, female tail length was correlated with early clutch initiation, and, in one year, larger clutches. Longer-tailed females also tended to arrive earlier on the breeding grounds in 1992, the only year for which such data were available. Assortative mating by tail length was observed. Those findings support the hypothesis that tail length is a sexually selected trait in this socially monogamous species, and that female tail length may be correlated with measures of female quality (e.g. early arrival and breeding, large clutches). However, confounding effects of age on tail length make it difficult to distinguish among various hypotheses for evolution of elongated tails in this species.
4085395|Most Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) and California Gulls (L. californicus) form monogamous, heterosexual pairs during the breeding season. We report here the discovery of low frequencies (1-2%) of female-female pairings in Ring-billed and California gulls in three colonies in eastern Washington. The nests of these female-female pairs usually contained 5-6 eggs rather than the more normal 2-3. Between 60-70% of the eggs in the nests of the female-female pairs were fertile. We also found evidence of brood parasitism, which appears to be one cause of 4-egg clutches, and one case of polygyny in the Ring-billed Gulls. This polygynous association built a single communal nest that was incubated by three females and one male and apparently contained the eggs of at least two females.
4088682|Recently, we acquired DNA of two rare species of heron, the Neotropical Zigzag Heron (Zebrilus undulatus) and the African White-crested Bittern (Tigriornis leucolophus). To estimate their phylogenetic relationships to other herons, we compared these species with representatives of the major heron clades using DNA-DNA hybridization. Even though the Zigzag Heron resembles a tiger-heron in its barred plumage and forest habitat, it is most closely related to bitterns. The White-crested Bittern is monophyletic with the New World tiger-herons (Tigrisoma) and, thus, is better termed the White-crested Tiger-Heron. These findings accord well with phylogenetic analyses based on osteology. The remaining uncertainties in higher-level heron phylogeny are principally: (1) the position and composition of some enigmatic genera (e.g. Gorsachius, Agamia, Pilherodius, and Ardeola); and (2) the identification of the basal heron lineage, which appears to be either tiger-herons or the Boat-billed Heron (Cochlearius).
10.2307/4089061|Intraspecific brood amalgamation in waterfowl can occur before hatching, when females lay eggs in the nests of conspecifics, or after hatching, when females abandon their young to the care of other conspecific families. Using phylogenetic information, I examined whether evolutionary transitions to intraspecific prehatching and posthatching brood amalgamation in waterfowl can be associated with certain life-history and ecological variables. Transitions to intraspecific prehatching brood amalgamation occurred more frequently in lineages carrying the colonial-breeding state and the cavity-nesting state. However, such transitions occurred equally frequently in lineages carrying different life histories as indexed by the ration of clutch mass to female body mass. The results support the view that opportunities for successful amalgamation, which are thought to be higher in colonial-nesting and cavity-nesting species, act as a proximate determinant of prehatching brood amalgamation. Transitions to posthatching brood amalgamation occurred most often in lineages carrying the prehatching brood-amalgamation state, which suggests that amalgamation after hatching represents an extension of amalgamation before hatching that temporally increases the window of opportunity for brood mixing.
4085214|Long-term banding, wing-marker and retrapping data from one stable Great Lakes colony were used to establish whether or not Ring-billed Gulls exhibit a preference for colony sites at the time of first breeding or during subsequent years. About 13% of the adults captured were banded previously, of which 69% had returned to the natal colony. When calculated on the basis of banding year survivorship, the return rate ranged between 19 and 33%. Immigrants came primarily from colonies within a 64-km area. Of the 436 Ring-bills captured that had been banded as adults, 90% had returned to the colony of previous nesting. In addition, 60% of the wing-marked gulls nested for at least 2 years at Rogers City. The tendency to return to the natal colony is not well defined at this colony, but colony site tenacity after first breeding is well developed. Variability exists in data for less stable colonies, as birds are forced to move by high water levels or other environmental factors.
10.2307/4089970| Age-related trends in breeding performance of female Eurasian Sparrowhawks (Accipiter nisus) were examined in south Scotland. Over a 22 year period, most individuals were banded and of known age. Previous analyses had shown that average number of young raised per breeding attempt (or year) increased progressively in successive age-groups to midlife (around five years) and declined thereafter. Here we analyze different components of breeding performance (such as clutch-size, hatching and fledging success) to find which components contribute most importantly to the overall age-related trend in productivity. Most aspects of breeding showed a similar upward-downward trend through the life span, but the downward trend in productivity in later life could be attributed mainly to poorer nestling survival. In general, in each aspect of breeding, the mean trend of the population as a whole was followed by individuals studied at different ages. Such individual trends were sufficient to account for the overall mean trend, and there was no need to postulate that high-performance or low-performance birds entered and left the breeding population at different ages. Only one aspect of breeding showed no trend with age, namely proportion of birds that laid having built a nest, but that type of failure affected only a small proportion of individuals. /// Las tendencias relacionadas con la edad en el desempeo reproductivo de hembras de Accipiter nisus fueron examinadas en el sur de Escocia. A lo largo de un perodo de 22 aos, la mayora de los individuos fueron anillados y su edad fue registrada. Anlisis previos han mostrado que el nmero promedio de juveniles criados por intento reproductivo (o ao) incrementaron progresivamente en grupos sucesivos de edad hasta una edad intermedia (alrededor de cinco aos) y luego declinaron. Aqui analizamos diferentes componentes del desempeo reproductivo (tamao de la nidada, xito de eclosin y de emplumamiento) para determinar cules componentes contribuyen ms significativamente a las tendencias generales en productividad relacionadas con la edad. La mayora de los aspectos reproductivos mostraron una tendencia similar ascendente y descendente a lo largo de la vida, pero la tendencia descendente en productividad hacia fines de la vida podra ser atribuida principalmente a una menor supervivencia de los pichones. En general, la tendencia media de la poblacin en su conjunto para cada aspecto reproductivo fue seguida por individuos estudiados a diferentes edades. Estas tendencias individuales fueron suficientes para establecer la tendencia media global, y no hubo necesidad de postular que aves con alto o bajo desempeo entraron o dejaron la poblacin a edades diferentes. Slo un aspecto reproductivo, la proporcin de aves que pusieron huevos luego de construir el nido, no mostr una tendencia con relacin a la edad, pero este fracaso slo afect una pequea proporcin de individuos. 
25150298|By examining specimens of ptarmigan (Phasianidae: Lagopus spp.), I quantified three discrete periods of molt and three plumages for each sex, confirming the presence of a definitive presupplemental molt. A spring contour molt was significantly later and more extensive in females than in males, a summer contour molt was significantly earlier and more extensive in males than in females, and complete summer-fall wing and contour molts were statistically similar in timing between the sexes. Completeness of feather replacement, similarities between the sexes, and comparison of molts with those of related taxa indicate that the white winter plumage of ptarmigan should be considered the basic plumage, with shifts in hormonal and endocrinological cycles explaining differences in plumage coloration compared with those of other phasianids. Assignment of prealternate and presupplemental molts in ptarmigan necessitates the examination of molt evolution in Galloanseres. Using comparisons with Anserinae and Anatinae, I considered a novel interpretation: that molts in ptarmigan have evolved separately within each sex, and that the presupplemental and prealternate molts show sex-specific sequences within the definitive molt cycle. /// Examinando especmenes de Lagopus spp. (Phasianidae), cuantifiqu tres perodos discretos de muda y tres plumajes para cada sexo, confirmando la presencia de una muda presuplementaria definitiva. Una muda de contorno de primavera ocurri significativamente ms tarde y de forma ms extensa en las hembras que en los machos, una muda de verano de contorno ocurri significativamente ms temprano y ms extensamente en los machos que en las hembras, y las mudas de alas y contorno completas de verano-otoo fueron estadsticamente similares entre sexos. El reemplazo completo de las plumas, las similitudes entre sexos y la comparacin de los patrones de muda con aquellos de taxones relacionados, indican que el plumaje blanco de invierno de Lagopus spp. debe ser considerado el plumaje bsico. Los cambios en los ciclos hormonales y endocrinolgicos explicaran las diferencias en la coloracin del plumaje con relacin a otros fasinidos. La asignacin de mudas prealternas y presuplementarias en Lagopus spp. requiere de un mayor conocimiento sobre la evolucin de la muda en Galloanseres. Mediante comparaciones con Anserinae y Anatinae, desarroll una nueva interpretacin: las mudas en Lagopus spp. han evolucionado separadamente en cada sexo, y las mudas presuplementarias y prealternas presentan secuencias especficas para cada sexo en el ciclo de muda definitiva.
4090449| We studied the songs of Wedge-tailed Sabrewings (Campylopterus curvipennis) in six localities from central Veracruz, Mexico, to document structure and variation within and between singing groups in the same geographic region. Wedge-tailed Sabrewing songs were acoustically, structurally, and behaviorally complex, rivaling those of other taxa with complex signals. Songs of individual birds were composed of >45 well-differentiated and structurally complex syllables. We found 239 different syllable types across eight recorded singing groups of Wedge-tailed Sabrewings (20 syllable types per singing group), with the greatest versatility recorded in hummingbirds to date. The acoustic variation (15 variables) was summarized in three principal components (58% of acoustic variation), in which intragroup variability accounted for most of the observed variation. We found significant differences between and within groups in terms of syllable sharing (Jaccard's similarity coefficient). Individuals generally shared >50% of syllable types within groups, whereas syllable sharing was <10% between individuals from different groups. The same microgeographic pattern was supported in a UPGMA (unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean) analysis where individual songs from each singing group clustered separately. However, songs recorded at the same location differed between seasons, which suggests that this species does not exhibit geographically distinct dialects that are consistent across time. The interplay among this species' social system, distribution of its floral resources, and microgeographic and temporal variation of its song requires further research. /// Estudiamos los cantos de Campylopterus curvipennis en seis localidades del centro de Veracruz, Mxico para documentar la estructura y variacin dentro y entre asambleas de canto de la misma regin geogrfica. Los cantos de C. curvipennis fueron acstica, estructural y conductualmente complejos, rivalizando a otros taxa con cantos complejos. Los sonidos de estos individuos estn compuestos por >45 slabas complejas y bien diferenciadas. Encontramos 239 tipos de slabas diferentes a travs de ocho grupos grabados de C. curvipennis (20 tipos de slabas en cada grupo), con la mayor versatilidad registrada a la fecha para colibres. La variacin acstica (15 variables) fue resumida en tres componentes principales (58% de la variacin), en donde la mayor parte de la variacin observada se atribuye a variacin intragrupo. Encontramos diferencias significativas dentro y entre grupos en los tipos de slaba compartidos (coeficiente de similitud de Jaccard). Los individuos generalmente compartieron >50% de tipos de slaba dentro de cada grupo, pero <10% entre aquellos de grupos diferentes. El mismo patrn microgeogrfico fue apoyado por un anlisis de UPGMA ("unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean"), donde los individuos se agruparon por sus cantos de acuerdo a su procedencia. Sin embargo, cantos grabados en el mismo sitio fueron diferentes entre estaciones, lo cual sugiere que esta especie no presenta dialectos geogrficamente distintos que son constantes a travs del tiempo. La interaccin entre el sistema social de esta especie, la distribucin de sus recursos florales y la variacin microgeogrfica y temporal de su canto requieren investigacin futura. 
4086459|We collected 270 female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in southern Ontario in 1976 to determine ovarian and oviducal growth during the breeding season and 188 female cowbirds in 1977 to estimate clutch size and the interval between clutches. Ovaries and oviducts grew rapidly in April, reached breeding size in early May, and remained at this size, without regression between clutches, until the end of the breeding season in early July. Ovaries and oviducts then regressed rapidly and by the end of July weighed about the same as those in early April. The clutch size averaged about 4.0-4.6 eggs, similar to clutch sizes of nonparasitic icterids. It varied greatly from 1 egg, in about 10% of the birds, to about 7 eggs. Two days without laying usually separated consecutive clutches, but some birds appeared to miss laying for only 1 day. Although atresia of large yolky follicles was common in birds between clutches, it did not always precede the end of a clutch. The long reproductive period without regression and the short interval between clutches are atypical of passerine reproduction. Rather, the laying cycle of cowbirds is similar to that of domestic chickens (Gallus gallus). The laying cycle of cowbirds seems adapted to a continuous supply of host nests; atresia may be related to a shortage of nests.
4085923|The order Passeriformes was largely defined by 19th century anatomists on the basis of phenetic similarities. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the group is monophyletic in the strict contemporary sense. Similarities used by previous workers were reanalyzed to determine whether or not they could be shown to be derived character states corroborating the hypothesis of passeriform monophyly. Of 18 traditional taxonomic characters analyzed, none refuted the hypothesis of passeriform monophyly, 13 failed to corroborate the hypothesis, and 5 did corroborate it. These are the aegithognathous palate, the "passerine" tensor propatagialis brevis, the bundled spermatozoa with coiled head and large acrosome, the enlarged hallux, and the type VII deep plantar tendons. To this analysis is added new information from the hind limb musculature. Previous knowledge of oscine musculature is augmented by new information from representative suboscines. The division of M. pubo-ischio-femoralis into Pars cranialis and Pars caudalis is confirmed for suboscines, distinguishing the entire order Passeriformes from nonpasserine birds. In the foot, the loss of a set of intrinsic muscles of the forward digits, previously known from oscines, is also confirmed for suboscines. These limb-muscle characters supplement the analysis of traditional characters in corroborating the hypothesis that the order Passeriformes is monophyletic. A functional analysis of the passerine foot shows that it is a derived mechanism specialized for perching, but with a reduction in the subtlety and variety of certain other movements.
10.2307/4085267| Black Skimmers arrive in their breeding colonies at approximately the same time as most of the terns, usually in late April or early May. They are commonly found in dense colonies on open sandy beaches in association with other seabirds, most frequently Common Terns in Virginia. The usual clutch size is large for a seabird (X = 3.6), with 4-egg clutches being most common. Incubation begins with the first egg laid. Hatching success was high (nearly 80%) in the colonies studied, but fledgling success was low in both 1973 (0.40 young per pair) and 1974 (0.37 young per pair). Probably food acts to limit production as 10 of the 11 surviving fledglings were the first hatched in the brood. Survival of 2nd, 3rd, and 4th hatchlings drops off precipitiously. Adult skimmers are sexually dimorphic, the male being approximately 1/4 larger than the female. Both parents incubate and share parental duties until fledging. The growth characteristics of the Black Skimmer appear to follow the logistic model developed by Ricklefs. Only after the midpoint of the fledging period (about 11 days) do male chicks begin to grow more rapidly than females. Male chicks fledged at an average of 295.2 g while females fledged at 264.4 g. Adults captured a fish approximately every 5 minutes. Most foraging was done at low tide in marsh habitats. No pulse of high-fishing activity at dawn and dusk was noted as has been reported in the literature. Birds foraged alone in most cases, except when the immatures begin fishing. Apparently learning occurs at this time. Each young was fed on the average of 0.43 fish/hour during the day; the low rate may largely explain the low fledging success in 1973-1974. The extent of nocturnal feeding requires investigation. The diet consists of 100% fish, with silversides and killifishes predominating. 
10.2307/4088591|I examined the relative importance of factors influencing chick survival in manipulated and natural broods of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo). In nonmanipulated broods of three (modal brood size), egg mass decreased with laying order, siblings hatched asynchronously, and chick survival declined with hatching order. The ratio of a chick's mass to that of its siblings, at the time of brood completion, explained the greatest portion of variation in chick survival in these broods and in manipulated broods in which survival also varied with hatching order. Hatching order was an important component of mass ratio at brood completion. Egg mass did not influence survival in these brood types. In contrast, egg mass was important in manipulated broods in which chicks hatched synchronously and in natural broods of two, for which hatching order did not affect survival. Parental quality, as indicated by the number of a chick's siblings that survived, also had a positive effect on chick survival that was more important than the negative effect of increasing brood size. Length of the incubation period was positively correlated with size of last-laid eggs. My data did not strongly support the brood-reduction hypothesis of hatching asynchrony and egg-size variation. A smaller egg may benefit the last-hatched chick by reducing hatching asynchrony.
25488645|Habitat selection by migratory bird species affects their fitness. Studies of populations with marked individuals of known reproductive performance provide the greatest insight on the relationship between a species and the range of habitats it occupies. Canada Warblers (
10.2307/4089944|We conducted aggression experiments using model cowbirds on nesting Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) in heavily, moderately, and rarely parasitized populations. We also documented Field Sparrow morning nest arrival times during the laying period, because Field Sparrows appear to desert nests in response to encounters with laying female cowbirds. Field Sparrows responded most aggressively to cowbird models and arrived the earliest in Illinois, where they were most heavily parasitized. Field Sparrows responded the least to models in Pennsylvania, where they are almost never parasitized. Our results suggest that those host behaviors result from some aspect of host-cowbird interactions, but the extent to which such behaviors are genetic or learned needs further study.
4084884| The Mottled Petrel, Pterodroma inexpectata, a breeding bird restricted to New Zealand that migrates to subarctic seas, was studied on the Snares Islands at 48S, 167E during four summers. This bird avoids inshore waters and on land shuns the light, visiting its burrow only after dark. It rears a single chick in the austral summer. Aspects of vocalizations and displays are described and figured; they resemble those of some other congeners like P. lessoni. Adults begin to return to the nesting island in late October and the last chicks depart in early June. Nest sites and partners tend to be retained from year to year. There is probably a pre-laying exodus. The period during which eggs are laid is curtailed and two-thirds of them appear between 15 and 22 December. Incubation is shared fairly equally by both partners in stints of 12 to 14 days and lasts about 50.5 days. The chick is brooded for up to 2 days and thereafter is fed at intervals by both parents. During the first 3 weeks fasts are rather short, between 1 and 3 days long; no data were gained on the later stages of chick rearing but the chicks are believed to fledge when 90 to 105 days old. These petrels have few enemies on land apart from skuas and in small samples of breeding adults the minimum annual survival was from 67% to 76%. 
4087120| The eggs of Adlie (Pygoscelis adeliae) and Emperor (Aptenodytes forsteri) penguins are smaller than those of large species in other orders. The incubation period in Adlie Penguins was as predicted based on egg mass, but in Emperor Penguins it was 50% longer than predicted. Although penguins have been described as semialtricial using the behavioral and morphological traits in Nice's (1962) classification, total oxygen consumption during incubation was similar to that of eggs of the same masses laid by precocial species. In both penguin species prepipping oxygen consumption was at a level predicted for precocial species. Adlie embryos grew continuously during the last two weeks of incubation, but the relative growth rate (%/day) of both wet and dry mass decreased steadily until day 32 of incubation. From day 21 to day 31 of incubation, there was no significant change in the wet mass, dry mass, or caloric content of yolk. The mass-specific caloric content of the embryos remained constant at 5.49 kcal/g dry mass. Activity of the embryo between pipping and hatching contributed importantly to measured oxygen consumption (10% of the total measured during incubation, 20% in pipped eggs from 3 days to 1 day before hatching, and 25% on the day of hatching). We suggest that the limited behavioral repertoire of hatchling penguins evolved as a response to the severity of the environment into which they hatch and because of the skilled predatory behavior that they must learn before they can feed themselves. 
4090677| The phylogeny of kingfishers was reconstructed by comparing mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences representing 38 ingroup species. Analysis of the combined data and the nuclear data alone recovered the Alcedininae as the basal lineage in the family. This basal arrangement, and support for many relationships within the three subfamilies, allows discussion of biogeographic issues. The Australian region and Pacific islands display the highest diversity of kingfishers, but this diversity is not a reflection of a long history in the region. Rather, high diversity and endemism in the Australian region is inferred to result from relatively recent radiations from southern Asia. The most parsimonious explanation for the origin of New World taxa is two dispersal events from the Old World. Within the large Halcyon radiation, the phylogeny is well resolved and allows evaluation of generic assignments. The phylogeny supports splitting Todiramphus from Halcyon. Todiramphus and Syma are sister taxa, as are Halcyon and Pelargopsis. Thus, merging or retaining those genera is a more subjective decision. Although not fully resolved, relationships within the alcedinines indicate that Ceyx and Alcedo, as currently delimited, are not natural groups. /// La phylognie des Alcedinidae a t reconstruite en comparant des squences d'ADN mitochondriales et nuclaires de 38 espces de la famille. L'analyse des donnes combines et des donnes nuclaires seules rtablit les Alcedinidae comme la ligne de base dans la famille. Cet arrangement de base, et le support pour de nombreuses relations  l'intrieur des trois sous-familles, conduisent  une discussion sur les questions de biogographie. La rgion australienne et les les du Pacifique affichent la plus grande diversit en Alcedinidae. Nanmoins, cette diversit n'est pas un reflet d'une longue histoire dans la rgion. La grande diversit et l'endmisme de la rgion australienne rsulteraient des radiations relativement rcentes de l'Asie du sud. L'explication la plus parcimonieuse pour l'origine des taxons du Nouveau Monde rside dans deux vnements de dispersion de l'Ancien Monde.  l'intrieur de la grande radiation Halcyon, la phylognie est bien rsolue et permet une valuation des attributions gnriques. La phylognie supporte la sparation de Todiramphus avec Halcyon. Todiramphus et Syma sont des taxons frres, tout comme Halcyon et Pelargopsis. Par consquent, rassembler ou maintenir ces genres est une dcision plus subjective. Bien qu'elles ne soient pas compltement rsolues, les relations entre les alcedinines indiquent que Ceyx and Alcedo, telles que dfinies actuellement, ne sont pas des groupes naturels. 
10.2307/4089234|The nucleotide sequences of mitochondrial 12S rRNA (12S) and protein-coding cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) spanning 1,010 and 1,130 base pairs, respectively, are reported for seven owl species representing six genera: Otus megalotis (Philippine Scops-Owl), O. longicornis (Luzon Scops-Owl), Bubo virginianus (Great Horned Owl), Asio flammeus (Short-eared Owl), Ninox philippensis (Philippine Hawk-Owl), Tyto alba (Barn Owl; used as an outgroup), and the little known Mimizuku gurneyi (Giant Scops-Owl). Separate phylogenetic analyses of 12S, COI, and the combined 12S and COI data yielded congruent phylogenies, strongly supporting the phylogenetic affinity of Mimizuku with Otus, as opposed to Bubo. The conservative nature of mitochondrial DNA evolution in Mimizuku, in sharp contrast to its unique derived morphological attributes, suggests that Mimizuku is a recently evolved insular form of Otus that has undergone rapid morphological evolution towards gigantism, rather than being a small derivative of the much larger eagle-owls (Bubo) as has been suggested previously.
10.1525/auk.2012.11181|Restoration and maintenance of barrier islands to preserve structural integrity and protect against erosional forces is a common goal of coastal protection. An assessment of restored barrier islands for their suitability as wildlife habitat is crucial for improvement of restoration methods and conservation of barrier-island-dwelling species, especially ground-nesting waterbirds. During the 2008 and 2009 breeding periods, we conducted a quantitative assessment of colonial waterbird use of the Isles Dernieres Barrier Island Refuge (IDBIR), Louisiana, which has experienced several restoration projects since the early 1990s, to understand the breeding ecology of two terns in the genus
10.2307/4089120|Using pairwise feeder tests, we studied preferences for sugars in Cape Sugarbirds (Promerops cafer) and Lesser Double-collared Sunbirds (Nectarinia chalybea). Birds were offered 20% (w:w) solutions of sucrose, fructose, glucose, and a mixture of equal parts of glucose and fructose. Cape Sugarbirds showed no preference among these sugars, whereas the order of preference in Lesser Double-collared Sunbirds was sucrose > fructose = hexose mixture > glucose. Both species showed strong "side biases," with individuals consistently drinking more from feeders offered on a particular side of the feeder pair. We suggest that this bias is a manifestation of stereotyped foraging behavior rather than lateralization or true "handedness." The absence of a sucrose aversion in "fynbos" (i.e. Cape Floristic Kingdom of southern Africa) nectarivores such as sugarbirds and sunbirds is not surprising because the fynbos is characterized by high floral diversity and low bird diversity and by the occurrence of both sucrose-dominant and hexose-dominant nectars. However, our findings contradict an earlier generalization that passerines prefer hexoses to sucrose. This generalization is based on studies of several American and European species and of one East African species, and it may be confounded by comparisons of specialized nectarivorous non-passerines with generalized frugivorous/nectarivorous passerines. In separate feeding trials, both sugarbirds and sunbirds showed a strong aversion to the pentose sugar xylose, a nectar sugar newly described for the Proteaceae. The reason for the occurrence of xylose in nectar of the Proteaceae is unknown.
10.2307/4090066| Avian studies are often interpreted using dual (e.g.
4087117|Variation in timing of breeding in Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) was correlated only weakly with external morphological characters, but was correlated positively and significantly with estimates of body size based on measurements of skeletons and muscle weights. Small females apparently held a reproductive advantage in being able to mobilize resources for reproduction before large females. Egg weight was independent of all measures of female size, but was directly and significantly (P = 0.03) correlated with standard flight muscle weight, a relative index of body condition. Egg size was thus a function more of female body condition than size. On average, shell, yolk, and albumen comprised 5.6%, 21.9%, and 72.5%, respectively, of fresh egg weight. Dry albumen and dry shell increased proportionately with fresh egg weight, but dry yolk did not. Total protein, lipid, and energy of fresh eggs all increased proportionately with weight. Comparison of egg composition and standard flight muscle weight of laying females indicated moderate positive, although nonsignificant, correlations between body condition and measures of egg quality, especially lipid content. Based on post-egg-laying body composition and nutrient requirements for the production of one egg, it appeared that most females probably could have laid an additional egg almost solely from body reserves. Clutch size thus appears to be independent of body condition.
10.2307/4089804|Riparian habitats typically support high diversity and density of both plants and animals. With the dramatic loss of riparian habitats, restoring them has become a priority among conservation practitioners. Diversity and density of avian species tend to increase following riparian restoration, but little is known about how restored habitats function to meet particular species' needs. Habitat structure is an important factor affecting species diversity and density and can influence nest-site selection and reproductive success. To evaluate habitat restoration, we examined interactions between habitat structure, nestsite selection, and nesting success in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) nesting in restored, mature, and young naturally regenerating stands of riparian forest. We found that stand types differed markedly in structure, and that habitat structure influenced both nest-site selection and rates of nest loss to predation. Comparison of habitat structure among the three stand types indicated that restored stands offered fewer acceptable nest sites and poorer protection from nest predation. Concordant with those differences in habitat structure, Song Sparrows showed trends toward less density in restored stands than in mature forest, and had poorer nesting success as a result of predation.
4085156|We describe 11 individuals probably representing a new hybrid combination between Anna's Hummingbird (Calypte anna) and Costa's Hummingbird (Calypte costae). The probable hybrids are intermediate in morphology but more closely resemble Costa's Hummingbird. The behavior of the suspected hybrids is intermediate but the song is typical of Anna's Hummingbird. These probable hybrids represent the first known intrageneric hybrid combination among North American hummingbirds. Although taxonomic revision of North American hummingbirds is in order, more work is needed before such changes are made.
4085753|The heat flux (Q
4088232|We examined migration of adult Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) in north-central Colorado by radio tracking 13 males and 19 females. Elevational changes associated with movements to winter areas were greater for males (median = 488 m, range = 183-671 m) than females (median = 122 m, range = -61-760 m). Males (median = 10.5 km, range = 1.0-29.4 km) also moved farther than females (median = 1.0 km, range = 0.1-28.0 km), resulting in partial segregation of sexes during winter. Directional orientation of movements to wintering areas was nonrandom for long-distance (>3 km) migrants. Median elevational change (122 m) and distance (0.6 km) between the first-winter and first-breeding areas for seven juvenile females were similar to movements of adult females. Males (median = 7 July) departed breeding areas earlier than females (median = 11 August), but arrived (median = 14 October) on winter areas about the same time as females (median = 23 October). Both sexes exhibited fidelity to winter areas. The average distance between winter locations ranged from 94 to 312 m (median = 135 m) for 11 radio-marked adults, suggesting Blue Grouse were sedentary on their winter ranges.
4085809|Thermoregulatory responses to some aspects of winter climates were examined in the migratory finch, Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii. After 3 months acclimation to either warm (28 C) or cold (4 C) conditions, the birds were tested for thermoregulatory capacities in June and January. Physiological responses of acclimated birds were compared to those of control birds housed in outdoor aviaries. Telemetered body temperature showed a daily cycle with a 1-C lower nocturnal temperature in summer and a 2-C difference in winter. The decreased nocturnal body temperature was found in winter regardless of thermal acclimation history. Thermal acclimation history had no significant effect on metabolism during subsequent exposure to cold test temperature. However, there were different apparent effects on metabolism at some exposure temperatures when results were expressed per bird as compared to per gram (normalized by factoring out mass variance). Fasting metabolic rate was higher in winter than summer when tested at low ambient temperature. White-crowned Sparrows maintained homeothermy in both winter and summer seasons even when exposed to cold temperatures down to -35 C for several hours.
4086968|Single-sample studies suggested that understory flowers and fruits and their avian consumers are scarce in the Malaysian rain forest as compared with African and Central American rain forests. Results from my longer-term studies at Pasoh Forest Reserve (Negeri Sembilan, Peninsular Malaysia) established that flowers and fruits were consistently rare as food for birds. A comparison of two forest types at Pasoh revealed the effect of lower food availability on avian trophic organization. Food resources (e.g. flowers, fruits, arthropods) were less abundant in the regenerating than in the virgin forest, and bird species richness and individual abundance were also lower in the regenerating forest understory. However, the two forests did not differ significantly in the relative importance of the various foraging guilds, suggesting that similar types of resources were present in similar proportions. None of the birds sampled in the Malaysian rain-forest understory was a specialized consumer of understory flowers or fruit, whereas birds feeding mainly on foliage-dwelling arthropods were abundant and were represented by many species. This trophic organization is contrary to that reported for rain forests in other tropical regions but may simply reflect an allocation of harvestable productivity that is different rather than lower.
10.2307/4089159|Hamilton and Zuk (1982) proposed that bright plumage in birds evolved as an advertisement of parasite resistance in response to heavy parasite loads, and they predicted that sexual dichromatism should be strongly correlated with parasite loads across species. To test their hypothesis, we sampled 935 individuals of 19 species of passerine birds in Louisiana for the presence of blood parasites. Nest height, a variable generally not considered in most recent literature on the Hamilton-Zuk hypothesis, was as good or better a predictor of parasite prevalence as was sexual dichromatism or plumage brightness. Because certain ornithophilic vectors are most common in the canopy, the relationship between nest height and parasite prevalence may follow from the natural history of parasitism. Ecological conditions may influence blood-parasite loads in the species studied, suggesting that genetically based resistance is less important. If parasite vectors are more common in the canopy, then more colorful bird species will be more heavily parasitized, on average, than less colorful species, because bird species that live high in the trees tend to be more colorful than those that live closer to the ground.
10.2307/4088512|In domesticated laboratory Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata), leg bands of certain colors affect mate selection, parental effort, reproductive success, sex ratio of offspring, and survivorship. I tested the effects of these same colors on survivorship, body condition and reproductive effort of free-living Zebra Finches over several breeding seasons at two colonies in northern Victoria, Australia. At the "Cloverlea" colony, adults of each sex received either "attractive" or "unattractive" color bands. Nevertheless, survivorship to 12 months was not affected by band color nor was there compelling evidence (mass, bill color and molt) for deteriorating body condition due to reproductive costs; there were no sex differences in survivorship. Reproductive effort each breeding season in these free-living birds may not be as great as that in some laboratory populations because in nature the season is shorter and the interval for recovery correspondingly longer. In contrast, at the "Danaher" colony, where birds had unique color combinations of three bands (plus one metal band), a retrospective analysis of four years of data showed that there were significant effects of band color on reproductive effort of females; they laid more eggs if mated to males having a single red band (attractive color) in their combination than if mated to males having a single light-green band (unattractive color) or bands of other colors (neutral attractiveness). They laid an extra clutch, but this did not result in significantly more fledglings and independent young being raised by the pair. There were no band-color or sex effects on survivorship of adults at this colony. There were no obvious biases in the allocation of band colors or identification of breeding pairs that might explain the extra-clutch effect. The finding on red-banded males is largely consistent with that described for domesticated Zebra Finches, where females make a differential reproductive allocation in response to their partner's band color. No similar effects were found for female band color where, contrary to expectation, females with black (attractive) bands had significantly fewer fledglings than did females with color bands of neutral attractiveness. The overall conclusion is that color bands do not significantly affect the behavior of wild Zebra Finches, but it would be wise to omit red bands on males where possible.
4086375|I collected 150 Brant (Branta bernicla) at East Bay, Southampton Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, in 1979 and 1980 to evaluate how much these birds rely on reserves of fat, protein, and calcium during egg production, incubation, and the subsequent wing molt. Egg laying resulted in decreases in body weight and nutrient reserves of females. These decreases could have accounted for all of the fat but only 70% of the protein in an average clutch. Neither males nor females had sufficient reserves when incubation began to enable them to fast during that period. Only 11% and 22% of the energy required by males and females, respectively, could have been derived from their reserves during incubation. Brant evidently did not use body reserves to obtain nutrients for feather growth during wing molt. Rather, molting males and females accumulated muscle protein, which supports my hypothesis that wing molt is not a nutritional stress for waterfowl.
10.2307/4089768|Buff-breasted (Thryothorus leucotis) and Rufous-and-white (T. rufalbus) wrens living in a dry forest in northeast Colombia (Parque Nacional Natural Tayrona) are faced with a large year-to-year uncertainty in the arrival time of the rainy season, as well as the amount of rain falling in the first six months of the year. Those factors are thought to be important cues used by those species in their reproductive decisions. In this study, I gathered data on several reproductive parameters (clutch size, nesting success, timing of breeding, renesting attempts) for both species during two years of contrasting rainfall patterns. I collected information on the foraging behavior of both species to identify their main food and to study how rainfall affects the dynamics of those resources. Buff-breasted Wrens fed mostly in the understory, gleaning arthropods from upper and lower leaf surfaces, dry branches, and aerial litter. Numbers of arthropods in those microhabitats depend strongly on the amount of rainfall; understory arthropod levels are low during the dry season and increase with the arrival of the rains. Buff-breasted Wrens timed their reproduction with the arrival of the rains in both years, delaying the onset of breeding significantly and continuing to breed during the dry year (1994). Rufous-and-white Wrens spent a large proportion of their time feeding on arthropods in the leaf litter. Number of arthropods in the litter varied little between dry and wet periods. Therefore, Rufous-and-white Wrens had a more constant food environment despite large differences in rainfall within and between the years of the study. That species started breeding earlier in the dry season and extended its breeding longer than Buff-breasted Wrens. My observations suggest that the evolution of the reproductive strategies in those species was mostly through the change of behavioral parameters rather than physiological reproductive parameters such as changes in clutch size, egg size, or number of broods.
10.2307/4089293| We tested the effects of female age on reproductive performance of Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata), Tufted Ducks (Aythya fuligula), and Common Pochards (A. ferina) based on a long-term study (1958 to 1995) at Engure Marsh, Latvia. Yearling females initiated nests later than older (2 years) females in each species, but female age explained little of the remaining variation in reproductive performance. Clutch size and brood size of all species declined seasonally. Age-specific increases in reproductive performance were most consistent between 1 and 2 years of age and were more apparent in the diving ducks than in Northern Shovelers. Clutch size, brood size, and duckling mass of yearling Tufted Ducks, and brood size and duckling mass of yearling Common Pochards, were smaller than those of older females. In Northern Shovelers, only duckling mass increased with age of the female. Nesting and hatching success did not vary by age for any species. Among 2-year-old females with and without previous breeding experience, experienced females nested five to six days earlier than inexperienced females in all species. Experienced, 2-year-old Tufted Ducks also had larger clutches and broods than inexperienced females. Effects of breeding experience generally lasted for only a single breeding season. Nesting date and duckling mass of yearling Northern Shovelers did not differ from that of inexperienced 2-year-olds. However, inexperienced 2-year-old Tufted Ducks and Common Pochards nested earlier and produced larger ducklings than did yearling females. Brood size of inexperienced, 2-year-old Common Pochards also was larger than that of yearlings. We found no evidence that age-specific increases in reproductive performance were related to differential survival of good breeders. Reproductive performance was constrained by past breeding experience in Northern Shovelers and by age and experience in Tufted Ducks and Common Pochards. 
4085705|Observations from June to September 1977 at a spring in central coastal California showed that 24 of 45 species of birds found within a 1.6-km diameter area used the spring as a source of free water. Color-banded individuals of several species drank more than once a day. A significant seasonal variation in the number of drinking visits per hour was found for all species combined. Only the Brown Towhee showed a conspicuous diurnal drinking pattern, however. Temperature on a particular day was not correlated with number of species visiting the spring, the total number of visits by all birds to the spring, or the number of visits by five of the six species considered to be water dependent. Granivory was significantly, positively correlated with water dependence. Permanent residents were more regular drinkers than summer residents, but this was a secondary effect resulting from the high proportion of granivory among permanent residents. The habitat surrounding the water hole, species abundance, and human disturbance at the spring all showed possible influence on our measures of water dependence. These findings suggest that surface water may be an important determinant of species distribution and community organization in mesic as well as desert environments.
10.2307/4088765|We analyzed survival and recovery rates based on 371 recoveries from 4,713 Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) banded as nestlings or recent fledglings in Saskatchewan from 1958 through 1987. During this period, abundance of snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) fluctuated over three 10-year cycles. When hares were scarce, fewer owls bred, fledging success was lower, and owls of all age classes were recovered farther from the banding sites. We estimated survival by age class and period of the hare cycle using probability models that allowed recovery rates to vary with time. These models indicated annual variation in recovery rates, with a significant long-term decline largely due to a continentwide decline in the proportion of owls shot or trapped. After allowing for variation in recovery rates, estimated survival rates were higher for all age classes in years when hares were abundant than in years when hares were scarce (58 vs. 37% for immatures, 74 vs. 59% for yearlings, and 88 vs. 81% for adults). These results, in conjunction with those of earlier studies, indicate that declines in hare densities affected Great Horned Owl populations through increased dispersal and mortality, as well as decreased fecundity.
4085223|Play is more difficult to distinguish from other activities in birds than in mammals. Some cases of play reported in the literature appear to be due to threshold lowering, a type of activity that is usually differentiated from play. The various types of avian play are reviewed. Like mammals, birds exhibit object manipulation and some types of locomotory play. Subsong shows some remarkable similarities with characteristics of nonvocal play as noted in mammals, and birds may engage in other types of acoustic activities with playlike features. The corvids, particularly the Common Raven, exhibit the most complex play known for birds, and these activities, which are part of the learning process in the young, are probably important in the species' adaptation to a wide variety of habitats. Of all animals, only birds and mammals play, and play evolved independently in the two groups probably because of similar selection pressures acting on the developmental process to produce flexibility of behavior and the perfection of certain motor skills.
4085933|Two song dialects are described for montane White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) in the Sierra Nevada of California, one at Tioga Pass and one at Gardisky Lake 3 km to the north. The dialects differ from each other in syllabic morphology and in rhythmic (temporal) and pitch characteristics. Two males sang foreign dialects, one typical of the Canadian Rockies and the other typical of Z. l. gambelii of Alaska and Canada. Both "song misimprinted" birds were paired and at least one bred successfully. A third male, singing syllables from Mount Lassen, was also paired. Most females induced to sing with testosterone injections did not match the dialects of their consorts, suggesting that song dialects did not influence mate choice. One female sang a song similar to those from Mount Lassen to the north but was paired to a male singing a Gardisky song. Four possible explanations for mis-matching of dialects are discussed. The most probable explanation at this time is that mating is random according to dialect and that differential dispersal distances between the sexes account for sex differences in song types.
10.2307/4089819| Many forest bird species show inhibition to entering open areas, including crossing habitat gaps. We examined the responses of Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) to conspecific song playback within forest, at clearcut-forest ecotones, and across logging roads to assess movements of this Neotropical migrant into open areas. Males responded readily to song playbacks in all areas, and moved significantly farther into clearcuts than they did within intact forest (40.4  2.9 m and 17.1  1.2 m, respectively). Their singing, aggressive trilling, and alarm-calling rates were highest in response to playback from clearcuts, intermediate during road-crossings, and lowest within forest. Males moved farthest into the oldest regenerating clearcuts (>15 years old), indicating that vegetation structure also influences their movement into open areas. Second-year males were more responsive than older males, moving farther to reach speakers in all areas, and showing a nonsignificant trend of moving farther into clearcuts. We found that extensive movements into open areas occur in response to simulated territorial intrusion, indicating that small-scale habitat fragmentation by forestry may not disrupt territorial movements of that species. 
10.2307/4088597|One of three Tricolored Heron (Egretta tricolor) nestlings experimentally infected with Eustrongylides ignotus larvae died two days postinfection. During eight days post-infection, the other infected birds consumed less food per meal, consumed less food in relation to body mass, regurgitated more frequently, and exhibited lower bill and mass growth rates than did three uninfected control birds. Prevalence of eustrongylidosis among free-ranging Great Egret (Casmerodius albus) nestlings from Lake Okeechobee ranged from less than 5% in 1989 and 1991 to 28.4% in 1990. During 1990, infected nestlings suffered 10.6 to 17.9% higher mortality than uninfected birds, with younger nestlings suffering proportionately greater mortality. Summarized across colonies and nestling ranks (i.e. hatching order), infected nestlings averaged 2.9% shorter bills, 4.1% shorter tarsi, and 6.9% shorter wings than non-infected birds. Among rank 1 (oldest) and 3 (youngest) nestlings, infected birds were lighter (6.3-9.0%), but among rank 2 nestlings from both colonies infected birds averaged heavier than their noninfected counterparts. These results for mass may be due to the interactive effects of sibling rivalry. Eustrongylidosis generally had the greatest impact on those nestlings otherwise disposed to lower growth rates, whether due to colony location or nestling rank. The results emphasize the importance of monitoring diseases whenever prefledging growth and survival are of interest.
4087038|Fretwell and Lucas's (1970) model relating settling patterns and habitat suitability was tested by examining the distribution among habitats of male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) at relatively low (26
4085356|We used electrophoretic methods to investigate genetic heterozygosity and the degree of differentiation in 15 species of birds of the family Parulidae. The observed heterozygosity is similar to that found in other vertebrates. The pattern of genotypes observed suggests that population subdivision exists for some of these birds. The genetic distances between species and genera of birds examined are considerably less than are those of non-avian taxa.
10.1525/auk.2011.10206|We investigated territory-level habitat use patterns of 132 color-banded male Ovenbirds (
10.2307/4089031|If dietary opportunism occurs in predators over large geographic areas, trends in the trophic characteristics of predators should be explained largely by the distribution patterns of their prey. We compiled literature information of diet for mammal-eating and bird-eating raptors (diurnal raptors [Falconiformes] and owls [Strigiformes]) in Europe and North America (299 and 300 samples, respectively) and asked: (1) Do latitudinal and longitudinal patterns occur in the food-niche breadth, number of prey taxa, and prey size within continents? (2) If so, are these patterns consistent with the intracontinental gradients in species diversity and stability (constancy in time) of birds and mammals? In both Europe and North America, latitudinal and longitudinal trends in trophic diversity of mammal-eating diurnal raptors and owls appeared to be more obvious than those of bird-eating and generalist raptors. This suggests that mammal-eating birds of prey are more opportunistic in their diet choice than are bird eaters and generalists. Within Europe, the latitudinal gradient in dietary diversity of raptors was more evident than the longitudinal gradient, whereas within North America the longitudinal gradient was more conspicuous. For both continents, these gradients were more marked in winter diets than in the breeding-season diets of raptors. These results are consistent with the known regional trends in prey assemblages: in Europe, the south-to-north gradient in diversity and stability of bird and mammal species is more marked than the west-to-east gradient, whereas in North America the number of mammal species markedly increases from east to west, but not so evidently from south to north.
4086168| Analyses of genic variation and skeletal morphology were used to examine relationships among 10 species in the genera Zonotrichia, Junco, Melospiza, and Passerella. Cluster and principal components analyses showed that morphologic differentiation involves size and aspects of the skull, synsacrum, and hind limb. The genera have basically different skeletal morphologies; there is some overlap, however. The phenetic groupings of taxa, based on skeletal morphology, were congruent with neither traditional taxonomic limits nor the genetic analysis. The phenetic groupings seem biased by nondivergence and convergence. I conclude that the analysis of the genic data produces a better estimate of the phylogenetic history of the group than the analysis of morphology. The genic data show that the genera are distinct lineages, although the affinities of Z. capensis need clarification. The branching order of Zonotrichia, J. hyemalis, and Melospiza is unresolved, while P. iliaca is probably a sister taxon to these three genera. Melospiza melodia and P. iliaca are not closely related, contrary to previous suggestions. The Lincoln's Sparrow and Swamp Sparrow are more similar to each other than either is to the Song Sparrow. Within Zonotrichia, the phylogenetic hypothesis suggests that the White-crowned Sparrow and Golden-crowned Sparrow are the most similar species, with the remaining taxa joining them in the following order: Harris' Sparrow, White-throated Sparrow, and Rufous-collared Sparrow. This phylogenetic scheme contradicts previous opinions, which, I suggest, were based on inconclusive evidence. The Harris' Sparrow, which is divergent relative to its congeners in both plumage and skeletal characters, is genically similar to its congeners. The Rufous-collared Sparrow is morphologically and genically differentiated from its north-temperate congeners, and, if it is a valid member of Zonotrichia, it must be an early derivative. Heterozygosity (x = 0.039), percentage polymorphic loci (x = 20.3), and mean number of alleles per polymorphic locus (x = 2.4) were similar to values reported for other birds and support the observation that birds possess levels of within-species genetic variation typical of other vertebrates. However, genetic distances averaged 0.06 between congeneric species and 0.26 for noncongeneric (but confamilial) interspecific comparisons and are lower than those observed at comparable taxonomic levels in other vertebrates. Rates of genic change seem homogeneous. Converting genetic distances into estimates of divergence dates suggests that the genera originated from 1.3 to 6.6 MYBP. Speciation within Zonotrichia and Melospiza probably occurred in the Pleistocene but before approximately 140,000 yr ago. I suggest that Passerella, Melospiza, Junco, and Zonotrichia be retained as distinct genera until comparable genetic data from other emberizines are available. 
10.2307/4089593|In managed forests, riparian buffer strips typically are maintained to protect water quality. If properly designed, buffer strips also may act as wildlife reserves. However, forest managers have lacked the information to develop standards for buffer strips to maximize benefits for wildlife species. We assessed the conservation potential of 20-, 100-, and 200-m wide buffers for an area-sensitive songbird in boreal mixed-wood forest in Alberta. We measured abundance, territory characteristics, and pairing success of Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) at treatment and control lakes one year before and after upland timber harvest. After harvest, Ovenbirds were absent from 20-m buffer strips. Harvesting did not significantly influence abundance or territory size in 100-m or 200-m buffers, although territories generally became narrower. Postharvest territory position did not change in 200-m buffers, but territories in 100-m strips shifted lakeward and included more habitat adjacent to the riparian edge than before harvest. Despite this shift in territory position, males that occupied 100-m strips successfully attracted mates. High availability of regional forest cover may have muted the more pronounced effects of habitat alteration observed in other studies. Our research is among the first to evaluate individual behavioral responses to the creation of forest edges. Our data indicate that 20-m buffer strips do not support breeding Ovenbirds, whereas 100- and 200-m buffers retain Ovenbirds during the year following harvest. Longterm harvest effects may differ from those we monitored and require study, particularly as timber extraction increases in the boreal mixed-wood ecoregion.
10.2307/4090487| We used capture-recapture analyses to describe juvenile and adult survival from 1993 to 2001 in a population of Sociable Weavers (Philetairus socius), a colonial, cooperatively breeding passerine of southern Africa. We examined temporal variation in survival and the role that the breeding season's length and environmental factors play in determining survival patterns in the population. Annual survival probability (mean  SE) was 0.66  0.02. In contrast to most passerines, juveniles and adults had similar survival probabilities; survival rates did not vary significantly between years. We found no relationship among temperature, rainfall, and survival. Relatively high survival rates in Sociable Weavers probably result from a benign climate and easy access to food in winter. Juvenile survival may also be enhanced by prolonged parental care and delayed dispersal. /// Utilizamos anlisis de captura y recaptura para describir la supervivencia de juveniles y adultos entre 1993 y 2001 en una poblacin de Philetairus socius, una especie de ave paserina colonial con cra cooperativa del sur de frica. Examinamos la variacin temporal en la supervivencia, y la importancia de la longitud del perodo de apareamiento y de los factores ambientales para la supervivencia de los individuos de la poblacin. La probabilidad de supervivencia anual (media  EE) fue de 0.66  0.02. En contraste con la mayora de los Passeriformes, los individuos juveniles y adultos mostraron probabilidades de supervivencia similares, y las tasas de supervivencia no variaron significativamente entre aos. No encontramos relacin alguna entre la temperatura, la cantidad de lluvia y la supervivencia. La relativamente alta probabilidad de supervivencia observada se encuentra probablemente relacionada con un clima benigno y fcil acceso al alimento durante el invierno. La supervivencia de los juveniles puede adems estar influenciada positivamente por un perodo de cuidado parental prolongado y por la dispersin retardada de las cras. 
4090524| Because of their smaller size and isolation, island populations tend to be more divergent and less genetically variable than mainland populations. We collected DNA samples from nine Galpagos Hawk (Buteo galapagoensis) island populations, covering the species' entire range. Neutral minisatellite DNA markers were used to calculate within-island genetic diversity and between-island genetic differentiation
4087955|I studied relative abundances, foraging behavior, and foraging habitats of Nuttall's Woodpeckers (Picoides nuttallii) at three California locations. Population sizes at two areas in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada were larger than the population in the Tehachapi Mountains. These differences were attributed to habitat and weather differences. The two areas in the Sierra foothills had milder winters and contained large interior live oaks (Quercus wislizenii) and gray pines (Pinus sabiniana), species used extensively by woodpeckers outside of the breeding season. The Tehachapi area contained few large interior live oaks and no gray pines. All areas contained blue oak (Q. douglasii), used extensively during breeding. Trees actually used for foraging at all locations and during all seasons were larger, on average, than those generally available. Birds foraged by lightly pecking, probing, and gleaning prey from branches <30 cm in diameter, although the exact methods and substrates varied by study area, season, and year. I found little intersexual variation in either foraging behavior or foraging habitat.
25150339|We analyzed yearly mark-recapture-recovery information collected over a 36-year period for the Little Penguins (Eudyptula minor) of Phillip Island in southeastern Australia. We show that it is feasible to model age-dependence for the survival, recapture, and recovery probabilities simultaneously, and that such a modeling scheme yields biologically realistic age structures for the model parameters. We provide illustrations of potentially erroneous results that may arise when researchers fail (1) to consider simultaneous age-dependence or (2) to detect annual variations that may mask age-dependence. From 1968 to 2004, 23,686 chicks were flipper-banded; 2,979 birds were encountered after fledging, and 1,347 were ultimately recovered dead. We found low survival of 17% in the first year of life, increasing to 71% in the second year of life, 78% in the third year, and 83% thereafter, and declining gradually after nine years of age. A population model allowing for immigration of birds from areas surrounding the study sites fits the observed stable population in the study sites. /// Analizamos informacin anual de marca-recaptura-recuperacin para Eudyptula minor recolectada a lo largo de un perodo de 36 aos en la Isla Phillip, sudeste de Australia. Mostramos que es posible modelar la dependencia de la edad de las probabilidades de supervivencia, recaptura y recuperacin simultneamente, y que dicho esquema de modelado brinda estructuras de edad biolgicamente realistas para los parmetros del modelo. Presentamos ejemplos de resultados potencialmente errneos que pueden aparecer cuando los investigadores fallan (1) en considerar dependencias simultneas de la edad o (2) en detectar las variaciones anuales que pueden enmascarar la dependencia de la edad. Desde 1968 hasta 2004, 23,686 pichones fueron anillados en las aletas, 2,979 aves fueron encontradas luego de emplumar y 1,347 aves fueron recuperadas finalmente muertas. Encontramos una baja supervivencia del 17% en el primer ao de vida, incrementando hasta el 71% en el segundo ao de vida, 78% en el tercer ao y 83% de ah en adelante, con un declive gradual luego de nueve aos de edad. Un modelo poblacional que permite la immigracin de aves desde las reas que rodean los sitios de estudio se ajusta a la poblacin estable estudiada en los sitios de estudio.
25488673|Male birds confront a tradeoff between increasing the number of offspring they sire and providing parental care. This behavioral tradeoff may be manifested as variation in testis size: larger testes, producing more sperm and testosterone, are advantageous for sperm and mating competition, thus ensuring paternity, yet high levels of plasma testosterone also inhibit parental care. There is good evidence that relative testis size is greater in species in which males compete more intensely to fertilize females, but it remains unclear whether, in turn, smaller testes prevail in species with greater levels of paternal care. Cuckoos provide an opportunity to test for an effect of paternal care on testis size because of the diversity of breeding systems in this family: parasitic species lack parental care altogether, whereas some coucals (Centropodinae) show exclusively or predominantly male care. In addition, coucals have a reduced left testis, which
25488651|The North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) provides a widely used source of information on changes in bird population abundance based on data obtained for >50 years by 3-min point counts (
10.2307/4088781|Two species of Andean brush-finches, Buarremon (formerly Atlapetes) torquatus and B. brunneinuchus, show an interdigitating pattern of distribution in the Andes that we interpret as the result of competition between them. Plotting 590 specimen localities by latitude and elevation reveals that the two species have complementary, parapatric distributions with minimal overlap. More importantly, where only one species occurs, that species usually occupies the entire elevational range in that region. Furthermore, the usual relative position of the two species, with B. torquatus at high and B. brunneinuchus at low elevations, is reversed in two regions. These "natural experiments" suggest that elevational limits are unlikely to be governed in these two species by autecological factors and that interspecific competition is the process most likely to generate such a pattern. However, our re-evaluation of other data interpreted to support the prevalence of interspecific competition in determining elevational limits of other Andean birds suggests that its role has not been properly resolved.
10.2307/4088865|To investigate the possible relationship between habitat changes and population declines in the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), I studied redstart population structure in habitats spanning a successional gradient in northern hardwoods forests of the White Mountains, New Hampshire during the summers of 1992 to 1994. Early successional stands, in general, supported higher densities and a greater percentage of older (ASY) males than did mature stands. Among mature forests, redstart densities and proportions of ASY males were lower in stands with greater representation of conifers. Mating success varied among habitats, primarily for yearling males, which were more likely to obtain a mate in the early successional habitats and less likely to do so in coniferous habitats. Territories were significantly smaller in early successional habitats. The combination of high densities, high proportions of older males, high mating success in yearlings, and small territory size supports the hypothesis that early successional habitats are more suitable for redstarts than are older forests. Early successional habitats may be more suitable due to higher prey availability and/or reduced predation on nests, although conclusive data are not available for either of these variables. If reproductive success follows a similar pattern, then the loss of early successional habitats as a result of reforestation in the breeding areas could be a major cause of population declines of American Redstarts in New England.
10.2307/4089813| The brief subarctic summer limits the time available for birds to complete their reproductive activities, yet the temporal requirements of high-latitude passerine migrants are not well understood. Our analyses examined the timing of spring and autumn migration among 18 passerine species to obtain indirect estimates of the time they occupy their breeding ranges in northwestern North America. From 1992 to 1998, the Alaska Bird Observatory (6450N, 14750W) banded 31,698 individuals during the most intensive standardized mist-netting study ever conducted in subarctic North America. Among the migrants examined, the estimated number of days that species were present in interior Alaska ranged from 48 days for adult Alder Flycatchers (Empidonax alnorum) to 129 days for American Robins (Turdus migratorius). Adults departed significantly later in autumn than immatures in 10 of 18 species we examined and significantly earlier than immatures in only one species, Alder Flycatcher. Breeding range occupancy of Nearctic-Neotropic migrants occurs in this region within the range of average frost-free temperatures in Fairbanks, Alaska, and is significantly shorter in duration than among Nearctic-Nearctic ("short-distance") migrants at this latitude. 
10.2307/4089278|Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain the occurrence of hatching asynchrony in altricial birds. According to one hypothesis, parents would benefit from hatching asynchrony because the offspring would spend less energy on sibling rivalry. Another hypothesis states that there is a sexual conflict over hatching spread, with one parent trying to minimize investment at the expense of its mate. The latter hypothesis was suggested from a study where males survived better following asynchronous than following synchronous hatching of the brood, with opposite results for females. I tested this hypothesis by manipulating hatching spread in another altricial bird with biparental care, the American Robin (Turdus migratorius), and by observing food provisioning late in the nestling period. The hypothesis was supported because males seemed to contribute less, and females more, to asynchronous broods. Males did not take less care than females of the smaller nestlings within the brood, but when the brood had partially fledged it was mostly the female that fed the young that remained in the nest. Provisioning of the parents combined did not seem to be less with asynchronous than with synchronous hatching, lending no support to the siblingrivalry reduction hypothesis.
90008545|Quantifiable geographic variation in DNA or morphology is often used to gauge past and present levels of population interchange and has thus helped define taxonomic boundaries, resolve evolutionary histories, and develop effective conservation strategies to preserve evolutionary diversity. We examined rangewide patterns of genetic (mtDNA and microsatellites) and morphological diversity within the Lark Sparrow (
10.2307/4088728|We experimentally examined the responses of captive Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) to intraspecific brood parasitism by adding two eggs to clutches at the onset (early treatment), in the middle (midtreatment), or at the end (late treatment) of egg laying. A comparison group was derived from nonparasitized nesting attempts of the same pairs. Experimentally parasitized nests were abandoned before hatching could have occurred at a much higher rate than were unmanipulated nests; most of the abandonment occurred in early-treatment nests. Females in the early treatment also appeared to curtail egg laying. A smaller proportion of eggs in experimentally parasitized nests survived, but survival of host and parasite hatchlings in such nests was equivalent. Within nests containing both host and parasite young, host young were heavier at day 10 posthatching; the cause of mass differences was not ascertained. Egg loss occurred relatively more frequently in manipulated than in unmanipulated nests, suggesting that clutch enlargement taxes parental capabilities.
4086425|In an effort to relate social interactions to feeding-habitat use, I observed six species of wading birds near a major colony site in coastal North Carolina. Three spatial scales of habitat use were considered: the general orientation to and from the colony (coarsest level), the habitat "patch," and (at the finest level) the microhabitat. Departure-arrival directions of Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis), Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea), Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor), and Glossy Ibises (Plegadis falcinellus) were monitored at the colony site to document coarse patterns of feeding-habitat use. Added to these data were observations made at five different wetland sites to monitor between-habitat and within-habitat patterns for the five aquatic-feeding species. The results indicated a broad and variable use of feeding habitat over time. At the coarsest scale (i.e. orientation at the colony), diffuse patterns, influenced little by either inter- or intraspecific social interaction, were found for all species. At the next level (habitat "patch"), only one of five wetland sites was relatively consistent in attracting feeding birds, and its use increased from May to June. Few groups were seen at four of the five sites. At the one "attractive" site, the within-habitat patterns again were spatially variable over time, except for those of the abundant Snowy Egret, whose microhabitat preference was fairly consistent. Glossy Ibises and Snowy Egrets frequently formed mixed-species groups, Little Blue Herons were the least social, and Great Egrets and Tricolored Herons generally occurred in groups of less than 10 birds but rarely in groups larger than 30. The close association between Snowy Egrets and Glossy Ibises appeared to be based on a "beater-follower" relationship, wherein the probing, nonvisually feeding ibises make prey more available to the followers. In the study area, local enhancement appeared to play a more important role than did any "information-sharing" at the colony.
4086061|If migratory shorebirds (Charadrii) are limited through competition on tropical wintering grounds, then the intensity of competition should increase during the boreal winter, when large numbers of nearctic breeders and their offspring move into their wintering grounds. We tested this hypothesis by making four specific predictions: (1) individual species will increase or decrease their range of habitat and microhabitat use as local densities rise during the boreal winter; (2) species with flexible feeding methods will change them; (3) birds will forage for a greater part of the tidal cycle at higher densities; and (4) food will become scarcer during periods of high density of foraging birds. We carried out our study at Paracas, on the Peruvian coast, by comparing bird numbers and foraging behavior during the boreal summer (May-July 1977) and winter (January and February 1979). Despite the higher density of foraging birds in the winter, we found no systematic change in microhabitat use, nor was there feeding over more of the tidal cycle. We found some suggestion of a shift in the use of major habitat types in the boreal winter, but this was due to greater use of one habitat by a number of species. We found no evidence of any drop in food availability from January to February 1979. Our study was carried out at a major tropical wintering area; the data we collected here do not support the hypothesis that competitive shifts or population limitation necessarily occur on tropical wintering grounds.
10.2307/4089517|Recruitment models developed for Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) have demonstrated a correlation between wetland habitat conditions on the prairie-parkland region of North America and annual reproductive success. Waterfowl habitat in eastern North America is composed of a variety of forested, inland, and coastal habitats that are subject to different environmental conditions than those in the prairies and parklands. My objective was to develop models relating environmental conditions in eastern North America to the annual reproductive success of eastern Mallards. I used estimated age ratios in the harvest to estimate the proportion of young in the fall population and developed multiple linear regression models to identify combinations of environmental and demographic variables that were correlated with annual recruitment. Annual recruitment was negatively correlated with population size and positively correlated with precipitation. Models with the best predictive ability contained either the Midwinter Inventory or the Breeding Bird Survey index, cumulative precipitation in winter (January and February) or May, and the ratio of precipitation during April in Pennsylvania to that in New Jersey. These models explained 61 to 72% (P < 0.001) of the annual variation in recruitment. Future attempts to model the population dynamics of Mallards in eastern North America should consider the effects of population size and precipitation on annual reproductive success.
40406076|Phenotypic diversity is essential to the evolutionary process. We used a partial cross-foster design to investigate sources of variation in a component of immunity and three morphological traits in nestling House Sparrows (
10.2307/4089941|Breeding male Ruffs (Philomachus pugnax) appear to communicate individual identity through extreme variation in coloration and pattern of their plumages. If plumage variation evolved to provide sufficient information to signal individual identity, we might expect different plumage components to vary independently. We find that variation in four plumage characteristics is largely independent. Previous studies produced conflicting answers about plumage-component independence, perhaps because they failed to separate two genetically distinct behavioral categories of males, which differ in plumage types, in their analysis. We propose that using plumage variation to signal individual identity, rather than voice (used by most other bird species) was favored by lengthy daytime male display in open habitats in close proximity to receivers. However, signaling associated with the unique dimorphism in this species' male mating behavior might also have influenced the evolution of extraordinary plumage diversity in this species.
25488602|Both sexes of central-place-foraging seabirds usually share the task of incubation and alternate fasting bouts on the egg with foraging trips at sea. Because foraging strategies during incubation are poorly known, compared with strategies during chick rearing, we examined the foraging behavior of incubating Little Penguins (
90008167|Information can enhance fitness, and the ways in which organisms acquire and use information are of heightened interest in ecological studies today. Migratory birds, as long-distance travelers of the globe, depend on rapid access to accurate information and thus provide particularly interesting study subjects for cognitive ecology. Yet, questions regarding how migratory birds collect information and make decisions en route remain to be answered. Here, we review the current status of this field of study and focus our attention on social learning (broadly defined as the use of inadvertently produced social information) as an important cognitive mechanism that can operate across taxonomic boundaries. We argue that social learning is critical to accelerate resource acquisition while reducing risks and uncertainties during migration. We put forward eight testable predictions in relation to when increased use of social information might be expected. Finally, we argue that migrant communities at stopover sites may serve as additional sources of information where transient associations with others may have important and long-lasting benefits.
4085085|Main phases of the early breeding season behavior of Red-headed Woodpeckers, carried on in close association with an excavation or nest hole, were: (1) Males called from holes at dawn as well as repeatedly in morning hours, for their mates to come. If a female accepted a nest site, she indicated this by mutual tapping with her mate. (2) Sexual activities fell into three stages as the season advanced. First was assumption of sexual poses when male and female perched close to one another, and later on, as a second stage, reverse mountings with the female the first to flutter on the back of the male. Abortive passing onto full copulations were a final stage, seen as nest holes neared completion. (3) Resting and preening by a hole, especially by females, were also expressive of a close pair bond. Males did almost all of the excavating. Courtship and excavating were frequently interrupted in South Carolina by territorial invaders. Owning males and females often joined in aerial pursuits of intruders, circling back to alight afterward within inches of each other on the nest stub. Sexual activity or drumming frequently followed. Both sexes sometimes assumed agonistic poses on first sighting an intruding Red-head. Similarities in courtship of Red-headed and Red-bellied Woodpeckers are stressed because they were of aid, initially, in recognition of the sexes of the Red-heads by behavioral means. The importance of Wilson's (1975) concept of behavior scaling was well illustrated in present studies by high population density, crowding, and shortage of nest stubs.
4085700|An extensive literature search and survey of specimens in major scientific collections in California showed that the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) was absent from virtually the entire Sierra Nevada of California prior to 1930. Present distribution, diurnal patterns of dispersal, seasonal occurrence, and host species were studied directly in the field from 1975 to 1978. The evidence of a recent range expansion of cowbirds into the Sierra is clearcut, the birds appearing to be ubiquitous over most or all of the mountains at this time. We did not investigate their presence in areas remote from human developments, however, so it is possible that the species has not invaded such areas, particularly if they support large, unbroken stretches of mature forest. Cowbirds apparently exploit horse corrals and other human developments for group foraging during midday, scattering by evening or early morning to dispersed breeding sites. Human influence may have been a necessary precursor to cowbird invasion of the Sierra, which is probably prime cowbird habitat in terms of host availability but marginal habitat in terms of food for adults. Twenty-two host species have thus far been discovered in the Sierra Nevada. Preliminary data suggest that among these the rate and consequences of nest parasitism may be severe enough to threaten continued survival in the Sierra of some species, especially the Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus). We believe the situation is serious enough to warrant close monitoring of these species' populations in the future.
25488605|Habitat models are often used to describe species distributions, but they need to be tested to evaluate their predictive performance. We investigated the importance of model evaluation in a study of habitat selection by Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (
90008555|Compensatory strategies have evolved in birds to minimize the effects of poor rearing conditions on future survival and fitness. Undernourished nestlings may accelerate growth and/or development relative to age, termed compensatory growth, to achieve normal asymptotic size at the same time as well-fed chicks. While compensatory growth allows birds to fledge at a suitable size and time, it may have persistent detrimental effects on the development of complex body systems. Our study examined compensatory growth following short-term food restriction of caged groups of Zebra Finches (
4088058|I examined the correlation between the size of male facial ornamentation and three measures of viability in the polygynous Yellow-knobbed Curassow (Crax daubentoni) and the relationship between age and knob size in the monogamous Great Curassow (C. rubra), to determine which of three sexual selection models could account for the maintenance of these anomalous structures. Field studies of both species suggest that these ornaments are not used in intrasexual signaling. The data for the Yellow-knobbed Curassow support the "good genes" model of sexual selection, although not the Hamilton and Zuk (1982) model of extravagant characters as indicators of male resistance to parasites. Ornament size was not associated with body size or coccidian load, although the latter was negatively correlated with tarsus length. No hematozoa were found in blood smears. Knob height, wattle height, and wattle width were reliable indicators of age in this species and may be used by females in mate choice. Because older males have demonstrated their presumably heritable ability to survive, female preference for males with big ornaments is consistent with the "good genes" model. The absence of a correlation between knob size and age in male Great Curassows supports the hypothesis that age-character relationships will be strongest in long-lived polygynous species.
10.2307/4088945|In many avian species, brood reduction is considered to be adaptive and may be attributed either to sibling competition (passive starvation, active sibling aggression) or parental effects (manipulation of hatching spread, active infanticide). However, nonadaptive factors such as environmental effects, may contribute substantially to nestling mortality. I determined mechanisms of brood reduction and survival probabilities of nestling Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica) in relation to intraclutch egg-size variation, brood size, nestling age and size, and weather. Median brood survival time was weakly, but positively, correlated with intraclutch egg-mass variation. Starvation accounted for most nestling mortality within the first 9 days posthatching, although 12 dead and moribund nestlings were found badly bruised around the head. Siblicide and sibling cannibalism were observed in two broods and implicated in the deaths of nestlings in three other broods. Siblicidal events occurred when nestlings were between 15 and 20 days old. Expected median survival times and probability of survival to fledging of nestlings was not linearly related to brood size at hatching, being highest for broods of five, lowest for broods of three, and intermediate for broods of four and six. Dead nestlings were smaller and lighter than surviving siblings at any age; however, asymptotic body mass and linear measurements were negatively correlated with brood size at fledging. The probability of mortality was affected by prevailing weather conditions; rain and low temperatures doubled the estimated risk of death for young nestlings, independent of brood size. These data suggest that factors influencing the occurrence and maintenance of brood-reduction strategies in a population may be more complex than previously thought. Brood-reduction mechanisms are affected by the interaction of biotic and abiotic factors, and may vary in response to factors outside of either parental or offspring control.
10.2307/4087240|Repeatability is a useful tool for the population geneticist or genetical ecologist, but several papers have carried errors in its calculation. We outline the correct calculation of repeatability, point out the common mistake, show how the incorrectly calculated value relates to repeatability, and provide a method for checking published values and calculating approximate repeatability values from the F ratio (mean squares among groups/mean squares within groups).
10.2307/4089323|Gap-crossing may be defined as any movement by animals across swaths of inhospitable habitat. Such behavior is the least understood of the factors that control metapopulation dynamics. We differentiate among active and passive dispersal gap-crossing and active and passive home-range gap-crossing. From observations of active home-range gap-crossing by permanent-resident birds wintering in 47 woodlots in an agricultural landscape, we conclude that larger birds were more likely than smaller ones to cross gaps, and to cross wide gaps, and that proximity and prevalence of woodlands in the surrounding landscape were consistently positively related to the proportion of species that crossed gaps. We discuss these results in relation to the migration equation of Baker and the marginal value theorem of Charnov. Knowledge of decision rules relating active home-range gap-crossing to resource levels within individual habitat fragments and risk of movement among fragments appears to be important for valid calculations of local population densities and metapopulation persistence.
25150343| Solitaires (Myadestes spp.) are montane-forest birds that are widely distributed throughout the New World, ranging from Alaska to northern Bolivia and including both Hawaii and the West Indies. To understand the origins of this impressive distribution, we used five mitochondrial gene sequences to reconstruct the historical biogeography of the genus. The resulting phylogeny indicates a rapid initial spread of the genus to occupy most of its contemporary continental range at least as far south as lower Mesoamerica, plus Hawaii and the Greater Antilles. The North American M. townsendi appears to be the sister taxon of the rest of Myadestes. Myadestes obscurus of Hawaii is more closely allied to Mesoamerican lineages than to M. townsendi. The strongly supported sister relationship of the two West Indian taxa, M. elisabeth and M. genibarbis, indicates a single colonization of the West Indies. A more recent node links the Andean M. ralloides to the Mesoamerican M. melanops and M. coloratus. A standard molecular clock calibration of 2% sequence divergence per million years for avian mitochondrial DNA suggests that the initial diversification of Myadestes occurred near the end of the Miocene (between 5 and 7.5 mya). Cooler temperatures and lower sea levels at that time would have increased the extent of montane forests and reduced overwater dispersal distances, possibly favoring range expansion and colonization of the West Indies. The split between South American and southern Mesoamerican lineages dates to 3 mya, which suggests that Myadestes expanded its range to South America soon after the Pliocene rise of the Isthmus of Panama. Despite the demonstrated capacity of Myadestes for long-distance dispersal, several species of Myadestes are highly differentiated geographically. Phylogeographic structure was greatest in the West Indian M. genibarbis, which occurs on several islands in the Greater Antilles and Lesser Antilles, and in the Andean M. ralloides. The phylogeographic differentiation within M. ralloides was not anticipated by previous taxonomic treatments and provides a further example of the importance of the Andes in the diversification of Neotropical birds. Overall, the historical biogeography of Myadestes suggests that range expansion and long-distance dispersal are transient population phases followed by persistent phases of population differentiation and limited dispersal. /// Los zorzales del gnero Myadestes son aves de bosques montanos que se encuentran ampliamente distribuidas en el Nuevo Mundo, desde Alaska hasta el norte de Bolivia, incluyendo a Hawai y a las Antillas. Con el objetivo de entender el origen de esta impresionante distribucin, utilizamos secuencias de cinco genes mitocondriales para reconstruir la biogeografa histrica de Myadestes. La filogenia resultante indica una expansin inicial rpida del gnero para ocupar la mayor parte de su rango continental, al menos hasta la parte baja de Mesoamrica hacia el sur, adems de Hawai y las Antillas Mayores. La especie norteamericana M. townsendi parece ser el taxn hermano del resto de los Myadestes. La especie M. obscurus de Hawai est ms estrechamente emparentada con linajes mesoamericanos que con M. townsendi. La relacin de taxones hermanos entre las dos especies de las Antillas (M. elisabeth y M. genibarbis) est fuertemente apoyada, lo que indica una colonizacin nica de estas islas. Un nodo ms reciente conecta a la especie andina M. ralloides con las especies mesoamericanas M. melanops y M. coloratus. Una calibracin estndar del reloj molecular de 2% de divergencia en secuencias por milln de aos para el ADN mitocondrial de las aves, sugiere que la diversificacin inicial de Myadestes sucedi cerca del final del Mioceno (entre 5 y 7.5 millones de aos antes del presente). Las temperaturas ms fras y los niveles ms bajos del ocano existentes durante ese perodo podran haber incrementado la extensin de los bosques montanos y reducido las distancias de dispersin sobre el agua, posiblemente favoreciendo la expansin del rango de Myadestes y su colonizacin de las Antillas. La separacin entre los linajes de Amrica del Sur y del sur de Amrica Central sucedi hace cerca de tres millones de aos, lo que sugiere que Myadestes expandi su rango hacia Amrica del Sur poco despus del levantamiento pliocnico del Istmo de Panam. A pesar de la evidente habilidad de dispersin a grandes distancias que presenta Myadestes, varias especies del gnero se encuentran altamente diferenciadas geogrficamente. La estructura filogeogrfica fue ms marcada en la especie M. genibarbis, la cual se encuentra en varias de las Antillas Mayores y Menores, y en la especie andina M. ralloides. La diferenciacin filogeogrfica existente en M. ralloides no haba sido anticipada por tratamientos taxonmicos previos, y provee un nuevo ejemplo de la importancia de los Andes en la diversificacin de las aves neotropicales. En general, la biogeografa histrica de Myadestes sugiere que la expansin de los rangos de distribucin y los eventos de dispersin a grandes distancias son fases transitorias, que estn seguidas por fases de diferenciacin poblacional y dispersin limitada. 
4087672|Male Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) behaved differently from females during feeding trips to nestlings. We monitored several aspects of behavior of parents within a 20-m radius of nests during 1,005 feeding trips, and timed durations of trips within this radius. During the first half of the 12-day nestling period, females-because they were brooding-spent more time per feeding trip to nestlings than did males. However, when nestlings were older than brooding age, females took less time per trip than did males. Males did not change their behavior in nest visits during the nestling period. Throughout the nestling period, males used more time per trip in approaching and leaving the vicinity of nests than did females. Males also used more perches during both nest approach and departure, although the sexes used perches of similar heights and distances from nests. More frequently than males, females flew directly to the nest without first perching within 20 m of the nest. A previously undescribed call was given almost exclusively by arriving males during nest exchange and food delivery to young nestlings being brooded by females. We interpret these behavioral differences as indicative of male predominance in vigilance against nest predators, at least in the vicinity of nests.
90008575|Nest placement presumably reflects selection for secure sites to minimize failure. Most tests of this hypothesis, however, have failed to support it. We used artificial nests (ARTs) to experimentally evaluate nest-site-choice behavior by an open-cupnesting bird, the Eastern Kingbird (
4086120|I examined variation in parental care in the Western Gull (Larus occidentalis), spending two seasons on Southeast Farallon Island (SEFI), where the population was large and competition for breeding space appeared to be high. During the first season (1973), food appeared to be less abundant than usual. During 1973, male gulls spent more time on their territories than did their mates. In 1974, food appeared to be more abundant; male and female gulls spent similar amounts of time on their territories, but females spent more time in incubation. Chick survival also increased in 1974. A third season was spent on Santa Barbara Island, where food appeared to be less abundant than on SEFI in either year; population size and density were low, however, and there did not appear to be much competition for breeding space. In this colony, females spent considerably more time both on their territories and in incubation than did their mates. Male gulls were found to be significantly larger than female gulls in both populations. Male gulls were also more aggressive than females and performed the bulk of territorial defense. Male gulls fed upon larger food items than did females, brought back heavier loads of food, and fed their chicks more often than did their mates. On SEFI, male gulls were monagamous, and nearly all retained the same mate for three consecutive seasons. These males did engage in some promiscuous activity but were rebuffed by females. This activity was more frequent in 1974. On Santa Barbara Island, males participated in considerable promiscuous activity with unmated females and were observed to copulate with females other than their mates.
25150397|Pointed wingtips and low wing-loading are believed to reduce the amount of energy used during migratory flight. If this is true, individuals with pointed wingtips or consistently low wing-loading should be able to migrate faster than conspecifics and may arrive on the breeding grounds and at stopover sites earlier. To test this hypothesis, I captured 97 Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus; hereafter "thrushes") during May in three consecutive field seasons, 2003-2005, at a stopover site in central Illinois. I used molecular techniques to sex 47 of these thrushes and created a discriminant function analysis using wing, tarsometatarsus, and tail lengths that predicted sex with 80.9% accuracy (P < 0.001). I applied this function to the remaining 50 thrushes so that I could control for any sexual dimorphism in morphology and arrival timing, and then examined seasonal trends in sex and morphology. Male thrushes arrived earlier at my stopover site than females (P < 0.001). After controlling for sex, thrushes with more pointed wingtips (P = 0.002) and lower wing-loading (P = 0.044) arrived earlier than thrushes with more rounded wingtips and higher wing-loading. The general linear model with sex, wingtip pointedness, and wing-loading explained nearly one-third of the variation in arrival date (P < 0.001, r = 0.281, n = 90). Pointed wingtips and lower wing-loading may help migratory birds cover distance more quickly and arrive at the breeding grounds sooner; alternatively, thrushes with more pointed wingtips and lower wing-loading may have departed from the wintering grounds earlier. If wing shape and size affect rate of migration, these variables may be important determinants of individual quality in migratory passerines. /// Se cree que las alas puntiagudas y las cargas alares bajas reducen la cantidad de energa utilizada durante los vuelos migratorios. Si esto es verdad, los individuos con alas puntiagudas o con cargas alares consistentemente bajas deberan estar en capacidad de migrar ms rpidamente que individuos coespecficos, por lo que podran arribar a las reas de cra y a los sitios de escala migratoria ms temprano. Para poner a prueba esta hiptesis, captur 97 individuos de la especie Catharus ustulatus durante el mes de mayo en tres temporadas de campo consecutivas (2003-2005) en un sitio de escala migratoria en el centro de Illinois. Us tcnicas moleculares para determinar el sexo de 47 de estos individuos, y realic un anlisis discriminante utilizando medidas de la longitud del ala plana, del tarso-metatarso y de la cola, que predijo el sexo con una exactitud del 80.9% (P < 0.001). Apliqu esta funcin discriminante para las 50 aves restantes para poder controlar cualquier dimorfismo sexual en la morfologa o en el momento de arribo, y luego examin las tendencias estacionales en el sexo y la morfologa. Los machos llegaron ms temprano a mi sitio de escala migratoria que las hembras (P < 0.001). Tras controlar por el sexo, los individuos con alas ms puntiagudas (P = 0.002) y menor carga alar (P = 0.044) arribaron ms temprano que aquellos que tenan las puntas de las alas ms redondeadas y cargas alares mayores. El modelo general lineal que incluy como factores al sexo, la agudeza de las puntas de las alas y la carga alar explic cerca de un tercio de la variacin en la fecha de arribo (P < 0.001, n = 90, r = 0.281). Las alas puntiagudas y las cargas alares bajas podran ayudar a las aves migratorias a cubrir las distancias ms rpidamente y as arribar a las reas de cra ms temprano. Alternativamente, las aves con alas ms puntiagudas y cargas alares menores podran haber abandonado las reas de invernada ms temprano. Si la forma y el tamao de las alas afectan la tasa de migracin, estas variables podran ser importantes para determinar la calidad individual en las aves paserinas migratorias.
10.2307/4088423|The attendance of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in old-growth forest in central California was studied from January 1989 through July 1991. Five nesting areas were surveyed (n = 216 survey mornings) by recording the number of times murrelets were detected (by sight or sound) during a 2-h period at dawn. Presence or absence of murrelets was determined during an additional 123 morning surveys. Murrelets were active in nesting areas nearly year-round. Detection levels in fall and winter (nonbreeding season) were about one-half those in spring and summer (breeding season). Murrelets were absent, or detections were minimal and most variable, during August-October and March. These transitional periods of low murrelet activity coincided with periods of molt. Detection levels were least variable in November and December. Marbled Murrelets in central California attended nesting areas during the nonbreeding season more frequently than murrelets in other regions, and more often than most other alcids. Wintering murrelets may be year-round resident breeders and attendance during the nonbreeding season may be important for maintenance of nest sites, nesting territories, or pair bonds. Nesting areas should be managed throughout the year. Winter may be an ideal time to conduct long-term monitoring studies, as variability in attendance is low.
4089557|Hybrid zones between Townsend's Warblers (Dendroica townsendi) and Hermit Warblers (D. occidentalis) in the Pacific Northwest are narrow relative to estimated dispersal distances and appear to be moving, with Townsend's replacing Hermits. We examined whether the habitat-transition and parental-fitness asymmetry models can explain why these zones are narrow and moving by comparing habitat variables associated with warbler territories in the Washington Cascades hybrid zone. Habitat variables did not differ among phenotypes, suggesting that the habitat-transition model cannot explain the narrow and dynamic nature of this hybrid zone. Habitat characteristics of Hermit Warbler territories did not differ inside versus outside the hybrid zone, also suggesting that this zone is not associated with a region of habitat transition. The lack of difference in habitat use could be the result of comparing variables that are not important to pairing success. However, warblers tended to select territories on west-southwest aspects. South aspects in the southern Washington Cascades are dominated by Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and true fir, which is a habitat selected by female warblers when choosing among territories and males. The parental-fitness asymmetry model does not necessarily make predictions about habitat use within the hybrid zone but predicts the superiority of one parental species over the other. However, if significant overlap occurs in habitat use or niche (as in these warblers), then competition between parental species is likely to occur. To determine whether these species compete, we mapped 12 warbler territories and monitored an additional 94 territories throughout the breeding season and found that all males with neighbors compete for and hold exclusive territories. Thus, the pattern of habitat use and territoriality is consistent with the parental-fitness asymmetry model.
10.2307/4089246|We investigated the importance of wind-assisted flight for northward (spring) migration by Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) along the Pacific Coast of North America. Using current models of energy costs of flight and recent data on the phenology of migration, we estimated the energy (fat) requirements for migration in calm winds and with wind-assisted flight for different rates of fat deposition: (1) a variable rate, assuming that birds deposit the minimum amount of fat required to reach the next stopover site; (2) a constant maximum rate of 1.0 g/day; and (3) a lower constant rate of 0.4 g/day. We tested these models by comparing conservative estimates of predicted body mass along the migration route with empirical data on body mass of Western Sandpipers at different stopover sites and upon arrival at the breeding grounds. In calm conditions, birds would have to deposit unrealistically high amounts of fat (up to 330% of observed values) to maintain body mass above absolute lean mass values. Fat-deposition rates of 1.0 g/day and 0.4 g/day, in calm conditions, resulted in a steady decline in body mass along the migration route, with predicted body masses on arrival in Alaska of only 60% (13.6 g) and 26% (5.9 g) of average lean mass (22.7 g). Conversely, birds migrating with wind assistance would be able to complete migration with fat-deposition rates as low as 0.4 g/day, similar to values reported for this size bird from field studies. Our results extend the conclusion of the importance of winds for large, long-distance migrants to a small, short-distance migrant. We suggest that the migratory decisions of birds are more strongly influenced by the frequency and duration of winds aloft, i.e. by events during the flight phase, than by events during the stopover phase of migration, such as fat-deposition rate, that have been the focus of much recent migration theory.
10.2307/4086017|Egg size and shape variation was analyzed in 10 species of Darwin's finches. Egg shape varies among species: eggs of the tree finches are relatively long, those of the warbler finch are relatively short, and eggs of the ground finches are intermediate. Geospiza conirostris is unusual among the ground finches in laying eggs of similar shape to those of tree finches. These variations parallel to some degree the variation in egg shape among ecologically similar groups of species in continental regions. Egg size and adult body size are positively correlated, both intraspecifically and interspecifically. Darwin's finches, especially the larger species, lay relatively small clutches of small eggs in terms of egg or clutch weight in proportion to adult weight. They also have short incubation periods. These are considered to be adaptations that enhance repeated and rapid breeding at irregular intervals.
10.2307/4087494|In polygynous Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) aerial displays reflect male body condition, and displays are therefore difficult to fake. The most vigorously displaying males attract the largest harems, and such displays are an accurate measure of a male's potential to provision their mates (the single most important influence on female fecundity). Whether females preferentially pick intensely displaying males because they are in better condition or because vigorous displays are associated with higher provisioning rates is unknown, but evidence suggests that both condition and provisioning are important mate-choice cues. I conclude that sexually selected behavior in harriers is largely consistent with the honest-advertising hypothesis.
4085808|Male White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) held on 12-h days for 46.5 months failed to develop a postnuptial-type molt, although they underwent 2-4 cycles of testicular growth and regression. At an estimated 47 days (range 43-59 days) after transfer to 18-h days, all began an essentially normal postnuptial molt of the primary remiges. The time elapsed between the loss of the first and ninth primary remiges was about 30 days, within normal range for this length of day. There was no identifiable relationship between size or rate of growth of the testes and the time of onset of the molt. These and other results indicate that there is a long-day (>12, <16 h) requirement for this molt. The hypotheses (1) that the role of long days in the induction of this molt is stimulatory, perhaps indirectly, or (2) that it entrains an endogenous circannual cycle involved in the control of molt are discussed in light of these results.
10.2307/4089945|We studied the standard and comparative energetics of the Rufous-tailed Plancutter (Phytotoma rara), one of the smallest avian herbivores. The Rufous-tailed Plancutter had basal metabolic rate (BMR) values that so far are the highest mass-independent values observed in avian herbivores. Probably the BMR values attained by P. rara reflect its geographic distribution in temperate environments. Using a comparative analysis, we observed that herbivorous birds from temperate geographic areas tend to have higher BMR than tropical ones.
10.2307/4086901|The care of fledged young by parents and the interactions between parents and young were studied in seven broods of Northern Wheatears (Oenanthe oenanthe L.) in an agricultural area near Uppsala, central Sweden. Time budgets of young and the development of foraging skills were also quantified. Young of the same brood were observed out of the nestholes on the 15th or 16th day after hatching. The parents did not divide the brood until day 3 or 4, day 1 being the 16th day after hatching (assuming that all young fledged on the 15th day). Full stability of family units, with no transfers of responsibility for feeding specific young, was achieved on days 3-8. Both parents fed their respective groups of young at different sites, and young of the same family unit appeared to be aggregated in the territories. They perched nearer to each other on average than to young fed by the other parent. These results support the hypothesis that a division of labor in altricial birds has evolved to allow parents to locate their young more easily and to reduce travel distances between sites at which prey are captured and the locations of young. Young wheatears depended on their parents for 2 weeks after leaving the nest. During that time, they became more active and mobile, spent less time calling and waiting for the parents to feed them, chased their parents more intensively to obtain food, and spent more time foraging. The marked increase in the chasing frequency of young after the first week coincided with a marked decrease in parental feeding rates and in the responsiveness of the parents to the begging calls of the young. Young also greatly increased their foraging activity after day 10, when parental feeding rates dropped to very low levels. These data support the hypothesis that parental reluctance to feed the young determines the onset of fledgling independence. Rates at which young attempted to capture prey and the proportion of successful attacks increased with age. Foraging techniques that are more dependent on flight performance (aerial hawking, perch-to-ground sallying) appeared later and were used less by the young than was ground-gleaning. There was a negative relationship between the intensity of chasing by the young and their capture success rates during different hours, which suggests that they switched between chasing the parents and self-feeding, depending on which was the most profitable strategy at the moment.
4086114|The phylogenetic relationships of the order Piciformes were studied by a cladistic analysis of variations in the hind limb muscles. Forty-four species in 30 genera were dissected. The two main questions addressed are (1) is the order Piciformes monophyletic, and (2) what are the phylogenetic relationships within the order? Monophyly of the order is corroborated by the presence of a complex synapomorphic specialization of the foot, the combination of zygodactyly and the Type 6 deep plantar tendon arrangement of Gadow. These traditional characters, now seen as derived states, are augmented by a derived condition of M. flexor hallucis longus. Arguments refuting an alternative hypothesis are presented. The phylogenetic hypothesis is presented in a cladogram. There are two main lineages, one including the Bucconidae and Galbulidae, the second the remaining families. The second lineage is further subdivided dichotomously, one lineage including the Capitonidae and Ramphastidae, and the second the Indicatoridae and Picidae. A new higher-level classification of the order is proposed. Only clades are recognized as taxa, and sister groups are classified at the same categorical level. The suborder Galbulae includes the families Bucconidae and Galbulidae. The suborder Pici includes two superfamilies. The Ramphastoidea contains the families Capitonidae and Ramphastidae, while the Picoidea includes the Indicatoridae and Picidae. The Picidae is divided into subfamilies Jynginae and Picinae, the latter being further divided into the tribes Picumnini and Picini. The pattern of taxa in the classification is based on the nested arrangement of clades in the hypothesis of phylogeny.
10.2307/4087228|It is frequently claimed that equal rates of DNA evolution are observed in birds, but specific tests necessary to demonstrate this are rarely performed. I demonstrated statistically significant differences in rates of DNA evolution for a few passerine birds that vitiate the role of DNA hybridization as the direct indicator of kinship. The differences in evolutionary rates observed may be substantial enough to introduce ambiguity into the clustering of taxa. Researchers frequently fail to perform the specific experiments needed to distinguish between real differences in relative rates of DNA evolution vs. differences that can be attributed to experimental error. They also fail to draw attention to and account for either erroneous or problematical data for some birds, or fail to perform the experiments necessary to determine the cause of unexpectedly problematical results. The DNA molecular clock is shown to be calibrated using speculative and questionable data. It involves diverse organisms that cannot be shown to evolve at the same rate, and that probably did not. Yet, DNA hybridization is a valuable tool that probably cannot lead one to make major systematic errors providing the data are not incorrect because of technical or computational errors and are taken from a sufficient diversity of relevant taxa.
10.1525/auk.2011.11127|Variation in mating success among individuals is the basis for sexual selection and the evolution of elaborate secondary sexual traits. In socially monogamous species, variation in mating success is generally thought to be small, but a skewed adult sex ratio, differences in female fecundity, and extrapair fertilizations that arise from matings outside the social pair bond can increase variance in reproductive success. We investigated how these factors generate the opportunity for sexual selection in the socially monogamous White-crowned Sparrow (
10.2307/4090031| We analyzed patterns of egg laying and breeding frequency of Humboldt Penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) between 1993 and 1997 at Punta San Juan, Peru. Egg-laying extended from mid-March to the first week of December, showing two well-defined peaks in April and August-September. The extended breeding period of these birds was the result of individuals having a second clutch. About half of the females (n = 189) had two clutches per year, most of which were double broods (73%). The date of completion and outcome of reproduction, or whether a change of mates occurred from the previous year, did not affect timing of egg laying. The majority of first clutches (62%) were laid in April each year. Two-clutch breeders that started laying eggs early in April had a higher breeding success than those starting in late April, and double brooders had greater success than single brooders. Two-clutch breeders started to lay eggs earlier than single-clutch breeders. Taking into account that a penguin breeding cycle (from egg laying to fledging) lasts 4 months, laying eggs early in April increases the chance of rearing two successful broods per year. During three consecutive years, females tended to have two clutches instead of only one clutch and an average breeding success of 4.54 fledglings over 3 years. Having as many clutches as possible when conditions are favorable appears to be a strategy used by Humboldt Penguins to maximize their lifetime reproductive success within a productive but unpredictable environment. /// Entre 1993 y 1997 analizamos los patrones de puesta de huevos y frecuencia reproductiva de Spheniscus humboldti (Pingino de Humboldt) en Punta San Juan, Per. La puesta de huevos se extendi desde mediados de marzo hasta la primera semana de diciembre, mostrando dos picos bien definidos en abril y agosto-septiembre. El largo perodo de nidificacin de estas aves se di como resultado de la puesta de una segunda nidada por parte de algunos individuos. Aproximadamente la mitad de las hembras (n = 189) pusieron dos nidadas por ao, la mayora de las cuales presentaron dos cras (73%). La fecha de finalizacin y el resultado reproductivo, o si ocurri un cambio de pareja desde el ao anterior, no afect la coordinacin en la puesta de huevos. La mayora de las primeras nidadas (62%) fueron puestas en abril de cada ao. Las parejas con dos nidadas que comenzaron a poner sus huevos al comienzo de abril tuvieron un xito reproductivo mayor que las que comenzaron a fines de abril. Las parejas que criaron dos pichones fueron ms exitosas que las que criaron un solo pichn. Las parejas con dos pichones comenzaron a poner sus huevos ms temprano que las parejas con una sola cra. Considerando que el ciclo de cra de un pingino (desde la puesta del huevo hasta dejar el nido) dura 4 meses, poner los huevos a principios de abril incrementa las chances de criar exitosamente dos nidadas por ao. Durante tres aos consecutivos, las hembras tendieron a presentar dos nidadas en lugar de una sola y un xito reproductivo promedio de 4.54 volantones en tres aos. La estrategia de S. humboldti parece basarse en tener la mayor cantidad posible de nidadas cuando las condiciones son favorables para as maximizar el xito reproductivo total en un ambiente productivo pero impredecible. 
10.2307/4088205|As nestlings, male Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) are significantly larger than female Yellow-headed Blackbirds in several measurements, and both male and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds are significantly larger than Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). We investigated the mechanisms by which female Yellow-headed Blackbirds are able to survive in nests with their larger siblings and how cowbirds are able to survive in the nests of hosts much larger than themselves. Growth was monitored of nestling Yellow-headed Blackbirds and Brown-headed Cowbirds, which were experimentally cross-fostered into Yellow-headed Blackbird nests, in Boulder County, Colorado during the 1986 breeding season. Measurements were recorded for weight, tarsometatarsus length, culmen length, gape width (width of bill at loral feathering), and length of ninth (outermost) primary. Nestling weight, tarsometatarsus length, and culmen length were larger in male than female Yellow-headed Blackbirds, and larger in both male and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds than cowbirds. Gape width differed significantly between male and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds throughout much of the nestling period; gape width in both were significantly wider than that of cowbirds. However, cowbirds had a significantly larger gape relative to their weight than did male Yellow-headed Blackbirds, and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds had a significantly larger gape relative to their weight than did males of the species. The relatively larger gape may enable females to compete with larger male siblings and enable cowbirds to compete with foster siblings much larger than themselves. Additionally, feather development was faster in female Yellow-headed Blackbirds than in males and was even more accelerated in cowbird nestlings. We used museum specimens of adults to calculate proportions of adult weight attained by nestlings. Cowbirds attained a greater proportion of their adult weight and adult ninth-primary length by fledging age than did Yellow-headed Blackbirds, and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds attained a greater proportion of their adult weight and adult ninth-primary length by fledging age than did their male siblings.
10.1525/auk.2013.13001|Some species of long-distance migrant birds are thought to follow spatiotemporal patterns of high food availability during the non-breeding season, a strategy termed itinerancy, instead of being sedentary in one specific site. We tracked the migration of a small Eurasian songbird, the Common Redstart (
10.2307/4087761| On a small bay of the Chacopata lagoon complex in northeastern Venezuela, we analyzed the temporal feeding activity patterns of shorebirds and other water birds, and we determined the factors or conditions related to these patterns. During daytime and nighttime observations, we measured the abundance of each species as well as environmental factors (time, wind velocity, cloudiness, tide level, presence of moonlight and bioluminescence). A night vision module (light intensifier) was used during nighttime observations. Samples  species matrices were summarized by reciprocal averaging (RA) analysis, and the information was related to environmental factors. Feeding activity patterns were related most significantly to time of day, i.e. daytime and nighttime. Some species like "egrets," the Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus), and the Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola) fed principally during daylight, but most other species (including a majority of shorebird species) fed more regularly and in higher numbers at night. Lesser and Greater yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes and T. melanoleuca, respectively) and Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus) foraged with comparable frequency during the day and the night. Daytime and nighttime data were analyzed separately, and tide level best explained both the variations of nocturnal and diurnal abundance of foraging birds. Nocturnal feeding may be a natural habit in response to regularly limited feeding space and time mainly induced by tide. 
10.1525/auk.2011.11144|Birds that remove ectoparasites and other food material from their hosts are iconic illustrations of mutualisticcommensalistic cleaning associations. To assess the complex pattern of food resource use embedded in cleaning interactions of an assemblage of birds and their herbivorous mammal hosts in open habitats in Brazil, we used a network approach that characterized their patterns of association. Cleaning interactions showed a distinctly nested pattern, related to the number of interactions of cleaners and hosts and to the range of food types that each host species provided. Hosts that provided a wide range of food types (flies, ticks, tissue and blood, and organic debris) were attended by more species of cleaners and formed the core of the web. On the other hand, core cleaner species did not exploit the full range of available food resources, but used a variety of host species to exploit these resources instead. The structure that we found indicates that cleaners rely on cleaning interactions to obtain food types that would not be available otherwise (e.g., blood-engorged ticks or horseflies, wounded tissue). Additionally, a nested organization for the cleaner birdmammalian herbivore association means that both generalist and selective species take part in the interactions and that partners of selective species form an ordered subset of the partners of generalist species. The availability of predictable protein-rich food sources for birds provided by cleaning interactions may lead to an evolutionary pathway favoring their increased use by birds that forage opportunistically.
10.1525/auk.2010.10070|The Eurasian Bullfinch (
25488718|Using microsatellite markers and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences (cytochrome oxidase 1 gene), we estimated levels of genetic structuring among nine Magellanic Penguin (
25150311|We reviewed the taxonomic status of Thamnophilus doliatus capistratus Lesson, 1840, which is endemic to eastern Brazil. The analyses of skins focused on plumage coloration and measurements. Morphometric skin analyses included descriptive statistics, analyses of variance, and discriminant-function analysis. The results provided a consistent morphological and morphometric diagnosis, and consequently validated Thamnophilus capistratus. /// Este estudo rev o status taxonmico de Thamnophilus doliatus capistratus Lesson, 1840 o qual  endmico do leste brasileiro. As anlises de peles focaram a colorao da plumagem e suas medidas. A anlise morfomtrica incluiu uma estatstica descritiva, anlises de varincia e anlises de funo discriminante. O estudo resultou em uma diagnose morfolgica e morfomtrica de Thamnophilus capistratus, validando essa espcie.
4085352|Clutch sizes were examined in Eastern Phoebe nests in southern Indiana in 1970 and 1971. The majority of the nests was on bridges and culverts. Nest building began in late March with birds regularly using old nests and building both statant and adherent new nests. Phoebes raised two broods with peaks in clutch initiation in mid-April and in late May-early June. Average clutch size was 4.73 with little variation between years; the most common clutch size was five. Within a year, clutch size declined significantly late in the season. Mean clutch size was lower in adherent than in statant and new as opposed to pre-existing nests; the energy cost of nest building is discussed as a possible cause of these reductions.
4088229|The dynamics of a population of Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) in a Delaware woodlot from 1974 through 1990 did not meet all predictions of the forest-fragmentation hypothesis, which posits that declining abundance of Neotropical, migratory, forest songbirds results from poor reproduction in, and immigration to, forest fragments. Abundance declined at an average rate of 4% per year over the period 1978 through 1987, equalling the national decline found by the Breeding Bird Survey for those years, but recovered by 1990 to pre-decline levels. Abundance of previous residents followed a similar pattern, the only population component to do so. Abundance of new immigrants and of returning, locally produced young was generally stable. Throughout the study, reproductive rates were high enough to maintain the population at the return rates observed early and late in the study. However, a sustained episode of reduced production per female and of an increased percentage of adults failing to produce any young generally coincided with the decline in abundance. When the failure rate later dropped, return rate and abundance subsequently increased. We conclude that a period of elevated, predation-caused failure prompted greater emigration by an ever-younger, less-site-faithful population. High emigration coupled with stable immigration, stable recruitment of local young, and even normal mortality of residents would yield a declining population. A regional predation episode could cause a broader decline in abundance through several mechanisms that could reduce the number of available immigrants.
10.2307/4090405| Berlioz (1959) described Serpophaga griseiceps on the basis of four specimens from Cochabamba, Bolivia, housed at the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris, France). Traylor (1979) subsumed the taxon, without justification, in S. munda after examining other specimens from Cochabamba at the Field Museum of Natural History (FMNH; Chicago, Illinois). Remsen and Traylor (1989) added that S. griseiceps represents the juvenal plumage of S. munda. Straneck (1993) presented new data from central Argentina to revalidate S. griseiceps, and although that account has methodological problems, numerous authors have endorsed its taxonomic conclusions. We re-evaluated the validity of S. griseiceps by examining the type series and specimens deposited at the Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales (Buenos Aires, Argentina) and our own field data from Cochabamba, and by critiquing Straneck's taxonomic conclusions. The type specimens of S. griseiceps clearly resemble juvenile S. munda. Photographs of those specimens were compared by T. S. Schulenberg with the FMNH specimens examined by Traylor, confirming that the former are referable to S. munda. Both "forms" differ consistently in plumage coloration from Argentine specimens considered by Straneck to be referable to S. griseiceps. The type series of S. griseiceps coincides with S. munda in wing chord, tail, and tarsus length, and both "forms" have significantly longer wings and tails than Straneck's birds from Argentina. Intensive field surveys in the Cochabamba basin documented the occurrence of only one species of Serpophaga tyrannulet, S. munda. Serpophaga griseiceps should therefore be considered a junior synonym of S. munda, whereas Straneck's S. griseiceps is apparently referable to an undescribed cryptic species of Serpophaga tyrannulet. /// Berlioz (1959) describi Serpophaga griseiceps con base en cuatro especmenes de Cochabamba, Bolivia, depositados en el Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle en Paris, Francia. Traylor (1979) incluy al taxn en S. munda, sin justificativa, luego de examinar otros especmenes de Cochabamba en el Field Museum of Natural History (FMNH), Chicago, Illinois. Remsen y Traylor (1989) ms tarde agregaron que S. griseiceps representaba el plumaje juvenil de S. munda. Straneck (1993) present nuevos datos del centro de Argentina para la revalidacin de S. griseiceps, y si bien el trabajo posee problemas metodolgicos, varios autores adoptaron sus conclusiones taxonmicas. Reevaluamos la validez de S. griseiceps con base en el examen de la serie tipo y especmenes depositados en el Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales, Buenos Aires, Argentina, datos de campo propios de Cochabamba, y proveyendo una crtica a las conclusiones taxonmicas de Straneck. Los especmenes tipo de S. griseiceps claramente se asemejan al joven de S. munda. T. S. Schulenberg compar fotografas de estos especmenes con los del FMNH examinados por Traylor, confirmando que los primeros son referibles a S. munda. La coloracin del plumaje de ambas "formas" difiere de manera consistente de aquella de los especmenes argentinos que Straneck consider referibles a S. griseiceps. La serie tipo de S. griseiceps coincide con S. munda en la longitud de la cuerda del ala, la cola, y el tarso, y ambas "formas" poseen alas y cola significativamente ms largas que las aves de Straneck, de Argentina. Prospecciones de campo intensas en la cuenca de Cochabamba han documentado la presencia de slo una especie de Serpophaga, es decir S. munda. Serpophaga griseiceps debe entonces ser considerado un sinnimo jnior de S. munda, mientras que el S. griseiceps de Straneck se refiere aparentemente a una especie crptica de Serpophaga an no descripta. 
4086227|Rates of karyotypic change in birds are used to estimate that, over the longterm history of a wide assortment of genera, avian effective population sizes have averaged on the order of 100. This result is consistent with the results of electrophoretic studies of geographic variation of allelic frequencies within species but is somewhat less consistent with the results obtained from demographic modeling. Three methodologically independent analyses have now corroborated the hypothesis that avian effective population sizes are typically of the order of 10
4086971|The activity centers of Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) and Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) are spatially segregated. This segregation may occur because (1) one species excludes the other or (2) the two species prefer different habitats. These hypotheses were tested by documenting changes in the size and location of Marsh Wren territories throughout the breeding season, and by the removal of conesting Yellow-headed Blackbirds. The expansion of Marsh Wren territories into blackbird breeding areas after both the natural departure and the removal of blackbirds best supports the explanation based on the active exclusion of Marsh Wrens by Yellow-headed Blackbirds.
10.1525/auk.2012.12043|Territorial social behavior of wintering NearcticNeotropic migrant songbirds places males and females in direct conflict over access to winter space and resources. Outcomes of this intersexual competition can vary by species and habitat, but information has been collected for only a small subset of migrant species. We investigated the available food resources, sex ratios, and body condition of territorial Bicknell's Thrushes (
10.2307/4090094|Poor breeding success often increases dispersal, but there is conflicting evidence about the putative adaptive benefits of dispersal behavior. Thus, observational and experimental data were analyzed to test whether breeding success (number of young fledging) influenced breeding and natal dispersal by Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), using information from 1,302 nests over 12 years. Success was experimentally altered at 291 randomly selected nest boxes by adding or removing three eggs (representing 50% of modal clutch size). Finally, we tested whether dispersal distance, controlling for antecedent breeding success, had consequences for subsequent breeding success. Contrary to predictions, (1) adult and natal dispersal distances were not significantly influenced by breeding success, and (2) manipulating success had no effect on either breeding or natal dispersal. Moreover, after controlling for antecedent breeding success, dispersal distance had no influence on subsequent breeding success. In most years of our study, >85% of nest initiations produced at least one fledgling, and individual boxes did not consistently have low or high fledgling production. Hence, swallows may have little to gain by dispersing out of our nest-box grid, and box-specific success did not provide a reliable cue about where to disperse within the grid. Thus, remaining in the grid for subsequent breeding attempts, regardless of fledgling production, could be interpreted as adaptive. Nonetheless, most adults remained close to the nest they had used in previous years, which suggests that some unmeasured influence, such as social interactions among neighbors, led to nonrandom dispersal. /// Un faible succs de reproduction augmente souvent la dispersion, mais les bnfices d'un tel comportement adaptatif peuvent sembler conflictuel. Par consquent, les donnes d'observations et exprimentales ont t analyses pour tester si le succs de reproduction (nombre de jeunes  l'envol) influenait la dispersion au moment de la reproduction et  la naissance chez l'Hirondelle bicolore (Tachycineta bicolor). Ces analyses ont utilis l'information recueillie  partir de 1 302 nids et ce pendant une priode de 12 ans. Le succs de reproduction tait exprimentalement altr dans 291 nichoirs slectionns alatoirement en ajoutant ou en retirant 3 ufs (soit 50% de la taille modale de couve). Finalement, nous avons test si la distance de dispersion avait des consquences sur le succs de reproduction futur tout en contrlant pour le succs de reproduction pass. Contrairement aux prdictions, (1) les distances de dispersion  l'ge adulte et  la naissance n'taient pas significativement influences par le succs de reproduction, et (2) la manipulation du succs de reproduction n'avait pas d'effet sur la dispersion aussi bien au moment de la reproduction qu' la naissance. De plus, aprs avoir contrl pour le succs de reproduction pass, la distance de dispersion n'avait pas d'influence sur le succs de reproduction futur. Pour la plupart des annes de l'tude, >85% des nids initis ont produit au moins un jeune  l'envol, et les nichoirs isols n'taient pas toujours caractriss par une faible ou une forte production de jeunes  l'envol. Par consquent, les hirondelles semblent avoir peu  gagner en se dispersant en dehors du rseau de nichoirs. De plus, le succs de reproduction de nichoirs identifis ne constituait pas un signe fiable pour savoir o se disperser dans le rseau. Donc, le comportement qui consiste  rester dans le rseau de nichoirs pour de nouvelles tentatives de reproduction, sans porter attention  la production de jeunes  l'envol, pourrait tre interprt comme adaptatif. Pourtant, la plupart des adultes restaient proches du nid qu'ils avaient utiliss les annes prcdentes, suggrant que des influences non mesures, telles que les interactions sociales entre voisins, conduisaient  une dispersion non alatoire.
10.2307/4088191|Age- and sex-related variation in aerodynamically important traits such as wing loading may contribute to behavioral variation within a population. Increased wing loading also may be an important cost of carrying extra body fat, placing constraints on viable strategies of migratory and winter fattening. Therefore, we quantified the effects of age, sex, and fat level on wing loading in Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis). Female juncos had significantly greater wing loading than males; wing loading did not differ among age classes. Increased fat levels (as indicated by fat scores) increased wing loading in all age/sex classes, but females and adults showed significantly greater fat-related increases in wing loading than males and immatures. Increasing from lean body mass to a full fat load added approximately 14 to 16% to an individual's wing loading. Wing loading increased allometrically with lean body mass in juncos (heavier individuals have relatively greater wing loading). We found sex- and fat-related variation in wing loading that is probably sufficient to affect flight performance and, therefore, susceptibility to predation, strategies of fattening, and distribution among individual Dark-eyed Juncos.
10.2307/4090250| The doubly labeled water method was used to measure daily energy expenditure of adult Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) feeding nestlings in large and small forests in northern New England. Carbon dioxide production for all birds averaged
10.2307/4090059| We studied rapid yolk deposition (RYD) in Barn Owls (Tyto alba) on the basis of the analysis of 26 eggs laid by "dye-dosed" captive female Barn Owls in five different broods. Pictures of yolks were examined to assess daily rates of yolk deposition. We used those data in combination with data from the dissection of ovaries of another five breeding females. We found that the total duration between initiation of RYD and laying of the corresponding egg was only 13.6 days, with an interval between yolk completion and oviposition of 2.4 days. The total number of follicles that may have given eggs was found to be 25. That high number of follicles and the short RYD period explain the particularly high reproductive potential of this nocturnal raptor species. /// Nous avons tudi le dpt rapide du vitellus (DRV) chez Tyto alba. L'tude est base sur l'analyse de 26 ufs rpartis en cinq couves provenant de femelles de Tyto alba captives ayant ingr des pigments lipophiles. Les photographies de vitellus ont t examines pour estimer les taux journaliers de dpt en vitellus. Nous avons exploit ces donnes combines  d'autres issues de la dissection des ovaires de cinq autres femelles reproductrices. Nous avons trouv que la dure totale entre l'initiation du DRV et l'closion des ufs correspondant tait seulement de 13,6 jours, avec un intervalle de 2,4 jours entre l'achvement de la formation du vitellus et l'oviposition. Un total de 25 follicules se seraient dvelopps pour donner des ufs. Ce grand nombre de follicules et la courte dure de la priode de DRV expliquent le potentiel reproductif important de ce rapace nocturne. 
4086534|The extinct family Teratornithidae contains the world's largest known flying birds. A new method of determining body weights of extinct birds, based on the size of their tibiotarsi, facilitates the estimation of the wing dimensions of these giant birds. An analysis of the bones of the teratorn wing shows that they closely resemble those of condors, suggesting that teratorns flew in a manner similar to these large New World vultures. The bones of the pelvic girdle and hindlimbs indicate that teratorns were probably agile on the ground, though better adapted for walking and stalking than running. We estimate that the largest teratorn, Argentavis magnificens, weighed 80 kg and had a wingspan of 6-8 m. It probably became airborne by spreading its huge wings into the strong, continuous, westerly winds that blew across southern South America before the elevation of the Andes Mountains and, once aloft, flew in the manner of condors.
10.2307/4089502|The conservation of long-distance migratory songbirds is complicated by their life-history characteristics and the spatial scales that they traverse. Events during migratory stopovers may have significant consequences in determining the population status of migratory songbirds. Using Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla) as a focal species, we investigated effects of age and sex on stopover parameters during spring and fall migration. Variation in stopover patterns was predominantly sex related in spring and age related in fall. In spring, males appeared at study sites earlier than females, and they carried higher fat stores and had lower recapture rates and higher rates of mass gain. In fall, migratory passage overlapped temporally among age and sex classes, but young birds had lower fat stores, higher recapture rates, and longer stopovers than adults. Habitat use differed between spring and fall migration and was affected by the combination of age and sex. Wilson's Warblers appeared to prefer native willow habitat during spring migration. Agriculture field/edge habitats may have represented "sink habitats" because birds in these habitats tended to be immatures and had a lower rate of fat deposition and longer stopovers. The data suggest that immatures were particularly vulnerable to habitat disturbances at stopover sites during fall migration, probably because of their lower social status and inexperience with long-distance migration. We conclude that knowledge of intraspecific variation in migration strategies is important for effective management of stopover habitats for migratory songbirds.
10.1525/auk.2012.12021|Understanding the nature of social groups may help explain the genetic structure of populations. Recently, a fine-scale genetic structure was found in the Greater Snow Goose (
4085086|Many species were rare and a few species and individuals seasonal at a lowland seasonally wet forest site in central Panama. Rare species decreased in April-June, either because of nesting peaks or because food supplies are better (hence wandering less necessary) in these months. Of the rare species, many are large species with large home ranges and others wander from nearby second-growth or forest-edge habitats. Some are associated with a small stream adjacent to the study plot. Some follow army ants or have other specialized hunting techniques that may be correlated with their rarity. For a number of species rarity may also be correlated with limits to physiological capabilities and exclusion by local congeneric competitors, but definitive evidence for these patterns is hard to muster. Some species wander seasonally from wetter or dryer habitats in central Panama, suggesting some seasonal flux that keeps birds within forests of correct moisture (or other) characteristics at all times. The magnitude of these seasonal movements varies among wet and dry years. When the ecological correlates of rarity are compared for two Middle American forests, a number of similarities are found. Differences in the two areas are attributed to differences in sampling or to characteristics of the climate and/or nearby habitats.
4085084|Various features of plumage and molt were studied in Golden Plovers, Whimbrels, Bristle-thighed Curlews, Wandering Tattlers, and Ruddy Turnstones. Specimens collected during July 1973 at Enewetak Atoll, Marshall Islands, represent birds that had not migrated to the northern breeding grounds. Based upon several criteria (bursa of Fabricius, wear of remiges and rectrices, and the condition of body feathers) most specimens appeared to be first-year birds. The relative development of alternate plumage showed considerable individual variation, which presumably reflects physiological variability in the factors controlling prealternate molt in the late winter and spring. Many birds remain in nonbreeding plumage (exhibiting only a few alternate feathers), and essentially pass from one basic plumage to another while on the winter range. Plovers replace primaries, secondaries, and some tertials during the winter, and were undergoing a complete prebasic molt in July. Such a pattern varies considerably from molt chronology in postnuptial adults. Whimbrels and Bristle-thighed Curlews finish wing molt in the late spring to midsummer, and birds collected in July had not yet begun prebasic molt. Wandering Tattlers were molting juvenal remiges commencing with the 6th and progressing to the 10th primary. The molting sequence of primaries 1 through 5 was not entirely clear. Museum skins indicated that remige molt starts with the 1st primary in some specimens. The overall pattern awaits detailed study for clarification. No indications of prebasic molt were found in summering turnstones, hence subsequent timing of this molt may coincide with that of postnuptial adults. As no wing molt was occurring, first-year birds apparently retain their juvenal remiges until the prebasic II molt. In each species, summering birds showed considerable individual variability in ongoing rectrix molt. Also some specimens had replaced a few or all of these feathers during the preceding winter while others had not.
4085843|Use of space for foraging was compared with the defended area for three pairs of Lapland Longspurs breeding on arctic tundra near Barrow, Alaska. The activity space for foraging over the entire season was larger than the defended area and was considerably larger for males than for females. Throughout the season, greatest use was made of the area about the nest. This was more pronounced during the nestling and fledgling periods, when adults make frequent visits to feed the young. Greatest use was made of the defended area in the prenesting period, with a decline in use later in the season as territorial defense waned. Overlap occurred in the use of space by adjacent pairs. During the prenesting and incubation periods, this overlap compensated for the decline in use with distance from the nest, so that the combined use of space by adjacent birds was relatively even. Use of space is influenced by the time and energy requirements of breeding activities and by the availability of prey.
auk.2012.11153|Understanding the spatial scale of gene flow can yield valuable insight into the ecology of an organism and guide conservation strategies. Fine-scale genetic structure is uncommon in migratory passerines because of their high vagility and presumed high dispersal abilities. Aspects of the behavior and ecology of some migratory species, however, may promote structure on a finer scale in comparison to their mobility. We investigated population genetic structure in the Saltmarsh Sparrow (
10.2307/4087756|Each male Grace's Warbler (Dendroica graciae) possessed two distinct subsets (A and B) of preferred songs and sang each subset with a different singing behavior. In singing behavior A, males sang subset A songs in a more repetitive manner (e.g. XXXX...); in singing behavior B, males sang subset B songs in a more variable, often alternating, manner (e.g. YZYZ...). Furthermore, singing behavior B was significantly higher in song diversity, rate, and complexity than singing behavior A; and the structure of B songs was more variable than the structure of A songs. The particular song types used in the two behaviors varied among males and, in several cases, the same song type was used in the opposite singing behavior by different males. I suggest that singing behaviors rather than song types are key features in song communication in this species. Pairing status, time of season and day, location in the territory, and type of social interaction significantly affected the choice of singing behavior. Prior to pair formation and whenever males interacted with females, singing behavior A predominated. After pairing, singing behavior B predominated, particularly in countersinging between neighboring males, at songposts, and at dawn. Thus, in a relative comparison of functions, singing behavior A appears to have a stronger intersexual component, and singing behavior B a stronger intrasexual component. Presumably, the two singing behaviors differ in function and have been shaped by different selection pressures. They are used in ways parallel to, and thus functionally similar to, the two kinds of song identified in several other species of wood-warbler.
4090367| Estimates of nest survival are commonly used as indices of reproductive productivity in a wide range of studies, including examinations of population dynamics, habitat fragmentation, and wildlife management. However, the strength of the relationship between estimates of nest survival and of seasonal fecundity has rarely been tested. To examine that relationship, we used 16 years of demographic data from an intensively studied population of individually marked Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens). We found a positive relationship between Mayfield nest-survival estimates and seasonal fecundity (i.e. number of fledglings produced per female). However, seasonal-fecundity predictions based on nest-survival values underestimated observed seasonal fecundity by an average of 33% and population growth rate by 20%. Our results suggest that, though nest-survival estimates may be useful as indices of pressures on a population (e.g. nest predation), care is needed in using them as the basis of conservation or management strategies or to make inferences about population-level processes. /// Las estimaciones de la supervivencia de los nidos son usadas comnmente como ndices de productividad reproductiva en un amplio espectro de estudios, incluyendo evaluaciones de dinmica poblacional, fragmentacin de hbitat y manejo de fauna silvestre. Sin embargo, la fortaleza de la relacin entre las estimaciones de supervivencia de nidos y la fecundidad estacional ha sido raramente evaluada. Para examinar esta relacin, usamos datos demogrficos de individuos marcados de Dendroica caerulescens de una poblacin estudiada intensamente durante 16 aos. Encontramos una relacin positiva entre las estimaciones de supervivencia de nidos de Mayfield y la fecundidad estacional (i.e. el nmero de volantones producidos por hembra). Sin embargo, las predicciones de la fecundidad estacional basadas en valores de supervivencia de nidos subestimaron la fecundidad estacional observada en un 33% en promedio y la tasa de crecimiento poblacional en un 20%. Nuestros resultados sugieren que aunque las estimaciones de supervivencia de nidos pueden ser tiles como ndices de presiones en una poblacin (e.g. depredacin de nidos), se debe tener cuidado al usarlas como la base de estrategias de conservacin o de manejo o para hacer inferencias sobre procesos a nivel poblacional. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10240|We radiotracked Northern Waterthrushes (
10.2307/4090228| The outlines of the phylogenetic relationships within the New World suboscine clade Tyrannoidea were investigated on the basis of nucleotide sequence data from two nuclear genes (c-myc and RAG-1) and one mitochondrial gene (cytochrome b), totaling over 2,400 bp. Representatives of the major tyrannoid lineages were sequenced, including Pachyramphus, Schiffornis, Tityra, and Oxyruncus. The data set with the three genes combined was analyzed under both the parsimony and maximum-likelihood criteria and under different character weighting schemes. The analyses resulted in similar topologies that differed only in poorly supported nodes. The three manakins (Pipra, Manacus, and Chiroxiphia) included in this study were found to be monophyletic, whereas Schiffornis-sometimes also considered to be a manakin-did not group with the manakins, but occurred with Pachyramphus and Tityra in the clade Tityrinae. The two clades Pipromorphinae and Tyranninae are also strongly supported in this analysis and appear as sister groups, thus supporting the monophyly of the tyrant flycatcher assemblage. Phytotoma was placed with the only cotingid species included in this analysis, whereas the position of Oxyruncus was unresolved. /// Se investig el perfil de las relaciones filogenticas dentro del clado suboscino del Nuevo Mundo Tyrannoidea en base a datos de secuencias de nucletidos de dos genes nucleares (c-myc y RAG-1) y un gen mitocondrial (citocromo b), con un total que sobrepas las 2,400 pb. Se secuenciaron representantes de los principales linajes del clado Tyrannoidea, incluyendo Pachyramphus, Schiffornis, Tityra, y Oxyruncus. El conjunto de datos, con los tres genes combinados, fue analizado bajo los criterios de parsimonia y de mxima probabilidad y bajo diferentes esquemas de peso de los caracteres. Los anlisis produjeron topologas similares que slo difirieron en los nodos pobremente resueltos. Se encontr que los tres gneros Pipra, Manacus, y Chiroxiphia incluidos en este estudio fueron monofilticos, mientras que Schiffornis, que a veces tambin se ha considerado como perteneciente a este grupo, no se agrup con ellos, pero ocurri con Pachyramphus y Tityra en el clado Tityrinae. Los dos clados Pipromorphinae y Tyranninae tambin fueron apoyados fuertemente por este anlisis y aparecen como grupos hermanos, apoyando la monofilia del grupo de los cazamoscas tirnidos. Phytotoma se encontr con las nicas especies cotngidas incluidas en este anlisis, mientras que la posicin de Oxyruncus fue irresoluta. 
4088317|We analyzed body morphology relative to habitat utilization and locomotory feeding movements in the Ruby-crowned (Regulus calendula) and Golden-crowned (R. satrapa) kinglets. The Ruby-crowned Kinglet has a relatively longer, wider, and shallower bill, longer rictal bristles, and a longer humerus and ulna. The capture of aerial prey and the plucking of insects from foliage, which require somewhat complicated aerial maneuvers, made up 24 and 27% of the Ruby-crowned Kinglet's locomotory feeding movements; and they made up 2 and 13% of the Golden-crowned Kinglet's feeding movements. The Golden-crowned Kinglet has relatively shorter tarsi and longer toes than the Ruby-crowned, and highly grooved soles of the feet. Golden-crowned Kinglets hung or clung from foliage in 43% of prey attacks, whereas the Ruby-crowned Kinglet hang-gleaned in only 7%. The Golden-crowned Kinglet fed predominantly in conifers, the Ruby-crowned in deciduous trees. In some major patterns of divergence and specialization, the two North American species are comparable to those found by Leisler and Thaler (1982) for the Palearctic R. regulus and R. ignicapillus.
4090451| Some grassland passerine species are considered area-sensitive, but the mechanisms underlying that phenomenon are not understood, particularly on grazed grasslands. Area sensitivity may result from edge avoidance or higher nest predation near edges, both of which may be influenced by predator activity or cattle-induced vegetational differences between pasture edge and interior. We assessed the effect of distance to edge on nest density and predation Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), and meadowlarks (Sturnella spp.) along wooded and nonwooded edges of Wisconsin pastures in 1998-2000 and the activity of potential mammalian nest predators along those edges in 2000-2001. We found a positive relationship between nest density and distance from edge for all edge types combined, but that was not the result of effects of wooded edges: we found no difference in density between nests located <50 or <100 m from wooded versus nonwooded (crop or grassland) edges. Models that included combinations of vegetation structure (e.g. concealment), initiation date, year, or edge variables (or all four) were poor predictors of the probability of nest predation. Placing nests away from edges, therefore, did not reduce the risk of nest predation. Eight species known to prey on grassland bird nests were documented along pasture edges, raccoon (Procyon lotor) being the most common. Frequency of raccoon and thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus) visitation was higher along wooded edges and nonwooded edges, respectively. Cattle (Bos taurus) activity did not differentially affect vegetation height-density along edges compared with that in the pasture interior. Possible reasons for predation risk being similar in both pasture interiors and edges in a fragmented landscape include the ease with which predators can move within pastures, high percentage of resident grassland predators, and small size (median = 47.2 ha) of pastures. /// Algunas especies de aves paserinas de pastizal son susceptibles al rea del hbitat, pero los mecanismos subyacentes a este fenmeno no estn entendidos, particularmente en pastizales pastoreados. La susceptibilidad al rea puede resultar de evitar el borde o de una mayor depredacin de nidos cerca de los bordes. Estos dos procesos pueden estar influenciados por la actividad de los depredadores o por diferencias en la vegetacin inducidas por el ganado entre el borde del pastizal y el interior. Evaluamos el efecto de la distancia al borde en la densidad de nidos y depredacin en Passerculus sandwichensis, Ammodramus savannarum, Dolichonyx oryzivorus y Sturnella spp. a lo largo de bordes con y sin bosque en pastizales de Wisconsin en 1998-2000 y la actividad de mamferos que potencialemnte actan como depredadores de nidos a lo largo de esos bordes en 2000-2001. Encontramos una relacin positiva entre la densidad de nidos y la distancia desde el borde para todos los tipos de borde combinados. Sin embargo, para los bordes con bosque no encontramos diferencias en la densidad entre nidos localizados a menos de 50 o 100 m de bordes con bosque y sin bosque (cultivo o pastizal). Los modelos que incluyeron combinaciones de la estructura de la vegetacin (e.g. ocultamiento), fecha de iniciacin, ao o variables del borde (o las cuatro juntas) predijeron de modo insatisfactorio la probabilidad de depredacin de los nidos. Por lo tanto, el emplazamiento de nidos lejos de los bordes no redujo su riesgo de depredacin. Ocho especies depredadoras de los nidos de las aves del pastizal fueron documentadas a lo largo de los bordes de los pastizales, siendo el mapache Procyon lotor la ms comn. La frecuencia de visitas de mapaches y de la ardilla Spermophilus tridecemlineatus fue mayor a lo largo de los bordes con bosque y sin bosque, respectivamente. La actividad del ganado (Bos taurus) no afect de modo diferencial la altura y densidad de la vegetacin a lo largo de los bordes con respecto al interior del pastizal. Posibles razones para explicar por qu el riesgo de depredacin es similar en el interior de los pastizales y en el borde en un pasaje fragmentado incluyen la facilidad con la que los depredadores pueden moverse dentro de los pastizales, el alto porcentaje de depredadores residentes del pastizal y el tamao pequeo de los pastizales (mediana = 47.2 ha). 
10.2307/4088854|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control-region sequences of 52 migratory and wintering Dunlins (Calidris alpina) from around the world were determined with direct sequencing of PCR products. The genetic lineages detected in these birds are identical to those found previously in a much larger sample of 155 breeding Dunlins from their northern circumpolar range. Samples of nonbreeding Dunlins from both sides of the Pacific reveal a mixture of two lineages that breed separately in eastern Siberia and Alaska. The presence of Dunlins with an eastern Siberian haplotype along the west coast of North America indicates that the Bering Strait does not represent a biogeographic barrier to Dunlin migration. Dunlins wintering in eastern Asia most likely originated from the discrete breeding population in northern Alaska because they possess haplotypes that were found predominantly in birds from this region. Similarly, Dunlins from staging and wintering sites in Europe and western Asia reveal a mixture of two mtDNA lineages that were previously found confined largely to European and central Siberian breeding grounds. Limited gene flow between these breeding areas, however, precludes definitive allocation of individuals to their population of origin on the basis of mtDNA analysis alone. Body mass, time of migration, and molting pattern seem to be associated with the mtDNA types of migratory Dunlins in Europe, but data are too sparse to determine whether these characters are useful adjuncts in assigning nonbreeding birds to populations that correspond to the major genetic lineages. Overall, the genetic composition of nonbreeding populations indicates the confluence of breeding populations on southward migration. Because of strong phylogeographic population structure in Dunlins on their breeding grounds, mtDNA analysis can be extremely useful in defining broad migration corridors or flyways, and in determining staging and wintering areas used by the major breeding populations.
4087856|We studied breeding biology of the European Bee-eater (Merops apiaster) at a colony in southern France from 1983 to 1987. Approximately 50% of the breeding birds were juveniles (hatched the previous calendar year), and ca. 34% of the breeding birds in any year were known to return to the colony in a subsequent year. The proportion of birds banded as chicks and not recorded breeding until 2 years of age suggests that most females attempted to breed at 1 year of age, but that a larger proportion of juvenile males failed to attempt to breed. Pairs that survived tended to breed together in successive years, and the return to the colony in any year of one member of a breeding pair was not independent of the return of the other. Bee-eaters mated assortatively with respect to age. There was a nonsignificant tendency for breeding adults to be more likely than breeding juveniles to have helpers at the nest. At nests without helpers, adult females bred earlier and laid larger clutches than juveniles, brood size at fledging was unrelated to the age of either parent, recruitment rate of offspring of adults of both sexes was about twice that of offspring of juveniles, and provisioning rate was unrelated to parental age. Neither habitat saturation nor low breeding success of juveniles provide complete functional explanations of helping at the nest in European Bee-eaters.
10.2307/4088974|Many studies have sought to identify traits that influence the relative number of species in related taxa. We examined whether species richness was associated with social mating system in birds. Taxa with promiscuous mating systems tended to be more species-rich than their nonpromiscuous sister taxa. This association was statistically significant when examined with tests that take into account the magnitudes of paired contrasts. The results do not arise from covariation between mating system and body size. We discuss these findings in the context of the hypothesis that sexual selection promotes speciation.
25488568|Avian clutch size has been reported to show a poleward increase, a pattern that is well supported in landbirds but less so in waterbirds. We analyzed geographic variation in clutch and brood size among seven species of Nearctic herons and egrets (Ardeidae) over a latitudinal range spanning from 25 to 52N. We included in the analysis data from 71 published references that reported information on both clutch and brood size. We found a strong and coherent latitudinal increase in clutch size in all species, but no unequivocal latitudinal variation in brood size. This resulted in a decreased index of productivity (brood size:clutch size ratio, excluding nest failures) with increasing latitude. In addition, we detected habitat-related variation in clutch size, which was, on average, smaller in salt-water than in freshwater habitats. The latitudinal decrease of the productivity index, which was not associated with latitudinal variation in nest-failure rates at either the clutch or brood stage, contrasts with previously proposed explanations for gradients in clutch size, which invoke latitudinal differences in seasonal variation of food abundance or nest-predation intensity. We suggest that factors other than those proposed in the case of landbirds may explain the latitudinal variation in clutch size in herons. In any case, our results suggest that herons may pay higher reproductive costs to obtain similar benefits when breeding at higher latitudes.
10.2307/4089454|Hormonal manipulations with implants allow examination of the costs and benefits of behaviors and physiologic states mediated by a given hormone. As a part of ongoing research into the effects of the steroid hormone testosterone (T) in Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis), we measured the corticosterone (B, a steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal in response to stress) response to the stress of capture and handling in males treated with T (T-males) and in control males (C-males). Although B may be essential for energy mobilization, chronic or repeated exposure to elevated levels of B can have many negative effects. Because T mediates many behaviors that may increase the likelihood that an individual will encounter stressors, we predicted that plasma B would rise more rapidly in T-males than in controls. In the first few minutes post-capture, the increase in B levels was significantly higher in T-males than in controls. B levels in samples collected 10, 30, and 60 min post-capture were consistently higher in T-males than in C-males; however, the difference was not statistically significant. Because previous work has shown that T-males reduce their parental contribution, we compared females that were mated to T-males and C-males (hereafter T- and C-females). B levels of T-females increased sharply in the first few minutes post-capture, whereas in C-females they did not; however, the responses were not statistically different. Males had higher initial levels and a greater B-response to stress than females when data were compared irrespective of treatment. Our results suggest that the behaviors or physiological changes induced by T are potentially costly and that such costs may in part be incurred through elevated B.
10.1525/auk.2013.12240|The influence of vegetation structure on the probability of daily nest survival (DNS) for grassland passerines has received considerable attention. Some correlative studies suggest that the presence of woody vegetation lowers DNS. Over 3 years (20092011), we monitored 215 nests of the Grasshopper Sparrow (
10.1525/auk.2012.11260|We describe the range-wide phylogeography of Blackpoll Warblers (
10.2307/4085493|Describes the physical characteristics, usages, and probable functions of 11 vocalizations of adult Black-capped Chickadees and 2 of the young. Some modifications of the vocal repertoire as compared with other passerines are associated with sociality and hole-nesting. The Fee-bee, usually considered the song of this chickadee, is less complex than some call notes and also has some differences in function compared to the songs of other passerines. The two most complex calls (Chick-a-dee and Gargle) are associated with social activities. Vocal signals tend toward sexual segregation, which may be important in a monomorphic species. The vocalizations of this species are compared with those of other parids, and selection pressures acting on the structure of vocalizations are discussed. The more complex vocalizations of this species are being studied extensively as mentioned in the accounts below, and are only generally described in this paper.
4085704|We have undertaken a morphological approach to the analysis of community relationships among species of birds by using eight characters to define a morphological hypervolume. We describe methods of characterizing mophological space, estimating the total volume occupied, and calculating distances between species. Within this space, we examined 11 temperate-zone scrub communities described by Cody (1974). We used the total pool of species represented to generate two sets of randomly assembled communities; in one case, individual species were used to construct communities, and in the other, species synthesized from the pool of characters were used. We compared characteristics of the natural communities to those of the random communities to test the null hypothesis that species are added to communities independently of those already present. Distance and regularity of spacing between nearest neighbors in natural communities did not differ significantly from randomly assembled communities. In comparisons between natural communities having different numbers of species, however, species were added at the edge of the morphological space, predominantly along novel morphological dimensions, rather than being drawn at random from the species pool. Morphological separation and ecological overlap were inversely related in small communities, but this relationship was less pronounced in larger assemblages. Communities in California and Chile in similar habitats (chaparral and matorral) occupied morphological spaces that were superimposable in outline but showed no evidence of community convergence on a species-for-species level. We suggest that morphology can be a powerful tool in the analysis of community structure. We feel that any evidence of community structure can be accepted only when tested statistically against a reasonable null hypothesis. Because morphological methods make possible the study of large samples of communities, they have a clearly defined role in the study of patterns of community organization.
4085149| We studied the relation between nutrient reserves and reproductive performance of female Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) in 1971 and 1972 at the McConnell River (6050N, 9425W), Northwest Territories, Canada. We determined the potential clutch size of a pre-laying female by counting large (>20 mm), highly vascularized ovarian follicles; actual clutch size of post-laying females was the number of post-ovulatory follicles. Females with larger nutrient reserves had, on average, larger potential clutches. Reserves were used by the geese during laying and, after laying, the mean weights of reserves from females that laid different size clutches were not significantly different. We suggest that clutch size in Lesser Snow Geese is determined by size of nutrient reserves. Successful females used much of their remaining fat and protein reserves during incubation but this use was not significantly modified by the size of clutch they incubated. Late in incubation some females depleted their reserves and left their nests to feed; others starved to death. Thus, to reproduce successfully a female must retain, after egg-laying, sufficient nutrient reserves for her own maintenance during incubation. 
25150359|We examined foraging-habitat selection by free-ranging wading birds presented with different social and environmental cues by conducting two experiments in eight replicate ponds adjacent to the northern border of the Florida Everglades. The first experiment examined the relative influence of a social (presence of a flock of decoys) and environmental (water depth) cue on the selection of ponds. The second experiment examined the influence of two environmental cues (water depth and fluctuating water level) on the selection of ponds. In the first experiment, wading birds were most attracted to ponds with both the presence of a flock of decoys and shallow water. The social and environmental cues both had the same attractive potential to wading birds. In the second experiment, birds were again attracted to ponds with shallow water; however, fluctuating water level had no significant influence on foraging-habitat selection. If birds do not perceive fluctuating water levels as a cue to habitat quality, then the well-documented relationship between nesting success and fluctuating water levels likely stems from birds responding to factors that covary with water-level changes. /// Examinamos la seleccin de hbitats de forrajeo por parte de aves vadeadoras de movimientos libres a las que les fueron presentadas diferentes seales sociales y ambientales mediante dos experimentos realizados en el borde norte de los Everglades de Florida, utilizando ocho charcas como rplicas. El primer experimento examin la influencia relativa de una seal social (presencia de una bandada de seuelos) y una seal ambiental (profundidad del agua) sobre la seleccin de las charcas. El segundo experimento examin la influencia de dos seales ambientales (profundidad del agua y fluctuaciones en el nivel del agua) sobre la seleccin de charcas. En el primer experimento, las aves vadeadoras fueron ms atraidas a las charcas que presentaban tanto una bandada de seuelos como aguas pandas. Las seales sociales y ambientales tuvieron el mismo potencial de atraer a las aves vadeadoras. En el segundo experimento, las aves nuevamente fueron atraidas a las charcas con aguas pandas, pero los niveles fluctuantes del agua no tuvieron una influencia significativa sobre la seleccin de hbitat de forrajeo. Si las aves no perciben las fluctuaciones en los niveles de agua como una seal de la calidad del hbitat, es probable que la relacin entre el xito de nidificacin y los niveles fluctuantes del agua, que ha sido bien documentada, se desprenda de la respuesta de las aves a factores que covaran con los cambios en el nivel de agua.
10.2307/4090403| We studied sexual size dimorphism, intrasexual competition, and sexual selection in an individually marked population of Wattled Jacanas (Jacana jacana) in the Republic of Panama. Males are the sole incubators of eggs (28-day incubation) and primary providers of chick care (50-60 days). Females were 48% heavier than, and behaviorally dominant over, males. Females also showed greater development of secondary sexual characters (fleshy facial ornamentation and wing spurs) than males. Both sexes defended territories throughout the year against same-sex conspecifics. Competition for territorial space was intense, and many individuals of both sexes did not become breeders. Resident females further competed with one another to accumulate multiple mates, resulting in a mating system of simultaneous polyandry. Female and male residents (territory holders) were larger, heavier, and more ornamented than adult floaters of the same sex. Larger and heavier females also had more mates than smaller females. Body size was thus a critical predictor of success in intrasexual competition for territories (both sexes) and for mates (females). Three measures of sexual selection - (1) sex difference in the opportunity for sexual selection, (2) female-to-male ratio of potential reproductive rates, and (3) operational sex ratio - each indicated that sexual selection is currently operating more strongly on females than on males (female-to-male ratios ranged from 1.43:1 to 2.22:1). Values of 1.61:1 and 1.43:1 represent the first published quantitative estimates of the opportunity for sexual selection for any sex-role-reversed bird. Our study supports the theory that when increased parental care entails reduced opportunities for future reproduction, asymmetries in parental care behaviors of the sexes can influence the intensity of competition for mates and the direction and strength of sexual selection. /// Estudiamos el dimorfismo sexual en el tamao, la competencia intrasexual y la seleccin sexual en una poblacin de Jacana jacana con individuos marcados en la Repblica de Panam. Los machos son los nicos que incuban los huevos (la incubacin toma 28 das) y son los principales encargados de cuidar a los pichones (50-60 das). Las hembras fueron un 48% ms pesadas que los machos y fueron comportamentalmente dominantes sobre stos. Las hembras tambin mostraron un mayor desarrollo de caracteres sexuales secundarios (ornamentaciones carnosas en la cara y espuelas en las alas) que los machos. Ambos sexos defendieron territorios contra individuos coespecficos del mismo sexo a travs del ao. La competencia por el espacio territorial fue intensa, y muchos individuos de ambos sexos no se reprodujeron. Las hembras residentes adems compitieron entre ellas por acumular mltiples parejas, lo que result en un sistema de apareamiento de poliandra simultnea. Las hembras y machos residentes (dueos de territorios) fueron ms grandes, ms pesados y ms ornamentados que los adultos flotantes de su mismo sexo. Las hembras ms grandes y pesadas tambin tuvieron ms parejas que las hembras ms pequeas. Por lo tanto, el tamao corporal fue un determinante crucial del xito en la competencia intrasexual por territorios (ambos sexos) y por parejas (hembras). Cada una de tres medidas de seleccin sexual - (1) la diferencia entre sexos en la oportunidad de seleccin sexual, (2) la relacin hembras-machos en las tasas reproductivas potenciales y (3) la proporcin operacional de sexos - indic que la seleccin sexual est operando actualmente con mayor intensidad en las hembras que en los machos (las relaciones hembras-machos variaron entre 1.43:1 y 2.22:1). Los valores de 1.61:1 y 1.43:1 representan las primeras estimaciones cuantitativas publicadas de la oportunidad de seleccin sexual en aves con roles sexuales revertidos. Nuestro estudio apoya la teora que propone que cuando una mayor inversin en cuidado parental reduce las oportunidades para la reproduccin futura, las asimetras en los comportamientos de cuidado parental de los sexos pueden influenciar la intensidad de la competencia por parejas y la direccin y magnitud de la seleccin sexual. 
4086460|Sperm-storage glands were found in the uterovaginal (UV) region of the oviduct in Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis), Horned Puffins (Fratercula corniculata), and Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) collected before or shortly after egg laying. Previously described only in domestic Galliformes, UV sperm-storage glands may prove to be a common feature of the avian reproductive system. There is as yet no compelling explanation of their function in the Horned Puffin. In the Northern Fulmar, and probably in other petrels, however, sperm-storage glands allow the separation of the male and female over pelagic waters for several weeks immediately before egg laying. The likelihood of prolonged viability of sperm in the female reproducitve tract should be considered in interpreting the sexual behavior of other wild birds.
10.2307/4089816|The Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) Autosub-1 made observations of the sea surface with an upward-looking echosounder during fish surveys in the vicinity of Shetland and Orkney (North Sea) in July 1999. Echograms from the AUV contained vertical traces extending downwards from the sea surface that were caused by diving seabirds. Visual observations provided evidence that those seabirds were Northern Gannets Sula bassana. Analysis of trace extent suggests a mean dive depth of 19.7 m (n = 19, SD = 7.5). Data on gannet diving depths are sparse, but this value is somewhat deeper than that accepted for the related Cape Gannet (Morus capensis, mean 5.9 m) which has been used in foraging models for the Northern Gannet. These observations have implications for our understanding of the foraging capabilities of gannets, and the interactions of gannets with commercially targeted fish species.
10.2307/4088504|Because count data collected in many bird surveys are only an index to population size, factors that can influence the counts must be identified and incorporated into analyses. Observer quality is often ignored in analyses of population changes from survey data, but observers differ in methods and capabilities and, hence, tend to count different numbers of birds. We assess the consequences of between-observer differences in counts for estimation of population trends in the North American Breeding Bird Survey. Observer differences in numbers of birds counted were found in 50% of the 369 species we examined. For many species, observers in later years tended to count more birds than observers in earlier years, suggesting an increase in observer quality over time. Analysis of population trends from 1966 through 1991 indicates that failure to include observers as covariables in the analysis results in an overly optimistic view of population trends.
4090630| Microsite, patch and landscape conditions may interact to influence nest predation. In northern Minnesota, silvicultural and agricultural practices may be involved in recent increases in nest predators and regional declines in several ground-nesting songbirds. To examine this problem, we evaluated 17 hierarchical models of predation on Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla) nests that included microsite variables, distances to edges, and amount of core forest within a 2-km radius surrounding six study plots. During 2000 and 2001, 157 Ovenbird nests were monitored to estimate nest predation rates. A model that included the main effects of litter depth and core forest area and an interaction term between the two best described variation in predation on Ovenbird nests (
10.1525/auk.2012.11253|Large-scale monitoring of bird populations is often based on count data collected across spatial scales that may include multiple physiographic regions and habitat types. Monitoring at large spatial scales may require multiple survey platforms (e.g., from boats and land when monitoring coastal species) and multiple survey methods. It becomes especially important to explicitly account for detection probability when analyzing count data that have been collected using multiple survey platforms or methods. We evaluated a new analytical framework,
10.2307/4089450|Philopatry in migratory species can apply to any location used during the annual cycle. The degree of philopatry influences the genetic structure of populations, but only at the stage of the annual cycle when pair formation and gene exchange occur. Because pair formation in birds typically occurs during the breeding season, most studies have focused on breeding-site philopatry. Waterfowl (Anseriformes) are an important exception to this pattern because pair formation often occurs during the winter months. Yet, surprisingly few studies have examined winter philopatry in waterfowl. To serve as an impetus for future research, we summarize published information on winter philopatry in waterfowl and examine these patterns in light of current hypotheses proposed to explain philopatric behavior. Our analyses indicate that geese, swans, and sea ducks show high levels of winter philopatry, with homing rates varying between 49 and 98% to small study areas. In contrast, return rates (0 to 20%) and homing rates (35 to 85%) to large study areas probably are comparatively lower for dabbling ducks and pochards. Unfortunately, detailed comparisons among groups are hindered by variation in the scale at which philopatric behavior is evaluated (ranging from
10.2307/4088895|Chestnut-sided Warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica) song repertoires include both accented-ending (AE) and unaccented-ending (UE) songs, and the two song categories are used in different behavioral contexts. To determine if the song categories also differ in patterns of spatial distribution, I analyzed local geographic variation in song form within a Massachusetts population and also compared songs from this local population with songs from other geographic regions. I found that: (1) UE repertoires of individuals were more similar to those of nearby individuals in the local population than to those of more distant birds; (2) most UE song types and song elements tended to cluster on groups of adjacent territories; and (3) UE songs from geographically distant sites tended not to match types from the main study site. In contrast, my findings indicate that: (1) AE-repertoire similarities were not significantly related to local interindividual distances; (2) AE song types were dispersed at random over the local area; and (3) nearly all AE song types from distant sites were identical to the AE types found at the main study site. The contrast between variable, geographically clustered UE songs, and stereotyped, geographically dispersed AE songs suggests that the two song categories serve different communication functions.
4088359|We analyzed the relationship between age and body size of 65 Great Black-backed Gull chicks (Larus marinus) between 0 and 56 days of age (n = 209 sets of measurements) using birds from southern New Brunswick in 1989. The logistic model provided the best fit to the body size and age data; it was used to make linear transformations of body-size variables (culmen, tarsus, and wing cord). The first principal component (PC1) from the correlation matrix of transformed morphological variables also was used as a measure of body size. We estimated linear-regression models of univariate body-size measures and of PC1 versus age, and a multiple-linear-regression model of all body size measures versus age. Accuracy of the predictors was evaluated from a verification sample of chick measurements that were, initially, withheld from the analysis. All predictors had negligible bias in age estimation, but PC1 and multiple-linear-regression models estimated age more precisely than did univariate predictors. The increased accuracy of the multivariate models resulted from the reduced effect of outliers on age estimation.
4085658|This paper examines some consequences of changes in the membership and location of winter flocks of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis). Among captives, intragroup social relationships seldom were affected by separation from or subsequent reunion with another portion of the home flock, by amalgamation with or separation from a foreign flock, or by changes in flock location. Foreign flock members usually were subordinate to, and preferentially attacked by, residents. Juncos rejoining their home flocks after a 1-week separation retained their previous social positions but engaged temporarily in a disproportionate amount of agonistic behavior with former flockmates. Some proximate and ultimate implications of winter flock stability in juncos are discussed in the light of these and other findings. Social and ecological costs that may be incurred by juncos attempting to change their flock membership or home range during the winter should select for behavior that reduces the likelihood of such changes, including geographic differentiation in the migratory habits of the sexes.
10.2307/4087548|We identified mortality factors for Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) at two study sites and related them to the choice made by males and females between sites. More nests were successful and more young were fledged at Site 2, which had significantly denser vegetation and deeper water than Site 1. Both males and females settled at Site 2 in densities higher than predicted by chance, although they settled synchronously at the two sites. This suggests that Marsh Wrens select breeding habitat to increase their nesting success.
10.2307/4089982| In many avian species, reproductive success increases with parental age and experience, and declines seasonally. However, it is difficult to evaluate how parental attributes affect reproduction independently of date effects, because young, inexperienced pairs generally lay later than older, experienced pairs. We examined how parental experience and timing affected nestling growth in the Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia), an Arctic seabird that lays a single-egg clutch, by taking advantage of a natural contrast made possible by marked within-group synchrony. That is a common feature at murre colonies, and enabled us to monitor the breeding performance of experienced pairs over an extended period that overlapped with breeding by inexperienced pairs late in the season. Whereas growth of offspring raised by experienced parents was unaffected by their hatching date, offspring raised by inexperienced parents grew more slowly than those raised concurrently by experienced parents. Therefore, parental experience influenced nestling growth rates whereas timing did not, a result that accords with previous studies on this species. Absence of direct effects of timing of egg-laying on breeding success of Thick-billed Murres stands in sharp contrast to many other avian species, and seems surprising for an Arctic-nesting species often assumed to be strictly time-constrained in its breeding. /// Dans de nombreuses espces aviennes, le succs reproducteur augmente avec l'ge et l'exprience des parents, et dcline avec la saison. Nanmoins, il est difficile d'valuer comment les attributs parentaux affectent la reproduction indpendamment des effets de date, puisque les couples jeunes, inexpriments pondent gnralement plus tard que les couples vieux, expriments. Nous avons examin comment l'exprience parentale et la date d'closion affectaient la croissance des oisillons chez la Marmette de Brnnich (Uria lomvia), un oiseau marin de l'Arctique qui ne pond qu'un seul uf, en profitant de l'avantage offert par le contraste naturel qui existe dans la synchronie marque au sein des groupes. Cette caractristique des colonies de Marmettes nous a permis de suivre le droulement de la nidification de couples expriments au cours d'une longue priode qui chevauchait la nidification plus tardive de couples inexpriments. Alors que la croissance de la progniture leve par des parents expriments n'tait pas affecte par la date d'closion, la progniture leve par des parents inexpriments a grandi plus lentement que ceux levs simultanment par des parents expriments. Par consquent, l'exprience parentale a influenc les taux de croissance des oisillons contrairement  la date d'closion, un rsultat qui est en accord avec les prcdentes tudes sur cette espce. L'absence d'effets directs du moment de la ponte sur le succs reproducteur des Marmettes de Brnnich contraste fortement avec la situation retrouve pour de nombreuses autres espces aviennes, et semble surprenante pour une espce nichant dans l'Arctique souvent considr comme strictement contrainte par le temps dans sa nidification. 
10.2307/4090020| The Hawaii Akepa (Loxops coccineus coccineus) is an endangered bird that has declined dramatically in the last 100 years, and is now rare or absent from many areas that appear to support suitable habitat. Food availability may play a role in these distribution patterns, but differences in food between sites may arise from different sources. I compared prey availability between a site supporting a large, stable Hawaii Akepa population, and a site from which Hawaii Akepa have declined in the last 100 years for unknown reasons. I used three spatial scales to compare food between sites to explore the basis of differences in food between sites. At a scale appropriate for comparing prey population dynamics (scale 1), I found that prey population densities are similar between sites, suggesting that introduced (or native) predators or parasitoids have not affected prey populations differently between sites. At two larger scales incorporating habitat structure, I found that food availability is much lower at the site of Hawaii Akepa declines. Differences in canopy density per square meter (scale 2), and in canopy cover per square kilometer (scale 3), result in lower food availability that may have effects on individual foraging birds as well as on potential Hawaii Akepa population density. These findings illustrate the importance of explicity incorporating spatial scale into inquiries about food for Hawaii Akepa, and suggest that the site of population declines may not be suitable habitat with respect to food for this species. /// Loxops coccineus coccineus es un ave amenazada de Hawai que ha declinado dramticamente en los ltimos 100 aos y que es ahora rara o est ausente de muchass reas que parecen poseer hbitat adecuado. La disponibidad de alimento puede jugar un rol en estos patrones de distribucin, pero diferencias entre sitios en los alimentos pueden deberse a causas diferentes. Compar la disponibilidad de presas entre un sitio con una poblacin grande y estaable de L. c. coccineus y un sitio en el cual esta especie ha declinado por causas desconocidas en los ltimos 100 aos. Utilic tres escalas espaciales oara comparar los alimentos entre sitios y para explorar el origen de las diferencias. A una escala apropiada para comparar la dinmica de las poblaciones de presas (escala 1), encontr que las densidades de lss poblaciones de presas son similares entre sitios, sugiriendo que los depredadores o parasitodes introducidos (o nativos) no han afectado de modo diferente entre sitios a las poblaciones de presas. A dos escalas mayores que incorporan la estructura del hbitat, encontr que la disponibilidad de alimento es mucho ms baja en el sitio donde L. c. coccineus est declinando. Las diferencias en la densidad del dosel por metro cuadrado (escala 2) y en la cobertura del dosel por kilmetro cuadrado (escala 3) resultaron en unaa menor disponibilidad de alimento que puedede tener efectos sobre el forrajeco se aves individuales as como en lass densidades poblaciones potenciales de L. c. coccines. Estos resultados sealan la importancia de incorporar explcitamente la escala espacial en estudios de los alimentos para L. c. coccines, y sugieren que el sitio donde la poblacin est declinando puede no representar hbitat adecuado para la alimentacin de esta especie. 
4085749|Ecological relationships among color morphs of the Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) were studied during two successive winters in Benton County, Arkansas. Each mature hawk observed was assigned to one of three predetermined plumage categories (light, intermediate, dark) on the basis of ventral pigmentation. Multivariate analysis of variance showed a significant difference between light and dark morphs in perch site selection. A perch site openness gradient was established using discriminant function analysis. Light hawks occupied open perch sites, while dark hawks more frequently occupied perch sites characterized by dense stem cover. I suggest that the morphs were associated with perch sites that best concealed them from prey.
4085838|Reproductive success, population expansion, and individual life histories of European Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) were monitored annually in Chesapeake Bay after a pair of mated, pinioned swans escaped confinement and began nesting in the wild there in 1962. Of the females, 4% paired before their first birthday, and 13% nested as 1-yr-olds. No males paired before their first birthday, and only 1.7% nested as 1-yr-olds. In 1969-79, 94% of the nests contained eggs, and young fledged from 58%. The average clutch size was 6.2, with 49% of the eggs hatching. The average brood size was 3.9, and 82% of the hatchlings fledged. An average of 2.2 young fledged from nests with eggs. Data presented indicate that reproductive success improves with both age and nest attempts 1 through 4. Flooding was primarily responsible for nest failure, and marine turtles took many hatchlings. Relaying occurred if nests failed before 10 May. Gray-brown plumage characterized 73% of the hatchlings. Mortality of leucistic young was double that of gray-brown young. Postfledging mortality rates for both sexes were 16-17% before the first birthday, dropped to half that during age 1, and to less than 7% annually thereafter. Females survived slightly better than males. Collision with overhead utility wires was the most important known cause of mortality. Swans 2 yr old or older constituted 52% of the population in 1970-78, but only 35% of the population nested. Males predominated in all age classes. Life table analysis shows that the swan population is experiencing unrestricted growth. Age-specific survival rates indicate that 50% of those born to the entire population will survive through age 7, and about 6% of the females and 1% of the males will reach 50 yr of age. Age-specific birth rates for 1- and 2-yr-old females was less than one young; this rate was 2.0 or better in later age classes, however. The net reproductive rate shows that females will replace themselves by age 4, replace themselves 10 times by age 23, and 14.5 times by age 50. The mean rate of population increase was 42% annually during the first decade and 27% annually during the first 7 yr of the second decade (1973-79).
25488642|We used capturemarkrecapture (or re-encounter) analysis of a metapopulation to estimate the probability of survival, re-encounter, and dispersal of Arctic Terns (
10.2307/4089108|Canada Geese (Branta canadensis interior) breeding on Akimiski Island, Northwest Territories, and those breeding on the Ontario mainland southwest of James Bay, share a common wintering range and are considered to be part of the same population, but differ significantly in size (e.g. skull length of mainland birds averages ca. 8% greater than that of Akimiski birds). We collected eggs in each area and raised the goslings in a common environment to determine environmental effects on differences in body-size traits observed in wild birds. We found no differences in asymptotic size or growth periods for skull, culmen, and tarsus length among birds from different origins (P > 0.05) but significant differences between sexes (P < 0.05). Estimated asymptotes for skull length of captives were intermediate to those of wild insular and mainland adults but closer to those of the larger mainland birds. Captive goslings from Akimiski Island had structural measurements that averaged 8 to 17% larger than those of wild goslings of the same age on the island. These results suggest a significant environmental effect on observed differences in body size between insular and mainland populations in southern James Bay. We suggest that lower per capita food availability explains the smaller size of Canada Geese on Akimiski Island.
10.2307/4089866| Both sexes of adult Western Screech-Owls (Otus kennicottii) sing in response to playback of conspecific song within their territories. Two primary songs are the bounce and double trill. Using sonographic analysis of tape-recorded vocalizations, our study quantified characterstics of bounce and double trill songs uttered by individuals within a population of Western Screech-Owls inhabiting riparian woodlands in southwestern Idaho. We asked if songs of males and females differed and, if so, how accurately could songs be classified by sex. On average, male bounce songs were 30% lower in frequency than bounce songs of females, but song duration, note duration, number of notes per bout, and internote duration did not differ. Similarly, double trill songs of males were significantly lower in frequency than those of females, and double trill songs uttered by females had significantly greater internote distances in the leading portion. A discriminant model based on frequency at maximum amplitude of bounce songs correctly classified all males and females in our sample. Presence of sex-specific patterns of vocalizations in that species would allow owls to assess the sex of potential intruders and respond appropriately. Moreover, sonographic analysis of Western Screech-Owl songs provides a means for noninvasive classification of sex. 
4086467|Movements of yearling male Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) were monitored by radio telemetry during the springs of 1980 and 1981, on Hardwicke Island, British Columbia. The locations of the birds were clumped around territories of adult males. Most birds were associated with a few occupied territories, others settled near vacant sites that had been used as territories in previous years, and a few moved widely over the breeding range. Some territories attracted more yearlings than others. Presumed costs and benefits that may be associated with different types of spatial patterns of yearling males are discussed.
4087182|I present a quantitative description of the diet of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and consider how food habits (particularly the proportion of fruit eaten and the diversity of individual meals) are influenced by season, habitat, sex, and time of day. The study is based on an analysis of records of stomach contents compiled by the U.S. Biological Survey and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Across their entire range, robins ate fruits representing over 50 genera and invertebrates representing over 100 families. Diets were diverse even within local regions, and there was no obvious single feeding niche. The major food classes, consumed in every combination, were soft-bodied invertebrates, hard-bodied invertebrates, and fruits. The same taxa (especially fruits of the family Rosaceae and invertebrates of the orders Coleoptera and Lepidoptera) predominated in robins' diets, irrespective of habitat or geographical location, which presumably reflects both selective foraging and the availability of these widespread taxa. The proportion of fruit (by volume) in the diet was much higher in the fall and winter (median values >90%) than in the spring (<10%); summer values were intermediate. The transition from a diet dominated by invertebrates to a diet dominated by fruits occurred over a 1-2-month period. The number of distinct food items in stomachs, a measure of the species diversity of individual meals, was positively correlated with the fraction of invertebrates in the diet. Thus, at the time of year when robins were dependent on fruits for food, the diversity of their meals was also lowest. The degree of fullness of the stomach showed few consistent trends with season or habitat. Despite different sex roles and nutritional requirements, male and female robins did not differ in the proportion of fruit in the diet in any month or in any region. Nor did their stomachs contain different numbers of distinct food items, different amounts of food, or a different range or distribution of prey taxa. Habitat was an important variable explaining dietary differences. The Biological Survey records have unavoidable shortcomings, most notably problems of sampling biases and the inability to correct for differential digestion of food items. Nonetheless, they are a valuable and underused data base for testing hypotheses, generating new questions of ecological interest, and describing in detail the diets of North American bird species.
4086374|We studied the syllabic structure of the Gargle, a complex vocalization of the Black-capped Chickadee that is often associated with agression, at three main sites in southeastern Wisconsin, at one site over an 11-yr period. Sites as close as 5.7 km showed major differences in syllables, and birds at some sites differed somewhat in the number of syllables per call. Each individual probably uses all the syllables (16-23 different ones) occurring at a particular site. The syllables occurring at the end of the vocalization were shared among different demes, while the introductory syllables were usually different. Syllables showed relatively little change with time. Dialects apparently correspond to demes in this species. The syllables are arranged in many combinations and permutations to generate a large variety of Gargle types, most of which are very rare. A few Gargle types are more common ("universals") and are usually confined to a particular site. Such a complex dialect pattern is unusual in a call.
10.2307/4090099|We compared habitat use and niche overlap in the closely related seabirds Kittlitz's (Brachyramphus brevirostris) and Marbled (B. marmoratus) Murrelets in nearshore waters of Prince William Sound, Alaska, in 1996-1998, and examined the relationship between near shore habitat use and morphology of those two species. Within bays, the distribution of Kittlitz's Murrelet groups diverged the most from randomness for the variables habitat type (preferring [i.e. using significantly more than what is available] glacial-affected and glacial-stream-affected habitats), distance to shore (preferring areas 51-100 m from shore), and water clarity (preferring highly turbid water), whereas the distribution of Marbled Murrelet groups diverged the most from randomness for the variables habitat type (preferring glacial-unaffected habitats), ice cover (preferring areas of no ice), and sea-surface temperature (SST) (preferring temperatures 6C). The probability of a group of birds being Kittlitz's Murrelets was determined most strongly by water clarity. Kittlitz's Murrelet groups were more common in the more heavily glaciated College and Harriman fjords than in the other two bays and more common in early and midsummer than in late summer; the reverse was true for Marbled Murrelet groups. Marbled Murrelet groups had the least niche overlap with Kittlitz's Murrelet groups in water clarity, SST, and site, whereas Kittlitz's Murrelets had the least overlap with Marbled Murrelets in habitat type and water clarity. Similarly, Kittlitz's Murrelet groups occurred in water significantly more turbid than did Marbled Murrelet groups in two of four habitat types. Kittlitz's Murrelets had eyes (as indicated by orbit diameter) that were significantly larger in proportional size than Marbled Murrelets. We propose that these two species are specialized for foraging in different water types, with specialization of the Kittlitz's Murrelet for turbid water of glacial origin leading to optical specialization. /// Comparamos el uso de hbitat y superposicin de nichos en dos especies de aves marinas emparentadas, Brachyramphus brevirostris y Brachyramphus marmoratus, en las aguas costeras de Prince William Sound en Alaska, entre 1996 y 1998. Examinamos las relaciones entre el uso de hbitat costero y la morfologa de estas dos especies. Entre bahas, la distribucin de los grupos de B. brevirostris difiri de la esperada por azar para las variables tipo de hbitat (prefiriendo [i.e., utilizando significativamente ms de lo disponible] hbitats afectados por glaciares y flujos de glaciares), distancia a la costa (prefiriendo reas entre 51 y 100 m de la costa) y claridad del agua (prefiriendo aguas muy turbias), mientras que la distribucin de grupos de B. marmoratus present la mayor diferencia de lo esperado por azar para las variables tipo de hbitat (prefiriendo hbitats no afectados por glaciares), cobertura de hielo (prefiriendo reas no cubiertas por hielo) y temperatura de la superficie del mar (TSM) (prefiriendo temperaturas 6C). La probabilidad de un grupo de estar compuesto por B. brevirostris estuvo fuertemente determinada por la claridad del agua. Los grupos de B. brevirostris fueron ms comunes en los fiordos con glaciares (i.e., fiordos Collage y Harriman) que en las otras dos bahas, y fueron ms comunes al comienzo y a mediados del verano que a fines del verano, mientras que para B. marmoratus se observ el patrn opuesto. Los grupos de B. marmoratus tuvieron la menor superposicin de nicho con los grupos de B. brevirostris con respecto a la claridad del agua, la TSM y el sitio, mientras que B. brevirostris tuvo la menor superposicin con B. marmoratus con respecto al tipo de hbitat y a la claridad del agua. De manera similar, en dos de los cuatro hbitats, los grupos de B. brevirostris se observaron en aguas significativamente ms turbias que los grupos de B. marmoratus. Los ojos de B. brevirostris fueron significativamente mayores (indicado por el dimetro de la rbita) en proporcin a su tamao corporal que los de B. marmoratus. Proponemos que estas dos especies se especializan en forrajear en tipos diferentes de agua, y que B. brevirostris se especializa en aguas turbias de origen glaciar lo que llevara a la especializacin ptica.
10.2307/25150225|Vocal behavior in tropical hummingbirds is a new area of study. Here, we present findings on the vocalizations and associated behaviors of two species: Sombre Hummingbird (Aphantochroa cirrhochloris) and Rufous-breasted Hermit (Glaucis hirsutus). These are the only hummingbirds in which the brain areas activated by singing have been demonstrated. They are also among the basal species of their respective subfamilies, Trochilinae and Phaethornithinae and, thus, represent early stages in the evolution of hummingbird vocal communication. We found that the two species exhibit distinctive vocalizations and behaviors. Sombre Hummingbird calls had more modulation and were often used during agonistic interactions, whereas Rufous-breasted Hermit calls had higher pitch and purer tones and were produced in less aggressive interactions. Sombre Hummingbird song was highly stereotyped in syllable structure and syntax, whereas Rufous-breasted Hermit song was highly variable. Comparative analysis points to consistent similarities in use of vocalizations by the Sombre Hummingbird and other trochilines, and by the Rufous-breasted Hermit and other phaethornithines. We hypothesize that differences in vocal behavior between hummingbird lineages arise as adaptations to their foraging strategies. /// El comportamiento vocal de los picaflores tropicales es un rea de estudio nueva. Aqu presentamos los hallazgos sobre las vocalizaciones y los comportamientos asociados de dos especies: Aphantochroa cirrhochloris y Glaucis hirsutus. Estos son los nicos picaflores en los que se ha demostrado que algunas reas del cerebro se activan con el canto. Ellos estn tambin entre las especies basales de sus respectivas subfamilias, Trochilinae y Phaethornithinae y, por ende, representan estados tempranos en la evolucin de la comunicacin vocal de los picaflores. Encontramos que las dos especies exhiben vocalizaciones y comportamientos distintivos. Las llamadas de Aphantochroa cirrhochloris presentaron ms modulaciones y fueron usualmente empleadas durante interacciones agonsticas, mientras que las llamadas de G. hirsutus presentaron frecuencias ms altas y tonos ms puros y fueron producidas durante interacciones menos agresivas. El canto de Aphantochroa cirrhochloris fue muy estereotipado en la estructura de slabas y en la sintaxis, mientras que el canto de G. hirsutus fue muy variable. Los anlisis comparativos sealan similitudes consistentes en el uso de las vocalizaciones por parte de A. cirrhochloris y otros Trochilinae, y de G. hirsutus y otros Phaethornithinae. Hipotetizamos que las diferencias en el comportamiento vocal entre los linajes de picaflores aparecen como adaptaciones a sus estrategias de forrajeo.
25488721|Two subspecies of Northern Flicker (
4087271|In the 1979-1980 and 1980-1981 austral summers, I examined nesting and feeding ecology of South Polar (Catharacta maccormicki) and Brown (C. lonnbergi) skuas near Palmer Station, Antarctica. As earlier studies had suggested, South Polar Skuas fed mostly at sea on fish, and Brown Skuas fed mostly on penguin eggs and chicks. These dietary differences correlated with differences in the skuas' time budgets, activity patterns, territory types, breeding chronologies, nest densities, clutch sizes, and fledging success. With combined data from this and other studies at Palmer, I calculated average productivity for both species over 7 breeding seasons. Brown Skuas fledged higher and more consistent numbers of young per pair, probably because of their more accessible and reliable food source.
4087442| Several species of shorebirds migrate between eastern Asia and the southern Pacific islands, Australia, and New Zealand. Observations made from Guam (1325N, 14445E) during autumn 1983 indicate that a significant number of birds take a direct route over the western Pacific Ocean. Radar observations and ground counts of migrants on Guam showed two periods of autumnal migratory activity. The first, largely adult birds, was in August and September. The second, largely juveniles, was in late September and October. Radar indicated that large numbers of birds passed over the island to the south with no evidence of compensation for drift by the easterly winds. Comparison of radar and ground observations on Guam showed that only a small subset of migrants stop on the island, suggesting that some species may make nonstop flights between eastern Asia and the South Pacific. 
4087441|Single-copy DNA-DNA hybridization was used to establish phylogenetic relationships among 13 species of waterfowl (Anatidae) chosen from 10 tribes. On the basis of UPGMA clustering of
25488530|Kittlitz's Murrelet (
10.2307/4088853|Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) with orange (instead of the normal yellow) tail bands have appeared in eastern North America in the last 35 years. Biochemical studies have implicated a dietary cause (Hudon and Brush 1989), specifically the fruits of Lonicera morrowii (Brush 1990), for this novel color variant. I show that rectrices replaced while Cedar Waxwings are feeding on L. morrowii fruits develop orange tips. Rectrices replaced subsequent to switching the diet of molting waxwings from L. morrowii fruits to dog chow were yellow, showing close temporal correspondence between dietary input of rhodoxanthin and the coloration of growing feathers. In the Ithaca vicinity, fruits of L. morrowii are eaten by wild Cedar Waxwings from June until mid-October. The extended pattern of availability and consumption of Lonicera in this region appears to explain my unique observations of adult Cedar Waxwings growing orange tails during the fall months. Cedar Waxwings maintained body condition and molted while on an extended diet of L. morrowii fruits (36 days for two birds and 64 days for two others). Three birds initiated tail molt while on this diet, including one that molted all of its flight feathers. These results emphasize the nutritional specialization of Cedar Waxwings to a diet of sugary, low-protein fruits, and show that molt occurs in an apparently normal manner when birds are eating a low-protein fruit diet.
10.2307/4089192|Greater Rheas (Rhea americana) have an unusual breeding system that combines harem-defense polygyny, communal egg laying, and exclusive male parental care. We studied survivorship of eggs and nests in relation to clutch size and timing of breeding and estimated the reproductive success of males and females. The number of eggs in a nest varied from 8 to 56, although in most cases it was between 20 and 30. Nests with more than 30 to 35 eggs had longer laying periods, lost more eggs during incubation, and had lower hatch-ability. As a result, the number of chicks hatched per nest increased with clutch size up to 30 to 35 eggs but decreased for larger clutches. More than 65% of the nests were deserted during incubation, and only 5 to 6% of the male population bred successfully each year. Nesting success was inversely correlated with rainfall during the breeding season and positively correlated with time of the breeding season. Chick survival during the first months after hatching averaged 60%. We suggest that the proportion of males that are able to attempt breeding is limited by energetic constraints.
4088676|Total-body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) is a noninvasive technique to estimate body composition in live birds. A comparison of regression models was conducted to identify a useful equation for predicting lean and lipid mass from TOBEC and other variables in three shorebird species (Calidris pusilla, C. alpina and Limnodromus griseus). Models constructed included regressions of lean and lipid mass (independently) on body-mass and body-size variables, regressions using only TOBEC indices, and expanded models including body mass, size variables, and TOBEC indices. Linear, quadratic, and modified linear (incorporating body length) models were compared to identify the lowest-order polynomial to adequately describe variation in lean and lipid mass within and among species. Prediction intervals (95%) for all regressions were compared to evaluate accuracy of new models. New TOBEC models and TOBEC equations from the literature were used to predict body composition of individuals not included in regression analyses. Modified linear models incorporating body length showed a strong relationship between lean mass and independent variables for two of three intraspecific cases. New and existing TOBEC equations allowed accurate estimates of lean mass. Fat-mass variation was much harder to explain, whether using body-mass and body-size variables or TOBEC indices. With TOBEC it is possible to make accurate predictions of lean mass in live birds, but estimates of fat mass remain problematic.
10.1525/auk.2009.09045|We estimated phylogenetic relationships among all 15 extant species of cranes in the gruiform family Gruidae from complete sequences of their mitochondrial genomes. The gene order of crane mitochondrial genomes corresponds to that of the chicken and present few structural novelties compared with previously described birds. Sequences of the control region, particularly domains I and III, are highly divergent among species and include tandem repeats, duplications, and numerous indels. Phylogenetic analyses confirmed the well-established, reciprocal monophyly of clades Balearicinae (crowned cranes) and Gruinae (anatomically derived cranes), as well as previously identified lineages within Gruinae:
10.2307/4089801|In this study, we investigated the role of display and mating system of the little known Neotropical Blue-black Grassquit (Volatinia jacarina). Males form aggregations and execute a highly conspicuous display, resembling traditional leks. Number of displaying males declined throughout the study period, though displaying intensity during the season showed no variation. Individual males had significantly different displaying rates and also defended territories of very different sizes, ranging from 13.0 to 72.5 m
4088562|I used an observational and experimental approach to investigate the dietary consequences of substrate specialization in six species of Amazonian antwrens (Myrmotherula). Three species (leucophthalma, haematonota, and ornata) foraged exclusively at curled dead leaves suspended above ground, axillaris and longipennis foraged on live foliage, and hauxwelli was a substrate generalist, feeding at both live and dead foliage. Diet composition of all species was qualitatively similar, with soft-bodied orthopterans consistently the most important prey type. Dead-leaf specialists took other prey roughly in proportion to their availability in dead leaves, whereas diets of live-leaf foragers differed greatly from prey available on live foliage. Dead-leaf specialists also ate larger prey and especially larger orthopterans than did other antwrens. Substrate generalization in hauxwelli was associated with higher diet breadth and greater heterogeneity among individuals, compared with substrate-restricted foragers. Diet breadth was negatively correlated with prey size across all six species. When tested in outdoor cages, live-leaf foraging and generalist species showed little interest in dead- or live-leaf substrates, whereas all dead-leafers repeatedly inspected and manipulated dead and curled leaves in the absence of food. All foraging groups showed a similar degree of selectivity of prey types in feeding trials. Dead-leaf specialists did not differ from other species in their preference for orthopterans of different colors, although specialists were better able to catch and handle the largest katydids (>30 mm). Individual hauxwelli (the generalist) showed elevated levels of exploration at dead leaves with food reinforcement, suggesting short-term plasticity in search behavior. I conclude that substrate specialization in these birds involves fundamental differences in search behavior, but is not accompanied by equivalent changes in prey selectivity or preference. Dead-leaf specialists search for suitable substrates and then inspect them for hidden prey, taking prey roughly in proportion to their availability. In contrast live-leaf foragers search directly for prey and select suitable items from the wider array of arthropods available on live foliage. Substrate-restricted foraging may reduce diet breadth and promote diet stereotypy in both groups, whereas the single most important factor promoting specialization on dead leaves may be the predictable abundance of relatively large orthopterans.
4086221|The Chukar subspecies Alectoris chukar sinaica inhabits the Negev desert, which is characterized by hot, dry summers, and little winter rainfall. Vegetation is dry and dormant during the summer and autumn; green, succulent vegetation is available following winter rain. We studied whether or not and under what dietary conditions Chukars require drinking water. Four groups of Chukars in an outdoor aviary received either a dry ration + water, a dry ration + green vegetation, a dry ration + green vegetation + water, or green vegetation only. The birds offered only greens lost 15% of their body mass in the first 8 days and 2.9% over the next 6 days, while birds on the other three treatments maintained body mass. The birds receiving only greens had the highest total body water to body mass ratio and the highest water influx. We concluded that the Chukars receiving only green vegetation met their water requirements but not their maintenance energy requirements. Chukars fulfilled both their water and energy requirements on a dry ration + green vegetation (without drinking water); the green vegetation comprised approximately 60% of their total fresh matter intake, or 26% of their total dry matter intake. Our analysis suggests that wild desert Chukars do not require drinking water from early winter to late spring, when succulent forage is available, but probably need free water during summer and autumn, when the bulk of their diet is seeds.
4085898|In the presence of food-deprived and therefore rapidly feeding Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), pairs of nondeprived conspecifics increased their own food consumption and spillage. The effect of social facilitation appeared amplified when both pairs of birds were food-deprived. Blackbirds also showed clear differential preferences for novel foods based on observations of male conspecifics consuming and spilling novel food. Social facilitation of feeding and observational learning of differential food preferences for novel foods may help to explain the Red-winged Blackbird's tendency to locate and exploit (i.e. damage) crops during short periods when the crops are especially vulnerable.
4089547|Avian populations often consist of breeding residents and nonbreeding floaters. It is usually assumed that floaters are lower-quality individuals that do not reproduce, but floater tactics and potential reproductive success have rarely been examined carefully. To assess the potential reproductive role of male floaters in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), we compared their reproductive organs and morphology with those of resident males. Tree Swallows show high levels of extrapair paternity, but two studies attempting to find the fathers of the extrapair offspring have been remarkably unsuccessful. Floater males that father extrapair young would face intense sperm competition. Theory predicts that under intense sperm competition, selection favors males that produce more sperm. Comparative studies in birds and other taxa provide evidence that the level of sperm competition influences relative testes size and sperm production. However, intraspecific adaptations to different levels of sperm competition have received far less attention. Floater Tree Swallows did not differ from resident males in any of the characters we measured, including testes size, but floaters had significantly larger cloacal protuberances. Thus, our results do not confirm the general assumption that floaters are lower-quality individuals that do not reproduce. Furthermore, floaters showed high variation in the volume of the cloacal protuberance (reflecting sperm numbers), which suggests that they engage in copulations. We conclude that floater male Tree Swallows invest heavily in sperm production (as do resident males) to exploit breeding opportunities through takeovers or extrapair copulations.
10.1525/auk.2012.11244|Since the 1960s, anthropogenic shifts in the timing and distribution of surface-water flows in the Everglades have pushed back the onset of reproduction in Wood Storks (
4085984|Belted Kingfishers (Megaceryle alcyon) defend both breeding and nonbreeding territories. The small nonbreeding territories serve as feeding territories, and their size is inversely correlated to food abundance. In the breeding season, when nest sites are a limiting resource, territory size does not significantly correlate with food abundance. The average weight of fledglings/nest, however, is significantly correlated with territory size. In both seasons, kingfishers appear to use stream riffles as preferred foraging sites, although pools are more prevalent. Riffles may represent environmental cues by which individuals assess habitat quality.
10.2307/4089063|Bird-song functions, such as mate attraction, species recognition, and territory defense, are closely linked to individual fitness. Thus, habitat characteristics that affect song transmission and degradation should exert a strong influence on the evolution of song attributes. Whereas different acoustic environments may influence the evolution of song characteristics, factors such as body size and evolutionary history of taxa are expected to constrain the amount of environmental variation in song properties. In the present study, we controlled for phylogeny and examined the effects of body mass and habitat structure on variation in song structure of 30 taxa of Phylloscopus and Hippolais warblers, which are a closely related group of birds that occupy a wide variety of habitats and show high variation in vocalizations. Habitat structure was strongly correlated with temporal characteristics of songs but not with most of the frequency-related attributes that we measured. Only the highest frequencies of songs varied with habitat structure. As predicted, species occupying closed habitats avoided the use of rapidly modulated signals and had song structures that minimized reverberation. Body mass covaried significantly with most of the song attributes. Smaller species used higher frequencies and had more notes in their songs compared with larger species.
10.2307/4089906| We experimentally parasitized Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus) nests with mimetic and nonmimetic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs to determine whether the low frequency of parasitism reported for that grassland host is due to egg rejection behavior. Longspurs accepted all 23 mimetic eggs (real and wooden) and rejected 9 of 22 blue nonmimetic eggs. Our results suggest longspurs accept cowbird eggs even though they are physically capable of ejecting them from their nest. Thus, the low parasitism frequency reported for that species is not a result of egg rejection behavior, but may be due to antiparasite strategies that reduce their chances of being parasitized (e.g. nest defense behavior). /// Parasitamos experimentalmente nidos de Calcarius ornatus con huevos mimticos y no mimticos de Molothrus ater para determinar si la baja frecuencia de parasitismo reportada para este hospedero se debe al comportamiento de rechazo de los huevos. Individuos de C. ornatus aceptaron el total de los 23 huevos mimticos (verdaderos y artificiales) y rechazaron 9 de los 22 huevos azules no mimticos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que C. ornatus acepta los huevos de M. ater a pesar de que son fsicamente capaces de expulsarlos de sus nidos. En consecuencia, la baja frecuencia de parasitismo documentada para esta especie no resulta del comportamiento de rechazo, sino que puede deberse a estrategias antiparasitarias (e.g. defensa de los nidos) que reducen la probabilidad de ser parasitados. 
10.2307/4089413|Birds that exhibit a high degree of natal and breeding philopatry and normally breed in stable environments may suffer costs of philopatry if their habitat deteriorates. Female Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) are highly site faithful; however, recent increases in numbers of breeding birds have resulted in widespred habitat destruction in some colonies. Using capture-recapture modeling techniques on multiple resightings of marked individuals, we examined whether breeding-site fidelity of adult Snow Geese has changed over time in a colony that has grown rapidly and in which habitat quality has declined severely during the past two decades. In addition, we examined the age structure of breeding birds to investigate natal-site fidelity to formerly central areas of the colony. Only slight changes in adult breeding-site fidelity were detected over 10-year periods, despite the deterioration of nesting and brood-rearing habitats in and near the investigated areas. However, increasing mean ages of breeding birds in formerly central areas of the colony indicated a lack of recruitment into those areas; young birds must have preferred to settle at the colony periphery even when vacant spaces in the center were available. Together with a small amount of movement by adult birds, the settlement pattern of young birds has led to a long-term shift in the colony location as a whole.
4090683| Variation in plasma metabolite profiles can provide information on physiological state and relative rates of mass change in free-living birds caught only once, and this technique could be used to compare rates of mass change (fattening) among populations or sites in relation to habitat quality. We compared plasma metabolite levels, as an index of relative refueling rates, in migratory Arctic-nesting Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri), on a landscape scale at as many as nine sites over two years and during three different migratory stages within the Georgia Basin-Puget Sound region of British Columbia and Washington. There was significant intersite variation in plasma triglyceride levels in both years, but only for the northward migration. By contrast, there was little evidence of intrasite variability (i.e. metabolite profiles of birds using the same site were consistent between years and migratory stages), though we documented intrasite variation resulting from birds' use of different microhabitats at the same site. Plasma glycerol levels did not vary systematically among sites, though they varied among years; on average, birds had higher glycerol levels during northward migration than during southward migration. For the northward migration only, there was a positive relationship between plasma triglyceride levels and total macrofaunal prey abundance among sites. Birds using smaller sites with a lower index of mudflat exposure (mean number of kilometer-hours of mudflat exposed in a 24-h period, reflecting the opportunity to forage at each site) tended to have lower triglyceride levels. /// La variacin en los perfiles de metabolitos del plasma puede brindar informacin sobre el estado fisiolgico y sobre las tasas relativas de cambio de peso en las aves silvestres que son capturadas slo una vez. Esta tcnica puede ser usada para comparar las tasas de cambio de peso entre poblaciones o sitios con relacin a la calidad del hbitat. Comparamos los niveles de metabolitos del plasma, como un indice relativo de las tasas de reabastecimiento, en el chorlo migratorio que nidifica en el rtico Calidris mauri. Este estudio de realiz a una escala de paisaje en nueve sitios a lo largo de dos aos y durante tres etapas migratorias diferentes en la Cuenca de Georgia y la regin de Puget Sound de Columbia Britnica y Washington. Hubo una variacin significativa entre sitios en los niveles de triglicridos del plasma en ambos aos, pero slo para la migracin hacia el norte. De modo contrastante, hubo poco evidencia de variabilidad interna en los sitios (i.e. los perfiles de metabolitos de las aves que usaron el mismo sitio fueron similares entre aos y etapas migratorias), por lo que documentamos la existencia de variacin interna en los sitios como resultado del uso por parte de las aves de diferentes micro-ambientes en el mismo sitio. Los niveles de glicerol en el plasma no variaron de modo sistemtico entre los sitios, aunque variaron entre aos. En promedio, las aves presentaron niveles de glicerol mayores durante las migraciones hacia el norte que durante las migraciones hacia el sur. Solamente para la migracin hacia el norte, hubo una relacin positiva entre los niveles de triglicridos en el plasma y la abundancia total de presas de macro fauna en los sitios. Las aves que usaron sitios ms pequeos con un ndice ms bajo de exposicin de las marismas (nmero medio de horas-kilmetro de marismas expuestas en un perodo de 24 horas que refleja la oportunidad de forrajear en cada sitio) tendieron a presentar niveles ms bajos de triglicridos. 
4090448| We studied the relationships among weather, reproductive success, and population density over 21 years (1980-2000) in a resident Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) population in coastal scrub habitat. Our goals were to test potential relationships between annual variation in weather and reproductive success, to evaluate whether reproductive success is density dependent, and to explore the effects of weather and population density on population dynamics. We analyzed the following components of reproductive success: clutch size, hatching success, fledging success, number of young fledged per successful nest, nestling weight, number of fledglings produced per female, number of broods per female, and probability of nest survival. During the study period, several very wet El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events as well as an eight-year period of below-average rainfall occurred. Annual reproductive success and population density showed strong positive relationships to annual rainfall levels. Song Sparrow reproductive success increased with increasing rainfall and peaked at above-average rainfall levels. However, no component of reproductive success was related to an index of variation in the ENSO (i.e. Southern Oscillation Index). The components of reproductive success most strongly associated with rainfall were probability of nest survival and length of the breeding season. Nest predation rates were lower in wetter years. Song Sparrows nested over a longer period in years with higher rainfall and lower summer temperatures, and there was an increase in the number of successful broods per female in wetter, cooler years. Nestling weight was not associated with annual rainfall. Neither clutch size nor the onset of laying was associated with spring temperatures. Warmer summer temperatures were associated with a decrease in number of young fledged per successful nest. We found no evidence for decreased reproductive success in years of higher population density, which suggests that reproductive success was limited primarily by density-independent factors, such as weather. Changes in population density from one year to the next were positively related to rainfall-associated variation in reproductive success and negatively related to population density in the previous year. Rainfall in the previous year explained at least 49% of the annual variation in population density. Thus, population dynamics appeared to be driven both by density-independent and density-dependent factors. /// Estudiamos la relacin entre el clima, el xito reproductivo y la densidad poblacional de una poblacin residente de Melospiza melodia en un ambiente de matorral costero a lo largo de 21 aos (1980-2000). Nuestros objetivos fueron evaluar las relaciones potenciales entre la variacin anual en el clima y el xito reproductivo, evaluar si el xito reproductivo es denso-dependiente, y explorar los efectos del clima y de la densidad poblacional en las dinmicas poblacionales. Analizamos los siguientes componentes del xito reproductivo: tamao de la nidada, xito de eclosin, xito de emplumamiento, nmero de juveniles emplumados por nido exitoso, peso de los polluelos, nmero de volantones producidos por hembra, nmero de nidadas por hembra y probabilidad de supervivencia del nido. Durante el perodo de estudio ocurrieron varios eventos muy lluviosos de la Oscilacin del Sur El Nio (ENSO por las siglas en ingls de El Nio-Southern Oscillation), y tambin un perodo de ocho aos de lluvias por debajo de la media. El xito reproductivo anual y la densidad poblacional se relacionaron fuerte y positivamente con los niveles de precipitacin anual. El xito reproductivo de M. melodia se increment con aumentos en las precipitaciones y present un pico con niveles de lluvia por arriba del promedio. Sin embargo, ningn componente del xito reproductivo se relacion con el ndice de variacin del ENSO (i.e. ndice de la Oscilacin del Sur). Los componentes del xito reproductivo que se asociaron ms fuertemente con la precipitacin fueron la probabilidad de supervivencia del nido y la duracin de la estacin reproductiva. Las tasas de depredacin fueron menores en los aos ms lluviosos. M. melodia nidific durante un perodo mayor en aos con ms precipitaciones y con temperaturas de verano menores, y hubo un aumento en el nmero de nidadas exitosas por hembra en aos ms lluviosos y fros. El peso de los volantones no se asoci con la precipitacin anual. Ni el tamao de la nidada ni el fin de la puesta se asociaron con las temperaturas de primavera. Las temperaturas ms clidas de verano se asociaron con una disminucin en el nmero de juveniles emplumados por nido exitoso. No encontramos evidencia de una disminucin del xito reproductivo en los aos de alta densidad poblacional, lo que sugiere que el xito reproductivo estuvo limitado principalmente por factores denso-independientes como el clima. Los cambios en la densidad poblacional de un ao al siguiente estuvieron positivamente relacionados con las variaciones en el xito reproductivo asociadas a la lluvia y negativamente relacionados con la densidad poblacional del ao anterior. La lluvia del ao previo explic al menos 49% de la variacin anual en la densidad poblacional. De este modo, la dinmica poblacional pareci estar guiada tanto por factores denso-independientes como denso-dependientes. 
90008065|Phenotypic traits are important for assessing differences between populations, especially in groups with poorly resolved taxonomy. One such group, the House Wren complex, presents extensive taxonomic controversy and is thought to comprise many independent evolutionary units. Although the songs and morphological features of House Wrens (
10.2307/4089836|Most recent references describe the winter range of the Veery (Catharus fuscescens) as including an extensive area from northern Colombia, Venezuela, and Guyana south to south-central Brazil. Analysis of seasonal distribution of specimen records in South America, however, shows that 91 of 105 specimens were taken during spring and fall, not winter; the remaining 14, taken from 2 December to 20 February, are all from three small areas at the periphery or south of the Amazon basin. Thus, the true winter range is almost completely south and east of the area generally described. The seasonal distribution of specimen records is consistent with observational data from South America and banding data from the Neotropics. Although those data must be treated cautiously, it appears that the true winter range of the Veery is in south-central and southeastern Brazil, an area where habitat destruction threatens many natural habitats, rather than in the relatively undisturbed areas of western Amazonia. Widespread erroneous portrayal of the winter range of the Veery seems to have been caused largely by the assumption that the species winters in South America wherever it has been recorded and by overlooking a previously published analysis of its winter distribution.
10.2307/4090112|I investigated the effect of mass and date of departure of Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus) chicks reared at two colonies in Haida Gwaii, British Columbia, on aspects of their adult biology. Chicks were captured, banded, and weighed while departing from their natal colony at two to three days old, during 1984-1998. Adults were recaptured at the same colonies during the breeding seasons of 1986-2000. Just under 1% of 13,055 chicks were recaptured as adults. Chicks that were heavier than average at colony departure were recaptured as adults at a younger age and were heavier as breeders than lighter chicks. However, chick departure mass did not affect adult mass of birds recaptured as nonbreeders. The date at which chicks left the colony had no effect on either adult mass or age at recapture. Correlation between chick mass at colony departure and adult mass as a breeder is rarely reported and is difficult to explain. However, if chick mass is determined by reproductive investment on the part of the parents and adult mass is a measure of reproductive investment by the individual, the correlation suggests that degree of parental investment could be a heritable trait. /// J'ai tudi l'effet du poids et de la date au moment de quitter le nid chez des oisillons de Guillemot  cou blanc (Synthliboramphus antiquus) levs dans deux colonies de Haida Gwaii, Colombie-Britannique, sur diffrents aspects de leur biologie adulte. Les oisillons ont t capturs, marqus et pess au moment de quitter leur colonie de naissance  l'ge de 2-3 j, au cours de la priode 1984-1998. Les adultes taient recapturs dans les mmes colonies au cours des saisons de reproduction de 1986-2000. Un peu moins de 1% des 13 055 oisillons ont t recapturs une fois adulte. Les oisillons qui taient plus lourds que la moyenne au moment de quitter la colonie et qui ont t recapturs en tant qu'adulte reproducteur plus tt et avec un poids plus important que les oisillons plus lgers. Nanmoins, le poids des oisillons  leur dpart n'affectait pas le poids adulte des oiseaux recapturs en tant que non reproducteur. La date  laquelle les oisillons quittaient la colonie n'avait pas d'effet ni sur le poids adulte, ni sur l'ge au moment de la recapture. La corrlation entre le poids des oisillons  leur dpart de la colonie et le poids  l'ge adulte avec un statut de reproducteur reproducteur est rarement mentionne et semble difficile  expliquer. Nanmoins, si le poids est fonction de l'investissement des parents dans la reproduction et si le poids adulte est une mesure de cette investissement alors, la corrlation suggre que le degr de l'investissement parental pourrait tre un trait d'hritabilit.
10.2307/4087496|I studied the reproduction of female Ural Owls (Strix uralensis) in southern Finland in 1977-1986. I compared the age of first breeding and the reproductive success of experienced and inexperienced females in a situation where the birds subsisted on cycling voles. The proportion of first-time breeders varied annually between 0 and 38%. The breeding seasons were classified into poor, intermediate, and good according to vole abundance and winter quality. More females started to breed in intermediate than in poor or good years. Most first-time breeders were in their fourth year or older. The first breeding attempt was postponed most often because of poor environmental conditions. Experienced females laid earlier, but not significantly larger, clutches than inexperienced females. Seasonal decline in clutch size was steeper in experienced females than in inexperienced females. Brood size was not related to female experience. Thus, the reproductive output of females did not increase with experience.
4084893|Numbers of nestlings fledged per pair per season were calculated for 35 species of passerine birds in four localities from data on length of breeding season, clutch size, nesting mortality, and length of nest cycle. Mean numbers of nestlings fledged was 6.42 for 12 woodland and edge species in Kansas, 4.33 for 8 species in lower Sonoran desert habitat in Arizona, 2.36 for 6 species in humid forest and second-growth habitats in Costa Rica, and 4.80 for 9 species in a desert scrub habitat in Ecuador. The data were analyzed by multiple correlation and stepwise multiple regression to determine the contribution of the variables to variation in the number of young fledged from one species to another in each locality. Variations in season length, clutch size, and breeding success were important components in variation in numbers of young fledged in Kansas, but length of nest cycle, being positively correlated with both clutch size and nest success, had the strongest correlation with the number of young fledged. In Arizona and Costa Rica, variation in breeding success held the key to predicting variation in number of young fledged, whereas in Ecuador season length and clutch size were the critical variables. The analyses suggest that data on production of young and the factors that cause production to vary from one species to another would add immensely to our understanding of the population ecology of birds.
40406710|Females may engage in extrapair copulations to receive indirect benefits in the form of more immunocompetent young. Nestling quality is often assessed by examining immune function using the phytohemagglutinin (PHA) skin test, which can be a predictor of nestling recruitment. However, the PHA test can also be influenced by factors such as nest temperature. We tested the prediction that extrapair young mount greater immune responses to a PHA challenge and recruit at a greater rate than within-pair young in a wild population of Savannah Sparrows (
4090673| Point counts are often used to provide information on abundance of songbirds. If data from point counts are to be compared in space or time, however, any bias in the estimate should be consistent and linearly related to the true abundance. Several studies have suggested that this assumption may be violated for songbirds. Here, we used double sampling to test whether point counts are linearly related to true abundance, as estimated from spot mapping, for 12 songbird species in the boreal mixed-wood forest of northern Alberta, Canada. We found that total abundance of birds across several point-count stations was positively correlated with the number of territories and confirmed that point counts were linearly related to spot-mapping abundance for the species tested. However, large sampling errors masked this relationship at the scale of a single point-count station (100-m fixed-radius plot). Double-sampling models that accounted for differences in abundance between spot-mapping grids using random effects improved prediction for most species. We found no year effect on detectability. Maximum abundance over point-count rounds was a more sensitive index of abundance than mean abundance and tended to produce better-fitting models. Point-count abundance was more closely related to true abundance in species with relatively small territories, or those with large spatial or temporal variation in density. Our results further suggest that point-count abundance may be proportional to the total length of territorial boundaries in the plot rather than the total fraction of territories in the plot. Our analysis suggests that point counts provide a reasonable index of abundance, even though individual point-count stations are not consistently effective in estimating the density of territorial individuals. /// Les points d'coute sont souvent utiliss pour fournir de l'information sur l'abondance des passereaux. Nanmoins, si les donnes de points d'coute doivent tre compares dans l'espace et le temps, quelque soit le biais dans les estims, ce biais devrait correspondre et tre linairement corrl  la vraie abondance. Plusieurs tudes ont suggr que cette prmisse pourrait tre viole dans le cas des passereaux. Dans cette tude, nous avons utilis du double chantillonnage pour tester si les points d'coute sont linairement corrls  la vraie abondance, comme estim par "spot mapping", pour 12 espces de passereaux de la fort borale du nord de l'Alberta, Canada. Nous avons trouv que l'abondance totale des oiseaux  travers plusieurs stations de points d'coute tait positivement corrle avec le nombre de territoires, ce qui confirme que les points d'coute sont linairement corrls aux abondances issues du "spot mapping" pour les espces testes. Nanmoins, des erreurs d'chantillonnage importantes ont masqu cette relation  l'chelle de la station de point d'coute (parcelle avec un rayon de 100 m fixe). Les modles  double chantillonnage qui sont entrs dans les diffrences d'abondance entre les quadrillages de "spot mapping" qui utilisaient des effets alatoires ont amlior les prdictions pour la plupart des espces. Nous n'avons trouv aucun effet de l'anne sur la dtection. L'abondance maximale, issue des sessions de points d'coute, tait un index beaucoup plus fin que l'abondance moyenne et tendait  produire des modles avec un meilleur ajustement. L'abondance issue des points d'coute tait mieux corrle  la vraie abondance pour les espces possdant des territoires relativement petits, ou les espces avec de grandes variations spatiales et temporelles dans la densit. Nos rsultats indiquent galement que l'abondance par point d'coute pourrait tre proportionnelle  la longueur totale des limites de territoires dans la parcelle plutt que la fraction totale des territoires dans la parcelle. Nos analyses suggrent que les points d'coute fournissent un index d'abondance intressant, mme si les stations individuelles de points d'coute ne sont pas toujours efficaces dans l'estimation des densits d'individus territoriaux. 
4090674| The evolution of avian migration continues to be an intriguing research subject, even though relationships between migration and factors such as seasonality clearly exist. The question remains whether these relationships are evident within phylogenies containing both sedentary and migratory taxa. We explore the evolution of migration in the family Motacillidae by evaluating existing hypotheses for the evolution of migration in a comparative, phylogenetic framework at the interspecific level. Many hypotheses to explain the evolution of avian migration - such as the "evolutionary precursor" hypothesis (Levey and Stiles 1992, Chesser and Levey 1998) and the "stepping-stone" hypothesis (Cox 1968, 1985) - are based on New World migratory systems. The central components of these hypotheses should apply across biogeographic realms (i.e. the Old World), given that seasonality and habitat regimes are similar in the New and Old worlds. Using a molecular phylogeny containing most species in the Motacillidae, we investigated the potential interactions of seasonality and ecology with migratory and sedentary behavior. Our results suggest that habitat and migration are not correlated in the manner predicted by the evolutionary precursor hypothesis, but they also suggest the importance of increasing seasonality in explaining the patterns of the evolution of migration, an expected but previously unexamined evolutionary relationship. While understanding the limitations of applying generalizations to a complex evolutionary system such as migration, we have delineated here a broad methodology for testing hypotheses about the evolution of migration within a phylogenetic context. /// La evolucin de la migracin en las aves an representa un tema de investigacin intrigante, a pesar de que claramente existen relaciones entre la migracin y factores como la estacionalidad. Una pregunta que an no ha sido abordada es si dichas relaciones son evidentes en filogenias que contienen taxa sedentarios y migratorios. En este estudio exploramos la evolucin de la migracin en la familia Motacillidae mediante la evaluacin de hiptesis en un marco filogentico comparativo a nivel interespecfico. Muchas hiptesis propuestas para explicar la evolucin de la migracin en las aves - como la de los "precursores evolutivos" (Levey and Stiles 1992, Chesser and Levey 1998) o la de "evolucin en etapas" (Cox 1968, 1985) - estn basadas en sistemas migratorios del Nuevo Mundo. Los componentes centrales de esas hiptesis deberan ser aplicables a travs de distintas reas biogeogrficas (i.e. el Viejo Mundo), puesto que la estacionalidad y los regmenes de los ambientes son similares entre el Nuevo Mundo y el Viejo Mundo. Empleando una filogenia molecular que incluye a la mayora de las especies de la familia Motacillidae, investigamos las interacciones potenciales entre la estacionalidad y la ecologa con el comportamiento migratorio y sedentario. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el hbitat y la migracin no estn correlacionados del modo predicho por la hiptesis de los precursores evolutivos, pero tambin sugieren la importancia de aumentos en la estacionalidad para explicar los patrones de evolucin de la migracin, una relacin evolutiva esperada pero no examinada previamente. Aunque entendemos las limitaciones de aplicar generalizaciones a un sistema evolutivo complejo como la migracin, hemos delineado una metodologa amplia que permite probar hiptesis sobre la evolucin de la migracin en un contexto filogentico. 
4085979|The social organization of a color-marked Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) population was investigated during the 1978-1980 breeding seasons. Several members of the population were radio tracked, some in more than one season. Monogamous associations were established between males and females, and each pair maintained a large nonfeeding range. Females appeared to defend their nonfeeding ranges from other females, and males guarded females from other males. Most cowbird pairs that returned in successive years exhibited mate fidelity and site fidelity, although some evidence indicates that the former is a coincidental result of the latter. I propose that variations in the mating system of this species are primarily due to habitat differences and differences in the relative abundance of the cowbird and its hosts.
10.2307/4089907| We examined primary sex-ratios of two brood parasitic species, Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) and the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus), to determine whether there was any evidence of primary sex-ratio manipulation as has been demonstrated in other species of birds. Despite good reasons for why female brood parasites should manipulate the primary sex-ratio of their young, we found a lack of evidence for a bias in the sex-ratio of eggs produced at the population level, with respect to the host species parasitized or time of breeding season, or in terms of the sex ratio of eggs produced by individual females. Thus, this study provides another example in birds of little evidence for sex-ratio variation in relation to environmental factors. /// Examinamos el cociente primario de sexos de dos especies que parasitan nidos, Molothrus ater y Cuculus canorus, para determinar si existe alguna evidencia de la manipulacin de dicho cociente, como ha sido demostrado para otras especies de aves. A pesar de que existen buenas razones por las cuales las hembras podran manipular el cociente primario de sexos de sus pichones, no encontramos evidencia sobre un sesgo en el cociente de sexos de huevos producidos a nivel poblacional, con respecto a la especie hospedera parasitada o al momento de la estacin reproductiva, ni en relacin a la proporcin de sexos de huevos producidos por cada hembra. As, este estudio brinda otro ejemplo acerca de la escasa evidencia que existe sobre la variacin en el cociente de sexos en relacin a factores ambientales en las aves. 
10.2307/4089889| We explored aspects of renal function in American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), birds that habitually eat high-protein meals. In particular, we hypothesized that, like granivorous birds switched to high-protein food, kestrels would have high urine flows with high proportions of waste N as urate. In nestlings in the field, 80-93% of urinary N was in the form of urate, though concentrations of ammonia and urea were higher in older nestlings. Feeding resulted in reduced osmotic and ion concentrations in urine, but concentrations and proportions of nitrogenous wastes were unaffected. In adult kestrels in the laboratory, urine flow rate in fed animals, 1 mL h
25150268| From 1994 to 2003, I annually surveyed terrestrial insectivorous birds in a 100-ha plot within continuous rainforest near Manaus, Brazil. I used spot-map registrations and radiotagged birds to estimate territory size and density on the plot for 13 species. As in the few previous studies of Amazonian birds, territory sizes were large (mean = 13.0 ha) and densities were low (mean = 3.4 pairs per 100 ha). The most common species, Formicarius colma, was the only species with >10 pairs per 100 ha, and one of four species (with Myrmeciza ferruginea, Conopophaga aurita, and Corythopis torquatus) to have territories of <7.0 ha. On average, each species occupied 34% of the plot, with only four species (F. colma, Grallaria varia, F. analis, and M. ferruginea) ever occupying >50% in any year. Territories appeared and disappeared between surveys; 71% of territories detected in a given survey were present in the next survey. The two rarest species, Myrmothera campanisona and Hylopezus macularius, were absent from the plot in some years. Across species, territory stability was positively correlated with abundance; more common species had more stable density among years than rare species. Although past research has shown territory stability for the most common species of Neotropical rainforest birds, my results suggest that rarer species, which constitute the bulk of the avifauna, may show greater fluctuation in abundance. I compared my results to similar data from lowland rainforests in Panama, French Guiana, Ecuador, and Peru. Species richness was lowest in Panama, but comparable among the Amazonian sites. Panama also had the highest biomass and smallest territory sizes. Interestingly, relative abundances of species shared among sites were not necessarily similar. With the exception of Conopophaga spp., all species or replacement species shared among sites were at least twice as abundant at one site as at another. Relative abundance within genera also differed among sites for Sclerurus and Formicarius. The sparse data available so far suggest that individual species show considerable spatial variation in abundance across Amazonia, though the mechanisms and the texture of the patterns remain unknown. /// Entre 1994 e 2003, fiz um inventrio anual das aves insetvoras terrestres numa parcela de 100 ha dentro de floresta de terra firme contnua perto de Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil. Usando registros de spot-map e radiotelemetria, estimei o tamanho do territrio de 13 espcies na parcela. Os territrios estimdos so grandes (mdia = 13,0 ha) e densidades so baixas (mdia = 3,4 casais por 100 ha), tal como tem sido estimado em outros estudos de avas da regio Amaznica. A espcie mais comum, Formicarius colma, foi a nica com > 10 pares por 100 ha, e uma das quatro nicas espcies (a par de Myrmeciza ferruginea, Conopophaga aurita, e Corythopis torquatus) com territrios <7.0 ha. Em mdia, cada espcie ocupou 34% da parcela, com apenas quatro especies (F. colma, Grallaria varia, F. analis, e M. ferruginea) ocupando >50% em algum ano. Vrios territrios apareceram e desapareceram entre inventrios; 71% dos territrios registrados em algum inventrio foram presentes no prximo inventrio. As duas espcies mais raras, Myrmothera campanisona e Hylopezus macularius, estiveram ausentes da parcela em alguns anos. Observei uma correlao positiva entre a abundncia e a estabilidade dos territrios; espcies comuns apresentaram densidades mais estveis entre anos do que espcies raras. Embora resultados anteriores tenham indicado estabilidade de territrios para as espcies neotropicais mais comuns, meus resultados sugerem que espcies raras, que compreendem a maioria da avifauna, podem sofrer mais fluctuaes de abundncia. Comparando meus resultados com resultados semalhantes de florestas de terra firme no Panam, Guiana Francesa, Ecuador, e Peru, constatei que a riqueza de espcies foi mais baixa no Panam, mas comparvel entre os locais da Amaznia. A floresta da Panam tambm apresentou uma biomassa mais alta e os territrios menores. Curiosamente, a abundncia relativa de espcies partilhadas entre entre locais nao foi necessariamente semelhante. Com exceo de Conopophaga spp., todas as espcies ou substitutos geogrficos que ocorrem em vrios locais foram no mnimo duas vezes mais abundntes em algum lugar do que em outro. Abundncia relatva dentro de gneros tambm variou entre locais para Sclerurus e Formicarius. Os poucos dados disponveis sugerem uma considervel variao espacial da abundncia das espcies dentro da amaznia, mesmo que os mechanismos e os detalhes dos padres continuam a ser desconhecidas. 
4087025|The singing behavior of 4 male Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) was studied during 1980 and 1981. Over 10,000 song bouts (repetition of a particular song type) were analyzed spectrographically. Between 102 and 412 distinct song types were identified for each male in a given year. Many of these song types (25.8-57.4%) occurred only once in this sample of singing behavior. Repertoire size was estimated by fitting an exponential curve to a cumulative plot of distinct song types as a function of consecutive bouts sampled. The resulting asymptote was the estimate of repertoire size. Sequences of at least 50 consecutive bouts were used in estimating repertoire size. The technique of using consecutive bouts was required because of the high proportion of rare song types. Several estimates were made for each male and resulted in mean repertoire size estimates of 100-200 song types for the four males. Long sequences (125-150 bouts) of consecutive bouts are preferred to estimate repertoire size accurately. In addition, the social situation in which the singing behavior occurred can alter significantly the estimate of repertoire size. For example, estimates produced from singing during patrolling or countersinging were smaller than estimates generated from singing while associating with a female. The repertoire size estimate increased between 1980 and 1981 for 3 of 4 males. The one male not showing an increase spent much time patrolling and interacting with neighboring males before dying early in 1981. These results are consistent with the impression that repertoire size increases with age.
25488567|Macronutrient (protein, lipids, and carbohydrates) assimilation efficiencies of wild birds have rarely been studied, but they may be particularly important for estimating the optimal diet. We assessed experimentally the energy and macronutrient assimilation efficiencies of captive Snowy Plover (
10.1525/auk.2013.12188|The period of growth prior to fledging is a critical life stage for most birds, and shifts in diet during ontogeny may affect growth and development. We used nitrogen (
10.2307/4089983| We satellite-tracked Steller's Sea Eagles (Haliaeetus pelagicus), Black-faced Spoonbills (Platalea minor), and White-naped Cranes (Grus vipio) to determine migration routes and stopover tactics of adult and immature birds. During spring migration, there were no significant differences between adult and immature birds in total migration distance and distance between stopover sites, but the migration period and resting period at stopover sites were significantly longer in immature individuals. There are two possible tactics for migrating without expending fat stores: longer rests or shorter migration distances between stopover sites. Our results suggest that immature birds try to increase fat stores by increasing time available for foraging at stopover sites. /// Seguimos individuous de Haliaeetus pelagicus, Platalea minor y Grus vipio usando telemetra de satlite para determinar las rutas de migracin y las tcticas de escala migratoria de aves adultas e inmaduras. Durante la migracin de primavera, no hubo diferencias significativas entre aves adultas e inmaduras en la distancia total de migracin ni en la distancia entre sitios de escala. Sin embargo, los perodos de migracin y de descanso en los sitios de escala de los individuos inmaduros fueron significativamente ms largos. Existen dos posibles tcticas para migrar sin agotar las reservas de grasa: tener perodos de descanso ms largos o recorrer distancias ms cortas entre sitios de escala. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las aves inmaduras intentan incrementar sus reservas de grasa incrementando el tiempo disponible para forrajear en los sitios de escala. 
10.2307/4090195| We observed Mexican Jays (Aphelocoma ultramarina) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) from June 2000 to March 2001, recording interspecific associations and interactions. Flickers were seen with jays only once in summer, but they were observed together 62 times in winter, in mixed flocks of up to 20 jays and 12 flickers, while jays were alone only 4 times, and flickers were alone 31 times. Jays always initiated flock movement, and flickers followed. Flickers were more likely to forage when they accompanied jays than when they were alone. While jays searched under and around oaks for acorns and grasshoppers, flickers probed for subterranean ants. We found no evidence that flickers attempted to rob the jays' acorn caches, and we observed no agonistic encounters between the two species. Avian predators approached mixed flocks on six occasions, and in each case flickers responded to jay alarm calls by flying with the jays into oak foliage. All predation attempts were unsuccessful. We conclude that Northern Flickers most likely were associated with Mexican Jays in winter because of increased security from predation, and not because of shared resources. /// Observamos individuos de Aphelocoma ultramarina y Colaptes auratus desde junio de 2000 hasta marzo de 2001, registrando las asociaciones e interacciones interespecficas. Durante el verano slo se observ a C. auratus con A. ultramarina una vez. En cambio, en el invierno las especies fueron observadas juntas 62 veces en bandadas mixtas compuestas de hasta 20 A. ultramarina y 12 C. auratus; individuos de A. ultramarina fueron observados solos nicamente cuatro veces, mientras que individuos de C. auratus fueron observados solos 31 veces. Los A. ultramarina siempre iniciaron el movimiento de las bandadas y fueron seguidos por los C. auratus. Estos ltimos fueron ms propensos a forrajear cuando estaban acompaados por A. ultramarina que cuando estaban solos. Mientras que A. ultramarina se alimentaba de saltamontes y semillas encontrados bajo y alrededor de los robles, C. auratus buscaba hormigas subterrneas. No encontramos evidencia de que C. auratus intentara robar el alimento encontrado por A. ultramarina y no observamos encuentros agonsticos entre las dos especies. En seis ocasiones depredadores de aves se aproximaron a las bandadas mixtas, y en cada ocasin C. auratus respondi a las llamadas de alarma de A. ultramarina volando con stos hacia el follaje de los robles. Ningn intento de depredacin fu exitoso. Concluimos que C. auratus probablemente se asocia con A. ultramarina durante el invierno debido al aumento de la seguridad ante depredadores y no debido a que comparten recursos 
4089543| Sea ducks generally are diurnal feeders, but large numbers winter above the Arctic Circle where day lengths decrease dramatically in winter. To determine how sea ducks cope with short day lengths, we studied different aspects of the behavior of three sympatric wintering species (Common Eider [Somateria mollissima], King Eider [S. spectabilis], and Oldsquaw [Clangula hyemalis]) at 70N where day length is reduced to less than 4.5 h of twilight in midwinter. Numbers of both eider species remained fairly constant throughout winter, whereas Oldsquaws moved out of the area in midwinter. As day length decreased, eiders extended their feeding period into lower light intensities. Common Eiders and Oldsquaws spent a higher proportion of the day diving (underwater) when days were short, whereas King Eiders did not. As the days lengthened, King Eiders and Oldsquaws increased their total time diving at similar rates, which were faster than those of Common Eiders. Feeding at lower light intensities and increased proportions of time spent diving did not offset reduced feeding time in midwinter, and estimated time spent underwater during daylight on the shortest days was only 35% of that on the longest days in King Eiders, 51% in Common Eiders, and 39% in Oldsquaws. The ability to survive when days are short might be explained by use of stored nutrient reserves, night feeding, or high prey availability. 
4085540|A new species of tyrant flycatcher (Tyrannidae) is described from eight specimens collected at three cloud forest localities in the Andes of northern Peru. The new form is a member of the expanded genus Hemitriccus. It is closely allied to H. kaempferi, known only from the unique holotype collected in extreme southeastern Brasil, and to H. mirandae, known from four localities in northeastern Brasil. The distribution of this relict species group supports the hypothesis that the subtropical faunas of the central Andes and eastern Brasil were at one time continuous.
4088225| A new species of hummingbird, the Bogot Sunangel (Heliangelus zusii), is described from a unique specimen purchased in 1909 in Bogot, Colombia. Heliangelus zusii is intermediate in plumage between ungorgeted H. regalis and the typical gorgeted species in the genus. Now possibly extinct because of habitat destruction, H. zusii may have inhabited cloud forest and forest edge in the Eastern Cordillera of the Colombian Andes. 
10.2307/4090095|We investigated movements and habitat use during breeding and postbreeding periods in Scarlet Tanagers (Piranga olivacea) during June-September 1998 in northern Virginia deciduous forest. Nine birds (8 males and 1 female) remained on the same home range during both breeding and postbreeding periods, whereas 11 birds (9 males and 2 females) shifted home range (>300 m) between periods. Breeding season home-range size ranged from 2.6 to 5.6 ha (95% kernel), and core area from 0.61 to 0.93 ha (50% kernel). Postbreeding home ranges were similar in size to home range during the breeding period for birds that remained in the vicinity of nesting areas, but were larger for birds that moved away from the nesting area. Scarlet Tanagers occurred in both mature and successional forest during breeding and postbreeding periods, with some indication of increased use of earlier successional stages during the postbreeding period. Needs for Scarlet Tanagers during the postbreeding period (molt, premigratory fattening) differ from those during the breeding period (pair formation, nest placement, rearing of young). Those differences provide a plausible explanation that all tanagers changed focal areas between breeding and postbreeding periods. These findings confirm the need for taking the postbreeding period into account, both for understanding migrant life history and successful conservation. /// De junio a septiembre de 1998 estudiamos los movimientos y el uso del hbitat de Piranga olivacea durante los periodos reproductivo y post-reproductivo, en los bosques caducifolios del norte de Virginia. Nueve individuos (ocho machos y una hembra) permanecieron en el mismo mbito hogareo durante ambos periodos, mientas que 11 individuos (nueve machos y dos hembras) cambiaron de mbito hogareo (>300 m) entre periodos. El mbito hogareo durante el periodo reproductivo vari entre 2.6-5.6 ha (95% kernel), y el rea ncleo vari de 0.61-0.93 ha (50% kernel). Los mbitos hogareos durante el periodo reproductivo fueron similares en tamao a los del periodo post-reproductivo en individuos que permanecieron en la vecindad de los sitios de anidacin, pero fueron mayores en aquellos individuos que se movieron fuera de los sitios de anidacin. P. olivacea ocurri en bosques maduros y sucesionales durante ambos periodos reproductivo y post-reproductivo, aunque la tendencia al uso de estadios sucesionales se increment en el periodo post-reproductivo. Las necesidades de P. olivacea durante el periodo reproductivo (muda, acumulacin pre-migratoria de grasa) difieren de aquellas durante el periodo reproductivo (formacin de parejas, localizacin del nido, cra de los pollos). Estas diferencias proveen de una explicacin posible para el hecho que todos los individuos de P. olivacea cambiaran el rea focal entre los periodos reproductivo y post-reproductivo. Estos hallazgos confirman la necesidad de considerar el periodo post-reproductivo para mejorar nuestro conocimiento de la historia de vida de especies migratorias e incrementar el xito de su conservacin.
4086644|Four time-budget estimation strategies are compared with respect to their sensitivity to two components of visibility bias in the observation process: discovery bias and loss bias. Monte Carlo simulations and a brief field study both indicate that visibility bias (particularly discovery bias) can substantially affect the results of time-budget studies. Estimators designed to curtail these biases performed best. Counting only initial contacts was least satisfactory. Bootstrap confidence intervals for niche overlap from the field study were so broad that overlap estimates seem nearly useless with very small sample sizes, such as the 93 observation series with 1,065 data points obtained here. Investigators who measure time or energy budgets in the field should take care to minimize sample biases, obtain adequate sample sizes, select analysis techniques appropriate for their sampling scheme, and confine inference to a scope compatible with the temporal and spatial scale of their study.
4086070|Foraging Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) selected live pines (96% use; 71% availability) over hardwoods (1% use; 25% availability). Use of recently dead pines (3%) was the largest departure from use of live pines. Mast was rarely consumed, although abundant at times. Live pine stems greater than 23 cm in diameter at breast height represented only 19% of the available pines but received 65% of the use. The sexes exhibited strong divergence in foraging behavior. Most important was the partitioning of foraging sites on live pines. Males foraged on dead and live limbs of the crown and midtrunk 54% of the time and females only 4%. On the lower trunk, females foraged 38% of the time and males only 3%. On the midtrunk, females foraged 29% and males 12%. On the trunk-in-crown, females foraged 28% and males 32%. Mean foraging height of males was 14.1 m and that of females 8.7 m (P < 0.001). The sexes used tree sizes, tree types, and methods for capturing prey with similar frequencies. Within each sex, there were between-season differences in use of foraging sites and in methods used at each site.
25488514|Avian responses to forest edges have received much attention in recent years, particularly because of the potential effects of deforestation on the quality of remaining forest patches. However, individual birds' responses to forest edges are more often inferred than observed, and most studies of space use emphasize territory placement, with little or no detail on within-territory movements. Thus, our understanding of the effects of edges on movements of forest birds remains limited. We recorded movements of 85 winter flocks of the little-known Boreal Chickadee (
4090598| Latitudinal sexual segregation during the nonbreeding season, in which males tend to winter farther north than females, is known to occur in many temperate-zone bird species. This pattern, however, has rarely been reported in species wintering in tropical regions. We investigated latitudinal sexual segregation in 45 Nearctic-Neotropical migratory bird species that winter in Mexico, using specimen records from 35 natural-history museums. We found significant latitudinal segregation in nine species: Yellow-bellied Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus varius), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), Orange-crowned Warbler (Vermivora celata), Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia; aestiva group), Yellow-rumped Warbler (Dendroica coronata; coronata group), Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla), Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla), and Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea). In most cases, males predominated in the northern part of species' winter ranges and females in the south, but the trend was reversed in Indigo Buntings. Discovering the frequency of latitudinal sexual segregation in Neotropical migratory birds will influence understanding of avian ecology and migration systems. /// Se sabe que la segregacin latitudinal de sexos durante la temporada no reproductiva ocurre en muchas especies de aves de la regin templada, en las cuales los machos predominan en las zonas norteas de las distribuciones de invierno. No obstante, este patrn raramente ha sido reportado en especies que invernan en las regiones tropicales. Analizamos 45 especies que invernan en Mxico con base en especmenes alojados en 35 museos de historia natural, para investigar cules especies podran mostrar segregacin latitudinal entre sexos. Encontramos patrones significativos de segregacin en 9 especies: Sphyrapicus varius, Catharus ustulatus, Vermivora celata, Dendroica petechia (grupo aestiva), Dendroica coronata (grupo coronata), Mniotilta varia, Seiurus aurocapilla, Wilsonia pusilla y Passerina cyanea. En general, los machos predominaron al norte de su distribucin invernal, mientras que las hembras fueron relativamente ms comunes al sur, pero el patrn fue el inverso para P. cyanea. El descubrimiento de la extensin de la segregacin sexual latitudinal en aves migratorias neotropicales influenciar el entendimiento de la ecologa de las aves y los sistemas migratorios. 
10.2307/4085508| The duration of postnuptial molt in the White-crowned Sparrows of the Pacific Seaboard (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli and Z. l. pugetensis) decreases northward by an average of 2.6 days per degree of latitude between the southernmost (35.2N, molt duration 83 days) and northernmost (48.9N, 47 days) limits of the breeding range. Males begin molting earlier than females by as much as 2 weeks. For both sexes, the date on which molt begins is independent of latitude and is correlated with the end of nesting season. 
10.2307/4090139| To estimate annual apparent local survival, we collected capture-resighting data on 256 individually marked male Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) wintering at Estero de Punta Banda, Mexico, between 1994-1997. A hierarchical modeling approach was used to address the effect of age class and year on survivorship rates. The best-fit model included a constant apparent survival probability ( = 0.489; 95% CI = 0.410-0.569), but several models fit nearly as well, and averaging among the top five, to account for model uncertainty, suggested that adults had somewhat higher values than juveniles ( = 0.490  0.051 vs. 0.450  0.067). Detection probability was substantially higher for adults than for juveniles (p = 0.741 vs. p = 0.537). Those apparent survival estimates are low compared with those from other studies of Western Sandpipers at breeding and other nonbreeding locations, and substantially lower than the true survivorship rates expected for small sandpipers in general. We interpret these results as indicating that this site is of below average quality for nonbreeding male Western Sandpipers. /// Para estimar la supervivencia local aparente, se colectaron datos de captura-avsitamiento de 256 machos individualizados de Calidris mauri que invernaron en el Estero de Punta Banda, Mxico, entre 1994-1997. Se utilizo un enfoque de modelacin jerrquica para determinar el efecto de la edad y ao en la tasa de sobrevivencia. El modelo que mejor se ajusta incluye una probabilidad de sobreviencia aparente constante ( = 0.489; 95% CI = 0.410-0.569), pero varios modelos tienen un ajuste similar y un promedio de los cinco mejores modelos, dado la incertidumbre del modelo, sugiere que los adultos tienen valores relativamente mayores a los juveniles ( = 0.490  0.051 vs. 0.450  0.067). La probabilidad de avistamiento fue sustancialmente mayor en adultos que en juveniles (p = 0.741 vs. p = 0.537). Las estimaciones de supervivencia aparente fueron bajas en comparacin a otros estudios de C. mauri durante en la poca reproductiva y no reproductiva, y sustancialmente menores a las tasas de supervivencia verdaderas esperadas para un calidrido en general. La interpretacin de estos resultados indican que este sitio esta por debajo de la calidad promedio para los machos de C. mauri durante la poca no reproductiva. 
4090641| The Dusky Canada Goose (Branta canadensis occidentalis) population that breeds in the Copper River Delta, Alaska, has declined substantially since the late 1970s. Persistent low numbers have been attributed to low productivity in recent years. We examined patterns in survival rates of 1,852 nests to better understand ecological processes that influenced productivity during 1997-2000. We compared 10 nonparametric models of daily survival rate of nests (DSR) that included variation among years, calendar dates, nest initiation dates, and nest ages with equivalent models based on parametric functions. The unequivocal best model included patterns of DSR that varied among discrete periods of years, calendar dates, and nest ages. Generally, DSR was low early in the nesting season and higher midseason. Across years, patterns in DSR were most variable early and late in the nesting season. Daily survival rates of nests declined between the first and second week after initiation, increased until the fourth week, and then declined during the last week before hatch. Nest survival probability estimates ranged from 0.07 to 0.71 across years and nest initiation dates. Mean rates of nest survival ranged between 0.21 and 0.31 each year. We suggest (1) considering models that do not limit estimates of daily nest survival to parametric forms; (2) placing greater emphasis on sample size when nests are rare, to obtain accurate estimates of nest survival; and (3) developing new techniques to estimate the number of nests initiated. /// Las poblaciones del ganso Branta canadensis occidentalis que cran en el delta del Ro Copper, Alaska, han declinado substancialmente desde el final de los 70s. Estos nmeros persistentemente bajos han sido atribuidos a una baja productividad en los ltimos aos. Examinamos los patrones en las tasas de supervivencia de 1,852 nidos para comprender mejor los procesos ecolgicos que influenciaron la productividad entre 1997 y 2000. Comparamos 10 modelos no paramtricos de tasas de supervivencia diaria de nidos (TSD) que incluyeron variacin entre aos, fechas de calendario, fechas de iniciacin de los nidos y edad de los nidos con modelos equivalentes basados en funciones paramtricas. El mejor modelo incluy patrones de la TSD que variaron entre perodos discretos de aos, fechas de calendario y edad de los nidos. De modo general, la TSD fue baja al principio de la estacin de cra y mayor en el medio de la estacin. Entre aos, los patrones de la TSD fueron ms variables al principio y al final de la estacin de cra. Las tasas de supervivencia de los nidos disminuyeron entre la primera y la segunda semana posterior al inicio de los nidos, incrementaron hasta la cuarta semana y luego disminuyeron durante la ltima semana antes de la eclosin. Las estimaciones de la probabilidad de supervivencia de los nidos variaron entre 0.07 y 0.71 entre los aos y las fechas de inicio de los nidos. Las tasas medias de supervivencia de los nidos variaron entre 0.21 y 0.31 cada ao. Sugerimos (1) considerar modelos que no limiten las estimaciones de supervivencia diaria de los nidos a formas paramtricas; (2) poner mayor nfasis al tamao de muestreo cuando los nidos son raros, para obtener estimaciones exactas de la supervivencia de los nidos; y (3) desarrollar nuevas tcnicas para estimar el nmero de nidos iniciados. 
10.2307/4090013| In several bird species, offspring from larger eggs survive better than birds from smaller eggs, but mechanisms responsible for that pattern have not been clearly identified. Studies of waterfowl have found relationships between egg size, body composition of hatchlings, and duckling growth. Therefore, body composition and growth rate of newly hatched King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) ducklings were measured to assess if traits consistent with higher probability of survival early in duckling varied in relation to egg size. Forty-one King Eider eggs were collected in June and July 1998 from two lakes in the central Canadian Arctic, and artificially incubated, of which 34 hatched. Body composition of 15 hatchlings (<1 day old) was determined, and 19 ducklings were raised in captivity to measure growth rate. Larger eggs produced larger ducklings with absolutely more lipid and protein reserve; absolutely larger breast and leg muscles; higher functional maturity for whole body, leg, and breast muscles; and higher tarsal growth rates than ducklings from small eggs. Such patterns of hatchling composition and growth in relation to increasing egg size may improve likelihood of early survival by improving thermogenesis, reducing time spent as optimal prey size for avian predators, and as shown elsewhere, by enhancing motor performance of ducklings through improvements in foraging efficiency and predator evasion. /// Chez plusieurs espces d'oiseaux, la progniture issue des ufs plus grands a une meilleure survie que celle issue des ufs plus petits, mais les mcanismes responsables de ce phnomne n'ont pas t clairement identifis. Des tudes sur la sauvagine ont mis en vidence des relations entre la taille de l'uf, la constitution corporelle des nouveau-ns, et la croissance des canetons. Par consquent, la constitution corporelle et le taux de croissance de canetons d'Eider  tte grise (Somateria spectabilis) ont t mesurs peu aprs l'closion pour valuer si ces caractristiques, traduisant une plus grande probabilit de survie prcoce chez les canetons, variaient en fonction de la taille de l'uf. Quarante et un ufs d'Eider  tte grise ont t prlevs en juin et juillet 1998 pour deux lacs de l'Arctique Canadien central, puis ont t artificiellement incubs pour finalement conduire  l'closion de 34 d'entre eux. La constitution corporelle de 15 nouveau-ns (<1 jour) a t dtermine, et 19 canetons ont t levs en captivit pour mesurer leur taux de croissance. Les ufs plus grands ont donn des canetons plus gros avec plus de rserves lipidiques et protiques, des poitrines et des muscles de la patte plus gros, une plus grande maturit fonctionnelle pour l'ensemble du corps mais aussi pour les pattes et les muscles de la poitrine, et des taux de croissance suprieurs pour le tarse en comparaison avec les canetons provenant de petits ufs. De tels patrons de constitution et de croissance chez des nouveau-ns en relation avec une augmentation de la taille de l'uf pourrait amliorer la probabilit de survie prcoce en amliorant la thermogense, en rduisant le temps pass en tant que proie de taille optimale pour les prdateurs aviens, et comme montr ailleurs, en augmentant la performance motrice des cantons grce  l'amlioration de l'efficacit de qute alimentaire et d'vasion aux prdateurs. 
40406072|Many shorebird species have widespread geographic distributions comprising several continents. Because shorebirds are excellent flyers and can migrate large distances, it is often unclear whether reproductive barriers between subspecies and populations from different continents exist. KentishSnowy Plovers (
10.2307/4085263|The factors determining colony and nest site selection in the White-faced and Glossy Ibises (Plegadis) were examined from 1972 through 1975. White-faced Ibises were studied in Texas and Argentina, Glossy Ibises in New Jersey and New York. White-faced Ibises generally nest in tule marshes, infrequently on dry land. In selecting a dry land site, White-faced Ibises preferred to nest on the ground among low shrubs and in mixed forbs rather than in habitats containing grass and cactus. Glossy Ibises' habitat varies from Phragmites, Iva, and Smilax to other low shrubs. They did not always nest on the ground. White-faced Ibises nested next to conspecifics, whereas in Glossy Ibises the choice of nearest neighbor was random with respect to the species present. The mean distance to the nearest neighbor was generally less for Glossy Ibis when compared to White-faced Ibis. The space around nests that was devoid of any other nest was examined graphically. Nearest neighbors were farther away when they were on the same level than when the nearest neighbor was above the nest being examined for both species. The visibility index from the nests of Glossy and White-faced Ibises was low, and was less than the mean visibility index for heron and egret species nesting in the same colonies. Visibility was less in the direction of the closest nest compared to that in other directions for all colonies examined. In some colonies, the visibility index in the direction of the closest nest was directly related to the distance to the closest nest. Glossy Ibises nested in denser habitats than did White-faced Ibis, and this was reflected in lower visibility indices for Glossy Ibis. Possible reasons for the recent range changes in the two Plegadis species are discussed.
10.2307/4089940|Maximum diving depths were measured for shearwaters breeding on Cousin Island, Seychelles. Eighty-three percent of 23 Wedge-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus pacificus) dived, and their mean maximum depth was 14 m (SD = 23 m, range 1-66 m, N = 19). All Audubon's Shearwaters (P. lherminieri) dived, and their mean maximum depth was 15 m (SD = 12 m, range 6-35 m, N = 7). These data contradict the hypothesis that tropical shearwaters should not specialize in underwater foraging. They are capable of exploiting deep prey unavailable to most other tropical seabirds. Five Puffinus species (temperate and tropical) attained allometrically scaled maximum depths comparable to those of penguins and alcids.
4085211|Analyses of biopsy fat samples and addled eggs of Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus) and selected prey items collected during 1970 and 1971 from the Seward Peninsula, Alaska show that all samples contained both industrial and agricultural contaminants. A pathway of aerial transport to this remote arctic ecosystem is indicated. Geometric mean levels of DDE, the principal insecticide derivative in both the eggs and fat of Gyrfalcons, are 20 ppm, lipid basis. PCB concentrations are 2-3 times higher, and are significantly correlated with DDE levels in both eggs and fat; the mean ratio of PCB/DDE is 3.0. A similar ratio was found in ptarmigan (Lagopus sp.), the principal prey species, indicating similar movement of these pollutants within this arctic food web. Resident arctic species utilized as prey contain low whole body residue levels, less than 0.5 ppm DDE, lipid basis. The calculated body content of pollutant residues in several Gyrfalcons indicates burdens could not result from resident prey alone but are attributed to the higher residue levels in migratory prey species. Whole body DDE residues were 5.0 ppm in Long-tailed Jaegers (Stercorarias longicaudus) and 50.0 ppm in Golden Plovers (Pluvialis dominica) and Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus), lipid basis. No significant thinning of Gyrfalcon eggshells was found. Unlike some populations of other species of the genus Falco in North America, this population of Alaskan Gyrfalcons does not appear to be endangered by organochlorine contamination.
10.2307/4086830|Calls of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) occurring during intrapair interactions were studied at three sites in southeastern Wisconsin. These vocalizations were given by both sexes in early phases of courship and by males during copulation, and they also occurred later in the breeding season. The ending of this call exhibited a dialect pattern, being very different at two sites 22 km apart. Playback experiments showed that males responded more strongly to their own dialect than to the foreign one. Hand-raised birds that heard no chickadees other than their siblings after about 14 days of age produced aberrant calls, suggesting that learning is involved in the acquisition of these vocalizations. This is the first report of microgeographic variation in an avian vocalization associated only with intrapair associations and not involved with male-male interactions, as is the case with song.
10.2307/4089274|In many bird species with biparental care, each parent takes the exclusive care of some of the young after fledging. Some of the hypotheses that have been put forth to explain brood division behavior state that it is advantageous for a particular parent to care for a particular "type" of young, e.g. with respect to sex, size, or parentage. Other hypotheses claim a benefit to the parents (e.g. reduced foraging costs or risks of predation) only when the young are spatially dispersed. In this paper, we describe brood division in a Norwegian population of Bluethroats (Luscinia s. svecica). In general, brood division arose once the young became spatially dispersed after fledging. The only exceptions to the rule occurred when the male was polygynous and provisioned the young at a low rate. No brood division was found when the young were still in the nest, nor when they were physically prevented from spacing out by an enclosure around the nest. Young fed by the same parent were more clustered than young fed by different parents. Experimental switching of young among single-parent groups suggested that parents were able to recognize individual offspring outside the nest. However, there were no indications that parents divided the brood by sex, size, or genetic parentage. Our data are consistent with hypotheses that assume a parental benefit from brood division when the young are spatially dispersed.
4085314|As female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) in Washington populations choose mates mainly on the basis of territory quality, sexual selection should favor those characteristics that enhance a male redwing's ability to obtain and defend a good territory. In this study, correlations were sought between harem size and characteristics of male redwings that might be expected to contribute to the ability to compete for territory. Weak evidence is presented that large size, experience, good physiological condition, and the ability to devote a large proportion of daily activity to territory defense contribute to pairing success in some years. Even the significant correlations between success and male characteristics are weak, but strong correlations cannot be expected because (1) many different male characteristics probably contribute to competitive ability, none of which are of overwhelming importance; (2) males will not always make the optimal choice of territory, especially as their choice is constrained by extreme site fidelity; and (3) females will also fail to make optimal choices of territories and mates.
10.2307/4089321|Data on the timing of postjuvenal body molt of 322 Stonechats (Saxicola torquata) were examined by multifactorial residual maximum-likelihood analysis for effects of external and genetic factors. The Stonechats, which belonged to the European subspecies (S. t. rubicola), the African subspecies (S. t. axillaris), and their F
10.1525/auk.2011.10149|Many species endemic to isolated islands are of conservation interest because of concerns over the potentially devastating effects of environmental stochasticity and the pending threat of anthropogenic influences and invasive species. The effective size (
4085807|The molt cycle in Chaffinches (Fringilla coelebs) has a circannual periodicity under constant photoperiodic conditions (12:12LD, 20:4LD). The molt cycle and/or rate, however, can be modified by artificial alteration of daylength. The time of onset and completion of the post-nuptial molt in Chaffinches under natural conditions is a remote expression of vernal photostimulation. The timing of the molt is initiated at the end of the unifactorial phase of photoperiodic control. The onset of molt is induced after a latent period and its termination after another period, i.e. the molt begins and ends spontaneously. Under natural conditions, daylength immediately before and during the molt does not control either the time of onset or of termination of molt. The additional control system increases the rate of the molt in its early phase under short days, whereas under long days it decreases the rate of molt in its late phase. This system may play an adaptive role in synchronizing the end of the molt among birds that begin molt at different times. The postjuvenal molt begins and finishes spontaneously under control of a program of the individual development of juveniles. Short days increase the rate of molt and initiate earlier onset and completion, whereas long days decrease the rate of the molt and delay the times of onset and completion. Juvenile birds from late broods molt more rapidly than those from early broods. A combination of different programs and photoperiodic control of the molt synchronizes the termination of the molt in juveniles from early and late broods under natural conditions in summer and autumn.
25488556|We examined variables influencing nest predation on the endangered Least Bell's Vireo (
4090675| Understanding reproductive and survival consequences of space use is of general interest to ecologists and vital to successful conservation planning. Hypothesized effects of home-range habitat composition and female attributes on these vital rates have not been adequately evaluated in breeding female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Thus, we investigated reproductive and survival consequences of home-range variability and individual characteristics for 126 female Mallards studied on 12 study areas in the Canadian prairie parklands, 1995-1998. We used nine variables to discriminate between three reproductive categories (females that did not nest, nested but failed, or nested successfully) and two survival categories (killed by predator and survived the nesting season). Discriminant function analysis separated females that nested successfully from those that did not, with successful females having higher percentages of wood-shrub and planted grass habitat within their home ranges, a lower percentage of seasonal and semipermanent wetlands, smaller home-range sizes, and a higher percentage of wetlands at the study-area scale. We also distinguished females that did not nest from failed nesters; females that did not nest were younger and smaller and had larger home-range sizes, with a higher percentage of seasonal and semipermanent wetlands. Females that were killed did not differ from nesting-season survivors of either individual or home-range characteristics. /// Entender las consecuencias reproductivas y de supervivencia relacionadas con el uso del espacio es de inters general para los eclogos, y vital para realizar planes de conservacin exitosos. Los efectos hipotticos de la composicin de hbitats en el rango de hogar y de atributos de las hembras en estas tasas vitales no se han evaluado adecuadamente en las hembras reproductivas de Anas platyrhynchos. Por lo tanto, investigamos las consecuencias de la variabilidad en el rango de hogar y de caractersticas de los individuos sobre la productividad y la supervivencia para 126 hembras de A. platyrhynchos estudiadas en 12 reas de los parques de las praderas canadienses entre 1995 y 1998. Empleamos nueve variables para discriminar entre tres categoras reproductivas (hembras que no anidaron, hembras que anidaron y fracasaron y hembras que anidaron exitosamente) y dos categoras de supervivencia (muertas como consecuencia de depredacin y sobrevivientes tras la temporada de cra). Mediante anlisis de funcin discriminante, separamos las hembras que anidaron exitosamente de las que no lo hicieron: las hembras exitosas presentaron porcentajes mayores de ambientes de arbustos leosos y de pastos plantados dentro de sus rangos de hogar, un menor porcentaje de humedales estacionales y semipermanentes, rangos de hogar ms pequeos y un mayor porcentaje de humedales a la escala del rea de estudio. Tambin pudimos distinguir a las hembras que no anidaron de aquellas que anidaron y fracasaron: las que no anidaron fueron ms jvenes y de menor tamao y presentaron rangos de hogar ms amplios y con un porcentaje mayor de humedales estacionales y semipermanentes. Las hembras que fueron depredadas no difirieron de las que sobrevivieron a la temporada de cra en cuanto a caractersticas individuales ni del rango de hogar. 
10.2307/4090200| We investigated individual and resource-dependent variation in ability of female Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) to lay supranormal clutches in response to egg removal, and effect of continuous laying on (1) egg composition and (2) plasma yolk precursor levels. Egg removal significantly increased the number of eggs that individual females laid, but that response was diet-dependent: on a high-quality (egg-supplemented) diet, females laid 12.4  1.0 more eggs compared with their pretreatment clutch size; whereas on the low-quality (seed-only) diet, females laid only 4.9  1.2 more eggs. Removal clutch size (i.e. total number of eggs laid in response to egg removal) was positively correlated with pretreatment mean egg mass and clutch size on the low-quality diet, but not on the high-quality diet. That suggests that there is interindividual variation in egg-laying ability ("large-egg" females had a greater capacity to respond to egg removal than "small-egg" females), but that higher resource levels can overcome individual differences. Egg mass did not vary with laying sequence in supranormal clutches (up to 22 eggs); however, there was a significant decrease (6%) in yolk protein content of additional eggs that was apparent by the tenth egg laid (i.e. only 4-5 more than the normal clutch size). Plasma levels of the two yolk precursors, vitellogenin and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), were independent of diet and did not differ in individual birds at the 1 egg stage versus the 14 egg stage. However, there was a systematic change in relationship between yolk lipid content and plasma VLDL levels, from nonsignificant for third-laid eggs to significant and positive for sixteenth-laid eggs. We propose a possible mechanism linking female condition and egg-laying ability: good quality females, capable of laying extended clutches, are able to maintain production of generic VLDL for their own metabolic needs, as well as producing yolk-targeted VLDL, whereas poor quality females are not. /// Nous avons tudi les variations individuelles et la dpendance aux ressources chez le Diamant mandarin (Taeniopygia guttata) lors de la ponte de couves supranormales survenues suite  un retrait d'ufs. Nous avons galement examin l'effet d'une ponte continue sur (1) la composition des ufs et (2) le niveau plasmatique des prcurseurs du vitellus. Le retrait d'ufs a augment significativement le nombre d'ufs produits par une femelle, mais la rponse tait sous la dpendance de la dite. Avec une dite de bonne qualit (supplment d'ufs), les femelles ont pondu 12,4  1,0 ufs de plus en comparaison aux tailles de couves avant traitement. Par contre, pour une dite de faible qualit (seulement des graines), les femelles ont pondu seulement 4,9  1,2 ufs de plus. La taille de couve aprs retrait (i.e. le nombre total d'ufs pondus en rponse au retrait d'ufs) tait corrle positivement avec la masse moyenne des ufs et la taille de couves avant traitement dans le cas d'une dite de faible qualit, mais ce n'tait pas le cas pour la dite de bonne qualit. Cela suggre qu'il existe une variation interindividuelle dans l'aptitude  pondre des ufs (les femelles pondant des gros ufs avaient une meilleure aptitude de rponse au retrait d'ufs que les femelles pondant des petits ufs). Par ailleurs, les rsultats montrent que des ressources plus importantes peuvent palier ces diffrences individuelles. La masse des ufs n'a pas vari avec la squence de ponte pour les couves supranormales (jusqu' 22 ufs). Nanmoins, il y avait une diminution significative (6%) du contenu en protines du vitellus pour les ufs supplmentaires, et ce  partir du 10me uf pondu (i.e. seulement 4-5 en plus que la taille de couve normale). Les niveaux plasmatiques des deux prcurseurs du vitellus, la vitellognine et la lipoprotine trs basse densit (LTBD), taient indpendants de la dite et ne diffraient pas chez les individus entre la ponte du 1er uf et la ponte du 14me uf. Nanmoins, il y avait un changement systmatique dans la relation entre le contenu en lipides du vitellus et les niveaux plasmatiques en LTBD allant d'une relation non significative pour le 3me uf pondu  une relation significative et positive pour le 16me uf pondu. Nous proposons donc un mcanisme qui pourrait permettre de relier la condition des femelles  leur aptitude  pondre des ufs: les femelles de bonne qualit, aptes  pondre des couves plus grandes, seraient capables de maintenir une production gnrique de LTBD pour leurs propres besoins mtaboliques, ainsi que de produire de la LTBD spcifiquement destine au vitellus, alors que les femelles de faible qualit n'en seraient pas capables. 
10.2307/4089203|We evaluated selection of nest sites by male Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) in Texas relative to the age of the cavity when only cavities excavated by the woodpeckers were available and when both naturally excavated cavities and artificial cavities were available. We also evaluated nest-cavity selection relative to the ability of naturally excavated cavity trees to produce resin, which is used by the woodpeckers to maintain a barrier against predation by rat snakes (Elaphe spp.). Longleaf pines (Pinus palustris) selected by breeding males as nest trees produced significantly greater resin yields at 2, 8, and 24 h post-wounding than cavity trees used for roosting by other group members. This preference was observed in loblolly pine (P. taeda) and shortleaf pine (P. echinata) cavity trees only at the 2-h resin-sampling period. When only naturally excavated cavities were available, Red-cockaded Woodpeckers in both longleaf pine and loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat selected the newest cavities available for their nest sites, possibly as a means to reduce parasite loads. When both naturally excavated and artificial cavity inserts were available, Red-cockaded Woodpeckers continued to select the newest cavity for nesting in loblolly-shortleaf pine habitat but not in longleaf pine habitat. Resin production in existing longleaf pine nest trees remained sufficient for continued use, whereas resin production in loblolly pine and shortleaf pine nest trees decreased through time, probably because of woodpecker activity at resin wells. For these latter tree species, breeding males switched to newer cavities and/or cavity trees with higher resin yields.
10.2307/4088771|We address the importance of a nearby source of cover to foraging White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys) belonging to different classes of social status and plumage. An artificial source of cover was provided, in the form of a constructed bush, which allowed manipulation of the degree and position of cover. In various manipulations, the birds were offered no cover, the position of the cover was switched, and a simple perch was offered as an alternative to the bush. White-crowned Sparrows usually perched first in a nearby source of cover before they fed, and strongly preferred to feed close to the artificial bush. Experiments demonstrated that the bush was used as a source of cover and not merely as a perch. The bright-colored dominant adult birds fed closer to cover than did the more subordinate, dull-colored, and relatively cryptic immatures. Adults apparently displaced the latter from sites close to cover as immatures fed closer when no adults were present. These results may explain why dull-colored subordinate birds do not cheat by displaying the brighter plumage of dominant sex/age classes. Cheaters might be more prone to predation than noncheating subordinates because both classes might be forced to feed away from cover by inherently dominant birds (i.e. actual adults), but cheaters would be more conspicuous than noncheaters due to their brighter plumage. Thus, the potential benefits of cheating may not outweigh the increased cost of heightened susceptibility to selection by a predator.
4087279|North American samples of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) collected by R. F. Johnston and R. K. Selander (see Johnston and Selander 1971, Johnston 1973) were separated into adult (19 localities) and subadult (21 localities) groups. Significant clines were generated for all age and sex combinations through regression of locality means for body size against environmental seasonality. The strong body-size clines for subadult House Sparrows suggest a large genetic component to geographic variation in House Sparrow body size. There were no significant differences between the male and female clines for either age group. Therefore, there was no consistent relationship between sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in adult House Sparrow populations and environmental factors. Adult levels of SSD were higher than subadult levels at localities with distinct seasonalities. This resulted from selection against relatively large subadult females in areas with cold winters. Adult males were larger than subadult males, but whether this represented growth or selection is equivocal. The ratio of body core to limb variables was correlated poorly with the winter temperatures of the collecting localities. The relationship improved if samples from coastal areas were excluded. Adult levels of this ratio were higher than subadult levels at localities with low January temperatures. Overwinter changes in both House Sparrow size and shape can be correlated with environmental variables. Although selection for efficient thermoregulatory design is implied, it is difficult to account for the mortality of large subadult females over cold winters and to completely discount the effects of growth.
4085610|Intrapopulational variation in the songs of territorial male White-eyed Vireos (Vireo griseus griseus) was studied at Gainesville, Florida during 1977 and 1978. The motifs in the song repertoires of 40 color-banded males were analyzed in detail. Individual male White-eyed Vireos used 1-14 different motifs. A quantitative sequence-comparison measure of song dissimilarity was used to compare song repertoires. No relationship was found between the dissimilarity of individuals' song repertoires and the map distances between their territories. Unexpectedly, pairs of neighboring males had more dissimilar song repertoires than non-neighboring pairs of vireos.
4086420|Dot-winged Antwrens maintain long-term pair bonds on year-long territories in tropical forests and woodland of Central and South America. Pairs partition breeding-related activities nearly equally. Like other antbirds (Formicariidae), both sexes incubate and brood. Both sexes participate equally in territorial maintenance behavior, which primarily involves active border displays. Initial investment in offspring is possibly equalized by long-term nuptial feeding of females by males. Overall, both sexes contribute equally to nestling care, although considerable variation is observed between nests, much of which probably results from variation in the foraging ability of parents. Females feed young consistently less often than do males during the early part of the nestling period and may be recovering from depletion of reserves resulting from egg production. In most pairs females bring more spiders than do males. This difference in prey type is unexpected, because the pair forages close together in the same microhabitat and their bill size is similar. Pairs are distinct in their interactions: some pairs have a rigid feeding order, and others do not.
4087124|We studied predation by Fish Crows (Corvus ossifragus) on eggs of the White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) during the 1983 and 1984 nesting seasons at Battery Island, southeastern North Carolina. Crow predation accounted for the loss of 32% (n = 223) of ibis eggs in 1983 and 44% (n = 538) in 1984. Crows usually took all eggs in a clutch. An estimated 6 pairs of Fish Crows nested on the island each year. We believe these individuals were responsible for most egg loss. The predation rate of ibis clutches was highest in plots nearest crow nests and lowest in two plots that contained observation blinds. Results of experiments using simulated ibis nests suggested that crows were wary of the blinds. Predation declined with nest age, apparently due to increased nest attentiveness by adult ibises during the last week of incubation. The overall predation rate in 1984 was significantly higher than in 1983. Greater nest densities and less synchronous breeding by ibises in 1984 may have contributed to the higher predation rate. Ibis productivity was estimated at 1.22-1.30 fledglings per pair in 1983 and 1.05-1.12 in 1984. This level of reproduction appeared sufficient for maintenance of the population. Thus, egg predation by Fish Crows during our study did not appear to be a serious threat to the productivity of this White Ibis population.
10.1525/auk.2013.12227|Patterns of nest defense against predators by ground-nesting bird species in the wild are poorly understood, largely because of a historical inability to directly monitor nests. Most nest-defense studies have observed responses elicited from artificial predators or human observers presented to nesting birds, and few have attempted to present these events in the context of predatorprey relationships found in the wild. We hypothesized that predator threat level (e.g., the threat posed to the clutch or to the clutch and the attending adult), parental characteristics, clutch investment, and future reproductive opportunities would influence avian nest-defense decisions. During 19992006, we examined predation events (
4086222|Near-ultraviolet (UV) light reception was demonstrated for the first time in three species of nonmigratory emberizid and passerid birds. Behavioral data also established that eight additional alcedinid and emberizid birds can detect near-UV wavelengths. The finding that these more recently evolved species can see near-UV light implies that near-UV vision is probably an important visual capability in most, if not all, diurnal birds. Although the utility of near-UV reception for birds remains equivocal, the fact that nonmigratory as well as migratory birds can perceive UV suggests that birds may be able to utilize the UV spectrum for homing, orientation, and navigation, as do the UV-sensitive arthropods. It also can be inferred that UV vision may be especially useful to insectivorous birds for the detection of UV reflectance patterns, which many otherwise cryptic arthropods possess for mate recognition. Ultraviolet reflectance patterns also may be useful to frugivorous and nectarivorous birds for the detection of food items.
10.1525/auk.2013.12139|Substantial offspring mortality can occur during the postfledging period of birds, but few postfledging survival studies have been conducted within the context of habitat suitability. We conducted a 2-year radiotelemetry study of Spotted Towhee (
4087333|We measured the effect of diet quality on variation in the seasonal pattern of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) reproduction. Twenty wild-strain hens, consisting of 10 sibling pairs, were maintained in captivity. One sib of each pair was fed an enriched diet, and the other was fed wheat. The wheat diet resulted in reduced clutch size, egg size, laying rate, number of nesting attempts, and total eggs laid. Diet did not affect laying initiation, duration, or the seasonal pattern of change in clutch and egg size with each renest. We believe the variation and pattern observed are adaptations to a highly variable prairie environment where the probability of reproductive success decreases as the season progresses.
10.2307/4088627|Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata castanotis) songs from 33 colonies in two geographic zones of Australia (central and southeastern) were investigated in order to describe variation from macrogeographic to microgeographic levels. Canonical discrimination classified songs according to 31 measurements of the song phrase and clearly distinguished those from the two zones. Songs from regions within the southeastern zone fell into two groups on element sequence and frequency of element types. The two song groups came from habitats that differ in aridity and tree cover; both factors affect dispersal. Song variation within and among colonies in a region occurred in the frequency of "labile" elements. Movements of birds among colonies are extensive, but patterns are still far from clear. Despite resemblance in song structure between sons and their fathers, dispersal to and from colonies prevents the formation of colony-specific versions of the song.
4086288|A time and energy budget of male and female Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) in six phases of their breeding cycle was completed using the equivalent temperature model to predict perching metabolic rates. Recorded time-budget behaviors included perching, bipedal locomotion, flight, and the time spent in the sun and shade. Over the total study period, males and females spent an average of 92.3% and 92.8% of their active day perched, 2.4% and 1.6% in bipedal locomotion, and 5.3% and 5.6% in flight, respectively. BMR plus thermostatic requirements averaged, seasonally, 78.1% of
10.2307/4088780|We attempted to determine why the distribution of Atlapetes rufinucha (Rufousnaped Brush-finch; Emberizinae) is so patchy. This common, sedentary species is found in several discrete areas of the humid Andes separated by distances of hundreds of kilometers, yet the gaps contain seemingly suitable habitat. Mapping of 906 specimen localities by both latitude and elevation shows that these gaps are filled by populations of other Atlapetes species, especially A. tricolor and A. schistaceus (a gray-plumaged species currently thought to be only distantly related to rufinucha, a species with yellow-and-green plumage), which in turn also show complementary, patchy distributions. Where rufinucha is the only species found, it occupies the entire elevational gradient. Where two or more species occur, their elevational distributions are restricted and often complementary. We attribute these patterns to interspecific competition. Hypothetical reconstructions of the sequence of historical events that would generate such a checkerboard distribution pattern in these sedentary taxa are complex. A novel hypothesis that would greatly simplify historical reconstructions is that rufinucha, schistaceus, and perhaps tricolor refer only to recurring color patterns characterized by differing amounts of pigment in the feathers and, therefore, adjacent populations (regardless of current taxonomic designation) are more closely related than either is to more distant populations of the same "species." Therefore, rufinucha and schistaceus populations would be merely allopatric forms of the same lineage that alternate in color pattern (yellow or gray) between adjacent populations, as known for three other lineages of Andean birds. We found limited support for such a hypothesis. Even if rufinucha and schistaceus are distinct species, we predict that they are much more closely related than currently believed and that they differ primarily in pigment concentration. The dramatic differences in phenotype created by differences in pigment concentration in the plumage may frequently cause problems for phenotype-based taxonomic hypotheses.
10.1525/auk.2012.12102|We reconstructed the phylogeographic relationships of the Variable Dwarf-Kingfisher (
10.2307/25150222| We used mitochondrial DNA control-region sequences to investigate the genetic structure of Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida) populations in the southwestern United States. This subspecies is federally listed as threatened, and its preferred habitat is naturally fragmented. We found that intrapopulation genetic diversity was high in all but the southeastern Arizona "sky island" populations, where it was variable. Genetic variance partitioning indicated that 17% of the variation was distributed among populations and 7.5% was distributed among physiographic regions. Patterns of genetic correlation with geographic distance indicated that gene flow was substantial among populations within the relatively continuous habitat zone of the Mogollon Rim-Upper Gila Mountains in central Arizona and west-central New Mexico. However, there was significant isolation-by-distance elsewhere, and estimates of genetic divergence increased exponentially with geographic distance among fragmented populations on the scale of a few hundreds of kilometers; this implies that gene flow is restricted among those habitat fragments. Genetic heterogeneity among southeastern Arizona populations suggest that they have regularly received immigrants from the central Arizona populations. The Colorado population either was larger than thought or, more likely, has continuously received immigrants from elsewhere and is not a self-sustaining population. /// Usamos secuencias de la regin control del ADN mitocondrial para investigar la estructura gentica de las poblaciones de Strix occidentalis lucida en el sudoeste de Estados Unidos. Esta subespecie est catalogada como amenazada a nivel federal, y su hbitat preferido se encuentra naturalmente fragmentado. Encontramos que la diversidad gentica intra-poblacional fue alta en todas las poblaciones, excepto en las de "islas en el cielo" del sudeste de Arizona, donde la diversidad gentica fue variable. La particin de la varianza gentica indic que aproximadamente el 17% de la variacin se distribuy entre las poblaciones y el 7.5% se distribuy entre las regiones fisiogrficas. Los patrones de correlacin gentica con la distancia geogrfica indicaron que el flujo gnico fue substancial entre las poblaciones ubicadas dentro de la zona de hbitat relativamente continuo de Mogollon Rim-Upper Gila Mountains en el centro de Arizona y el centro oeste de New Mexico. Sin embargo, hubo un efecto de aislamiento por distancia en el resto de los sitios, y las estimaciones de divergencia gentica aumentaron exponencialmente con la distancia geogrfica entre las poblaciones fragmentadas a la escala de unos pocos cientos de kilmetros. Esto implica que el flujo gnico est restringido entre estos fragmentos de hbitat. La heterogeneidad gentica entre las poblaciones del sudeste de Arizona sugiere que stas han recibido inmigrantes desde las poblaciones del centro de Arizona regularmente. La poblacin de Colorado podra ser ms grande de lo pensado, o, ms probablemente, ha recibido inmigrantes desde otros sitios continuamente y no es una poblacin auto-sostenible. 
4086655|I examined the effect of tree species morphology on foraging behavior in a hover-gleaning bird species, the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus). Birds in four breeding territories in northern Wisconsin displayed nonsignificant differences in an index of foraging success (S) among four tree species of divergent morphology. However, significant variation in S occurred among the three tree species common to all four territories; in addition, multiple comparisons indicated that S values in Betula papyrifera were significantly greater than those in Acer spp. or Quercus spp. Despite its statistical significance, variation in S was not large, and flycatchers used available tree species in general accordance with their abundances. No significant correlation was found between S and tree species use. These results are not immediately consistent with an emerging perspective of avian community structure that predicts that hover-gleaners, unlike gleaners, should be affected little by foliage morphology. Foraging efficiency and prey depletion in initially favored tree species are proximate factors possibly linked to breadth of tree species use.
40406720|We describe a new genus and species of pigeon (Columbiformes) from a single coracoid from the St Bathans Fauna of New Zealand (1619 mya). It is the first columbid species described from pre-Pliocene deposits in Australasia. Two apomorphies identify the fossil as belonging to the ptilinopine group of fruit pigeons, among which it is most similar to
4090358| We observed territorial Purple-throated Caribs (Eulampis jugularis) on three Heliconia morphs (H. caribaea and the red-green and green morphs of H. bihai) on the island of St. Lucia, West Indies, to examine how calculated costs and benefits compared with observed patterns of Heliconia use. Across the three years of our study, H. caribaea territories defended by Purple-throated Carib males were significantly smaller in area and had higher densities of flowers than red-green H. bihai territories, and both kinds of Heliconia territories defended by males were smaller and had higher densities of flowers than the green H. bihai territory maintained by a female. In the period (0630 to 1400 hours) during which birds maintained territories, total maintenance costs were more than met by energy obtained from territories, but only 2 of 13 territories provided sufficient nectar to meet birds' energy requirements for 24 h. Birds supplemented their energy intake from Heliconia territories by foraging at flowers in the rainforest canopy, and the percentage of time a territorial bird spent foraging in the canopy was inversely correlated with energy production on its Heliconia territory. The smaller territory areas and higher flower densities of H. caribaea territories lowered males' foraging time and energy costs per flower on H. caribaea as compared with red-green H. bihai territories, theoretically allowing them to meet their energy demands in less time and at lower cost. Males' estimated foraging time and energy costs were greatest at the green morph of H. bihai; compared with females, they would save a higher proportion of time and energy by foraging at H. caribaea and the red-green morph of H. bihai. That asymmetry between males and females in relative gains from foraging at each of the three Heliconia morphs may further reinforce resource partitioning between them, in addition to differences in size and fighting abilities. /// Observamos individuos territoriales de Eulampis jugularis en relacin con tres formas de Heliconia (H. caribaea y las formas roja-verde y verde de H. bihai) en la Isla de Santa Luca, Indias Occidentales, para examinar cmo los costos y beneficios calculados se comparan con patrones observados de uso de Heliconia. A lo largo de los tres aos de nuestro estudio, los territorios de H. caribaea defendidos por machos de E. jugularis fueron significativamente menores en tamao y presentaron mayores densidades de flores que los territorios de la forma roja-verde de H. bihai, y ambos tipos de territorios de Heliconia defendidas por machos fueron menores y presentaron mayores densidades de flores que los territorios de la forma verde de H. bihai mantenidos por una hembra. En el perodo (0630 a 1400 horas) durante el cual las aves mantuvieron sus territorios, los costos totales de mantenimiento fueron alcanzados y superados por la energa provista por los territorios, pero slo 2 de los 13 territorios brindaron suficiente nctar como para alcanzar los requerimientos energticos por 24 h. Las aves suplementaron la energa provista por sus territorios de Heliconia forrajeando en flores en el dosel de la selva, y el porcentaje de tiempo que un ave territorial pas forrajeando en el dosel se correlacion inversamente con la produccin de energa en sus territorios de Heliconia. Los territorios ms pequeos y las mayores densidades de flores de los territorios de H. caribaea disminuyeron el tiempo de forrajeo de los machos y los costos energticos por flor en H. caribaea comparada con los territorios de la forma roja-verde de H. bihai, tericamente permitindoles a los machos alcanzar sus demandas energticas en menos tiempo y a un costo menor. Las estimaciones del tiempo de forrajeo y de los costos energticos de los machos fueron mayores para la forma verde de H. bihai. Comparados con las hembras, los machos ahorraran una mayor proporcin de tiempo y energa forrajeando en H. caribaea y en la forma roja-verde de H. bihai. Esta asimetra entre machos y hembras en las ganancias relativas obtenidas por forrajear en cada una de las tres formas de Heliconia podra reforzar la reparticin de recursos entre ellos, adems de las diferencias en el tamao y en las habilidades para la lucha. 
4086176|American Robins (Turdus migratorius) were observed foraging for foliage invertebrates, terrestrial invertebrates, and Amelanchier fruits in a northern Wisconsin forest. Lengths of feeding and nonfeeding moves, move frequencies, and feeding frequencies were analyzed in order to categorize the robins' foraging mode on each of the three sites. Robins foraging for invertebrates in the vegetation displayed the low rates of movement and feeding and the long travel and capture moves characteristic of the "sit-and-wait" mode. High move and feeding rates and short move lengths suggested that ground foraging involved the "widely foraging" mode. Fruit foraging also involved this foraging mode, although rates and move lengths proved to be intermediate. The robins' behavior on a particular foraging site appeared to be influenced by the mobility, distribution, and abundance of food items and by environmental structure. Similarities between fruit and ground foraging occurred primarily because both sites involved immobile and aggregated food items. Fruit-foraging move-and-pause patterns, however, also resembled vegetation-foraging patterns, due to the shared complexities of the arboreal environment. Robin behavior preceding and following feedings was also examined for each site. Observed responses were not directly correlated with foraging mode but appeared to be due to food-item distribution and mobility. I postulate that the robin's versatility, with respect to foraging behavior, may play a role in this species' wide range and apparent success.
10.1525/auk.2011.11087|Widespread decline of Neotropical migrant songbirds requires better understanding of the mechanisms driving juvenile mortality. We used markresight encounter histories of 3,990 banded fledglings (19982002) to test whether late breeding or large brood size negatively affected apparent annual and migrationwintering survival probability of juvenile Purple Martins (
25150264| Males of several avian species are more vigilant than their female partners, particularly during the preincubation period. Male vigilance may function as a deterrent of extrapair copulation attempts (EPCs) or to ensure male survival, because males of sexually dimorphic species may be more conspicuous to predators than females. However, vigilant males may act as antipredator sentinels to enhance female survivorship, which may also allow females to feed and rest more efficiently, thereby enhancing their ability to form clutches. We attempted to distinguish between the "male benefits" and "female benefits" hypotheses by studying the behavior of unpaired males and paired Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) during the preincubation period. Paired males were, on average, four times more vigilant than unpaired males and their mates, which suggests that elevated levels of vigilance by paired males does not function primarily for self-protection against predators. Males were not more vigilant during the female's fertile period, contrary to the "paternity assurance" hypothesis. Male vigilance during feeding bouts was highest when pairs fed alone near shore-a condition in which feeding was likely more "risky." Male vigilance was positively correlated with female feeding when females fed near shore, but not at other times. During resting bouts, males were vigilant 14  0.01% of the time in all conditions. We suggest that male vigilance may be important to enhance female survival, especially when females feed under risky conditions. /// Les mles de plusieurs espces aviaires sont plus vigilants que leur partenaire femelle, particulirement durant la priode de pr-incubation. La vigilance des mles peut fonctionner comme un moyen de dissuasion contre les tentatives de copulation extra-conjugale (CEC) ou pour assurer la survie du mle, car les mles des espces affichant un dimorphisme sexuel peuvent tre plus faciles  reprer par les prdateurs que les femelles. Nanmoins, les mles vigilants peuvent agir comme des sentinelles anti-prdateur pour augmenter la survie des femelles, ce qui peut aussi permettre aux femelles de se nourrir et se reposer plus efficacement, et ainsi augmenter leur aptitude  produire des ufs. Nous avons tent de distinguer les hypothses de " bnfice au mle " et " bnfice  la femelle " en tudiant le comportement des mles non apparis et des couples d'Arlequins plongeurs (Histrionicus histrionicus) durant la priode de pr-incubation. Les mles apparis taient, en moyenne, quatre fois plus vigilants que leur femelle et les mles non apparis, ce qui suggre que les niveaux levs de vigilance des mles apparis n'ont pas essentiellement pour fonction leur propre protection contre les prdateurs. Les mles n'taient pas plus vigilants au cours de la priode fertile de la femelle, contrairement  l'hypothse " d'assurance de la paternit ". La vigilance des mles durant les pisodes d'alimentation tait plus leve lorsque les couples s'alimentaient seuls prs de la rive - une condition pour laquelle l'alimentation tait apparemment plus " risque ". La vigilance des mles tait positivement corrle avec l'alimentation de la femelle seulement lorsque les femelles s'alimentaient prs de la rive. Lors des pisodes de repos, les mles taient vigilants 14  0.01% du temps dans toutes les conditions. Nous suggrons que la vigilance du mle peut tre importante pour accrotre la survie de la femelle, spcialement lorsque les femelles s'alimentaient dans des conditions risques. 
4087916|We determined habitat preferences for males and females of nine species of dichromatic warblers in the Sian Ka'an Reserve, Quintana Roo, Mexico. We found significant habitat segregation in the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas), Magnolia Warbler (Dendroica magnolia), and Northern Parula (Parula americana), and we confirmed previously reported habitat segregation in the Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina). Possible differences in habitat distribution were found in the Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), Prothonotary Warbler (Protonotaria citrea), and Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens). Only migratory Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) showed no sign of sexual segregation. In all five cases where there is a significant difference between successional stages, males occupied the more mature habitat. The overall frequency and spatial pattern of recaptures were similar between sexes.
10.2307/4089929| The response of passerine birds to forest edge was examined in old-growth and mature second-growth coast redwood (Sequoia sempivirens) forest in northern California. The study objectives were to determine which common passerine species are sensitive to edges during the breeding season and to estimate edge width for forest interior species. Response to edge was measured along twelve 100  400 m plots extending from the edge into the forest interior to obtain relative density of birds. Plots were surveyed 4 to 5 times in 1996 and 8 to 10 times in 1997. We found that 14 common passerines showed a gradient of edge sensitivity. Steller's Jay (Cyanocitta stelleri) and Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus) had higher relative densities near edges than in the forest interior (P < 0.05) and were categorized as edge species. Brown Creeper (Certhia americana), Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), Pacific-slope Flycatcher (Empidonax difficilis), and Varied Thrush (Ixoreus naevius) had lower relative densities near edges (P < 0.05) and were categorized as interior birds. Based on exponential regression models, estimated edge widths were 140 m for Varied Thrushes, 85 m for Brown Creepers, 120 m for Winter Wrens, and 125 m for Pacific-slope Flycatchers. Creation of edges would probably benefit Steller's Jays (which may be a nest predator), may not benefit Swainson's Thrushes, and may be detrimental to species that avoid edges. We recommend that edge effects be taken into consideration when planning for the conservation of bird species in the region. 
10.2307/4090065| High nest-predation risk is often associated with forest edges. Most nest predators in boreal coniferous forests of North America are forest specialists living in mature stands. Nest predators have been studied mainly through use of artificial nests; knowledge of their behavior remains limited. We used radiotelemetry to examine movement patterns, relative to forest edge, of a forest nest predator, the Gray Jay (Perisoreus canadensis), in boreal coniferous forest. Each of 11 family groups of Gray Jays monitored in early summer exhibited a marked association with forest edges. Jays were found within 30 m of the forest edges more often than expected from random use of mature forest. Furthermore, jays traveled more slowly near forest edges than in the forest interior. Because forest edges apparently represent prime foraging habitat for Gray Jays, narrow forest strips left by logging could act as ecological traps for mature-stand songbirds before stands regenerate in adjacent clearcuts. /// Un risque lev de prdation est souvent associ aux lisires des forts. La plupart des prdateurs de nids des forts conifriennes borales de l'Amrique du Nord sont essentiellement des espces du milieu forestier mature. Les prdateurs de nids ont surtout t tudis  l'aide de nids artificiels et la connaissance de leur comportement reste limite. Nous avons utilis la tlmtrie conventionnelle pour examiner les patrons de mouvement relatifs aux lisires des forts par un prdateur de nid forestier, Perisoreus canadensis, dans une fort conifrienne borale. Chacun des 11 groupes familiaux de Perisoreus canadensis suivis au dbut de l't montraient une association marque avec les lisires. Les msangeais ont t trouvs plus souvent  moins de 30 m d'une lisire forestire que l'aurait suggre une rpartition alatoire de leurs activits dans la fort mature. De plus, les msangeais se dplaaient plus lentement prs des lisires qu' l'intrieur de la fort. tant donn que les lisires reprsentent apparemment un habitat privilgi pour la qute de nourriture chez Perisoreus canadensis, les bandes troites de forts laisses aprs les coupes forestires pourraient constituer des piges cologiques pour les passereaux de la fort mature, avant que les peuplements se rgnrent dans les coupes adjacentes. 
10.2307/4089320|The Galapagos Darwin's finches (Geospizinae) have been classified as three major groups based on morphology and behavior: ground-finches, tree-finches, and the Warbler Finch (Certhidea olivacea). Little is known about the evolutionary relationships within and among these groups, which is partly due to the lack of a phylogeny based on molecular sequence data. We used mitochondrial sequence data to reconstruct a phylogeny of Darwin's finches. These data show that within the tree-finches, only one genus is conclusively monophyletic, and another is conclusively paraphyletic. It may be appropriate to uphold the classification of the tree-finches into two genera. The Warbler Finch complex is paraphyletic, as revealed by two divergent genetic lineages contained within this species. Stochastic lineage sorting within relatively recently diverged species and interspecific and intergeneric hybridization are the two most likely explanations for the sharing of haplotypes among taxa.
10.1525/auk.2011.10178|Climate change and sea-level rise pose an imminent threat to the survival of coastal ecosystems, but the mechanisms by which animals inhabiting these areas may be affected by these changes are not well studied. During 20072009, we quantified the frequency of nest-flooding events at two salt marshes located in the northeastern United States that are of global importance to Saltmarsh Sparrow (
10.2307/4088770|Minimum-area-requirement estimates for area-sensitive birds may underestimate the actual area needed to provide long-term breeding habitat because they do not consider the pairing and mating success of territorial males. Patterns of pairing success were studied in Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) in north-central Missouri in forest tracts below, approaching, and exceeding minimum-area-requirement estimates for this species. The possible roles of habitat area, isolation, and edge effect in causing reduced pairing success were examined. Male Ovenbird territories were spot mapped within seven forest tracts. Each male was observed to determine if he had acquired a mate. The percentage of paired male Ovenbirds was directly related to forest-tract area and total estimated male Ovenbird population. A higher percentage of males with territories more than 300 m from the forest edge were paired than males with territories less than or equal to 300 m from the forest edge. The combined effect of total forest area, edge-to-interior ratio, and percent forest cover within a 5-km radius of the tracts was highly correlated with pairing success. Edge effects are an important consideration that should be a contributing factor when developing minimum-area-requirement estimates.
10.2307/4088637|Two plumage forms were observed in redpolls from Churchill, Manitoba, which correspond to the putative taxa Carduelis flammea flammea (dark-plumaged birds) and C. hornemanni exilipes (pale-plumaged birds). In a sample of breeding adults (n = 277), we examined whether morphometric differentiation parallels this plumage polymorphism. Males and females were analyzed independently, and age, date of capture, and status at measurement (study skin vs. live bird) were considered as covariates in univariate analyses. We used a separate phenetic analysis of plumage characters, rather than our subjective field identifications, to establish the groups to be compared statistically; this ensured that mensural characters (e.g. bill shape) were not utilized as classification criteria for the present investigation of metric traits. In both sexes, redpoll plumage forms differed significantly in three of seven external mensural characters. Discriminant-function analyses, based on the same characters, showed that the forms can be distinguished morphometrically with great confidence (jackknifed estimate of correctly classified individuals was 87% in both sexes). In males and females, the distribution of discriminant scores of typical individuals and of a set of unidentified birds is bimodal. In a bivariate-reduced space of plumage and morphometric variability, pale- and dark-plumaged ASY (after-second-year) males form distinct groups. In SY (second-year) males and in females, plumage forms are not strictly distinct, but in no case was there an abundance of intermediates as predicted under the hypothesis that the forms are distinct species that frequently interbreed. Redpoll types may be specifically distinct, as has frequently been suggested, but they also may be examples of intraspecific genetic or ecophenotypic polymorphism. Experimental breeding and an assessment of mating patterns in the field are required to test these possibilities.
10.1525/auk.2009.09063|Many North American bird species either accept or reject all Brown-headed Cowbird (
10.2307/4090418| The Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi), an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper, drills 3-5 mm deep holes in particular ohia trees (Metrosideros polymorpha) and drinks the sap that emerges, a remarkable example of convergent evolution in sap-feeding behavior with mainland woodpeckers and Australian sugar-gliders. There has been little research on how this species selects sap trees ("Aki trees") and what advantages they confer. We marked the locations of and collected sap samples and microhabitat data from 101 Aki trees and 73 randomly selected control trees in Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge, Hawaii. Aki trees were rare (2 ha
4085091|Seven species of small antbirds were used to test predictions concerning the effects of physical factors in the form of foliage and sunlight and competitive interactions among themselves on three Amazon forest plots. Morphological adaptations of tarsus and wing length showed a correlation to foraging behavior and foliage use. Increased midday sunlight apparently caused a downward movement of the small antbirds. Evolutionary minimization of interactions within the small antbird populations on each plot was inferred from vertical stratification and a complementary cycle of diurnal broadening and narrowing of breadth in substrate and vertical foraging height.
10.2307/4090011| Counting techniques are widely used to study and monitor terrestrial birds. To assess current applications of counting techniques, we reviewed landbird studies published 1989-1998 in nine major journals and one symposium. Commonly used techniques fell into two groups: procedures that used counts of bird detections as an index to abundance (index counts), and procedures that used empirical models of detectability to estimate density. Index counts rely upon assumptions concerning detectability that are difficult or impossible to meet in most field studies, but nonetheless remain the technique of choice among ornithologists; 95% of studies we reviewed relied upon point counts, strip transects, or other index procedures. Detectability-based density estimates were rarely used and deserve wider application in landbird studies. Distance sampling is a comprehensive extension of earlier detectability-based procedures (variable-width transects, variable circular plots) and a viable alternative to index counts. We provide a conceptual overview of distance sampling, specific recommendations for applying this technique to studies of landbirds, and an introduction to analysis of distance sampling data using the program DISTANCE. /// Las tcnicas de conteo son usadas ampliamente para estudiar y monitorear aves terrestres. Para determinar las aplicaciones actuales de las distintas tcnicas de conteo, revisamos los estudios publicados en nueve revistas cientficas importantes y un simposio entre 1989 y 1998. Las tcnicas comnmente utilizadas pueden separarse en dos grupos: las que utilizan conteos del nmero de detecciones de aves como ndices de abundancia (conteos de ndice) y las que emplean modelos empricos de detectabilidad para estimar la densidad. Aunque los conteos de ndice se basan en suposiciones relacionadas con la detectabilidad que son difciles o imposibles de cumplir en estudios de campo, stos siguen siendo los mtodos ms utilizados por los ornitlogos. El 95% de los estudios que revisamos emplearon conteos de punto, transectos de banda u otros procedimientos basados en ndices. Por su parte, las estimaciones de la densidad basadas en la detectabilidad fueron muy poco usadas y merecen ser aplicadas con mayor frecuencia en estudios de aves terrestres. El muestreo de distancias ("distance sampling"), una extensin integral de los procedimientos previos basados en la detectabilidad (transectos de ancho variable, parcelas circulares variables), representa una alternativa viable con respecto a los conteos de ndice. Presentamos una visin conceptual del muestreo de distancias incluyendo recomendaciones especficas para la aplicacin de esta tcnica en estudios de aves terrestres y una introduccin al anlisis de datos de muestreos de distancias utilizando el programa DISTANCE. 
90008064|Latitudinal differences in territorial behavior are considered to have great influence on differences in life-history strategies of Nearctic and Neotropical birds. Most territorial behavior of tropical birds has particularities that cannot be explained only by theories from studies of birds in temperate regions. We evaluated the territorial system of the cooperative-breeding White-banded Tanager (
4085849|In the first of three studies, American Robins (Turdus migratorius) spent progressively less time foraging on a suburban lawn as the grass grew longer. The rate of attacks at apparent prey, however, was actually greater in long than in short grass. When, in a second study, the robins were offered a direct choice between short- and long-grassed areas, the birds showed an overwhelming preference for short grass. A third study revealed that the act of mowing itself (i.e. independent of grass length) induced a short-term enhancement in the time the robins spent foraging, implying that the birds were exploiting temporarily vulnerable prey.
25488674|Because reliable estimates of nesting success are very important to avian studies, the definition of a "successful nest" and the use of different analytical methods to estimate success have received much attention. By contrast, variation in the criteria used to determine whether an occupied site that did not produce offspring contained a nesting attempt is a source of bias that has been largely ignored. This problem is especially severe in studies that deal with species whose nest contents are relatively inaccessible because observers cannot determine whether or not an egg was laid for a large proportion of occupied sites. Burrowing Owls (
10.2307/4088818|The evolutionary success of individuals must ultimately be evaluated in terms of their lifetime contribution of mature young to the breeding population. The greater lifetime breeding success of the more dominant hens in an unconfined flock of Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus) gave crucial evidence why female dominance hierarchies have evolved in this species. The number of chicks reared to independence by 28 hens of one flock from 1982 to 1988 was significantly associated with a hen's dominance, life-span, and year of hatching. Of these, dominance was by far the most important factor. It, by itself, could explain differences in the number of chicks reared as shown by log-linear analysis. This suggests that the associations with life-span and year of hatching may result from the fact that these are correlated with dominance. The top 3 hens in the peck order added more offspring of breeding age to the population than did the remaining 25 adult hens of the flock. Eleven of the 28 hens reared no young successfully.
10.2307/4088862|We present a survey of passerine birds designed to investigate the frequency with which sexual dimorphism in coloration or color pattern has evolved from monomorphism (or the converse). Based on the number of genera that have both a monomorphic and a dimorphic species, and the minimum number of changes inferred to have occurred between genera, the transition between dimorphism and monomorphism has occurred at least 150 times. Using the Sibley/Ahlquist phylogeny, we obtain maximum likelihood estimates of the probability that one state will be in the other after one million years of 0.01 to 0.02 (monomorphism to dimorphism) and 0.03 to 0.04 (dimorphism to monomorphism). The rate of transition from dimorphism to monomorphism appears to be higher than the converse, and there are more monomorphic than dimorphic species. We conclude that the transition between alternative states is not difficult, and that the evolution of sexual dimorphism, given appropriate selection pressures, is unlikely to be constrained.
10.2307/4088009|In a population of Green Woodhoopoes (Phoeniculus purpureus) in the Rift Valley of Kenya, food abundance and breeding success varied greatly as a result of highly unpredictable patterns and abundance of rainfall. A given pair of woodhoopoes may breed successfully from zero to three times between May and December. We found a female-biased sex ratio in first nests of the year among those female breeders that had few (0-2) helpers. Apart from predation of entire broods, nestling mortality was extremely low (5%), and the bias was not based on differential starvation of male and female chicks. We examined several possible explanations for the female-biased sex ratio, and we suggest that production of female offspring by breeders in small groups is adaptive in that females are smaller and probably less expensive to rear than males. Young female nest helpers contributed significantly more feedings to subsequent broods than did their male siblings of the same age. The bias toward daughters could be effected either via nonrandom segregation of sex chromosomes or by differential mortality of eggs by sex. In several other bird species, larger eggs may give rise to males. This provides a possible means for the female parent to discriminate the sex of offspring before hatching.
10.2307/4086822|During a 13-yr period mean Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) clutch size at a central California colony ranged between 2.72 and 3.35 eggs, with an overall mean of 3.16. Mean Great Egret (Casmerodius albus) clutch size ranged from 2.70 to 3.07 eggs, with an overall mean of 2.87. Annual differences in clutch size were weakly significant in both species, and clutch size in both species declined slightly with relative as well as absolute time of breeding. The overall mean number of fledglings produced from heron nests was 1.45, with annual means ranging from 0.89 to 2.38. Year, clutch size, and relative time of breeding had significant effects on heron fledging success. The mean number of fledged egrets/nest was 0.90, ranging from 0.03 to 2.04 annually; only annual differences accounted for a significant proportion of the variance in fledging success. In both species, the most frequent clutch size was 3 but the most productive size was 4. Overall, 46.8% of the heron eggs and 33.0% of the egret eggs fledged young. The herons nested in smaller numbers and earlier than the egrets. Annual variability in colony mean clutch-initiation dates was less for herons than for the egrets. Egret clutch and brood sizes were smaller before the 1972 ban on DDT and related chemicals than after. Laying dates before and after the ban did not differ significantly. A similar comparison for the herons showed no significant differences associated with the ban on DDT. The herons lost more young to starvation than to predation, and the egrets displayed the opposite trend. Mortality of the young was greatest for the herons in the second week of life and greatest for the egrets in the third; survival for both species was high after 5 weeks. Except for a drop in the number of breeding pairs of egrets after a year of heavy predation, fluctuations in population levels were not correlated with reproductive biology.
10.2307/4089965| Vertical stratification of bird species has been intensively studied in temperate as well as tropical forest bird communities. One question that has received less attention is the variation of foraging stratum breadth. Hypotheses trying to explain that variation are based on differences in perception, evasion, adaptation, competition, and environmental and geometric boundary constraints. Although some predict that foraging strata near the ground should be narrower than those near the canopy, others predict that strata in the midstory should be broadest. These hypotheses were tested using observational data of 92 rainforest bird species. Observations were made from or near a 40 m high canopy crane situated close to the Surumoni River (310N, 6540W) near Esmeralda, Estado Amazonas, southern Venezuela (Surumoni-Crane-Project). I found a highly significant parabolic relationship between mean foraging height and its standard deviation showing that midstory bird species foraged in a broader stratum than either understory or canopy species. Using a conservative comparative method, I also showed that the relationship was not the result of the phylogenetic relatedness of the species involved. Analysis of previously published data supports the relationship for two other tropical avifaunas. Because the ground and the outer canopy represent geometric boundaries to the movement of most forest birds, two simulation models were used to test whether midstory species may simply have a broader stratum because they are less constrained in their movements than species near the boundaries. The "random model" allowed individuals to move randomly between the two boundaries. It illustrated that boundary constraints alone cannot explain the observed parabolic relationship. In the "preference model," individuals tended to move back to their preferred height within the forest column. That model simulated the observed parabolic relationship once a sufficient number of time steps had been reached, suggesting that a simple combination of geometric boundaries and preference for a specific foraging height may generate narrower strata near the boundaries. The other hypotheses only explain the parabolic relationship if other factors (e.g. vegetation density) are vertically distributed in such a way as to generate the observed parabolic pattern. Finally, I briefly discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using raw data in across-species analyses versus corrected data in phylogenetically-controlled analyses. /// Las estratificacin vertical de especies de aves ha sido estudiada intensamente en comunidades de aves tanto templadas como tropicales. Una pregunta que ha recibido menor atencin es la variacin de la amplitud de los estratos de forrajeo. Las hiptesis que intentan explicar esta variacin estn basadas en las diferencias en la percepcin, evasin, adaptacin, competencia y en las restricciones impuestas por los lmites ambientales y geomtricos. A pesar de que algunas hiptesis predicen que los estratos de forrajeo cercanos al suelo deberan ser ms estrechos que aquellos cercanos al dosel, otras predicen que los estratos de forrajeo en el dosel medio deberan ser los ms amplios. Puse a prueba estas hiptesis utilizando observaciones de 92 especies de aves de selva lluviosa. Las observaciones fueron realizadas desde o cerca de una gra de dosel localizada cerca del ro Surumoni (310N, 6540O) cerca de Esmeralda, Estado Amazonas, sur de Venezuela. Encontr una relacin parablica altamente significativa entre la altura media de forrajeo y su desviacin estndar, lo que muestra que las especies del dosel medio forrajean en un estrato ms amplio que las del sotobosque o el dosel. Utilizando un mtodo comparativo conservativo, mostr que la relacin encontrada no fue resultado de las relaciones filogenticas de las especies involucradas. Anlisis de datos previamente publicados apoyan la relacin para otras dos avifaunas tropicales. Debido a que el sotobosque y el dosel exterior representan lmites geomtricos para el movimiento de la mayora de las aves de bosque, utilic dos modelos de simulacin para determinar si las aves del dosel medio tienen estratos ms amplios simplemente debido a que estn menos restringidas en sus movimientos que especies cercanas a los lmites. El "modelo azaroso" permiti a los individuos moverse al azar entre los dos lmites. ste mostr que las restricciones impuestas por los lmites no pueden explicar la relacin parablica observada por s solas. En el "modelo de preferencia" los individuos tendieron a moverse hacia sus alturas preferidas dentro de la columna del bosque. Este modelo simul la relacin parablica observada una vez que un nmero suficiente de intervalos de tiempo fue alcanzado, sugiriendo que una combinacin simple entre los lmites geomtricos y preferencia por una altura de forrajeo especfica puede generar estratos ms estrechos cerca de los lmites. Las otras hiptesis slo explican la relacin parablica si otros factores (e.g. densidad de la vegetacin) se encuentran verticalmente distribuidos de tal manera que pueden generar el patrn parablico observado. Finalmente, discuto brevemente las ventajas y desventajas de utilizar datos crudos en anlisis entre especies contra datos corregidos mediante anlisis filogenticamente controlados. 
4085812| In Part I, a mathematical treatment is given of the various ways in which a bird could, in principle, determine its latitude from measurements of the Coriolis force. A bird flying in a horizontal plane can determine whether it is in the Northern or Southern Hemisphere and locate the meridian by seeking a flight direction in which the Coriolis force is horizontal. By flying out of the horizontal plane and seeking a flight direction in which the Coriolis force is zero, it can determine its latitude (but not its hemisphere) and locate the meridian. Its latitude, hemisphere, and meridian are determined by doing both of these experiments or by determining the direction of the Coriolis force for two different flight directions, or from one flight direction if it knows the angular speed of the Earth. In Part II, a discussion is given of the trajectories that would be followed under the influence of the Coriolis force alone. At high latitudes, the trajectory takes the form of a loop that drifts east or west according to whether the initial latitude is greater or less than 45. At low latitudes, the trajectory is a figure-eight that drifts east or west depending on the initial azimuth. 
10.2307/4090229| Broods of geese spend time feeding according to availability and quality of food plants, subject to inherent foraging and digestive constraints. We studied behavioral patterns of broods of Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, and examined how feeding and alert behavior varied in relation to habitat and goose density. During 1994-1996, time spent feeding by Emperor Goose goslings and adult females was positively related to multispecies goose densities near observation blinds, and not to just Emperor Goose density. Similarly, body mass of Emperor Goose goslings was more strongly related (negatively) to multispecies goose densities than intraspecific densities. A grazing experiment in 1995 indicated that most above ground primary production by Carex subspathacea, a preferred food plant, was consumed by grazing geese. Those results demonstrate that interspecific competition for food occurred, with greatest support for goslings whose behavioral repertoire is limited primarily to feeding, digesting, and resting. Although the more abundant Cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) differed from Emperor Geese in their preferred use of habitats during brooding rearing (Schmutz 2001), the two species occurred in equal abundance in habitats preferred by Emperor Goose broods. Thus, Cackling Canada Geese were a numerically significant competitor with Emperor Geese. Comparing these results to an earlier study, time spent feeding by goslings, adult females, and adult males were greater during 1993-1996 than during 1985-1986. During the interval between those studies, densities of Cackling Canada Geese increased two to three times whereas Emperor Goose numbers remained approximately stable, which implies that interspecific competition affected foraging behavior over a long time period. These density-dependent changes in foraging behavior and body mass indicate that interspecific competition affects nutrient acquisition and gosling growth, which has a demonstrated effect (Schmutz 1993) on juvenile survival of Emperor Geese. Management of Emperor Geese should consider interspecific relations and densities of all goose species occurring on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. /// El tiempo que las cras de gansos utilizan para alimentarse depende de la disponibilidad y calidad de las plantas de las cuales se alimentan, y est sujeto a las restricciones inherentes del forrajeo y la digestin. Estudiamos los patrones conductuales de cras de Chen canagica en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim, Alaska, y examinamos cmo la conducta de alimentacin y de alerta variaron con respecto al hbitat y densidad de gansos. Durante 1994-1996, el tiempo que los gansos juveniles y las hembras adultas gastaron en la alimentacin, se relacion positivamente con las densidad de gansos de mltiples especies que se encontraban cerca de los puestos de observacin, y no slo con las densidades de C. canagica. Similarmente, el peso corporal de los juveniles de C. canagica estuvo ms relacionado (negativamente) con las densidades de gansos de mltiples especies que con las densidades intraespecficas. Un experimento de pastoreo en 1995 indic que la mayora de la produccin primaria de Carex subspathacea existente por sobre el suelo, una planta preferida como alimento, fue consumida por los gansos que pastoreaban. Estos resultados demuestran que ocurri competencia interespecfica por el alimento, lo que fue mejor apoyado por las conductas de los gansos juveniles cuyo repertorio conductual est principalmente limitado a alimentarse, digerir y descansar. Aunque el ganso Branta canadensis minima (ms abundante) difiri de C. canagica en las preferencias de uso de hbitats durante el perodo de cra (Schmutz 2001), las dos especies ocurrieron en la misma abundancia en los hbitats preferidos por las cras de C. canagica. As, B. canadensis minima fue un competidor numricamente significativo para C. canagica. Comparando nuestros resultados con los de un estudio anterior, el tiempo invertido en la alimentacin por los juveniles, hembras adultas y machos adultos fue mayor durante 1993-1996 que durante 1985-1986. Durante el intervalo de tiempo entre estos estudios, las densidades de B. canadensis mnimos aumentaron dos a tres veces mientras que los nmeros de C. canagica permanecieron aproximadamente estables, lo que implica que la competencia interespecfica afect la conducta de forrajeo por un largo perodo de tiempo. Estos cambios denso-dependientes en la conducta de forrajeo y peso corporal indican que la competencia interespecfica afecta la adquisicin de nutrientes y el crecimiento de los juveniles, lo que tiene un efecto demostrado (Schmutz 1993) en la supervivencia de juveniles de C. canagica. El manejo de los gansos C. canagica debe considerar las relaciones interespecficas y densidades de todas las especies de gansos que ocurren en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim, Alaska. 
4087082|To determine the daily and total energy expenditures of breeding female House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), we collected 276 females near London, Ontario between April 1981 and May 1983. Protein and fat content of developing follicles, eggs, and oviducts were determined and converted into their energy equivalents. Eight days were required to develop and lay a modal clutch of 4 eggs. Fat energy requirements were not estimable accurately because total body fat did not decline linearly over the egg production period; therefore, energy requirements were estimated as a range. Based on a 4-egg clutch, the maximum daily costs of reproduction, 16.5-17.6 kJ/day, equalled 44-47% of a female's standard metabolic rate. We estimate that daily costs very less than 10% for other clutch sizes (3 or 5). The total energy demand of reproduction was 66-71 kJ. Protein requirements comprised 59-63% of the total costs and were apportioned among oviduct (5-6%), yolk protein (17-19%), and albumen (36-39%). Fat requirements accounted for the remaining 37-41% of total costs. Based on our estimates of energy needed for reproduction, and on other evidence, we suspect that egg production by House Sparrows is not constrained by energy acquisition.
10.2307/4088977|From 1990 through 1993, I examined the interactions among a group of bird species in central Venezuela that use the multichambered stick nests of the Plain-fronted Thornbird (Phacellodomus rufifrons). Eleven species besides thornbirds, referred to as associates, used thornbird nests as nest sites and, in some cases, roost sites. During the 18-month study, 130 incidents of associates nesting in thornbird nests were recorded. More than 90% of thornbird territories observed for at least two breeding seasons (n = 33) had at least one associate nesting attempt. Four species accounted for over 86% of the attempts by associates: Cattle Tyrants (Machetornis rixosus), Stripe-backed Wrens (Campylorhynchus nuchalis), Saffron Finches (Sicalis flaveola), and Troupials (Icterus icterus). Sometimes thornbird and associate nesting attempts overlapped, taking place within the same nest in different chambers, or in different thornbird nests within a territory. Nine of 27 (33%) thornbird nesting attempts at the beginning of the 1991 breeding season overlapped associate attempts, and 5 of 26 (19%) overlapped in 1992. Nesting with associates involved benefits and costs for the thornbirds. In 1991, thornbird nesting attempts that overlapped Troupial nesting attempts were no more likely to succeed (33% successful, n = 6) than attempts with no associate overlap (28% successful, n = 18). Thornbird attempts that overlapped those of other species, however, were significantly more likely to succeed than attempts with no overlap (100% successful, n = 3). In 1992, patterns were similar (0% successful with Troupials, n = 2; 10% successful with no associates, n = 21; 33% successful with other associates, n = 3), although high thornbird nest mortality and small sample sizes precluded statistical analysis. Thornbird nesting attempts that overlapped two associate nesting attempts (n = 7, 1991 and 1992 combined) had a high success rate (71%). Rainfall in the month before fledging was positively associated with the number of fledglings produced in 1991, but not in 1992. Nest-guarding behavior by associates and enhanced mobbing of predators (demonstrated in predator-presentation experiments) were likely mechanisms of enhanced reproductive success when thornbirds nested with associates. Thornbirds often were treated with aggression by associates, and circumstantial evidence indicated that Troupials sometimes preyed on thornbird eggs and nestlings. Valuable nest sites may lead coexisting species to converge, rather than diverge, in their use of this resource.
10.1525/auk.2009.09025|Delayed natal dispersal occurs in many tropical and southern temperate species. In these species, juveniles remain with their parents on natal territories for periods beyond the age of nutritional independence, in contrast to juveniles of northern temperate species, in which prompt dispersal is more typical. Despite its prominence in the life history of tropical and southern temperate birds and its importance in setting the stage for prolonged social interactions among kin, detailed knowledge about delayed dispersal in most species that inhabit these regions is lacking. We describe patterns of delayed dispersal, territory acquisition, and natal dispersal distances in a Neotropical species, the Buff-breasted Wren (
10.2307/4088270| I tested American Robins (Turdus migratorius) for individual differences in fruit consumption and preference when offered six trials of a three-way choice of white mulberry (red variety; Morus alba L.), Bella honeysuckle (Lonicera  bella), and red-osier dogwood (Cornus stolonifera Michx.) fruits. Fruit choice was examined secondarily in relation to indices of fruit quality (fruit mass, percent water, refractive index, trial date, source plant) and in relation to age, sex, and individual morphometric variation of the birds. Pooling all trials and all birds, mulberry was eaten significantly more than either honeysuckle or dogwood. Although adults differed from juveniles in body mass at capture and in relative bill dimensions, fruit choice did not vary in relation to age or sex. Also, juveniles were not more variable than adults in fruit choice. However, individual birds differed significantly in fruit choice (15 preferred mulberry, 2 preferred dogwood, 0 preferred honeysuckle), and 15 individuals were consistent in fruit choice from trial-to-trial. Indices of fruit quality changed over the course of the study. For each of the three fruit species, some variables were significantly different among individual plants, over time, or both. Some fruit-quality variables explained small but significant amounts of variation in fruit consumption (numbers of fruits eaten) and preference (number of fruit A eaten/[(number of fruit B eaten) + (number of fruit C eaten)]. Robins preferred fruits from mulberry trees that had fruits of relatively lower mass and higher refractive index. After I controlled for effects of fruit quality, trial date, and source plant in multiple regression analyses, residual consumption and preference scores still differed significantly among individuals. Residuals for mulberry and dogwood were negatively correlated, which implies a trade-off in consumption of these two fruits. Individual differences in body mass, but not in bill or wing dimensions, explained significant amounts of the variation in residual mulberry consumption and in mulberry and dogwood preference. Heavier robins tended to prefer and eat more mulberries, the largest fruit, whereas lighter robins preferred dogwood fruits, which were the smallest. Dietary diversity correlated positively with wing length. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09086|We examined the population genetics and phylogenetics of
10.2307/4088600| To investigate whether shorebirds breeding in the High Arctic have relatively high rates of energy expenditure due to the harsh climatic conditions that prevail even in summer, we measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) and water turnover of Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres) during the incubation phase on Rowley Island in Foxe Basin, N.W.T., Canada, at 69N, using the doubly-labeled-water technique. Simultaneously, we conducted detailed measurements of ambient climatic conditions, including in situ measurements with heated taxidermic mounts. A series of 11 doubly-labeled-water measurements with eight individual Ruddy Turnstones, of which at least seven successfully hatched eggs, yielded a mean DEE of 4.08 W. This is a relatively high value for a 108-g bird, equalling four times their basal metabolic rate (BMR). Most variation in DEE was attributable to standard operative temperature, which combines the effects of air temperature, wind and radiation on heat loss from the turnstone's point of view. On average, 25% of DEE was attributable to BMR, 31% to the cost of thermoregulation, and 44% to the cost of activity. The average value for water turnover of 96.6 g/day is high compared to published values for other birds and confirms the large requirement for food (which is water-rich) of incubating Ruddy Turnstones. An analysis of the climatic conditions prevalent in Foxe Basin during the breeding seasons of Ruddy Turnstones, based on the 33-year period 1958-1990, indicated that they faced thermostatic hardships, defined as energy expenditure exceeding the maximum sustained working level (estimated at 4.5 times BMR), on 15% of the days. Climatic conditions were most severe in the early 1960s, but have improved since. 
4087663|We compared breeding-site fidelity of Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) at two low-quality sites (Bald Hill and Shackelton Point, BH+SP) with that at one high-quality site (Moore Road, MR) in central New York. Yearly density of fledglings at Moore Road was more than six times the density at Bald Hill and Shackelton Point. Furthermore, individual residents fledged 50-70% more young at the high-quality site. At Moore Road, 70% of the males and 49% of the females returned one or more times, compared with 44% of the males and 25% of the females at the low-quality sites. Successful residents (i.e. those fledging one or more young the previous year) were equally likely to return at all sites. However, the return rates of unsuccessful residents were more than three times higher at the high-quality site. Neither overall return rates nor intrasite dispersal of returning residents differed between individuals that had been successful or unsuccessful the previous year at the high-quality site. At the low-quality sites, individuals unsuccessful the previous year were much less likely to return than were successful individuals (55% vs. 19% for males, 41% vs. 9% for females). Those unsuccessful individuals that did return tended to move farther between nest sites than successful individuals. Overall, site productivity was the best predictor of yearly, site-specific return rates. For females (but not for males), individuals that were resident in one or more years previous were more likely to return than were novice residents (47% vs. 20%). Individuals that had nests experimentally destroyed by hay-cropping returned at similar rates to those of naturally unsuccessful residents. We believe that the patterns of breeding-site fidelity in Bobolinks are primarily the result of experience-based choices by the birds and do not simply reflect patterns of mortality. Bobolinks appear to use both their own reproductive success and that of others at their site to influence their decision to return to a breeding site.
4085151|The begging behavior of immature Zebra Finches has both visual and acoustic components. Begging nestlings gape at their parents, exposing characteristic mouth markings and a moving tongue. They also emit begging calls. Both components undergo changes as the offspring mature, and there is a shift from the visual to acoustic modality as the primary stimulus for feeding. Recorded fledgling begging calls were broadcast inside the cages of Zebra Finch parents with offspring. These begging calls stimulated parental feeding and other behaviors associated with feeding. The offspring also responded to recorded calls by showing begging behavior. Parents were sensitive to recorded begging calls from approximately day 16 to day 28 after the first offspring hatched, although there was substantial variation in these times among pairs of parents.
4085208| A new genus and species of tiny owl of the family Strigidae is described from cloud forest in the Departamento de San Martn in northern Peru. It appears to be allied to Glaucidium and Micrathene, more closely to the latter than to the former, but generically clearly separable from both of these taxa. 
10.2307/4087547| The spacing behavior of 58 male Common Capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus) was studied at Varaldskogen in southeast Norway during 1979-1985. Birds captured at leks were equipped with radio-transmitters, and their movements were monitored throughout the year. During spring, males 4 yr old and older occupied exclusive day territories of 10.2-66.0 ha that extended radially from a center at the lek. Adult cocks used the same lek and the same territory during successive years. Among marked birds, the youngest bred at 4 yr. No difference was found in territory size between breeding and nonbreeding adult males. Territories of 3-yr-olds (60.8  10.4 ha) were larger than those of older males (26.3  5.0 ha) and were located farther from the lek. All territories were within a 1.2-km radius of the lek center and were maintained from early April to the end of May. Yearlings and 2-yr-old males were nonterritorial. They moved irregularly among different, neighboring leks, settling near one lek at the end of their second spring season. When associated with one lek, their home ranges were 3-6 times larger than and overlapped peripherally the territories of resident adults. Established subadult and adult males did not change territories when vacancies were created by deaths of older birds, and successful matings were not dependent on occupying a particular territory. 
4086462|A discriminant function analysis of specimen measurements separates 96% of two forms of Lesser Golden Plover in breeding plumage, previously described as subspecies. The forms breed sympatrically in northwest Alaska and are not isolated by habitat, but the incidence of specimens phenotypically intermediate between two forms is no higher there than in areas of allopatry. The absence of a cline of intergrades or of a hybrid zone indicates that the forms are reproductively isolated through assortative mating and are separate species. To explain the process of speciation in these very similar forms, I propose that the evolution of genetically controlled and markedly different migration routes (Pluvialis dominica to South America and Pluvialis fulva to the central and western Pacific and Indian oceans) during Pleistocene glacial isolation may have selected against hybrids during subsequent secondary contact of populations. This would leat to adaptations in behavior and plumage, such as the difference in male undertail coverts reported here, that would produce assortative mating and reproductive isolation in sympatry. Thus, the requirements of migration and winter range drive the process of speciation.
10.2307/4088265|We measured values for natural remanent magnetization (NRM) and isothermal-induced remanent magnetization (IRM) in the head and neck for relatively large samples of eight bird species, and smaller samples of 13 additional species. Significant differences were found in mean NRM values among species; values ranged from
10.2307/4090029| We evaluated distribution and size of Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) colonies in northern San Jorge Gulf, Argentina, characterizing nesting habitat at 14 islands with colonies (IC) and 28 islands without nesting penguins (INC). Digital analysis of a Landsat TM satellite image and field measurements were used to assess vegetation and substrate. The 14 breeding colonies ranged in size from 13 to 96,300 nests, and number of breeding pairs was estimated at 218,460. Colonies were only located on islands. Digital analysis of the satellite image showed that the proportion of area with shrub-steppe vegetation was significantly higher at IC than at INC (38.6 vs. 4.9%), whereas percentage of rocky substrate was lower at IC (33.6 vs. 64.8%). Percentage of vegetation cover was positively correlated with island area and with number of breeding pairs. Most nests (98.6%) were located under bushes, whereas the rest were burrows dug into the substrate. Mean size of bushes used for nesting was higher at IC (4.47 vs. 0.99 m
10.2307/4085264| A five-compartment analysis of body composition was performed on indoor and outdoor captive White-crowned Sparrows before, during, and after their postnuptial molt. Body weight was monitored simultaneously in four experimental groups. The duration of postnuptial molt in indoor and outdoor birds averaged 60 days. The body weight of outdoor captives in Pullman changed similarly to that seen during the early stages of molt in Fairbanks captives, although late molt autumnal fattening is less intense and more irregular in Pullman captives. Birds on a constant photoperiod at 5 and 15C exhibited early weight gains, but these gains were either unsustained or converted to weight losses as molt progressed. Total body water in lean birds averaged 70% during molt and 68% after molt. The absolute weight of body water as well as body weight increased during molt. Thus the fractional TBW was essentially unchanged. The stability of the plumage-free lean body mass during molt reflected the negligible extent to which body protein is catabolized, although nocturnal protein degradation was not examined. The lean body weight during molt averaged 23.8% of the lean wet weight, plumage free, or about 5.6 g, but both these figures were only slightly higher after the molt. Plumage weight during the molt increased about 30%. Body feathers constituted the largest fraction (ca. 75%) of the plumage mass, even during molt. Plumage weight after molt was about 24% of the lean dry weight. Body lipid reached its nadir at the onset of molt in Fairbanks captives (LI = 3.5), but increased 6- to 7-fold at the end of molt (LI = 20). In Pullman outdoor captives, the increment was about 5-fold. Indoor captives vary in postmolt fattening, depending perhaps upon prior photoperiodic history before transfer to a constant photoperiodic environment. Thus some individual birds transferred later in the spring showed some degree of postmolt fattening, whereas those transferred earlier showed none. This is but a tentative conclusion. Although lipid reserves in the White-crowned Sparrow are small at the onset and perhaps most critical period of molt, the long feeding period and the mutual exclusion of the breeding and molting schedules preclude any apparent calorific drain on the avian body. It is suggested that the rapid molt period may be a selective force operating to separate temporally two events of the annual cycle that are potentially costly energetically. 
4090518| We examined a 63-year data set of dates of first spring sightings for 96 species of migrant birds at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, and considered the influence of local climate change on those arrival dates. Mean monthly spring temperatures increased (0.6-3.8C) for all four months considered; however, trends for February and March were stronger than those for April and May. Over the 63-year period, 27 species significantly altered their arrival dates. Most of those species arrived significantly earlier; whereas only two species, Greater Yellowlegs (Tringa melanoleuca) and Lesser Yellowlegs (T. flavipes), arrived significantly later over time. About half of the migrants showed significant relationships between arrival dates and mean temperature for their month of arrival. Fifteen species showed significantly earlier arrivals over time and a significant relationship between arrival date and temperature. We also characterized migrants by taxon, breeding status, and wintering location to determine whether there were any trends for altered arrivals within certain groups. Waterfowl, species that breed at Delta Marsh, and short-distance migrants showed slightly higher incidences of advancing arrival dates compared with other groups. Our results provide evidence that climate warming has influenced spring migration arrival dates of several species in Manitoba. /// Nous avons examin un ensemble de donnes de 63 ans contenant les dates des premires observations printanires de 96 espces d'oiseaux migrateurs dans le Delta Marsh, Manitoba. Nous avons considr l'influence des changements climatiques locaux sur ces dates d'arrive. Les tempratures printanires mensuelles ont augment (0,6-3,8C) pour toutes les priodes de quatre mois considres. Nanmoins, les tendances pour fvrier et mars taient plus fortes que celles pour avril et mai. Au cours des 63 annes analyses, 27 espces ont significativement modifi leur date d'arrive. La plupart de ces espces arrivaient significativement plus tt et seules deux espces, Tringa melanoleuca et T. flavipes, sont arrives significativement plus tard au cours du temps. Environ la moiti des oiseaux montrait des relations significatives entre les dates d'arrive et la temprature moyenne de leur mois d'arrive. Quinze espces sont arrives significativement plus tt au cours du temps et ont montr une relation significative entre la date d'arrive et la temprature. Nous avons galement caractris, par taxon, les statuts reproducteurs et les sites d'hivernage pour dterminer s'il existait des tendances dans les modifications de la date d'arrive au sein des groupes. Les espces de sauvagine qui nichent  Delta Marsh et celles qui migrent sur de courtes distances prsentaient dates d'arrive avances dans une proportion lgrement plus leve que d'autres groupes. Nos rsultats fournissent des preuves que le rchauffement climatique a influenc les dates d'arrive de plusieurs espces au Manitoba lors de la migration printanire. 
10.1525/auk.2013.12184|The degree of asymmetry in feather replacement may be considered a reliable measure of developmental instability of avian molt. Although empirical evidence exists for the fitness consequences of molt asymmetry, the proximate cause of asymmetrical molt remains unknown. We tested for the possibility of a link between asymmetry in feather replacement and hemoglobin concentration of first-year Common Snipe (
10.2307/4090103|Rates of infestation by the scaley leg mite (Knemidokoptes jamaicensis) were examined on two overwintering Nearctic-Neotropical migrants, Palm Warbler (Dendroica palmarum) and Prairie Warbler (D. discolor), in low-elevation desert thorn scrub and high-elevation pine forest in the Dominican Republic. Ectoparasites were common on birds in the dry thorn scrub where birds roosted communally, but were never found on birds in the moister pine forest where communal roosting was not detected. Prevalence of ectoparasites varied between years and generally increased in prevalence within winters, with mean rates of infestation reaching as high as 25% among Palm Warblers in late-winter. Parasitized Palm Warblers showed significant decreases in mean pectoral muscle mass scores indicating a negative effect on body condition and physiological stress. Infestation had a significant effect on overwinter site persistence and annual return rates; no infected individuals ever returned the following year. Results of a path analysis indicated that mite infestation was more important than general physiological condition (as represented by pectoral muscle score) in determining annual return. Data suggest that environmental variables and host behavior may affect parasite infestation rates, and further attention should be given to the potential contribution of parasite infestation to winter limitation of avian populations. /// Investigu en los meses de invierno los ndices de infestacin por el caro Knemidokoptes jamaicensis a dos especies de aves migratorias, Dendroica palmarum y D. discolor, en los matorrales del desierto de elevacin baja y en el bosque de pino de elevacin alta en la Repblica Dominicana. Los ectoparsitos eran comunes en las aves en los matorrales del desierto donde las aves se posan comunalmente, pero nunca se encontraban en las aves en el bosque de pino, donde el hbitat es ms hmedo y donde las aves no se posan comunalmente. El predomino de los ectoparsitos vari entre aos, y generalmente aument en frecuencia dentro los inviernos, con los ndices de infestacin ascendiendo a 25% entre D. palmarum hacia fines de invierno. La masa de los msculos pectorales baj significativamente en los individuos de D. palmarum con parsitos, indicando un impacto negativo en la condicin del ave y estrs fisiolgico. encontr un efecto significativo de la infestacin en la fidelidad al lugar y la tasa anual de retorno; ningn individuo infectado retorn el ao siguiente. Los anlisis indican que la infestacin por los parsitos era ms importante que la condicin fisiolgica (representada por la condicin de la masa de los msculos pectorales) determinando la tasa anual de retorno. Los datos sugieren que los ndices de infestacin podran ser afectados por variables ambientales y el comportamiento del hospedador, y que debemos dar ms atencin a la funcin potencial de infestaciones de parsitos en el perodo invernal a la limitacin de poblaciones de aves.
10.1525/auk.2011.11008|The cycle of violence hypothesis implicates child abuse as a cause of later violent behavior via social transmission between generations. It has received mixed support from human research and has prompted the study of nonhuman models with comparable abuse behaviors. The underlying biology of child abuse remains a controversial subject, perhaps partly because in nonhuman animals similar behavior occurs relatively rarely in wild populations. The Nazca Booby (
10.2307/4090181| A heretofore unknown population of the endangered Red Siskin (Carduelis cucullata) was discovered in southwestern Guyana, 950 km from populations along the Venezuela coastal cordilleras. Most Venezuelan populations have been greatly reduced by the pet trade during the past 150 years, thus the newly discovered Guyana population represents an opportunity to insure the survival of this highly endangered species in the wild. Breeding of Guyanese siskins coincides with both breeding periods (May to early July and November-December) that have been documented in Venezuela. Breeding behavior, vocalizations, feeding habits, and immature plumages are described. /// Se descubri una poblacin hasta ahora no conocida de Carduelis cucullata en el suroeste de Guyana, localizada a 950 km de poblaciones que se encuentran a lo largo de las cordilleras costeras de Venezuela. Durante los ltimos 150 aos, la mayora de las poblaciones venezolanas han sido diezmadas por los traficantes de mascotas, por lo que la poblacin descubierta recientemente en Guyana representa una oportunidad para garantizar la sobrevivencia de esta especie fuertemente amenazada en su ambiente natural. Los perodos reproductivos de C. cucullata en Guyana coinciden con los dos perodos reproductivos reportados en Venezuela (mayo a comienzos de julio y noviembre a diciembre). En este estudio se describen el comportamiento reproductivo, las vocalizaciones, los hbitos de forrajeo y los plumajes de individuos inmaduros. 
10.1525/auk.2013.13055|Current evidence suggests that the health effect of avian feather mites is minimal. However, feather mites can still proliferate without effective preening, such as might occur during sickness. House Finches (
10.2307/25150220|During migration, birds may store large quantities of fat to fuel long-distance flight. Because mass affects flight performance, fat migrants should behave with greater caution toward aerial predators than lean migrants. We tested a prediction of this hypothesis, namely, that fat birds will remain motionless longer than lean birds after a simulated encounter with a raptor. We captured Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) during fall migration, classified their subcutaneous fat, exposed them to a model hawk, and then recorded the time until their first perch change. To determine whether the birds treated the simulated predator as a threat, we also tested them with a hexagon-shaped model and with no model. The birds remained motionless longer with the hawk model than either of the two other treatments. Fat birds remained motionless longer than lean birds when exposed to the hawk model, but we detected no difference with the other two treatments. These results provide evidence that fat affects the predator-avoidance behavior of Gray Catbirds during migratory stopover. That a difference between fat and lean groups was only apparent with the hawk model treatment suggests that the result is attributable to differences in the flight performance of the two groups rather than simply a difference in motivation to begin foraging. We suggest that fat should influence the behavior of a wide variety of migrant birds, particularly those species that typically carry greater fat reserves or that forage in more exposed situations than the Gray Catbirds we tested. /// Durante la migracin, las aves pueden almacenar grandes cantidades de grasa para abastecer los vuelos de larga distancia. Debido a que la masa afecta el desempeo del vuelo, los migrantes gordos deberan comportarse con mayor precaucin que los migrantes magros en relacin con los depredadores areos. Evaluamos la prediccin de esta hiptesis de que las aves gordas permanecern sin moverse por ms tiempo que las aves magras luego de un encuentro simulado con una rapaz. Capturamos individuos de la especie Dumetella carolinensis durante la migracin otoal, clasificamos su grasa subcutnea, los expusimos a un modelo de halcn y luego registramos el tiempo hasta que las aves cambiaron de posicin. Para determinar si las aves consideraron al modelo del depredador como una amenaza, tambin evaluamos su reaccin frente a un modelo con forma hexagonal y su comportamiento en la ausencia de un modelo. Las aves permanecieron sin moverse por ms tiempo al ser expuestas al modelo del halcn que al recibir los otros dos tratamientos. Las aves gordas permanecieron sin moverse por ms tiempo que las aves magras cuando fueron expuestas al modelo del halcn, pero no hubo diferencias para los otros dos tratamientos. Estos resultados sugieren que la grasa afecta el comportamiento de evasin de depredadores en D. carolinensis durante las paradas migratorias. El hecho de que la diferencia entre las aves gordas y magras fue slo aparente con el tratamiento del modelo del halcn sugiere que este resultado es atribuible a las diferencias en el desempeo de vuelo de los dos grupos, ms que a una diferencia en la motivacin para comenzar a forrajear. Sugerimos que la grasa debera influenciar el comportamiento de una amplia variedad de aves migratorias, particularmente de aquellas especies que tpicamente acumulan mayores reservas o que forrajean en situaciones ms expuestas que los individuos de D. carolinensis que evaluamos.
10.2307/4089942|Researchers have suggested that Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) destroy nest contents of potential hosts to induce renesting and thus enhance future opportunities for parasitism. Although cowbird destruction of passerine nests has been witnessed and surmised, few data are available on frequency of those events. We used miniature video-cameras at nests of grassland passerines and documented partial or complete destruction of eggs or nestlings by cowbirds at 7 of 132 nests monitored with cameras. At least three of the seven cases appeared to be attempts to totally destroy the nest contents; those cowbirds did not appear to be motivated by food or an intent to parasitize the nest. Three cases probably were associated with parasitism, but two involved egg removal late in incubation and the third was unusually destructive. Cowbirds were responsible for 24% of egg losses and 5% of nestling losses caused by predators. The importance of cowbirds as an agent of egg and nestling loss undoubtedly varies among sites and years, but it should not be overlooked.
10.2307/4089292|Stomach oil, a complex mixture of neutral dietary lipids, is a unique attribute of seabirds in the order Procellariiformes. With the exception of diving-petrels, all procellariiforms produce stomach oil and feed it to their young. We conducted an interspecies cross-fostering experiment on Bird Island, South Georgia, that was designed to reveal how the presence or absence of stomach oil in meals fed to young seabirds influences their growth, development, and survival. Hatchling South Georgia Diving-Petrels (Pelecanoides georgicus), a species that lacks stomach oil, were switched with hatchling Antarctic Prions (Pachyptila desolata), a species that feeds its young stomach oil. Diving-petrel foster parents did not successfully raise prion nestlings, presumably due to the absence of stomach oil in meals fed to nestlings. Prion foster parents successfully raised diving-petrel nestlings to fledging, but growth rates were lower, nestling fat reserves were lower, and fledging was delayed compared with controls. These results suggest that stomach oil is an essential dietary component for prion nestlings to meet their energy requirements, but diving-petrel nestlings apparently cannot efficiently assimilate stomach oil. This experiment supports the hypothesis that the production of stomach oil is an adaptation that allows breeding seabirds to enhance provisioning rates of energy to the nest, while foraging on a distant and dispersed food supply.
25488597|Several sources of data suggest that the Yellow-billed Magpie (
10.2307/4089366|Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida were monitored between 1969 and 1994 using a quasi-systematic annual survey. We analyzed data from the annual Snail Kite survey using a generalized linear model where counts were regarded as overdispersed Poisson random variables. This approach allowed us to investigate covariates that might have obscured temporal patterns of population change or induced spurious patterns in count data by influencing detection rates. We selected a model that distinguished effects related to these covariates from other temporal effects, allowing us to identify patterns of population change in count data. Snail Kite counts were influenced by observer differences, site effects, effort, and water levels. Because there was no temporal overlap of the primary observers who collected count data, patterns of change could be estimated within time intervals covered by an observer, but not for the intervals among observers. Modeled population change was quite different from the change in counts, suggesting that analyses based on unadjusted counts do not accurately model Snail Kite population change. Results from this analysis were consistent with previous reports of an association between water levels and counts, although further work is needed to determine whether water levels affect actual population size as well as detection rates of Snail Kites. Although the effects of variation in detection rates can sometimes be mitigated by including controls for factors related to detection rates, it is often difficult to distinguish factors wholly related to detection rates from factors related to population size. For factors related to both, count survey data cannot be adequately analyzed without explicit estimation of detection rates, using procedures such as capture-recapture.
4087284|Delayed plumage maturation in males is relatively common among North American passerines, but the Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) is one of few species in which 1-yr-old females have a distinct subadult plumage. Although they are reproductively mature, most subadult females do not breed in their first year because of intense intrasexual competition for nesting sites. Early in the season, subadult female floaters explore for recently vacated nest sites. The subadult plumage of young females could be adaptive by communicating their low threat to residents, thereby decreasing the cost of this exploration. To determine whether resident aggression depends on intruder color, we observed live intrusions and conducted model presentations. When the resident female was out of sight or did not respond to intruders, resident males were significantly less aggressive toward subadult females than toward adult intruders in both the nest-building/egg-laying and incubation stages. Early in the season, resident females were equally aggressive toward subadult female and adult intruders. When presented simultaneously with adult and subadult female models, resident males were always more aggressive toward the adult model, whereas females were aggressive toward either model. We propose two hypotheses for the adaptive significance of subadult plumage in female Tree Swallows: subordinance signaling and sex signaling. Our results suggest that subadult females may reduce resident aggression by signaling their female status to resident males, rather than by signaling their subordinate status to resident females.
10.2307/4088812| Hypotheses regarding the evolution of asynchronous hatching in birds are evaluated with respect to the Murray-Nolan clutch-size equation, which distinguishes between the number of broods successfully reared per female during a breeding season
auk.2012.11182|Avian coloration has played a central role in the study of sexual selection and other aspects of animal behavior. However, only recently have analyses of avian coloration been able to incorporate avian visual abilities. Although several studies have broadly sampled species for evidence of plumage coloration visible to birds but invisible to humans, few studies have quantified these data for all species in a single taxonomic group. We quantify ultraviolet (UV) plumage reflectance and document cryptic sexual dichromatism in the largest radiation of Neotropical songbirds, the cardinals and tanagers. Ultraviolet reflectance was common in the patches measured, with almost half of the species reflecting >20% of light in the UV range in at least one patch. High UV-reflecting patches, including 73 of the 91 patches that were found to be primarily UV colored, belonged to species in either
25488604|We used a bird-song simulation system to experimentally assess the effects of habitat, vegetation structure, and background noise on detection probability in aural avian point counts. We simulated bird songs of seven species in two habitats (mixed pinehardwood forest and deciduous forest) and two leaf conditions (leaves on and leaves off) with two levels of background noise (~40 dB and ~50 dB). Estimated detection probabilities varied greatly among species, and complex interactions among all the factors existed. Background noise and the presence of leaves on trees decreased detection probabilities, and estimated detection probabilities were higher in mixed pinehardwood forest than in deciduous forest. At 100 m, average estimated detection probabilities ranged from 0 to 1 and were lowest for the Black-and-white Warbler (
4087024|We showed previously that crown plumage brightness signals relative dominance ability in White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii). We now test the social-control hypothesis for the evolutionary stability of status signaling against invasion by individuals with brighter crowns than justified by their intrinsic dominance ability. "Cheating" immature females, with crowns painted to resemble bright adult males, and "control" immature females, with crowns painted a typical immature appearance or left unpainted, were released into two separate wild sparrow flocks and into two different captive groups that contained birds of all age and sex classes. In the field experiments, cheaters were more successful than controls in dominance interactions with other immatures; both groups were equally unsuccessful against adults. In the captivity experiments, cheaters generally dominated controls and were more successful than they in interactions with immature males and adult females but not with adult males. Cheaters did not receive more aggression from dominant individuals than did controls in any experiment, and in two experiments they received significantly less aggression. Thus, we found no socially mediated costs for sparrows with deceptive signals. Instead, we showed that immature females that cheat can benefit. The stability of the White-crowned Sparrow signaling system remains unexplained. We discuss the potential influence of predators on individual plumage differences and offer additional hypotheses for the control of deceptive signals.
4087283| The incubation constancy of 11 female Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) was monitored electronically and behavior of both sexes was observed during incubation recesses in 1983 and 1984 at Kokechik Bay, Alaska. Average nest attentiveness of female Emperor Geese was 99.5% during 4,800 h of monitored incubation time. Recesses averaged (SE) 13.3  0.8 min, and modal recess length was 8 min (n = 107). Recess frequency was 0.54/day. This high degree of nest attentiveness exceeded that reported for any goose species. Nest attentiveness did not vary significantly through the incubation period, but increased in the last 3 days, probably in response to embryo noises and pipping. Most recesses (45%) occurred between 1200 and 1800, the warmest portion of the day. There were no significant differences in recess length at different times of day, however, and recess duration and frequency were not related to differences in daily temperature or wind speed. Females fed for only 14% of the time during their infrequent and brief recesses. Most time (43%) during recesses was spent preening and bathing. Males were alert for 49% of the time females were on recess but were present during only 56% of recesses, reflecting their relative lack of attendance during incubation. Behavior of females during recesses when males were absent did not differ significantly from when males were present. The high incubation constancy, loss of body mass during incubation (20.7%), and relatively large average clutch size (5.2) indicate that Emperor Geese arrive on nesting grounds with an extremely high level of endogenous reserves relative to other geese. Clutch size and incubation behavior also represent trade-offs in energy investment related to body size, egg size, food availability, and feeding needs during incubation. Generally, larger species or subspecies of geese depend more on endogenous reserves than do smaller forms. We believe, however, that this relationship is not satisfactorily explained just by energetic constraints related to body size because Emperor Geese were more attentive to incubation than even larger goose species. Emperor Geese usually can defend their nests from arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) but, when on incubation recesses, are apparently less efficient in defense against avian predators than sympatric-nesting smaller geese. These smaller species are more vulnerable to foxes but more agile and effective against avian predators. The incubation constancy of geese results from an interaction of predation pressures related to body size and defense capabilities. 
10.2307/4089508|We explored the evolution of geographic distributions in archipelagos by comparing mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences and morphometric characters within and among conspecific populations of Adelaide's Warbler (Dendroica adelaidae), Plumbeous Warbler (D. plumbea), and Olive-capped Warbler (D. pityophila). Phylogenetic reconstructions were based upon 1,455 nucleotides of protein-coding mtDNA sequence from 53 individual warblers; morphological analyses employed three external measurements from a larger number of museum specimens. Of the three taxa studied, Adelaide's Warbler occupied the broadest and most fragmented geographical distribution and exhibited the greatest inter-population differentiation in both mtDNA and morphology. Phylogenetic analyses demonstrated that the three Adelaide's Warbler populations are each reciprocally monophyletic with the Puerto Rican lineage basal to sister clades on Barbuda and St. Lucia. Genetic distances among these populations were comparable with those between some continental species. In contrast to the mtDNA pattern, the Puerto Rican and Barbudan Adelaide's Warbler populations were most similar in morphometry. We observed considerably less mtDNA and morphometric differentiation among populations of the two species with more restricted and less fragmented distributions, the Plumbeous Warbler of Dominica and Guadeloupe and the Olive-capped Warbler of the Bahamas and Cuba. High levels of molecular and morphological differentiation among the geographically disjunct Adelaide's Warbler populations and low differentiation in the two species with less fragmented ranges suggest that range disjunctions indicate the long-term evolutionary independence of geographically isolated island populations.
25150357|Counts of visible migrants at traditional watchsites throughout North America provide an opportunity to augment population-monitoring efforts for birds of prey. We analyzed hourly counts of migrating raptors at one inland (Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, Pennsylvania) and one coastal (Cape May Point, New Jersey) watchsite in northeastern North America. Hourly counts of migrants have been collected for 38 years at Hawk Mountain Sanctuary and for 28 years at Cape May Point. We compared effort-adjusted, arithmetic-mean passage rates to five geometric-mean indexes for 12 species. We used reparameterized polynomial regression to estimate trends in the indexes and to test the significance of trends from 1976-1978 (average index over three-year period) to 2001-2003. Effort-adjusted, arithmetic-mean indexes corresponded to more sophisticated indexes on the complete data sets but did not perform well on simulated data with missing observation days. We recommend the use of a regression-based, date-adjusted index for the analysis of hawk-count data. This index produced trends similar to other geometric-mean indexes, performed well on data sets simulating reduced sampling frequency, and outperformed other indexes on data sets with large blocks of missing observation days. Correspondence between trends at the watchsites and trends from Breeding Bird Surveys (BBSs) suggests that migration counts provide robust estimates of population trends for raptors. Furthermore, migration counts allow the monitoring of species not detected by BBS and produce trends with greater precision for species sampled by both methods. Analysis of migration counts with appropriate methods holds considerable promise for contributing to the development of integrated strategies to monitor raptor populations. /// Los conteos realizados en sitios tradicionales de avistamiento en Norte Amrica son un buen recurso para aumentar los esfuerzos de monitoreo de las poblaciones de aves rapaces. Analizamos datos de conteos de aves rapaces migratorias realizados cada hora en una isla (Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, Pensilvania) y en un sitio de observacin en la costa (Cape May Point, Nueva Jersey) ubicados en el noreste de Norte Amrica. Estos conteos han sido colectados por 38 aos en Hawk Mountain Sanctuary y por 28 aos en Cape May Point. Comparamos las medias aritmticas de las tasas de paso, ajustadas por esfuerzo, con cinco ndices de medias geomtricas para 12 especies. Utilizamos regresiones polinomiales reparametrizadas para estimar las tendencias de los ndices y para probar si las tendencias entre 1976 - 1978 (ndice promediado por un periodo de tres aos) y 2001 - 2003 son significativas. Los ndices de media aritmtica ajustados por esfuerzo fueron indicies ms sofisticados para la base de datos completa, pero stos no se desempearon bien con los datos simulados en que faltan algunos das de observacin. Para el anlisis de los datos de conteo de halcones recomendamos el uso de un ndice basado en un anlisis de regresin ajustado por fecha. Este ndice produjo tendencias similares a las de otros ndices de media geomtrica, se desempe bien con datos que simularon una frecuencia de muestreo reducida y se desempe mejor que otros ndices calculados con base en datos con grandes bloques de ausencias de das de observacin. La correspondencia entre las tendencias en los sitios de observacin y las tendencias registradas con los conteos de aves reproductivas (Breeding Bird Surveys), sugiere que los conteos de aves migratorias representan una estimacin robusta de las tendencias poblacionales de las aves rapaces. Adems, los conteos de aves migratorias permiten el monitoreo de especies que no son detectadas con los conteos de aves reproductivas y generan tendencias ms precisas para las especies que son detectadas por los dos mtodos. El anlisis de los conteos de aves migratorias mediante mtodos adecuados constituye una buena oportunidad para contribuir al desarrollo de estrategias integradas para monitorear las poblaciones de aves rapaces.
10.2307/4089975| Evolutionary theory predicts that heritability of fitness-related traits should be low. Egg size in birds is a fitness-related trait, but exhibits high heritability. One possible explanation for the apparent failure of natural selection to exhaust variability is that variation in egg size is mediated by female condition. In this study, we estimated repeatability of egg size within and between successive clutches in a wild, double-brooded population of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in central Illinois, and examined the relationship of egg size with female size and condition. Repeatability of egg volume and mass in individual birds was high within years and between successive years (>0.77), suggesting a substantial heritable component to variation in egg size. However, egg mass was also significantly correlated with female condition. We suggest that the high repeatability values largely reflect permanent but nongenetic (ontogenetic) variation in egg size among females, which is reflected in the positive correlation of egg size with female condition. If variation in egg size is attributable to a combination of nonheritable, ontogenetic variation and variation due to current environmental conditions among females, then selection may not produce an evolutionary response in egg size. /// La teora evolutiva predice que la heredabilidad de los caracteres relacionados con la adecuacin biolgica debe ser baja. El tamao del huevo de las aves es un caracter relacionado con la adecuacin, pero presenta alta heredabilidad. Una posible explicacin para la aparente incapacidad de la seleccin natural de agotar la variabilidad, es que la variacin en el tamao del huevo sea mediada por la condicin de las hembras. En este estudio, estimamos qu tan repetible es el volumen del huevo dentro y entre nidadas sucesivas en una poblacin de Troglodytes aedon con dos nidadas anuales en el centro de Illinois. Tambin examinamos la relacin entre el tamao del huevo y el tamao y la condicin de las hembras. El volumen y la masa del huevo en aves individuales fue altamente repetible dentro de aos y entre aos consecutivos (>0.77), lo que sugiere que la variacin en el tamao del huevo tiene un componente heredable importante. Sin embargo, la masa del huevo tambin estuvo correlacionada significativamente con la condicin de las hembras. Sugerimos que la alta repetibilidad de los valores refleja en gran medida variacin permanente pero no gentica (ontogentica) en el tamao del huevo entre hembras, lo cual se refleja en la correlacin positiva entre el tamao del huevo y la condicin de las hembras. Si la variacin en el tamao del huevo puede atribuirse a una combinacin de variacin ontogentica no heredable con variacin debida a las condiciones ambientales del momento entre las hembras, la seleccin no podra producir una respuesta evolutiva en el tamao del huevo. 
4090526| Suboptimal conditions during embryonic development can affect offspring fitness. Both egg quality and incubation behavior can affect hatching success, hatching mass, and subsequent offspring performance. These effects may differ between male and female offspring. We manipulated the prebreeding body condition of Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata), using diets of different protein content. To separate possible effects on egg quality of parental body condition and incubation conditions, we did a cross-fostering experiment. We analyzed embryo survival and hatching mass with respect to body condition of the egg-laying parent, body condition of the incubating foster parent, and offspring sex. Embryos were not affected by the condition of the egg-laying parent. Eggs incubated by parents in better condition suffered less embryo mortality than those incubated by parents in poorer condition, but only when overall embryo mortality was low. Hatching mass was also affected by the incubating foster parent's body condition. And hatchlings incubated by parents in good condition were heavier than those incubated by parents in poor condition. Female hatchlings from late-laid eggs were heavier, in comparison with the size of the egg from which they hatched, than female hatchlings from earlier-laid eggs. No such effect was found for males. Therefore, male and female embryos may differ in their sensitivity to suboptimal conditions during embryonic development. These results suggest that parental body condition during incubation can affect offspring fitness. /// La exposicin a condiciones subptimas durante el desarrollo embrional puede afectar la adecuacin biolgica de las cras. Tanto la calidad del huevo como el comportamiento de incubacin pueden afectar el xito de eclosin, el peso al momento de eclosionar y el desempeo subsecuente de las cras. Estos efectos pueden diferir entre cras macho y cras hembra. En este estudio manipulamos la condicin corporal prereproductiva de individuos de la especie Taeniopygia guttata empleando dietas con distinto contenido de protenas. Para separar los posibles efectos de la calidad de los huevos, la condicin corporal de los padres y las condiciones de incubacin, realizamos un experimento con nidadas cruzadas. Analizamos la supervivencia de los embriones y el peso de los pichones al eclosionar con respecto a la condicin corporal del individuo parental que puso los huevos, la condicin corporal del individuo parental substituto que los incub y el sexo de la cra. Los embriones no se vieron afectados por la condicin del individuo que los puso. Los huevos incubados por individuos en mejor condicin sufrieron menor mortalidad que los incubados por individuos en peor condicin, pero slo cuando la mortalidad general del embrin fue baja. El peso al momento de eclosionar tambin fue afectado por la condicin corporal del individuo incubante, y los pichones incubados por individuos en buena condicin fueron ms pesados que los incubados por parentales en peor condicin. Los pichones hembra salidos de huevos puestos tardamente fueron ms pesados en comparacin con el tamao del huevo del que salieron que los pichones hembra salidos de huevos puestos ms temprano. Este efecto no se observ en los machos. Por tanto, los embriones de los distintos sexos pueden difererir en su sensibilidad a condiciones subptimas durante el desarrollo. Estos resultados sugieren que la condicin corporal de los parentales durante la incubacin puede afectar la adecuacin de las cras. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12104|Studies of habitat selection are often of limited utility because they focus on small geographic areas, fail to examine behavior at multiple scales, or lack an assessment of the fitness consequences of habitat decisions. These limitations can hamper the identification of successful site-specific management strategies, which are urgently needed for severely declining species like Cerulean Warblers (
10.2307/4088162|Intensity patterns of electromyographic (EMG) signals from selected muscles of the wing were studied during different modes of flight in trained Rock doves (Columba livia). Shoulder muscles exhibited a stereotypic pattern producing maximal EMG intensity during the deceleration phases of the upstroke and the downstroke, whereas the muscles of the brachium and antebrachium acted primarily as joint stabilizers during level flapping flight. During nonsteady flight (e.g. takeoff, landing, vertical ascending flight), the distal forelimb muscles exhibited maximal EMG intensity; their primary function appears to be associated with changing the camber and planform of the wing during rapid oscillation. During steady flight, an automatic linkage system consisting of forelimb skeletal elements and ligamentous attachments is thought to permit proper excursion of the wing as a result of forces generated solely by proximal muscles of the wing. To test this hypothesis, the medianoulnaris and radialis nerves were cut in five animals, thus eliminating the contribution of the forearm muscles, and flight tests were performed. Even though forearm muscles were incapable of contracting, the birds were capable of sustained level flapping flight. They were unable to take off independently or perform controlled landings.
10.2307/4088274|I examined hypotheses of Aphelocoma jay phylogeny derived from allozyme data. Results from various algorithms differ in details, but the overall patterns are consistent: Scrub Jays (A. coerulescens) and Unicolored Jays (A. unicolor) were derived independently from different populations of Gray-breasted Jays (A. ultramarina). Within Scrub Jays, the californica subspecies group was derived from the populations of interior North America (woodhouseii group). One Unicolored Jay population and two Scrub Jay populations, all strongly differentiated, are placed consistently at the base of the phylogeny, but phenotypic, biogeographic, and theoretical evidence suggests that these populations represent rapidly evolving populations derived from within populations of their respective species. Because analyses of rates of molecular evolution demonstrate significant rate heterogeneity, I suggest that the application of a molecular clock to date-splitting events in the Aphelocoma jays is not a valid approach.
10.2307/4088632| I examined the relationship of nest-site and nest-patch characteristics to nest success in ground-nesting Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula) and Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Z. leucophrys gambelii) in the forest-tundra ecotone of the Northwest Territories, Canada. I found 34% of all Harris' Sparrow nests depredated, primarily by arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii), while no White-crowned Sparrow nests were disturbed by predators. White-crowned Sparrow nests appeared to be less susceptible to predation than Harris' Sparrow nests because the former were placed in areas with more shrubs and ground cover, and denser vegetation, than were Harris' Sparrow nests. Comparison of successful and depredated Harris' Sparrow nests supported the idea that interspecific differences in rates of nest predation were due to differences in concealment rather than to density-dependent nest predation. Successful Harris' Sparrow nests were placed in areas with more shrub cover and more dense vegetation within 5 m of the nest than were depredated nests. Orientation of the nest entrance did not differ between Harris' and White-crowned sparrow nests, nor between successful and depredated Harris' Sparrow nests. However, nest entrances of both species were nonrandomly oriented, with mean orientation vectors 135 to 170 from prevailing storms. Reasons for the tendency of Harris' Sparrows to select sites where chances of predation are relatively high are unclear, but could be related to a lack of suitable nest sites in the study area. 
4090348| Since early in its taxonomic history, placement of the Socorro Wren (Thryomanes sissonii) has been an object of contention. Of particular interest is its current placement in the genus Thryomanes, which makes that genus ditypic and leads to an odd biogeographic scenario for the Socorro Wren's colonization of Socorro Island. We assessed its phylogenetic position by analyzing 516 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA sequences from the ND2 gene of this species and 14 additional wren taxa. Contrary to its present placement, the Socorro Wren is nested phylogenetically within the House Wren species complex, being placed as sister to the clade Troglodytes aedon + T. musculus. The current hypothesis (i.e. sister to Thryomanes bewickii) is strongly invalidated by our analysis. Our analyses indicate that the most appropriate taxonomic classification for the Socorro Wren is Troglodytes sissonii. /// Desde el comienzo de su historia taxonmica, la ubicacin de Thryomanes sissonii, una especie de troglodtido endmica de la isla Socorro, ha sido objeto de controversia. De particular inters es su ubicacin actual en el gnero Thryomanes, la cual hace que este gnero sea ditpico y plantea un escenario biogeogrfico extrao en cuanto a la colonizacin de Socorro por parte de esta especie. En este estudio determinamos la posicin filogentica de T. sissonii analizando secuencias de 516 pares de bases del gen mitocondrial ND2 para esta especie y para 14 taxa adicionales de la famila Troglodytidae. En contraste con su ubicacin actual, T. sissonii se encuentra anidado filogenticamente al interior del complejo de Troglodytes aedon, como la especie hermana del clado formado por T. aedon y T. musculus. La hiptesis actual (i.e. que la especie es hermana de Thryomanes bewickii) es fuertemente invalidada por nuestros anlisis. Nuestros resultados indican que la clasificacin taxonmica ms adecuada para esta especie es Troglodytes sissonii. 
10.2307/4090410| I used a supplemental feeding experiment to determine whether adult Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) would decrease provisioning effort in response to a reduction in nestling nutritional requirements, and to investigate the relationship between parental provisioning effort and timing of fledging. As predicted, parents of the supplemented nestlings decreased the number of provisioning trips but did not alter bill-load size or prey composition. Supplemental feeding significantly increased the growth of the culmen and tarsus but had no detectable effect on wing growth or body mass of chicks. Supplemented nestlings fledged significantly older than control nestlings. The maximum mass attained by the nestling and the age at which mass peaked also influenced timing of fledging. These results demonstrate that fledging age is influenced by both the energy provided by the parents and the nestling's developmental state and are consistent with the hypothesis that nestlings time their departure from the nest based on the costs and benefits of remaining. /// Utilic un experimento de suplementacin de alimento para determinar si los adultos de Fratercula cirrhata disminuiran su esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento como respuesta a una reduccin en los requerimientos nutricionales de sus pichones y para investigar la relacin entre el esfuerzo parental de aprovisionamiento y el momento del emplumamiento. Como se haba predicho, los padres de los pichones a los que se le di alimento suplementario disminuyeron el nmero de viajes de aprovisionamiento en lugar de alterar el tamao de la carga llevada en el pico o la composicin de presas. La suplementacin de alimento increment significativamente el crecimiento del culmen y el tarso, pero no tuvo un efecto detectable sobre el crecimiento de las alas o el peso de los pichones. Los pichones con alimento suplementario abandonaron el nido a una edad significativamente mayor que los pichones control. El peso mximo alcanzado por el pichn y la edad a la que el peso alcanz un pico tambin influenciaron el tiempo de emplumamiento. Estos resultados demuestran que la edad de emplumamiento es influenciada tanto por la energa provista por los padres como por el estado de desarrollo del pichn, y son consistentes con la hiptesis de que los pichones establecen el momento de abandonar el nido con base en los costos y beneficios de quedarse en l. 
4086359| Using the doubly-labeled water (DLW) technique, we measured the CO
10.2307/4089721|Although point counts are frequently used in ornithological studies, basic assumptions about detection probabilities often are untested. We apply a double-observer approach developed to estimate detection probabilities for aerial surveys (Cook and Jacobson 1979) to avian point counts. At each point count, a designated "primary" observer indicates to another ("secondary") observer all birds detected. The secondary observer records all detections of the primary observer as well as any birds not detected by the primary observer. Observers alternate primary and secondary roles during the course of the survey. The approach permits estimation of observer-specific detection probabilities and bird abundance. We developed a set of models that incorporate different assumptions about sources of variation (e.g. observer, bird species) in detection probability. Seventeen field trials were conducted, and models were fit to the resulting data using program SURVIV. Single-observer point counts generally miss varying proportions of the birds actually present, and observer and bird species were found to be relevant sources of variation in detection probabilities. Overall detection probabilities (probability of being detected by at least one of the two observers) estimated using the double-observer approach were very high (>0.95), yielding precise estimates of avian abundance. We consider problems with the approach and recommend possible solutions, including restriction of the approach to fixed-radius counts to reduce the effect of variation in the effective radius of detection among various observers and to provide a basis for using spatial sampling to estimate bird abundance on large areas of interest. We believe that most questions meriting the effort required to carry out point counts also merit serious attempts to estimate detection probabilities associated with the counts. The double-observer approach is a method that can be used for this purpose.
10.1525/auk.2009.09134|Many studies have examined the effects of forest fragmentation and management on songbird nesting success, but few have quantified postfledging survival, which is a critical component of population productivity. In 20052006, we estimated daily postfledging survival of Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (
4085839|The morning movement by nocturnal passerine migrants over inland areas is poorly understood. Gauthreaux (1978) suggested that morning flight involves a correction for displacement by wind accrued during nocturnal migration. If so, morning flight should: (1) involve a change in flight direction from that at night, i.e. a reorientation, and (2) be directed upwind. Gauthreaux's observations in South Carolina agreed with these predictions, but morning migrants that I observed in eastern New York flew northeast during spring and southwest during autumn-the same directions flown at night. In general, the direction of morning flight was independent of wind direction, with birds flying relatively fixed northeast-southwest tracks. Unlike migrants in South Carolina, morning migrants in New York did not correct for displacement accrued at night; I interpret their behavior as continued migration. Associated with morning flight, however, were increased variability in the direction of vanishing bearings compared with that observed at night and a tendency for some birds to be affected by local topographic features. These results suggest that other factors besides continued migration affect the directional behavior of morning migrants.
4087270|During directional flight trained Eurasian Kestrels (Falco tinnunculus) in the laboratory expended 13.8 W. Free-living birds expended 14.6 W during nonsoaring flight that included both directional flight and wind hovering. The former value was obtained by combining food balance and indirect calorimetry techniques, the latter by doubly labeled water
4088358|The Northern Masked Weaver (Ploceus taeniopterus), like many weavers, exhibits a dramatic degree of intraspecific variability in egg appearance. While the rule is that all eggs within a nest look alike, this rule frequently is violated. By observing marked females laying eggs, I determined that within-female variability in egg appearance is both significantly and substantially lower than the variability seen among eggs laid by different females. Because communal breeding does not occur in this species, and because I ruled out parasitism by heterospecifics, nests containing odd-looking eggs must have been victimized by conspecific nest parasites. Based on the maximum variability in egg appearance observed in nonparasitized clutches, and by noting clutches with peculiar laying sequences that are indicative of parasitism (e.g. two eggs appearing on the same day), I determined the rate of conspecific nest parasitism in the Northern Masked Weaver to be between 22.8% and 34.7%. This is one of the highest rates of conspecific nest parasitism reported for passerines. My results support the conclusion that conspecific nest parasitism is a widespread and common behavior among Ploceus weaverbirds.
10.2307/4089466|The Long-billed Lark (Certhilauda curvirostris) is a geographically variable species. Thirteen subspecies have been described, and at least three phenotypically well-defined groups exist. We use concordant patterns of genotypic and phenotypic variation to recognize cryptic species within this complex. Genotype information was obtained by sequencing part of the mitochondrial DNA cytochrome-b gene. Three taxa are genetically highly distinct, differing from each other by 6 to 9% sequence divergence. One of these taxa comprises three phenotypically distinct taxa that differ from each other by 2% sequence divergence. These values far exceed the variation within described subspecies (0.2 to 0.4%) and approach the distance to the presumed sister taxon, the Short-clawed Lark (C. chuana; 8 to 10%). Well-defined morphological and plumage differences exist between all taxa except benguelensis and northern populations of subcoronata. We propose that the complex consists of five species: the closely related C. curvirostris, C. brevirostris, and C. semitorquata, and the more distantly related C. subcoronata and C. benguelensis. Comparison of male display songs provides additional support for the recognition of five species, but sample sizes are small. The position of C. chuana relative to the five species noted above is not resolved. Species' ranges are allopatric, but more work is needed to elucidate the distributional limits of taxa in northern Namibia and Angola. These findings have implications for biodiversity conservation, and they suggest that considerable diversity has been overlooked in wide-ranging, sedentary lark species.
4090592| Geographic variation in learned vocalizations is commonly attributed, in part, to imperfect song learning, but rarely has this been documented. Additionally, we know little about how spatial structure of populations affects geographic divergence in song. Using novel fee-bee song in Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) in Fort Collins, Colorado, we investigated both of those concepts by recording songs from juveniles at the time of natal dispersal and from adults at study sites along a continuous riparian corridor and in small isolated populations north of Fort Collins. Acoustic differences within juveniles' songs corresponded to acoustic differences distinguishing the songs of adults from separate study sites. We also found more acoustic divergence among the small isolated populations than among the continuously distributed riparian populations, and we found that the song-type grouping most similar in acoustic structure to the stereotyped continental fee-bee diverged the least. These findings suggest that song variants introduced by developing juveniles can indeed account for geographic variation and that song diverges more in small isolated populations. /// La variacin geogrfica en las vocalizaciones aprendidas frecuentemente se atribuye en parte a un aprendizaje imperfecto del canto, pero esto rara vez ha sido documentado. Adems, se conoce poco en cuanto a cmo la estructura espacial de las poblaciones afecta la divergencia geogrfica en los cantos.Usando cantos nicos fi-bi de Poecile atricapillus, estudiamos ambos conceptos en Fort Collins, Colorado. Para esto, hicimos grabaciones de los cantos de individuos juveniles al momento de dispersarse y de individuos adultos en sitios de estudio ubicados a lo largo de un corredor ripario continuo y en poblaciones pequeas aisladas al norte de Forth Collins. Las diferencias acsticas entre los cantos de los juveniles correspondieron a las diferencias acsticas entre los cantos de los adultos de sitios de estudio distintos. Tambin encontramos mayor divergencia acstica entre las poblaciones pequeas aisladas que entre las poblaciones riparias distribuidas continuamente, y encontramos que el agrupamiento de tipo de canto ms similar en estructura acstica al fi-bi continental estereotipado fue el menos divergente. Estos hallazgos sugieren que las variaciones del canto introducidas por individuos juveniles en desarrollo pueden explicar la variacin geogrfica en las vocalizaciones, y que el canto diverge de forma ms pronunciada en poblaciones pequeas aisladas. 
10.2307/4086778|We studied the relationship between clutch fate and nest site in Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) subject to a high level of clutch predation. Clutches beside objects had lower hatching success than those in the open or beneath objects. Those on sand-gravel substrate were less successful than those on alkali. Plovers nested more frequently on sand-gravel early rather than later in the season. There were between-year differences in clutch placement with respect to substrate type and position related to an object. Predators, air temperature, and bias in our nest-finding abilities are hypothesized as factors influencing the results.
4087080|First-year, but not adult, Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) have a previously unknown supplemental plumage. The presupplemental molt includes all of the rectrices, the outermost but not the innermost primaries, and, typically, the three innermost secondaries and all body feathers. In this molt, young females exchange one adult-femalelike plumage for another, while young males exchange an adult-femalelike plumage for one that matches that of adult males in winter. Thus, in their first year Indigo Buntings wear: first, the juvenile plumage, the body feathers of which begin replacement before the tail is fully grown; second, the first basic plumage, which in both sexes is entirely femalelike in coloration and includes the juvenile remiges and rectrices; third, the supplemental plumage, assumed either prior to fall migration (<10% of individuals) or on the wintering ground (>90% of individuals) and in which obvious sexual dichromatism is first achieved; and fourth, the first alternate plumage, acquired in a prolonged and often incomplete prealternate molt of body feathers that occurs during February, March, and April on the wintering ground and during the spring in the United States. Because almost all of the femalelike first basic plumage of young males is lost in the presupplemental molt, this plumage almost certainly is an adaptation to conditions encountered either in the fall or early in the first winter. Furthermore, the ensuing supplemental plumage cannot be compromised by color requirements of the first breeding season because of the intervening prealternate molt; thus, the adult-malelike plumage produced by the presupplemental molt likely evolved to meet a change in signaling requirements that occurs in early winter. The signaling function of this plumage is unknown. Because this supplemental plumage of young males resembles the winter plumage of adult males and because all feathers grown by young males in their first prealternate molt resemble those of the adult male breeding plumage, the female mimicry hypothesis of Rohwer et al. (1980) is untenable for the subadult breeding plumage of yearling male Indigo Buntings.
4085090|The Lesser Snow Geese that nest at the McConnell River, Northwest Territories, feed heavily before arriving on the breeding grounds. During laying and early incubation, feeding declines to low levels but increases slightly during late incubation. After their eggs hatch the geese greatly increase their food intake. These changes in feeding activity are correlated with changes in the average sizes of four digestive organs (pancreas, liver, gizzard, and intestine). The large digestive organs characteristic of arriving and post-hatch geese are due to hyperphagia. Previously reported situations that produced decreased size of avian digestive organs did not account for that condition in incubating geese. The decrease in size of digestive organs during incubation is claimed to be innate; its evolution is discussed.
10.1525/auk.2013.13147|Life history theory predicts a tradeoff between reproductive effort and survival, which suggests that some management practices aimed at increasing productivity may compromise population growth. We analyzed a 10-year data set of 225 individually marked Snowy Plovers (
10.2307/4089018|Parental regulation of the probability and timing of avian brood reduction is expected to exist and evolve because natural selection should favor parents that match brood size to food availability most efficiently. Since food availability varies among species, interspecific variation in this regulation is expected. Comparative study of species with different brood reduction systems is one way to test the hypothesis that these mechanisms evolve as adaptations. Previous work on obligately siblicidal Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) and facultatively siblicidal Blue-footed Boobies (S. nebouxii) has shown that their different hatching asynchronies cannot fully explain the qualitative difference in their brood reduction systems. In this study, I report interspecific differences in nest shape that appear to contribute to early siblicide in Masked Boobies, but that suppress early siblicide in Blue-footed Boobies. Blue-footed Booby nest shape is closely regulated by parents. Differences in egg sizes of nest mates do not appear to contribute to the difference in social systems.
4085810|The structure of the avian tarsus has recently been cited as evidence for the derivation of birds from theropod dinosaurs. Although birds and theropods have a long triangular ossification in front of the tibia and attached to the proximal tarsals, the morphological relationships of this bone are fundamentally different in the two groups. In modern birds and in all Mesozoic birds, this "pretibial" bone is a high, narrow structure associated primarily with the calcaneum, but independently ossified. The corresponding structure in dinosaurs is a broad extension of the astragalus. Avian dentitions also pose a problem for the dinosaur hypothesis. While theropod teeth are serrated and have straight roots, avian teeth, like those of crocodilians, are unserrated, with constricted bases and expanded roots.
4088553|When adult territorial Common Ravens (Corvus corax) aggressively defend carcasses from vagrant immatures, both dominant and subordinate immature birds respond with begging postures and vocalizations. We demonstrated through experiments in an aviary complex that these vocalizations attract other ravens that then learn of new feeding opportunities. Nearby free-ranging ravens also are attracted to begging vocalizations. Begging is most common when six or fewer immatures interact with adults. Typically, fewer than five birds are attracted locally to begging vocalizations, a number that is not sufficient to account for the large numbers of ravens that eventually assemble at a carcass. Most of the recruitment to carcasses, therefore, cannot be explained by attraction to local vocalizations alone.
10.2307/4088829|One of the more well-known examples of hybridization in birds is the frequently documented occurrence between sexually dimorphic Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and several closely related nondimorphic species in the mallard complex. In New Zealand, the Grey Duck (Anas superciliosa superciliosa) is the indigenous, nondimorphic Mallardlike species, and extensive hybridization with introduced Mallards has been implicated in the population decline of Grey Ducks. Individuals from throughout the country were classified phenotypically as parentals or hybrids based on variation in plumage, bill color, and leg color. We confirmed species-specific mitochondrial DNA haplotypes by comparing restriction-enzyme fragment patterns in Grey Ducks and New Zealand Mallards to those of Pacific Black Ducks (A. superciliosa rogersi) from Australia and Mallards from North America, respectively. Our data indicate that hybridization has led not only to introgression of Grey Duck mtDNA into Mallard populations (the predicted direction of gene flow), but also to significant introgression of Mallard mtDNA into Grey Duck populations. Thus, the contention that hybridization between Mallards and nondimorphic species involves primarily Mallard males with females of the other species is not upheld for this example from New Zealand. The speciation process appears to be undergoing reversal.
4085752|Wintering flocks of Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) consist of black-and-white crowned adults and brown-crowned hatching year birds. White-crowned birds are dominant to brown-crowned birds in free-living unmanipulated flocks. Premature development of the adult crown was effected in juveniles by plucking the crown feathers. Juveniles with induced black-and-white crowns gained high rank when introduced to a strange flock of juveniles and a strange flock consisting of both age classes, indicating that crown color and not age per se communicates social status. Disguised (plucked) juveniles reintroduced to their former flock, consisting of all brown-crowned juveniles, did not rise in the peck order. Thus, White-crowned Sparrows may use other cues (besides crown color) to recognize individuals. Previous experience takes precedence over crown color in determining hierarchies. The two-signal system of Gambel's Sparrow is compared with two-signal systems in other avian species, and the adaptive significance of hierarchies in Gambel's Sparrow is discussed.
4090552| The ultimate success of reintroduction programs for endangered species depends on the ability of reintroduced animals to breed in the wild. We studied the nesting success and breeding biology of a reintroduced population of Puaiohi (Myadestes palmeri) on the island of Kaua 'i, Hawaii. Thirty-four captive-bred Puaiohi were released into the Alaka 'i Swamp in 1999-2001 and monitored using radiotelemetry. Ten females and two males paired with wild and other released birds, including one polygynous trio. From March to September, 31 nests were built. Mean clutch size was 2.0 eggs, daily nest survival was 0.97  0.01 (mean  SE) and overall nest success was 0.40  0.02. We confirmed predation, most probably by rats (Rattus spp.), as the greatest cause of nest failure, occurring at 38% of active nests with known fates, and causing the death of two nesting adult females. Ground-based rodent control proved ineffective at protecting nest attempts. Successful nests fledged an average of 1.4 young each (n = 10), and 85% of fledglings survived at least two weeks. Importantly, breeding behavior and success were comparable to those of wild Puaiohi. This is the first record of breeding in the wild from captive-bred endangered Hawaiian passerines. The ability of captive-bred Puaiohi to survive and breed successfully in the wild bodes well for future releases of this and other endangered passerines, but high predation rates on nests and nesting females highlights the importance of maintaining and restoring safe habitat for recovery. /// El xito final de los programas de reintroduccin para especies en peligro depende de la habilidad de los animales reintroducidos de reproducirse en estado silvestre. Estudiamos el xito de nidificacin y la biologa reproductiva de una poblacin reintroducida de Myadestes palmeri en la Isla de Kauai, Hawai. Treinta y cuatro individuos criados en cautiverio fueron liberados en Alakai Swamp entre 1999 y 2001, los cuales fueron monitoreados usando radio telemetra. Diez hembras y dos machos se emparejaron con aves silvestres y otras aves liberadas, incluyendo un tro polgino. Desde marzo a septiembre 31 nidos fueron construidos. El tamao promedio de la nidada fue de 2.0 huevos, la supervivencia diaria de los nidos fue de 0.970.01 (mediaEE) y el xito de nidificacin total fue de 0.400.02. Confirmamos eventos de depredacin, probablemente por ratas (Rattus spp.), como la mayor causa de fracaso de los nidos, ocurriendo en el 38% de los nidos activos con destino conocido y causando la muerte de dos hembras adultas nidificantes. Las estrategias de control de los roedores en el suelo fueron ineficientes para proteger los intentos de nidificacin. Los nidos exitosos produjeron un promedio de 1.4 volantones cada uno (n = 10) y el 85% de los volantones sobrevivi al menos dos semanas. El comportamiento y el xito reproductivo fueron comparables a los de los individuos silvestres de M. palmeri. Este es el primer registro de reproduccin silvestre de paseriformes hawaianos criados en cautiverio. La habilidad de los individuos de M. palmeri criados en cautiverio de sobrevivir y de criar con xito, promete buenos augurios para la liberacin de esta y de otras especies en peligro. Sin embargo, las altas tasas de depredacin de los nidos y de las hembras nidificantes subrayan la importancia de mantener y restaurar hbitat seguro para su recuperacin. 
10.2307/4088000|We examined three hypotheses concerning hatching asynchrony in the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo). Survival of third-hatching "C-chicks" was significantly lower than that of "A-" and "B-chicks" in broods of three. In 2 yr when conditions did not appear favorable, survival was significantly higher in manipulated broods in which chicks hatched synchronously (73%) than in nonmanipulated broods (56%). Chicks in synchronous broods grew significantly faster than C-chicks and at a rate similar to A- and B-chicks. These results were inconsistent with the brood-reduction hypothesis, which predicts that hatching asynchrony will maximize brood success under conditions of food limitation. Chicks hatching from C-eggs grew significantly faster and survived at nonsignificantly higher rates when an older sibling was removed experimentally. These results were consistent with the hypothesis that C-chicks serve as insurance against loss of an older sibling. All three siblings, however, survived in 26% of nonmanipulated broods, which indicates that the sole function of the C-chick was not insurance. Predation on tern eggs was common and was correlated with numbers of migrating Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres). The percentage of time adults incubated was lower when only one egg had been laid than when two or three eggs were laid, and egg predation was most frequent during this initial stage. Although hatching asynchrony did not maximize chick survival, incubation before laying is completed may maximize overall nest success by protecting eggs from predators.
10.2307/4089122|The mean absolute percent error of predicting the fat mass of 40 Rock Doves (Columba livia) by the cyclopropane absorption method was 11%. A sensitivity analysis of some of the 15 variables used in computing fat mass by the cyclopropane absorption method showed that: (1) cloacal temperature was a good measure of body-fat temperature, (2) the lipid solubility coefficient of cyclopropane reported for rats was appropriate for pigeons, (3) minimum error occurred with an animal density of 1.08, (4) error was relatively insensitive to a range of reasonable estimates of body water, and (5) the most accurate method of measuring chamber volume was unclear. We list advantages and disadvantages of this user-unfriendly method and provide recommendations for future users. This method does not require a calibration based on fat extracted from dead birds; the accuracy and precision of a system assembled to measure the fat mass of live birds can be evaluated with olive oil standards. The accuracy of estimating fat mass of a living bird seems to be dictated, in large part, by the analytical equipment and procedures used rather than by the bird.
10.2307/4086029|Twenty-two species of Hawaiian honeycreepers (Fringillidae: Carduelinae: Drepaninini) are known. Their relationships to other groups of passerines were examined by comparing the single-copy DNA sequences of the Apapane (Himatione sanguinea) with those of 5 species of cardueline finches, 1 species of Fringilla, 15 species of New World nine-primaried oscines (Cardinalini, Emberizini, Thraupini, Parulini, Icterini), and members of 6 other families of oscines (Turdidae, Monarchidae, Dicaeidae, Sylviidae, Vireonidae, Corvidae). The DNA-DNA hybridization data support other evidence indicating that the Hawaiian honeycreepers shared a more recent common ancestor with the cardueline finches than with any of the other groups studied and indicate that this divergence occurred in the mid-Miocene, 15-20 million yr ago. The colonization of the Hawaiian Islands by the ancestral species that radiated to produce the Hawaiian honeycreepers could have occurred at any time between 20 and 5 million yr ago. Because the honeycreepers captured so many ecological niches, however, it seems likely that their ancestor was the first passerine to become established in the islands and that it arrived there at the time of, or soon after, its separation from the cardueline lineage. If so, this colonist arrived before the present islands from Hawaii to French Frigate Shoal were formed by the volcanic "hot-spot" now under the island of Hawaii. Therefore, the ancestral drepaninine may have colonized one or more of the older Hawaiian Islands and/or Emperor Seamounts, which also were formed over the "hot-spot" and which reached their present positions as the result of tectonic crustal movement. The cardueline-drepaninine lineage probably diverged from the Fringilla lineage in the late Oligocene, from the New World nine-primaried oscines in the early Oligocene, and from the other oscines in the early Eocene. During this study we also obtained evidence that the vireos (Vireonidae) are not closely related to the New World nine-primaried oscines.
10.2307/4090143| Mixed-species flocks of native and introduced birds were studied for four years in an upper elevation Hawaiian rain forest. Those flocks were characterized by strong seasonality, large size, low species richness, high intraspecific abundance, a lack of migrants, and a general lack of territoriality or any sort of dominance hierarchy. There was high variability among years in patterns of occurrence at the species level, and high variability within years at the individual level. These flocks are loosely structured social groupings with apparently open membership. The fluid, unstable movement patterns, high degree of variability in size and composition, and lack of positive interspecific associations are not consistent with the "foraging enhancement" hypothesis for flocking. Two resident, endangered insectivores, the Akepa (Loxops coccineus) and Hawaii Creeper (Oreomystis mana) served as "nuclear" species. Flock composition was compared between two study sites that differed significantly in density of these two nuclear species. Flock size was similar at the two sites, primarily because the nuclear species were over-represented relative to their density. This observation suggests that birds are attempting to achieve a more optimal flock size at the lower density site. /// Se estudiaron bandadas mixtas de especies nativas e introducidas durante cuatro aos en un bosque lluvioso montano en Hawai. Estas bandadas se caracterizaron por su marcada estacionalidad, gran tamao, baja riqueza de especies, alta abundancia intraespecfica, ausencia de migrantes y carencia general de territorialidad o cualquier otro tipo de dominancia jerrquica. Existi una alta variabilidad entre aos en los patrones de ocurrencia a nivel de especies y una alta variabilidad dentro de aos a nivel de individuos. Estas bandadas son grupos sociales estructurados de forma laxa, aparentemente con membresa abierta. Los patrones de movimiento fluidos e inestables, el alto grado de variabilidad en tamao y composicin y la ausencia de interacciones interespecficas positivas no son consistentes con la hiptesis de facilitacin del forrajeo propuesta para explicar la formacin de bandadas. Dos insectvoros residentes amenazados, Loxops coccineus y Oreomystis mana, se comportaron como especies "nucleares". Se compar la composicin de las bandadas entre dos sitios de estudio que difirieron significativamente en la densidad de estas dos especies nucleares. El tamao de las bandadas fue similar en los dos sitios, principalmente porque las especies nucleares estuvieron sobre-representadas con relacin a su densidad. Esta observacin sugiere que las aves estn intentando alcanzar un tamao de bandada ms ptimo en el sitio de menor densidad. 
10.2307/4086900| In this paper I describe and demonstrate a strip-map census method designed to provide a complete record of the composition and density of a temperate-zone breeding bird community through a period covering the peaks of breeding activity of all resident species and individuals. A route transecting the area of interest is laid out, flanked on each side by an unmarked strip of a width equal to the distance at which birds can be detected (the detection-threshold distance). All birds detected during uniform listening periods on frequent, closely scheduled, early morning traverses of the route are recorded with appropriate symbols at the moment of detection on simple line maps of the route. Because species differ in the distance at which their calls and songs can be heard and observers differ in their hearing acuity, each observer has an observer-specific strip width for each species. These strip widths are determined directly from the distribution of all detection points on the census maps at the end of the season. Multiplied by the length of the strip, they give the area of the strip for each species. The accumulations of detection-point clusters on summary maps for each species are interpreted as the territories of individual birds. Densities within the study area or segments of it are determined by dividing the number of equivalent territories ( wholes plus fractions) within the species-detection strip by the area of the strip. Song frequencies are determined for each individual territory holder by multiplying the proportion of listening periods during which the bird was heard by the proportion of that bird's territory that fell within the species' detectability strip. The method provides a continuous record, divisible into segments of any desired length, of the density, song activity, and distribution of individuals of each species through its breeding season. The detection-threshold distance and song-frequency values obtained can be used as species-specific conversion factors for translating simple detection counts to bird densities. 
10.2307/4090486| Nestlings of aerial insectivores adjust their energetics, behavior, and development of internal organs in response to food shortages and subsequent improvements in feeding conditions. Here, we present results of laboratory refeeding of Bank Swallow (Riparia riparia) nestlings, which were undernourished between 4 and 7 days of age. During a subsequent three-day-long refeeding, their body mass did not catch up with that of individuals continuously fed ad libitum. However, refed young managed to compensate for delayed growth of pectoral muscles, small intestines, and fully restored fat reserves. Their resting metabolic rates and body temperatures increased to values similar to those of nestlings fed ad libitum. In contrast, digestive activity of their guts (quantified as carrier-mediated intestinal brush-border uptake rate of L-proline) was reduced, as compared with the period of undernutrition. Likewise, high locomotor activity observed during food shortage was significantly reduced upon refeeding. Furthermore, differences in body mass between nest mates, which had earlier modulated both locomotor activity and physiological responses to food shortage, had no effect on mobility and physiology of refed nestlings. Our results indicate that even a short, three-day period of refeeding triggered conspicuous acceleration of growth and development of vital internal organs in previously undernourished nestlings. However, that was not accompanied by significant compensatory whole-body growth (defined as a period of above-normal rapid growth, relative to age). /// Los pichones de las aves insectvoras areas son capaces de ajustar su balance energtico, su comportamiento y el desarrollo de los rganos internos para adecuarse a los perodos de escasez de alimentos y a las subsecuentes mejoras en las condiciones alimenticias. Presentamos aqu resultados de laboratorio de alimentacin post-ayuno de pichones de la golondrina Riparia riparia, los cuales fueron sub-alimentados entre los 4 y 7 das de edad. Durante un perodo de alimentacin post-ayuno de tres das, la masa corporal de estas aves no igual a la de aquellos individuos alimentados continuamente ad libitum. Sin embargo, los juveniles con alimentacin post-ayuno lograron compensar el retraso en el crecimiento de los msculos pectorales, el intestino delgado y el restablecimiento total de las reservas de grasa. Las tasas metablicas de reposo y las temperaturas corporales aumentaron a valores similares a los de los pichones alimentados ad libitum. En contraste, la actividad digestiva de sus intestinos (cuantificada como la tasa intestinal de absorcin de L-prolina mediada por un transportador) se redujo en comparacin con el perodo de sub-alimentacin. Del mismo modo, la alta actividad locomotora observada durante los perodos de escasez de alimento se redujo significativamente con la alimentacin post-ayuno. Ms an, las diferencias en la masa corporal entre los compaeros de nido, que anteriormente haban modulado tanto las actividades locomotoras como las respuestas fisiolgicas a la escasez de alimento, no tuvieron efecto sobre la movilidad y la fisiologa de los pichones con alimentacin post-ayuno. Nuestros resultados indican que incluso un perodo corto de tres das de alimentacin post-ayuno desencadena una aceleracin marcada en el crecimiento y en el desarrollo de los rganos vitales internos en pichones previamente sub-alimentados. Sin embargo, esto no estuvo acompaado por un crecimiento compensatorio significativo de todo el cuerpo (definido como un perodo de crecimiento rpido por sobre lo normal, relativo a la edad). 
10.2307/4089711|Wetlands in the western Great Basin of the United States are patchily distributed and undergo extensive seasonal and annual variation in water levels. The American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana) is one of many shorebird species that use these wetlands as breeding and migratory stopover sites and must adjust to variable conditions. We used radio telemetry to determine postbreeding, premigratory movement patterns of avocets throughout the region. In 1996 and 1997, 185 breeding adults were captured and fitted with radio transmitters at five breeding areas in Oregon, California, and Nevada. Regular aerial and ground surveys were conducted at the five main study areas from June through September, or until all avocets had left a site. Other wetlands in the western Great Basin also were surveyed by aircraft for the presence of radio-marked birds. Fifty-six percent of radio-marked avocets were still detected in the region at least eight weeks after capture. Each of these individuals was detected at an average of 2.1 lakes (range 0 to 6), with 74% found at more than one lake system. Forty radio-marked individuals moved at least 200 km between wetlands prior to migration, most of which dispersed northward. Male and female patterns did not differ significantly. Overall, movements may be associated with a prebasic molt, exploitation of a superabundant food source in northern lakes, and reconnaissance for future breeding efforts or staging sites. These results also demonstrate wide-ranging patterns of dispersal in this species and suggest a need for the consideration of large-scale habitat connectivity issues in establishing conservation strategies for shorebirds in the western Great Basin.
4085845|We quantified the time-activity budgets of Empidonax traillii in five phases of the nesting cycle during 2 yr and converted the results into energy budgets in order to learn the relative costs of reproductive events and their seasonal correlates. Salient results are: (1) Basal and thermostatic power consumption preempt an average of 43% of the total daily energy expenditure (
4085806|Ashmole (1961, 1963) suggested that clutch size should vary in direct proportion to the degree of seasonal fluctuation in the level of resources utilized by a population. He argued that populations are regulated during the winter months when resources are scarce; clutch size is determined by the resources available during the breeding season relative to population density. Hence, the greater the seasonal fluctuation in resources, the larger the average clutch size. Latitudinal variation in clutch size and the relative uniformity of clutch size among species within areas are consistent with Ashmole's hypothesis. The hypothesis is tested indirectly in this paper by relating clutch size to seasonal variation in actual evapotranspiration (AE), which is proportional to primary production. Clutch size is directly related to the ratio between summer AE and winter AE. In addition, clutch size is inversely related to winter AE, but it is independent of summer AE. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the number of breeding individuals is regulated in winter and that population size exerts a density-dependent influence on resources available to each individual for reproduction. To demonstrate further the relation between population density and reproductive rate, clutch size is shown to be directly related to the ratio between summer productivity and the density of breeding adults. Moreover, clutch size is inversely related to population density, but it is not related to production during the breeding season. This analysis suggests that geographical trends in clutch size are caused primarily by factors that limit populations during the nonreproductive period rather than by the abundance of resources during the breeding season.
4087815|We color-marked Sanderlings (Calidris alba Pallas) at 19 locations in 6 countries in the New World and coordinated a network of volunteers to locate banded individuals in migration over a five-year period. The observers reported 252 independent sightings of birds in countries different from the country of banding. Sanderlings that migrate north to the Arctic from Chile and Peru travel principally through the central corridor (Texas and northward) of the United States and Canada; smaller numbers follow the Pacific coast. A few migrate north from the Pacific coast of South America along the Atlantic coast of the United States. Southbound from the Arctic to coastal Chile and Peru, many individuals switch eastward to stopovers on the Atlantic coast, including birds that migrated north along the U.S. Pacific coast. Sanderlings banded in Brazil during the nonbreeding period appear only on the U.S. Atlantic coast in migration. Our results emphasize the individual nature of migration. We found considerable heterogeneity in migratory behavior among individuals that spend the nonbreeding season together on the same beaches. Individuals from widely separated nonbreeding sites often shared similar pathways. In this species and perhaps in others, no simple single migratory route connects breeding with nonbreeding regions.
10.1525/auk.2012.11224|Nest fate and nest productivity are key demographic parameters for understanding songbird population dynamics, yet little consideration has been paid to assessing and improving the accuracy of these estimates in the field. We considered the magnitude and sources of error in field estimates of nest fate and productivity for 13 species of boreal forest songbirds, the implications of this error when estimating rates of nest survival and population growth, and the utility of common field cues used to assess fate. Using video from 127 nests, we found that observers correctly identified 85% of nest fates but overestimated nest productivity by up to 35%. This resulted in population growth rates being overestimated by 6%. Field estimates were less accurate when nestling age approached the estimated fledge date and when the nest was depredated. Accuracy of field estimates can be improved by focusing on nest condition and the presence of fecal droppings outside the nest. Spending additional time searching for family groups would be prudent when nests are deemed successful on the basis of nestling age alone. Nest predators force fledged one or more nestlings from 14% of nests. The fate of force-fledged young is unknown. Our measures of error declined as increasingly younger force-fledged individuals were considered successful. Resolving this uncertainty would further improve the accuracy of field-based estimates. We encourage the use of video to quantify and improve the accuracy of field estimates and to evaluate the potential for differential bias in error within variables of interest.
4087176| Starch gel electrophoresis of proteins was used to assess genetic differentiation and introgression across a contact zone between Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis. Little or no differentiation was found at 35 presumed genetic loci, even between distantly allopatric population samples. Nei's (1978) genetic distance (D) was 0.001 for all comparisons. In contrast, Parus gambeli, another chickadee known to hybridize with atricapillus, was well differentiated at 3 loci (D  0.065). While the data suggest that atricapillus and carolinensis are closely related, they do not allow conclusions on the extent of introgression across the contact zone. The implications of these data are discussed in the light of the emerging pattern of isozyme variation in birds. 
4086721|A phylogenetic analysis was undertaken to evaluate the monophyly of the Pelecaniformes and to determine interfamilial relationships within the order. A total of 52 characters was subjected to a numerical cladistic analysis. Pelecaniform monophyly was highly corroborated, with 12 postulated synapomorphies supporting that hypothesis. Within the pelecaniforms, the phaethontids are the sister-group of the remaining families, which are divided into two lineages, the fregatids on the one hand and the pelecanids, sulids, and phalacrocoracids (including anhingids) on the other. Within the latter clade, sulids and phalacrocoracids are each other's closest relatives. This pattern of interfamilial relationships was strongly corroborated by the data, and alternative hypotheses, especially those postulating a close relationship between phaethontids and fregatids, are much less parsimonious. The study also presents corroborating evidence that pelecaniforms and procellariiforms are sister-taxa, although this hypothesis requires further analysis. Evidence supporting a relationship between pelecaniforms and ciconiiforms is evaluated and considered insufficient to warrant acceptance of that hypothesis at this time. The hypothesis that the Whale-headed Stork (Balaeniceps rex) has a relationship to one or more pelecaniform taxa was investigated and rejected. The characters said to indicate a close relationship are interpreted here to be convergences that arose as mechanical responses to similarities in feeding behavior.
10.2307/4087758|We examined the dynamics of Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) natal dispersal in central Wisconsin (1982-1985). During autumn dispersal juvenile females moved more than twice the net distance (4.82 vs. 2.14 km) at twice the rate (0.53 vs. 0.26 km/day) of juvenile males. The total distance females moved during autumn dispersal was 50% greater than males (9.56 vs. 6.36 km) even though the duration of autumn dispersal was similar for both sexes (17 vs. 21 days). A substantial percentage (29%) of birds exhibited more than one distinct movement; these individuals stopped temporarily for several days or weeks before making additional movements. The most pronounced sexual differences in habitat selection occurred during autumn dispersal when females used deciduous lowlands twice as much as males (22% vs. 10%); males were found in shrub/scrub areas more often than females (17% vs. 7%). Females appear to complete their natal dispersal in autumn as all (6 of 6) eventually nested in their wintering areas. Males may wander extensively in spring, with total movements often exceeding those observed in autumn. Most males (4 of 5) established spring ranges outside their wintering areas.
10.2307/4088590|The unprofitable-prey hypothesis predicts that birds of prey, when given a choice, should more often attack a cryptic than a conspicuous bird if conspicuousness is a signal of unprofitability. We tested this prediction by exposing pairs of stuffed birds to migrating birds of prey. In experiment 1, we paired the conspicuous White Wagtail (Motacilla alba) with the cryptic Meadow Pipit (Anthus pratensis). In experiment 2, we paired the conspicuous female Great Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocopos major) with the cryptic female Blackbird (Turdus merula). Automatic cameras documented attacks by birds of prey, mostly accipiters, on the mounts. The numbers of attacks on wagtails and pipits were similar, whereas Blackbirds were attacked much more often than woodpeckers. Experiment 2 thus supports the prediction of the unprofitable-prey hypothesis. Using photographs of the experimental situation, we examined detectability of mounts by human observers. Wagtails and pipits were equally easy to detect from a distance, but woodpeckers usually were easier to detect than Blackbirds. Thus, wagtails and pipits did not differ in "long-distance conspicuousness," which may explain the result of experiment 1. To analyze reasons for unprofitability, we presented flesh from woodpeckers and Blackbirds to captive falcons, but found no evidence that woodpeckers are distasteful. Other explanations for why woodpeckers were rarely attacked are discussed.
4085746|Mortality of Macaroni Penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus) and Rockhopper Penguin [E. chrysocome (crestatus)] eggs and chicks was investigated at Marion Island. Two eggs were laid at each nest, but no pair reared more than one chick. Egg mortality exceeded chick mortality in both species. Both eggs hatched at 6% of Rockhopper Penguin nests and at no Macaroni Penguin nests. When both eggs hatched, one chick died of starvation within 12 days. Chicks were successfully reared from 43% and 34% of all eggs laid by Macaroni and Rockhopper penguins, respectively. Egg mortality was greater and occurred earlier, and chick mortality was lower, in Macaroni than in Rockhopper penguins. Offspring reduction was closely related to egg dimorphism and differential egg mortality. In both species the first laid (A) egg was markedly lighter than the second (B) egg. Mortality of A-eggs was 99.7 and 88% and of B-eggs 44 and 32% in Macaroni and Rockhopper penguins, respectively. Chicks were raised successfully from 3% of all A-eggs laid by Rockhopper Penguins. No A-egg chicks were reared by Macaroni Penguins. The B-eggs, a better investment, were treated preferentially, and the smaller A-eggs were often disregarded. The A-egg functions as an insurance against the loss or failure to hatch of the B-egg in most Rockhopper Penguin clutches but serves no obvious function in the majority of Macaroni Penguin clutches.
10.2307/4089715|The Warbling Vireo (Vireo gilvus) is one of the most heavily parasitized host species of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), suffering up to 80% parasitism in some areas. Warbling Vireo nests that are parasitized by cowbirds typically produce no vireo young. To make predictions about the consequences of brood parasitism on local host populations, we investigated factors that allow such high parasitism to occur. The major factors leading to high levels of brood parasitism on Warbling Vireos in the Okanagan Valley, British Columbia, are habitat overlap with cowbirds and the lack of response of vireos to cowbird eggs. Warbling Vireos responded more strongly to a cowbird dummy placed near the nest than to a dummy of a "neutral" species (junco) or to a common nest predator (crow). Preliminary simulation models based on population parameters obtained from three summers of field work suggest that Warbling Vireos are in danger of extirpation from the Okanagan Valley if little movement of birds occurs between areas with different levels of brood parasitism. The models also indicate the sensitivity of this species to variation in adult and juvenile survival rates and number of successful broods produced per season. Our results emphasize the need for a metapopulation analysis that compares the population ecology of Warbling Vireos at high elevations (and probably with low parasitism) with that at low elevations (high parasitism) and that ascertains whether sufficient dispersal occurs between these populations to prevent extinction at lower elevations. Sufficient dispersal is indicated by apparently stable vireo populations in the Okanagan Valley and by Breeding Bird Survey data that show an overall increasing trend for this species in British Columbia.
4086367|The CO
4085936|Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) at Bodega Bay, California drop shelled prey items to break them. I presented Washington clams (Saxidomus nuttalli) of known weight to free-flying gulls to investigate factors affecting shell-dropping behavior. All adult gulls dropped clams, whereas only 55% of immature gulls did so. The other 45% of immature gulls that were given clams pecked at them on the ground instead. Gulls dropped clams on both hard and soft substrates. Flight distance and kleptoparasitism seemed important in influencing drop location. Adult Western Gulls dropped heavy clams from lower heights than they dropped light clams. Heavy clams, however, break less easily than light clams when dropped from the same height. Energetic constraints and/or kleptoparasitism could explain this apparent contradiction.
10.2307/4088271|We used the doubly-labeled-water method to examine the effect of thermal environment (mean shade air temperature) and brood size (two to six young) on field metabolic rate of nestling Yellow-eyed Juncos (Junco phaeonotus). The relationship between brood size and nestling field metabolic rate was curvilinear, such that nestling energy expenditure was lowest in broods of four (the most common clutch size) and highest in broods of two (the smallest brood size). Mean air temperature accounted for 21.0% of the variation in nestling field metabolic rate, whereas brood size accounted for 17.5% of the variation. Although brood reduction would decrease the brood's field metabolic rate, the reduction is not proportional to the decrease in brood size.
10.2307/4089968| The wood-warblers (family Parulidae) fall within a radiation of passerine birds commonly known as the New World nine-primaried oscines. Defining familial relationships within that radiation has previously been challenging because of its extremely high diversity, a paucity of phylogenetically informative morphological characters, and an apparent high rate of cladogenesis early in the radiation's history. Here, analyses of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences demonstrate that the 25 extant genera traditionally placed in the Parulidae do not form a monophyletic group. Instead, all reconstructions identify a well-resolved clade of 19 genera (Vermivora, Parula, Dendroica, Catharopeza, Mniotilta, Setophaga, Protonotaria, Helmitheros, Limnothlypis, Seiurus, Oporornis, Geothlypis, Wilsonia, Cardellina, Ergaticus, Myioborus, Euthlypis, Basileuterus, and Phaeothlypis) that are all morphologically typical wood-warblers traditionally placed in the Parulidae. Six genera traditionally assigned to the Parulidae-Microligea, Teretistris, Zeledonia, Icteria, Granatellus, and Xenoligea-fall outside this highly supported clade in all mtDNA-based and nuclear DNA-based reconstructions, and each is probably more closely allied to taxa traditionally placed in other nine-primaried oscine families. The long, well-supported, and independently confirmed internode at the base of this wood-warbler clade provides the opportunity to define a monophyletic Parulidae using several complementary molecular phylogenetic criteria. Support for those relationships comes from reconstructions based on a range of nucleotide-intensive (from 894 to 3,638 nucleotides per taxon) and taxon-intensive (45 to 128 species) analyses of mtDNA sequences, as well as independent reconstructions based on nucleotide substitutions in the nuclear-encoded c-mos gene. Furthermore, the 19 typical wood-warbler genera share a synapomorphic one-codon c-mos deletion not found in other passerines. At a slightly deeper phylogenetic level, our mtDNA-based reconstructions are consistent with previous morphologic and genetic studies in suggesting that many nine-primaried oscine taxa have un-anticipated affinities, that many lineages arose during an early and explosive period of cladogenesis, and that the generation of a robust nine-primaried oscine phylogeny will require robust taxonomic sampling and extensive phylogenetic information. /// Las reinitas (familia Parulidae) forman parte de una radiacin de aves paserinas conocida comnmente como los oscines de nueve primarias del Nuevo Mundo. La definicin de las relaciones entre las familias de esta radiacin ha sido difcil debido a su gran diversidad, a la carencia de caracteres morfolgicos filogenticamente informativos y a una tasa de cladognesis aparentemente alta al inicio de la radiacin. En este artculo, anlisis de secuencias de ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) y nuclear demuestran que los 25 gneros vivientes que tradicionalmente se han incluido en Parulidae, no forman un grupo monofiltico. En cambio, todas las reconstrucciones identifican un clado bien resuelto de 19 gneros (Vermivora, Parula, Dendroica, Catharopeza, Mniotilta, Setophaga, Protonotaria, Helmitheros, Limnothlypis, Seiurus, Oporornis, Geothlypis, Wilsonia, Cardellina, Ergaticus, Myioborus, Euthlypis, Basileuterus y Phaeothlypis) correspondientes a reinitas morfolgicamente tpicas que tradicionalmente han sido incluidas en Parulidae. En todas las reconstrucciones basadas en ADNmt y ADN nuclear, seis gneros tradicionalmente asignados a Parulidae (Microligea, Teretistris, Zeledonia, Icteria, Granatellus y Xenoligea) aparecen por fuera de este clado que posee buen respaldo. Probablemente, cada uno de estos gneros tiene una relacin ms cercana con taxa tradicionalmente ubicados en otras familias de oscines de nueve primarias. El largo internodo de la base del clado de las reinitas, que est bien respaldado y ha sido confirmado independientemente, permite definir una familia Parulidae monofiltica con base en varios criterios moleculares complementarios. El respaldo para esas relaciones se deriva de reconstrucciones basadas en una variedad de anlisis de secuencias de ADNmt intensivos en trminos de nucletidos (de 894 a 3,638 por taxn) y taxa (45 a 128 especies), y de reconstrucciones independientes basadas en sustituciones de nucletidos en el gen nuclear c-mos. Ms an, los 19 gneros tpicos de Parulidae comparten una delecin sinapomrfica en un codn de c-mos que no se encuentra en otras aves paserinas. A un nivel filogentico un poco ms profundo, nuestras reconstrucciones basadas en ADNmt son consistentes con estudios morfolgicos y genticos anteriores que sugieren que muchos taxa de los oscines de nueve primarias tienen afinidades inesperadas, que muchos linajes surgieron durante un perodo temprano de cladognesis explosiva, y que la generacin de una filogenia robusta para los oscines de nueve primarias requerir un muestreo taxonmico robusto y una gran cantidad de informacin filogentica. 
4086539|In Marin County, California, the dialect populations of Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli are contiguous, and there is little dialect mixing. The possible importance of male-male interactions in preventing dialect mixing was tested with song-playback experiments. Males of the Limantour dialect were presented the Limantour dialect, Drake or Buzzy dialects (neighboring), or Clear dialect (distant). From previous work, we predicted that Limantour males would respond with equal or more aggression to songs of immediately neighboring dialects in comparison with their own dialect but would respond at lower levels to a distant dialect. Instead, we found that Limantour males sang significantly more songs in response to the Limantour dialect than to either neighboring or distant dialects, although the response decreased with distance, as expected. These results led us to hypothesize that responses to an alien dialect may be influenced by (1) opportunity to habituate to the alien dialect, (2) recency of divergence of the two dialects, (3) recency of contact of the two dialects, and (4) sounds common in aggressive vocalizations in other contexts being also present in some song dialects but not others.
4088457|I report on geographic variation and seasonal decline in clutch size in House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon), a species that breeds throughout much of the New World. Nest records from British Columbia to Tierra del Fuego (n = 3,246 clutches) show that clutch size increases with latitude in both the Northern and Southern hemispheres. Seasonality of food resources, as measured by actual evapotranspiration (AE), does not explain much of the variation in clutch size, especially when controlling for latitude. This result shows that either seasonality is unimportant or that AE is a poor indicator of the food available to House Wrens. Seasonal decline in clutch size varies geographically such that in northern populations, clutch size declines much more rapidly during the breeding season than in low latitude populations. A model explaining this pattern, the offspring-survivorship hypothesis, predicts that the rate of seasonal decline in clutch size is related to the difference in survivorship between early-and late-fledged young. Field study in Monteverde, Costa Rica, showed that clutch size did not change seasonally and that late-fledged young were at least as likely to survive to the following breeding season as early-fledged young. This pattern is in contrast to North Temperate areas where clutch size declines sharply during the breeding season and late-fledged young are much less likely to survive to the following year than early-fledged young.
25488723|Birds that live in family groups and cooperatively defend the family's territory are currently recognized as cooperative breeders only if helpers assist with chick rearing. We observed breeding Kagus (
4088547|Previous studies of hindlimb muscles suggest that reduction and individual variation in M. flexor cruris lateralis may be causally related to ecological habits such as aerial-foraging behavior. Examination of the muscle in a number of behaviorally convergent birds suggests that such variation is phylogenetically very restricted. Comparison with a published phylogeny of hindlimb muscle characters indicates that behavior and morphology have not coevolved in the case of M. flexor cruris lateralis. Examination of other hindlimb muscles suggests that individual variation is not likely to interfere with attempts to reconstruct phylogeny using such data.
10.2307/4090153| Over a period of 19 years, we studied 237 breeding attempts of Spanish Imperial Eagles (Aquila adalberti) in Doana National Park (southwestern Spain), including 29 pairs with at least one immature member, to investigate age-related effects on population fecundity. Without considering effect of territory quality, adult pairs were significantly more productive than immature pairs. Highly significant differences in breeding performance among territories were independent of age-classes of birds occupying them. Low-quality territories were more frequently occupied by immature pairs, whereas high-quality territories were occupied mostly or exclusively by adult birds. Therefore, age and territory quality appear to be interrelated. We found no effect on average population fecundity due to breeding by immature pairs. /// Para estudiar los efectos relacionados con la edad sobre la fecundidad de la poblacin de Aguilas Imperiales Ibricas (Aquila adalberti) en el Parque Naconal de Doana (SO Espaa), analizamos 237 intentos de nidificacin, incluyendo 29 de parejas con al menos un miembro inmaduro, a lo largo de un periodo de 19 aos. Sin considerar el efecto de la calidad de territorio, las parejas de adultos fueron significativamente ms productivas que las parejas con inmaduros. Las diferencias altamente significativas en los resultados reproductivos entre territorios fueron independientes de la clase de edad de los individuos que los ocupaban. Los territorios de baja calidad eran mas frecuentemente ocupados por parejas con inmaduros, mientras que los territorios de alta calidad fueron ocupados mayoritaria o exclusivamente por aves adultas. Por tanto, la edad y la calidad del territorio estan interrelacionadas. No encontramos ningun efecto de la nidificacin de inmaduros sobre la fecundidad media de la poblacin. 
4087451|We studied the influence of early rearing experience on the reproductive success of Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) by force-pairing somatically mature birds that had been either hand-reared (H) or parent-reared (P) from hatch to 6 weeks of age. Pairs of H-males and H-females, H-males and P-females, P-males and P-females, or P-males and H-females were encouraged to breed by providing nest-boxes and exposing pairs to a sexually stimulatory environment. Hand-rearing produced gender-specific effects that greatly affected reproductive success. Pairs containing H-females were more likely to lay eggs and laid more eggs than pairs with P-females but often laid them on the cage floor rather than in nest-boxes, reducing hatching success. Pairs containing H-males were less likely than pairs with P-males to produce fertile eggs, inspect nest-boxes, or lay eggs in nest-boxes. Fledging occurred only in pairs containing P-males. Early rearing experience is important for males to learn characteristics of the opposite sex, and for males and females to learn characteristics of nest-sites.
4086230|Eggs of a seasonally early-nesting species of diving duck (Aythyini), the Canvasback (Aythya valisineria), and a late-nesting diving species, the Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis), were collected from south-central Manitoba. Ducklings were raised in captivity so that the pattern of growth and development of both species could be examined. Rates of growth of external components were determined in order to test the hypothesis that late-nesting species (scaup) should develop the ability to fly at a younger age and gain weight more slowly than early-hatched species (Canvasback). If Lesser Scaup acquire flight earlier, we predicted that their digestive organs would grow and develop relatively more quickly than those of Canvasbacks, enabling them to process a large amount of food at a younger age. As growth rate is related to adult body size, rates of growth of the smaller Lesser Scaup were scaled to Canvasback size at the asymptote of the juvenile growth curve. Lesser Scaup fledged when they were 6 days younger than Canvasbacks, yet there was no apparent tradeoff in total body growth, as both species fledged at approximately 92% of juvenile asymptotic weight. Flight and leg muscle growth, however, did not differ statistically between species, nor did the change in water content, an indicator of tissue maturity. This is consistent with the idea that tissue maturity, and not the ability to fly, limits growth rate. As we predicted, growth of digestive organs was significantly more rapid in Lesser Scaup than in Canvasbacks. Culmen and tarsus of Lesser Scaup also grew faster than those of Canvasbacks, and we suggest this enables scaup to become efficient foragers more rapidly. The variation in growth rates between species was partially due to the difference in body size. After accounting for this, however, we found that several organs grew faster in Lesser Scaup than in Canvasbacks. Thus, the pattern of development may be influenced by the timing of nesting.
10.2307/4090414| We held an adult Guadeloupe Woodpecker (Melanerpes herminieri) in captivity for two weeks and documented its tongue movements as it caught grubs placed into holes that had been excavated out of a log. We provide evidence that the Guadeloupe Woodpecker does not spear grubs with its tongue but instead grabs them with the tongue's horny tip, which is barbed and coated with saliva, and pulls them out of the holes. /// Mantuvimos en cautiverio a un adulto de Melanerpes herminieri durante dos semanas y documentamos los movimientos de su lengua mientras atrapaba larvas dispuestas en agujeros excavados en un tronco. Suministramos evidencia de que M. herminieri no arponea las larvas con su lengua sino que las atrapa con el extremo crneo de la lengua, el cual presenta barbas y est recubierto por saliva, y las tira hacia fuera de los agujeros. 
10.2307/4087754| We investigated the carotenoids found in the head feathers of three members of the Pipra erythrocephala superspecies by chromatographic, spectrophotometric, and chemical means. The Golden-headed Manakin (P. erythrocephala) primarily deposited yellow hydroxy-carotenoids in its head feathers, predominately lutein. Red keto-carotenoids were also deposited locally. Canthaxanthin, for instance, was identified in the tips of nape feathers. In contrast, the Red-headed Manakin (P. rubrocapilla) deposited mostly orange and red keto-carotenoids. An orange pigment identified as -doradexanthin was the most abundant. The common red pigments astaxanthin and canthaxanthin were also present. Finally, feathers of the red-headed Round-tailed Manakin (P. chloromeros) yielded a complement of carotenoids very similar to the Red-headed Manakin's. In addition, the Round-tailed Manakin deposited moderate amounts of rhodoxanthin, a plant keto-carotenoid of pronounced red hue. Within individual Red-headed Manakins, we observed differences in total carotenoid content and composition among head regions that differed slightly in color. The distal and proximal portions of individual feathers also differed markedly. We discuss possible physiological and biochemical mechanisms for these conditions, and suggest their relationship to the mechanisms responsible for the species-specific differences in manakin coloration. We reveal the probable origin of the Latin misnomer for the Golden-headed Manakin. 
40406715|Adult male Marvelous Spatuletails (
40406071|Food-supplementation studies on birds during egg laying have generally manipulated macronutrients and energy. Such studies have shown variable effects on egg size in American Coots (
10.2307/4087614|We studied the morphometrics, breeding biology, genetics, and calls of Pachyptila desolata, P. salvini, P. belcheri, and P. turtur in the southern Indian Ocean. Multivariate analysis of the measurements of live birds revealed some overlap among closely related taxa. Comparisons of biological data provided evidence for ecological segregation between taxa, based mainly on phenology of breeding but also on diet. Calls differed significantly between taxa, and multivariate analysis showed no overlap between sympatric taxa. These data were then compared with data from other taxa (P. crassirostris and macgillivrayi) and from different localities. We support the recognition at the species level of each of the four study taxa.
10.2307/4089939|We report association between female blood parasite prevalence (percentage of infected birds) just after egg laying and reproductive success in two successive breeding seasons, in a breeding population of Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca in central Spain. Females infected with Trypanosoma spp. had a higher probability of deserting their clutches during the incubation period than noninfected females. Females infected with Haemoproteus balmorali hatched proportionally fewer eggs than noninfected females. Female infected with H. balmorali during the incubation period may have a decreased ability to thermoregulate which may affect their incubation capacity. Fledging success, breeding success, fledgling mass, and tarsus length were not associated with infection of the mother by blood parasites during the incubation period, suggesting that females and their mates may compensate during the nestling period for the negative effect of blood parasites during the incubation period.
10.1525/auk.2011.11105|Energy gain is thought to play a central role in prey selection by most foragers, but it may conflict with food theft avoidance and be constrained by undeveloped foraging skills. We investigated predation by the Glaucous-winged Gull (
90008582|Brood-parasitic cowbirds are hypothesized to search for and locate host nests within a relatively constant area, as this is presumed to facilitate the monitoring of nests over time and the synchronization of parasitism with host laying. We tested this hypothesis in Shiny Cowbirds (
4090442| Egg size is a particularly important life-history trait mediating maternal influences on offspring phenotype. Females can vary their egg-size investment in relation to environmental circumstances, their own breeding condition, and the quality of their mate. Here we analyzed inter- and intraclutch variation in egg size in the Collared Flycatcher (Ficedula albicollis) on the basis of eight years of data. According to our results, mean egg size increased with female condition, but did not differ among young, middle-aged, and old females. The male's age, body size, and forehead patch size did not influence egg size; thus, we found no evidence for differential investment in egg size in relation to male quality. We found no effect of laying date on egg size when controlling for ambient temperature during the egg formation period, yet temperature had a significant effect on egg size. That result indicates proximate constraints on egg formation. Furthermore, we report on annual differences in intraclutch egg-size variation. Egg size increased within clutches in years with a warm prelaying period; whereas in years when the weather during that period was cold, there was no significant intraclutch trend. Proximate considerations seem to explain the observed patterns of intraclutch egg-size variation; however, we cannot reject the adaptive explanation. Mean egg size and intraclutch egg-size variation were unrelated to clutch size. Therefore, we found no evidence for a trade-off between size and number of eggs within a clutch. /// El tamao del huevo es un carcter de historia de vida particularmente importante que condiciona la influencia materna sobre el fenotipo de la progenie. Las hembras pueden variar la inversin en el tamao del huevo con relacin a las circunstancias ambientales, a su propia condicin reproductiva y a la calidad de sus parejas. En este estudio analizamos la variacin del tamao de los huevos entre y dentro de las nidadas en Ficedula albicollis basndonos en datos obtenidos a travs de 8 aos. De acuerdo a nuestros resultados, el tamao promedio de los huevos aument con la condicin de la hembra, pero no difiri entre hembras jvenes, de edad media y de edad avanzada. La edad de los machos, el tamao corporal y el tamao del parche de la frente no influyeron sobre el tamao de los huevos, por lo que no encontramos evidencia que apoye una inversin diferencial en el tamao de los huevos con relacin a la calidad del macho. Al controlar por el ambiente, no encontramos un efecto de la fecha de postura sobre el tamao de los huevos durante el periodo de su formacin, aunque la temperatura s tuvo un efecto significativo sobre el tamao de los huevos. Este resultado indica que existen restricciones directas en la formacin de los huevos. Adems, documentamos diferencias anuales en la variacin del tamao de los huevos de una misma nidada. El tamao de los huevos en las nidadas aument en aos con un periodo clido previo a la puesta, mientras que en aos en que el clima durante ese periodo fue fro, no hubo una tendencia significativa en las nidadas. Los patrones observados de variacin del tamao de los huevos en las nidadas parecen estar explicados por factores de efecto directo; sin embargo, no podemos rechazar una explicacin adaptativa. El tamao promedio y la variacin del tamao de los huevos en las nidadas no estuvieron relacionados con el tamao de la nidada. Por lo tanto, no encontramos evidencia que apoye la existencia de una solucin de compromiso entre el tamao y el nmero de huevos en una nidada. 
4086291|Coefficients of variation and generalized variances are compared for nine morphological characters from five mainland and four island populations of the House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus). The purpose is to test the idea that variability is reduced in isolated populations and that there is a "population variation parameter" that determines the level of variation in most characters. Variability is greater in bill characters for Guadalupe and San Benito Islands than for mainland and other island populations. There are no consistent differences among samples in variability of wing, tail, or hind-limb characters, except for a tendency toward increased tarsus-length variability in a southern Baja California population and reduced variability in this character in San Clemente Island and Guadalupe Island populations. In bill characters, increased variability is found in the most divergent populations. The results do not support the generalization that geographic (= genetic) isolation per se causes much of a change in variability in island populations of birds, nor is there support for the idea of a pervasive quality of the gene pool that determines the level of variability in most characters.
4090452| Migratory birds are subject to the effects of various weather systems during the year. Fluctuations in population size may depend on survivorship of juveniles and adults at various stages of the annual cycle. Severe weather conditions can lower survival, especially in migrating passerines that feed on insects. We investigated the effects of climate and density dependence on survival in a population of Common House-Martins (Delichon urbicum), including variables of weather experienced both in their breeding areas and during autumn migration. Unfavorable weather conditions during autumn migration had a severe negative effect on adult apparent survival, irrespective of sex; whereas temperature in the breeding area and population size explained a significant proportion of variance in juvenile survival. Thus, weather conditions experienced in different areas can regulate various age classes in different ways, which suggests that climate change can have a significant but complex influence on demography in passerine populations. /// Las aves migratorias estn sujetas a los efectos de varios sistemas climticos durante el ao. Las fluctuaciones en el tamao poblacional pueden depender de la supervivencia de los juveniles y los adultos en varias etapas del ciclo anual. Las condiciones climticas severas pueden disminuir la supervivencia, especialmente en aves paserinas migrantes que se alimentan de insectos. En este estudio investigamos los efectos del clima y de factores dependientes de la densidad sobre la supervivencia en una poblacin de Delichon urbicum (Hirundinidae), incluyendo variables climticas a las que las aves se enfrentan tanto en sus reas de cra como durante la migracin de otoo. Las condiciones desfavorables durante la migracin de otoo tuvieron un fuerte efecto negativo sobre la supervivencia aparente de los adultos, independientemente del sexo. Por su parte, la temperatura en el rea de cra y el tamao poblacional explicaron una proporcin significativa de la variaza en la supervivencia de los juveniles. Por tanto, las condiciones climticas experimentadas en distintas reas pueden regular las diferentes clases de edad de modos distintos, lo que sugiere que el cambio climtico podra tener una influencia significativa pero compleja sobre la demografa de las poblaciones de aves paserinas. 
10.2307/4089908| Recent studies reveal that asymmetries of bilateral characteristics may reflect poor condition, serving as an honest indicator of mate quality. We asked whether bilateral asymmetry might also influence behavior during aggressive intrasexual contests. In the Common Chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs), bilateral, white wing patches (epaulettes) are used during aggressive interactions. We recorded responses of males to model intruders placed on territories of focal males, to determine whether their response to asymmetry varied with wing-patch size. When epaulettes were large, models with asymmetric patches elicited more rapid, directed aggression from the territory owners than did models with symmetric patches. We observed no such difference when model intruders had small epaulettes. If asymmetry of epaulettes in chaffinch males indicates poor condition, our results suggest higher costs of aggressive signaling for individuals in poor than good condition. /// Estudios recientes han revelado que la presencia de asimetra en caractersticas bilaterales puede reflejar mala condicin fsica, de modo que puede servir como un indicador honesto de la calidad de una pareja. Nos preguntamos si la asimetra bilateral podra tambin influenciar el comportamiento durante enfrentamientos agresivos intrasexuales. En la especie Fringilla coelebs, los parches alares bilaterales de color blanco son utilizados durante interacciones agresivas. Registramos las respuestas de machos focales ante modelos que semejaban intrusos es sus territorios para determinar si su respuesta ante la asimetra variaba con el tamao de los parches alares. En modelos con parches alares grandes, los que tenan parches asimtricos recibieron agresiones dirigidas por parte de los dueos de los territorios ms rpidamente que los modelos con parches simtricos. Por otra parte, no observamos esta diferencia cuando los modelos tenan parches pequeos. Si la asimetra en los parches alares de machos de F. coelebs indica mala condicin fsica, nuestros resultados sugieren que los costos de dar seales agresivas son mayores para los individuos en mala condicin fsica que para aquellos en buen estado. 
10.2307/4088093|Egg composition is generally assumed to influence the viability of hatchlings. We measured composition of 322 American Coot (Fulica americana) eggs to determine what factors influenced their variability. Eggs were obtained from 12 sample groups, which varied with respect to location (Delta Marsh or Minnedosa, Manitoba), year (3 yr at each location), and food supply (supplemental food was provided during 1 yr at Delta Marsh and 3 yr at Minnedosa). Egg size did not differ among sample groups, but measures of egg composition varied in both absolute and relative proportions. Egg composition differed between study sites, but only for shell and lean yolk masses. Year effects were pronounced. All variables except shell mass exhibited significant annual variation at one or both locations. Effects of supplemental feeding were generally insignificant, except in one year. In all feeding experiments, however, birds that received food supplements containing corn (high carbohydrate) produced eggs with greater absolute and proportional lipid content and greater energy density. Similar comparisons of birds receiving high-protein food supplements did not reveal any consistent trends in egg protein content. Among females, egg quality increased with clutch size and declined with laying date. Some of the among-group differences in egg composition appeared to be correlated responses to among-group variation in clutch size or laying date. There was no evidence of interwetland variation in egg composition. Although these results illustrate some potential plasticity in egg characteristics, we conclude that egg composition is a relatively inflexible component of the life-history strategy of American Coots.
10.2307/4090067| Adult male Green Woodhoopoes (Phoeniculus purpureus) are only 5-8% larger than adult females in most linear measures but have 36% longer bills. Such sexual dimorphism may result from sexual selection, reproductive role division, or ecological separation. Here, we show that there is little evidence that sexual selection is currently acting on bill dimorphism in the Green Woodhoopoe. (1) Breeding males did not have longer bills than nonbreeding males. (2) There was no significant relationship between bill length and reproductive success of breeding males. (3) Although there was greater variation in male than in female bill length, the coefficient of variation (5.3%) fell within the range of those for naturally selected traits. (4) Although male bill length was found to be positively allometric with body mass, female bill length followed a similar relationship and there was no significant difference between the allometric slopes of the two sexes. Maintenance of the bill dimorphism by reproductive role division also seems unlikely when considering the nesting and provisioning characteristics of the species. We therefore conclude that the extreme sexual dimorphism in Green Woodhoope bill length is maintained by ecological separation to reduce foraging competition. We cannot, however, rule out the possibility that the sexual dimorphism initially evolved as a consequence of sexual selection. /// Los machos adultos de la especie Phoeniculus purpureus son slo un 5-8% ms grandes que las hembras adultas en la mayora de mediciones lineales, pero tienen picos que son un 36% ms largos. Este dimorfismo sexual podra ser el resultado de seleccin sexual, de divisin de las tareas reproductivas o de separacin ecolgica. En este estudio, demostramos que existe poca evidencia de que la seleccin sexual est operando en la actualidad sobre el dimorfismo sexual en P. purpureus. (1) Los machos reproductivos no tuvieron picos ms largos que los machos que no se reprodujeron. (2) No hubo una relacin significativa entre la longitud del pico y el xito reproductivo de los machos que se reprodujeron. (3) Aunque hubo mayor variacin en la longitud del pico en los machos que en las hembras, el coeficiente de variacin (5.3%) estuvo en el rango observado en caracteres que son objeto de seleccin natural. (4) Aunque se encontr que la longitud del pico de los machos tiene una relacin alomtrica positiva con la masa corporal, la longitud del pico de las hembras mostr una relacin similar, y las pendientes alomtricas de los dos sexos no fueron significativamente diferentes. El mantenimiento del dimorfismo en el pico por la divisin de tareas reproductivas tambin parece poco probable, considerando las caractersticas de nidificacin y aprovisionamiento de la especie. Por lo tanto, concluimos que el dimorfismo sexual extremo en la longitud del pico en P. purpureus es mantenido por separacin ecolgica para reducir la competencia en el forrajeo. Sin embargo, no podemos descartar la posibilidad de que el dimorfismo sexual haya evolucionado inicialmente como consecuencia de seleccin sexual. 
10.2307/4088197|Only rarely are green plumage colors due to the presence of green pigments. The best known is turacoverdin. Two galliform species (Ithaginis, Rollolus), Jacana and some anseriform species (Somateria, Nettapus) also have green pigments. The reflectance spectra of plumage pigmented by turacoverdin are characterized by distinct minima at about 570 and 610 nm. These minima represent absorption bands as confirmed by a transmittance spectrum of a turacoverdin extract. Surprisingly, the spectra of the two galliform species and Jacana also exhibit the characteristics of the turacoverdin spectrum, while that of Somateria is different. I show that the pigments of Ithaginis, Rollolus, and Jacana also resemble turacoverdin in containing copper in relatively high concentration, and conclude that these pigments are identical with or closely related to turacoverdin. Intra- and interspecific variation in reflectance spectra is assumed to be largely determined by the presence of dark, nongreen pigments in the plumage. The spectrum of turacoverdin supports the hypothesis that the pigment is closely related to the well-known red pigment of turacos (Musophagidae)-turacin. However, the chemical constitution of turacoverdin remains unknown. The presence of turacoverdin and turacin in the plumage of the Musophagidae hitherto has been considered an autapomorphy of the turacos. The fact the turacoverdin also is present in two possibly related galliform taxa argues for phylogenetic relationships between the Musophagidae and the Galliformes.
25150246|Six populations of Warbling Antbird (Hypocnemis cantator) currently considered subspecies are more appropriately recognized as species, given the multiplicity of vocal differences that distinguishes them. These vocal differences are as great or greater than vocal differences documented between syntopic species-pairs in the family Thamnophilidae (Isler et al. 1998). Evidence is also provided that two forms currently considered subspecies are syntopic and that two others are parapatric without apparent physical barriers. Vocally, the pair of syntopic taxa were distinguished dramatically, but solely, by common calls. The finding that common calls were as diversified as songs in this species-group suggests that calls may be as important as songs in reproductive isolation. Future field studies should therefore focus on clarifying the function of different types of thamnophilid vocalizations and elucidating their role in speciation. This is the first contribution to a multifaceted analysis of the vocalizations and genetic structure of typical antbirds (Thamnophilidae) in Amazonia. In future work, results of the vocal analysis will be compared with a parallel genetic study, after which the two analyses will be integrated to suggest a phylogeny. The present study and preliminary studies of genetic differentiation (e.g., Bates et al. 1999) make it clear that the H. cantator complex has had a long evolutionary history that produced greater species-level diversity than was recognized previously. /// Teniendo en cuenta las mltiples diferencias en vocalizaciones que distinguen a seis poblaciones de Hypocnemis cantator que actualmente son consideradas como subespecies, es ms adecuado reconocerlas como especies diferentes. Estas diferencias en vocalizaciones son iguales o mayores que las documentadas entre pares de especies sintpicas en la familia Thamnophilidae (Isler et al. 1998). Tambin se provee evidencia de que dos formas actualmente consideradas subespecies son sintpicas, y que otras dos son paraptricas, sin barreras fsicas evidentes. Vocalmente, el par de taxones sintpicos se diferenciaron dramticamente, pero nicamente en sus llamadas comunes. El hallazgo de que las llamadas comunes estn tan diferenciadas como los cantos en este grupo de especies sugiere que las llamadas pueden ser tan importantes como los cantos en el aislamiento reproductivo. Por lo tanto, estudios de campo futuros deberan enfocarse en aclarar la funcin de los distintos tipos de vocalizaciones de los Thamnophilidae, y en elucidar el papel que stos juegan en la especiacin. Esta es la primera contribucin de un anlisis con mltiples facetas de las vocalizaciones y la estructura gentica de los Thamnophilidae en la Amazona. En estudios futuros, los resultados de los anlisis de vocalizaciones sern comparados con los de un estudio gentico paralelo, para luego integrar los dos anlisis y sugerir una filogenia. El presente estudio, junto con anlisis preliminares de variacin gentica (e.g., Bates et al. 1999) indican claramente que el complejo de H. cantator ha tenido una historia evolutiva prolongada que produjo una mayor diversidad de especies que la que ha sido reconocida hasta ahora.
4090547| We assessed potential effects of introduced Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus) on Least Auklets (Aethia pusilla) breeding at Sirius Point on Kiska Island, the largest auklet colony in the Aleutian Islands, Alaska. We compared productivity, chick growth, and adult survival of Least Auklets during 2001-2003 at Kiska and two nearby, rat-free Least Auklet colonies on Buldir and Kasatochi islands. During 2001 and 2002 (when rats were abundant), productivity at Kiska was the lowest ever recorded for this species (0.09-0.16 chicks fledged per eggs laid), primarily because of high mortality of newly hatched chicks. Growth rates and mean fledging mass were both lower on Kiska than on rat-free islands, though there were some interannual differences in these patterns. Adult survival rates were highly variable among years but strongly concordant among colonies, and survival from 2001 to 2002 on Kiska (0.881  0.033) did not differ significantly from long-term averages on either Buldir (0.853  0.014, 1990-2003) or Kasatochi (0.893  0.027, 1996-2003) islands. Although we found little evidence at nesting crevices of predation on adults, eggs, or chicks, low productivity and slow chick growth were both consistent with disturbance caused by rats, particularly through disruption of adults attempting to brood or provision young chicks. Breeding failure may have been exacerbated by low prey availability for chick provisioning, but the lack of concordance in either productivity or chick growth rates between Kiska Island and nearby rat-free Buldir Island cast doubt on this possibility. /// Nous avons valu les effets potentiels de Rattus norvegicus intorduits sur Aethia pusilla nichant  Sirius Point sur l'le Kiska, la plus grande colonie de Aethia dans les les Aleutian, Alaska. En 2001-2003, nous avons compar la productivit, la croissance des jeunes et la survie des adultes issus de colonies de Aethia pusilla situes sur les les Kiska, Buldir et Kasatochi. Ces colonies sont toutes situes proches les unes des autres mais les deux dernires ne prsentent pas de Rattus norvegicus. En 2001-2002 (quand les Rattus norvegicus taient abondants), la productivit  Kiska tait la plus faible jamais enregistre pour cette espce (0,09-0,16 oisillons  l'envol par uf pondu), principalement  cause d'une forte mortalit des oisillons nouvellement clos. Le taux de croissance et le poids moyen  l'envol taient plus faibles sur Kiska que sur les les sans Rattus norvegicus, malgr des diffrences interanuelles dans ces patrons. Le taux de survie adulte tait trs variable entre les annes mais fortement concordant entre les colonies. La survie de 2001  2002 sur Kiska (0,881  0,033) ne diffrait pas significativement des moyennes  long terme sur les les Buldir (0,853  0,014; 1990-2003) et Kasatochi (0,893  0,027; 1996-2003). Bien que nous ayons trouv peu de preuves de prdation sur les adultes, les ufs et les oisillons dans les fissures de nidification, la faible productivit et la faible croissance des oisillons supportent l'hypothse du drangement caus par Rattus norvegicus, particulirement par l'interruption des adultes qui tentent de s'accoupler ou d'approvisionner les jeunes oisillons. L'chec de la nidification pourrait avoir t amplifi par la faible disponibilit des proies ncessaires  l'approvisionnement des oisillons. Mais, le manque de support bas sur la productivit et le taux de croissance des oisillons entre les les Kiska et Buldir (qui situe  proximit et ne prsente pas de Rattus norvegicus) jette le doute sur cette possibilit. 
10.2307/4090485| We tested grackles (Quiscalus spp.) to determine whether they retain egg rejection behavior in the absence of the selection pressure of brood parasitism. Neither Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) nor Brown-headed Cowbird (M. ater) parasitism was recorded in 797 Great-tailed Grackle (Q. mexicanus) nests. Cross-fostered Bronzed Cowbird nestlings, but not Brown-headed Cowbird nestlings, fledged from Great-tailed Grackle nests, indicating that Brown-headed Cowbird parasitism does not select for rejection in these grackles. Great-tailed Grackle populations sympatric and allopatric with Bronzed Cowbirds rejected 100% of model cowbird eggs. An allopatric population of Boat-tailed Grackle (Q. major), a sister species of the Great-tailed Grackle, also rejected 100% of model eggs. Egg rejection in the Boat-tailed Grackle has apparently been retained in the absence of parasitism for as long as 800,000 years since it split from the Great-tailed Grackle. The Common Grackle (Q. quiscula), which lays the most variable eggs among the grackles, also has the lowest level of egg rejection-which is consistent with the argument that it may have lost most of its rejection behavior in the absence of parasitism. With extreme intraclutch egg-variation, Common Grackles may be more likely to reject their own oddly colored eggs, which would select against rejection behavior in the absence of parasitism. Those results have significant implications for long-term parasite-host coevolution, because they suggest that egg rejection has been retained in most species of Quiscalus in the absence of parasitism. If typical of the world's avifauna, such retention may force brood parasites to specialize on a few host species and to rarely return to using old hosts, which would readily reject their eggs. /// Evaluamos aves del gnero Quiscalus para determinar si stas retienen el comportamiento de rechazo de huevos en la ausencia de la presin selectiva de parasitismo de nido. No se registr parasitismo por parte de Molothrus aeneus ni por parte de M. ater en ninguno de los 797 nidos de Q. mexicanus examinados. Polluelos adoptados de M. aeneus llegaron a volantones en nidos de Q. mexicanus, pero n polluelos de M. ater, indicando que el parasitismo producido por M. ater no es una fuente de presin selectiva para provocar rechazo en Q. mexicanus. Las poblaciones de Q. mexicanus simptricas y aloptricas con M. aeneus rechazaron el 100% de los huevos artificiales de Molotrus. Una poblacin aloptrica de Q. major, una especie hermana de Q. mexicanus, tambin rechaz el 100% de los huevos artificiales. El rechazo de huevos en Q. major aparentemente se ha mantenido en ausencia de parasitismo por ms de 800,000 aos desde que se separ de Q. mexicanus. La especie Q. quiscula, que exhibe huevos con la mayor variabilidad entre las especies de Quiscalus, tambin tiene los niveles ms bajos de rechazo, lo cual es consistente con el argumento de que probablemente esta especie perdi gran parte de su comportamiento de rechazo en la ausencia de parasitismo. Debido a que la variacin intra-nidada de los huevos es enorme, Q. quiscula puede tener una mayor probabilidad de rechazar sus huevos ms extraos, lo cual seleccionara en contra del comportamiento de rechazo en ausencia de parasitismo. Estos resultados tienen implicaciones significativas para los ciclos coevolutivos hospedero-parsito, debido a que sugieren que el rechazo de huevos se ha mantenido en la mayora de las especies de Quiscalus en la ausencia de parasitismo. Si esto es tpico en la avifauna mundial, dicha retencin podra forzar a los parsitos de nido a desarrollar adaptaciones especializadas para unas pocas especies hospederas y a que raramente vuelvan a usar viejos hospederos, quienes rechazaran sus huevos sin problema. 
10.2307/4088102| From 11 November 1988 to 1 April 1989, we studied the microclimate and nightly energy budgets at three separate Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) communal roost sites; one used in winter, one used in summer, and another used year-round. We compared the roost sites with the microclimate and nightly energy budgets at randomly selected inland forested sites and eagle shoreline perch sites on the northern Chesapeake Bay. Mean and minimum air temperatures were similar among all sites. Mean and maximum wind speeds were greater at the shore than at other sites. Wind speed did not differ between roosts and inland sites. Among roost sites, mean and maximum wind speeds were lowest at the winter roost. The year-round roost and summer-roost winds did not differ. Mean net radiation was greater at inland sites than at the shore sites, whereas mean net radiation of roost and inland and of roost and shore sites did not differ. Minimum net radiation was greatest at inland sites, whereas roost and shore minimum net radiation did not differ. We calculated that roosting eagles would have expended 205.9 kcal per night at traditional roost sites, 206.6 kcal per night at shoreline perches, and 203.7 kcal per night at inland sites. Calculated energy expended on the 10 coldest nights was similar among roost, shoreline, and inland sites. Adding the estimated cost of transport from shoreline perches to roosts (x = 5.3 kcal/round trip) did not produce significant differences in nightly energy expenditure between eagles roosting in communal roosts vs. those roosting on the shore. 
10.2307/4090244| Increased experience with age may allow long-lived seabirds to forage more efficiently and ultimately to invest more into reproduction. In many seabirds, egg size increases with female age, but declines with laying date. Declines in laying date might be due either to quality of individual females or females may adjust their egg size in response to poorer conditions typically found late in the season. We investigated the influence of female age, date of laying, and annual variation on egg size in Yellow-eyed Penguins (Megadyptes antipodes). Further, we tested whether there was an effect of individual females or female age on date of laying. Whereas female age influenced egg volume, mass, and width, laying date had no effect on egg size or mass in Yellow-eyed Penguins. Laying dates differed significantly among females but were not affected by their ages. These results indicate that in Yellow-eyed Penguins, some individual females lay consistently early or late, regardless of age, but that egg size generally increases with age. /// La mayor experiencia obtenida con la edad puede permitir a las aves marinas longevas forrajear con mayor eficacia y en ltima instancia, invertir ms en la reproduccin. En muchas aves marinas el tamao de los huevos aumenta con la edad de la hembra, pero disminuye con la fecha de la puesta. La disminucin del tamao con la fecha de la puesta puede deberse a la calidad de cada hembra o a que las hembras pueden ajustar el tamao del huevo en respuesta a condiciones ms pobres tpicas de los periodos ms tardos de la estacin. Investigamos la influencia de la edad de la hembra, la fecha de puesta y la variacin anual sobre el tamao del huevo en los pinginos Megadyptes antipodes. Adems, probamos si haba un efecto a nivel de cada hembra o de la edad de la hembra sobre la fecha de puesta. Aunque la edad de la hembra influy sobre el volumen del huevo, la masa, y el ancho, la fecha de puesta no tuvo un efecto sobre el tamao o masa del huevo en M. antipodes. Las fechas de puesta difirieron significativamente entre las hembras pero no fueron afectadas por las edades de stas. Estos resultados indican que en M. antipodes, algunas hembras ponen consistentemente temprana o tardamente en la temporada, independientemente de su edad, pero que el tamao del huevo generalmente aument con la edad. 
10.2307/4088639|I investigated recognition of individual neighbors' songs in a migratory species with large repertoires, the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceous). To test for abilities to recognize individual neighbors, I measured responses to playbacks of neighbors' songs from appropriate and inappropriate boundaries in two different years. Because the responses to the two types of playbacks were not statistically different in either year, I concluded that Red-eyed Vireos have difficulty recognizing their neighbors by song. If recognition of neighbors serves to reduce energy expended in territorial defense during the breeding season, a large repertoire could be costly to male Red-eyed Vireos.
10.1525/auk.2009.09034|Abandonment was the most frequent cause of nesting failure in Great Lakes Piping Plovers (
25150302|Breeding synchrony with the lunar cycle has been reported for many marine organisms but is essentially unknown for birds. Most organisms shown to breed synchronously with the lunar cycle provide no parental care to young, and such explosive breeding assemblages are usually promiscuous. Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (Ammodramus caudacutus caudacutus) nest exclusively on salt marshes and are subjected to predictable, catastrophic flooding caused during flood tides every 28 days. Here, we show that Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow males were nonterritorial and promiscuous and provided no parental care to young. Breeding behaviors of both sexes were synchronized with the lunar cycle. By contrast, males of a sympatric sister species, Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow (A. nelsoni subvirgatus), consistently mate-guarded females, and breeding was not synchronized with the lunar cycle, yielding 21% lower reproductive success compared with Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows. Saltmarsh and Nelson's sharp-tailed sparrows renested 2.9  0.6 (SE) days and 10.3  1.7 days after nest flooding, respectively. Patterns of vicariance between Nelson's and Saltmarsh sharp-tailed sparrows may explain the differences in social behavior and nesting ecology. Ancestral sharp-tailed sparrows diverged from Seaside Sparrows (A. maritimus) in tidal wetlands, and Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrows then diverged from Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows in nontidal freshwater wetlands of interior North America. Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrows' range recently expanded into coastal salt marshes, where Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows are better adapted to tidally influenced inundations. Adaptation to tidal flooding partially explains the evolution of the unique Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow mating system. /// Se ha reportado sincrona reproductiva con el ciclo lunar para muchos organismos marinos, pero no se sabe nada acerca del tema para las aves. La mayora de los organismos que han mostrado sincronicidad con el ciclo lunar no presentan cuidado parental de las cras, y los ensamblajes reproductivos son usualmente promiscuos. Ammodramus caudacutus caudacutus nidifica exclusivamente en marismas que estn sujetas a inundaciones catastrficas predecibles causadas por la marea cada 28 das. Aqu mostramos que los machos de A. c. caudacutus fueron promiscuos, no territoriales y no brindaron cuidado paternal a los pichones. El comportamiento reproductivo de ambos sexos estuvo sincronizado con el ciclo lunar. En contraste, los machos de la especie simptrica hermana A. nelsoni subvirgatus consistentemente protegieron a sus parejas y la reproduccin no estuvo sincronizada con el ciclo lunar, y su xito reproductivo fue un 21% menor que el de A. c. caudacutus. A. c. caudacutus y A. n. subvirgatus volvieron a nidificar 2.9  0.6 (EE) das y 10.3  1.7 das luego de la inundacin de los nidos, respectivamente. Los patrones de vicarianza entre A. n. subvirgatus y A. c. caudacutus podran explicar las diferencias en el comportamiento social y la ecologa de nidificacin. El ancestro de estas dos especies divergi de A. maritimus en los humedales marinos, y luego A. n. subvirgatus divergi de A. c. caudacutus en los humedales de agua dulce del interior de Amrica del Norte. El rango de A. n. subvirgatus se expandi recientemente a las marismas costeras, donde A. c. caudacutus est mejor adaptado a las inundaciones provocadas por la marea. La adaptacin a las inundaciones marinas explica parcialmente la evolucin del sistema de apareamiento nico de A. c. caudacutus.
4088227|Seasonal movements of radio-marked Greater Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus cupido) were examined in northeastern Colorado during 1986-1989. Many birds migrated between breeding and winter areas; all appeared to display fidelity to both breeding and winter sites. The average date of migration from winter to breeding areas was 20 February for males and 27 March for females. The average date of migration from breeding to winter areas was 4 July for females and 28 July for males. Much of the variability in timing of migration from breeding areas for females was related to brood status; average date of migration was 10 June for females without broods and 26 August for females with broods. Average migration distance between winter and breeding ranges differed significantly by sex: 9.2 km for females and 2.7 km for males. When migration samples were expanded to include distances between breeding and late summer ranges (as suggested by timing of movements), females migrated an average distance of 10.6 km, while males migrated 2.9 km. Seasonal movements of Greater Prairie-Chickens appear to represent a partial migration with both obligatory and facultative components.
10.2307/4088897| The brightly colored, unfeathered heads and necks of male Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) are generally thought to function in sexual selection. However, studies in other bird species have suggested that uninsulated body regions may serve an important role in heat dissipation. I test the heat-dissipation hypothesis in Wild Turkeys by experimentally reinsulating the heads and necks of Wild Turkeys as though they were feathered. The oxygen consumption, thermal conductance, cooling capacity, surface temperatures, and core temperature of control and reinsulated Wild Turkeys were compared at 0, 22 and 35C. Head insulation resulted in significantly increased rates of oxygen consumption, higher body temperatures, and decreased cooling capacities at 35C, but had no significant effect at the other temperatures tested. It appears that behavioral changes at low temperatures, such as tucking the head under the back feathers, effectively prevent the heat loss that would otherwise be caused by the absence of feathers. However, if the head were feathered, turkeys at high temperatures would be unable to dissipate sufficient heat to maintain thermeostasis. Thus, given this finding for Wild Turkeys, it can no longer be said that in all cases bare heads in birds have evolved by sexual selection alone. Loss of head and neck feathering in Wild Turkeys and other birds may have allowed these species to take advantage of regions in time and space that previously were unexploitable due to the dangers of hyperthermia. 
4085219|A study of nonbreeding populations of seabirds was undertaken in Monterey Bay, California, to determine degree of predation on prey species such as fish and cephalopods. Seabirds were found to exploit many of the same prey species. Many seabird species relied heavily on the abundance of the northern anchovy (Engraulis mordax) and the market squid (Loligo opalescens). Both of these prey species were available to and exploited by their avian predators during all months of the study (September through April). The high measures of food niche overlap between some avian predator species could lead to severe competition were it not for temporal and spatial segregation of some of the avian predator populations reducing chances for competition. Varying feeding techniques allowed many predator species to exploit different segments of the same prey population. Multispecific feeding assemblages of birds form for mutual benefit in exploiting schools of prey species. Two alcids, the Common Murre and the Rhinoceros Auklet, occupied similar habitats and exploited their food resources in the same way, utilizing five of the same prey species. Niche overlap is reduced between these predator species by extensive predation on the market squid by the Rhinoceros Auklet.
4087800|I studied mate choice in relation to female reproductive success in the Common Rosefinch (Carpodacus erythrinus) over a four-year period. Approximately 50-99% of the variance in female reproductive success was due to nest predation during incubation. Because males did not defend nest sites and females probably face time constraints, I conclude that they paired unselectively. This is supported by the lack of correlation between male phenotypic characteristics and pairing success and the random pattern in male pairing order.
10.2307/4090313| Avoidance of habitat edges may be contributing to reduced densities of grassland birds in small habitat patches. Nest densities for grassland-nesting Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) were much lower than expected within 25 m of forest edges at three sites in New York, and that pattern ("edge avoidance") extended to 100 m at one site. Nests located within 50 m of forest or wooded hedgerow edges had lower daily survival rates, compared with nests >100 m from any habitat edge. Bobolinks tended to move away from forest edges when renesting after nest failure; that pattern was especially evident in females that placed their first nest within 50 m of a forest or wooded hedgerow edge. Second nests of all seven of those females were farther from that edge type than their first nests. However, nest placement in relation to wooded edges did not vary significantly between years for those philopatric females nesting at our study sites for more than one year. Bobolinks also avoided nesting near road edges, even though nest survival rates were not lower near that edge type. However, Bobolinks did not appear to avoid nesting near edges adjacent to old fields or pastures. Nest survival near those edge types was higher than near wooded edges and similar to or higher than survival of nests >100 m from any edge. Thus, responses of Bobolinks to habitat edges were inconsistent, and nest success was dependent on type of edge. /// El hecho de evitar los hbitats de borde puede estar contribuyendo a reducir las densidades de aves de pastizal en parches de pequeo tamao. Las densidades de nidos de Dolichonyx oryzivorus fueron mucho menores dentro de los 25 m desde el borde del bosque en tres sitios en Nueva York y este patrn ("de evitar el borde") se extendi hasta 100 m en un sitio. Los nidos ubicados a menos de 50 m del borde del bosque o de setos arbolados tuvieron tasas de sobrevivencia diaria menores que los nidos que se ubicaron a ms de 100 m de cualquier borde. Los individuos de D. oryzivorus tendieron a alejarse de los bordes en sus intentos de renidificacin luego de un intento de nidificacin fallido. Este patrn fue especialmente evidente para hembras que pusieron su primer nido a menos de 50 m del borde del bosque o de un seto arbolado. Los segundos nidos de estas siete hembras estuvieron ms alejados de ese tipo de borde que sus primeros nidos. Sin embargo, la ubicacin del nido en relacin con los bordes boscosos no vari significativamente entre aos para las hembras filoptricas que nidificaron por ms de un ao en nuestros sitios de estudio. D. oryzivorus tambin evit nidificar cerca del borde de los caminos, aunque la sobreviviencia de los nidos no fue menor cerca de este tipo de borde. Sin embargo no parecieron evitar nidificar cerca de otros tipos de borde como de campos de cultivo abandonados o pastizales. La sobreviviencia de los nidos ubicados cerca de esos tipos de borde fue mayor que la de aquellos ubicados cerca del borde de bosques, y similar o mayor que la sobrevivencia de nidos ubicados a ms de 100 m de cualquier borde. Por estas razones las respuestas de D. oryzivorus a los bordes de hbitat no fueron consistentes y el xito de nidificacin dependi del tipo de borde. 
10.1525/auk.2013.13007|With limited resources for habitat conservation, the accurate identification of high-value avian habitat is crucial. Habitat structure affects avian biodiversity but is difficult to quantify over broad extents. Our goal was to identify which measures of vertical and horizontal habitat structure are most strongly related to patterns of avian biodiversity across the conterminous United States and to determine whether new measures of vertical structure are complementary to existing, primarily horizontal, measures. For 2,546 North American Breeding Bird Survey routes across the conterminous United States, we calculated canopy height and biomass from the National Biomass and Carbon Dataset (NBCD) as measures of vertical habitat structure and used land-cover composition and configuration metrics from the 2001 National Land Cover Database (NLCD) as measures of horizontal habitat structure. Avian species richness was calculated for each route for all birds and three habitat guilds. Avian species richness was significantly related to measures derived from both the NBCD and NLCD. The combination of horizontal and vertical habitat structure measures was most powerful, yielding high
10.2307/4086019|Proponents of the Information Center hypothesis suggest that colonially breeding birds learn the location of good feeding sites by following successful birds from a colony, that such information exchange was critical to the evolution of coloniality, and that colonies acting as Information Centers are important for birds in all colonial taxa. The evidence supporting this hypothesis, however, is indirect and could result from behaviors other than information exchange. Further, information exchange may not be as important as other mechanisms whereby birds may more effectively exploit their food resources by nesting colonially.
10.1525/auk.2013.12157|In numerous avian species, males and females display ornaments that could act as signals in interactions with conspecifics. Much of the research on these ornaments has focused on mutual mate choice and intrasexual competition between males. However, few studies have examined female and male ornamentation simultaneously in the context of intrasexual competition and the acquisition of breeding resources. I examined whether plumage coloration of male and female Prothonotary Warblers (
4085803|I summarize information on the historical patterns of changing abundance and hybridization in Blue-winged and Golden-winged warblers in southern Connecticut. Both were rare in the state before 1850. Golden-wings increased at some localities in the Connecticut River valley around 1880. Blue-wings increased dramatically on the southern coast from 1880-1900 and spread up the Connecticut River valley in 1900-1920. This expansion resulted in extensive hybridization and ultimately in replacement of the Golden-wings. The population increases of these warblers are attributable to the abandonment of small New England farms after the Erie Canal increased the competitive advantage of farms in the Great Lakes region. Analysis of specimen phenotypes supports previous studies of the extent of introgressive hybridization but also shows how the phenotype composition changes with time. Comparison of samples from different localities requires that they each be taken over a limited time span and that the length of time Blue-wings were established at each locality be considered in the final interpretation. A general pattern emerges of replacement of Golden-wings by Blue-wings within 50 yr of initial interaction. The decline of Golden-wings may be due to habitat changes per se, to competition from Blue-wings, and/or to destruction of the genotype through introgressive hybridization. If Blue-wings continue to expand during the next 50 yr, the continued survival of the Golden-winged Warbler may be threatened.
10.2307/4090286| We examined effects of movement patterns and habitat use of female Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) during incubation on incubation constancy and recess frequency. Incubating females (n = 41) were equipped with subcutaneous radiotransmitters and subsequently located during daily recess events. Using compositional analysis, we determined beaver ponds, creeks, ephemeral wetlands, and lake-influenced habitats ranked higher in preference than other available aquatic habitats (i.e. managed impoundments, farm pond, and lake habitats). An inverse relationship between female use of the top four ranked habitats and recess range size suggested that those were high-quality habitats. Mean (SE) incubation constancy (n = 40 nests) was 81.3  0.8%, and females took an average of 2.2  0.3 recesses day
10.2307/4090111|Survival of Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster) at Johnston Atoll was examined over a 17-year period using capture-mark-recapture analysis. Annual adult survival was estimated to be 0.90  0.01 (SE). Variation in survival did not correspond to either local environmental fluctuation or more widespread disturbances associated with El Nio-Southern Oscillation events, and a time-invariant model of survival was best supported by our data. Absence of major oceanographic anomalies in the immediate vicinity of Johnston Atoll may contribute to relatively high and invariant survival in Brown Boobies. /// Se estudi la supervivencia de individuos de Sula leucogaster en el atoln Johnston a lo largo de un perodo de 17 aos utilizando anlisis de captura, marcaje y recaptura. La supervivencia anual estimada para los adultos fue de 0.90  0.01 (EE). La variacin en supervivencia no se asoci con fluctuaciones ambientales locales ni con disturbios ms generales asociados a El Nio, y nuestros datos apoyaron un modelo de supervivencia sin cambio en el tiempo. La ausencia de grandes anomalas oceanogrficas en la vecindad inmediata del atoln Johnston podra contribuir a la supervivencia relativamente alta y constante en S. leucogaster.
4087814|Mourning (Oporornis philadelphia) and MacGillivray's (O. tolmiei) warblers are currently recognized as distinct species (AOU 1983). The specific status of these taxa, however, has been questioned based on morphological similarity and reports of hybridization in central Alberta (Cox 1973). I investigated the distinctness of these taxa by comparing plumage, skeletal, and primary song characters from fresh collections and recent tape recordings from the allopatric portions of their breeding ranges and the potential contact areas. The plumage analyses revealed overlap in characters originally used to diagnose these taxa; however, the incidence of extreme specimens was low. Separate multivariate analyses of morphological and song characters showed that the taxa are essentially distinct in multivariate space with little or no overlap. The Mourning Warbler was larger for most skeletal characters and had lower song frequencies. Plumage characters originally used to diagnose these taxa separate a majority of specimens, but they are ineffective for distinguishing extreme variants or hybrids. Song type proved 100% reliable in discriminating between taxa. I found no hybrid contact between these taxa. Furthermore, specimens collected near the potential contact zones were as variable morphologically as specimens from the allopatric portions of the breeding ranges. I believe these taxa should continue to be considered distinct species.
4085087|A series of water-related experiments showed that Snowy Plovers do not have any outstanding physiological capabilities for dealing with the potential thermal and osmotic stresses of the Great Salt Plains, Oklahoma. Snowy Plovers and Semipalmated Sandpipers failed to maintain body weight when given 0.3 M NaCl ad libitum. Killdeer did even more poorly by rapidly losing weight on 0.2 M. These salt water tolerance values are limited when compared to other, particularly marine, birds that can drink full strength sea water. The Snowy Plover is no better at conserving water than other birds in its weight class. So plovers without drinking water were able to maintain their weight when furnished mealworm larvae ad libitum, the insectivorous diet as well as maintenance behavior of the birds is essential for their survival on the salt flats.
4090363| Mercury, a common wetland pollutant, can affect wildlife populations through acute toxicity or through physiological effects that modify behavior and negatively influence reproductive success. We compared body-feather mercury concentrations of free-living male and female adult White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) during three breeding seasons in the Florida Everglades and examined the relationships among mercury, hormone concentrations, and body-condition scores. Female White Ibises consistently had lower mercury concentrations than males. Prebreeding females' estradiol concentrations were negatively correlated with mercury concentrations. However, we found no relationship between mercury and female testosterone, progesterone, and corticosterone concentrations. Incubating male White Ibises showed a significant positive relationship between testosterone and mercury concentrations, but no other significant hormonal correlations with mercury concentrations. We used a seven-year standardized data set of Great Egret (Ardea alba) chick-feather mercury concentrations as a measure of temporal changes in mercury bioavailability in the Everglades and related that measure to annual numbers of White Ibis nests. White Ibis nesting was negatively correlated with the mercury exposure index. Low numbers of nesting White Ibises may have been the result of fewer birds nesting or high abandonment rates. Our results suggest that mercury exposure may cause fewer birds to nest or more birds to abandon nests because of subacute effects on hormone systems. However, the results are correlative; they call for further investigation in free-living populations and in the laboratory. /// El mercurio, un contaminante comn de los humedales, puede afectar las poblaciones silvestres por medio de su toxicidad aguda o a travs de efectos fisiolgicos que modifican el comportamiento e influencian negativamente el xito reproductivo. Comparamos las concentraciones de mercurio en las plumas del cuerpo de machos y hembras silvestres de Eudocimus albus durante tres estaciones reproductivas en los Everglades de Florida y examinamos las relaciones entre el mercurio, las concentraciones de hormonas e ndices de condicin corporal. Las hembras consistentemente presentaron concentraciones de mercurio menores que los machos. Las concentraciones de estradiol en hembras pre-reproductivas estuvieron correlacionadas negativamente con las concentraciones de mercurio. Sin embargo, no encontramos una relacin entre el mercurio y las concentraciones de testosterona, progesterona y corticosterona en las hembras. Los machos que estaban incubando exhibieron una relacin positiva entre las concentraciones de testosterona y mercurio, pero no existieron otras correlaciones entre las concentraciones de hormonas y de mercurio. Empleamos un conjunto de datos de las concentraciones de mercurio en las plumas de pichones de Ardea alba estandarizados a travs de siete aos como una medida de los cambios temporales de la biodisponibilidad de mercurio en los Everglades y relacionamos esta medida con los nmeros anuales de nidos de E. albus. La nidificacin de E. albus estuvo correlacionada negativamente con el ndice de exposicin al mercurio. Los nmeros bajos de E. albus nidificantes podran haber sido el resultado de una cantidad menor de aves nidificando o de tasas altas de abandono. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la exposicin al mercurio puede llevar a que menos aves nidifiquen o a que un nmero mayor de ellas abandonen sus nidos debido a efectos menos agudos sobre sus sistemas hormonales. Sin embargo, los resultados son correlativos y sugieren la necesidad de realizar ms investigaciones en poblaciones silvestres y en condiciones de laboratorio. 
4086468|We studied female-female pairs of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) on Granite Island, northern Lake Superior, during the breeding seasons of 1979 and 1980. In 1979 the colony consisted of approximately 2,400 nesting pairs, with a total of 99 nests containing 5-7 eggs (superclutches). In 1980 the colony had increased in size to 2,600 nests and contained a total of 71 superclutches. We discuss the difficulty of distinguishing nests in which superclutches have been laid by female-female pairs from single-cup nests used by polygynous groups or from nests receiving dump eggs. Nests containing superclutches were larger than those containing normal-sized clutches. They were not differentially located by substrate, nest density, or location within the colony. Nearest-neighbour distance was also similar for the two clutch types. Eggs laid in superclutches were slightly smaller than those from normal-sized clutches (1-4 eggs) but did not differ in shape. Significantly more eggs from superclutches rolled from the nest or were destroyed or abandoned than from normal-sized clutches. The proportion of nests that hatched at least one chick did not differ significantly between the two clutch types. Hatching success for superclutches was 34% in 1979 and 30% in 1980, whereas for normal-sized clutches it was 77% in 1979 and 61% in 1980. Chicks from superclutches had a higher rate of mortality during the week following hatching than did chicks from normal-sized clutches. Chicks from the former hatched at significantly lighter weights than did those from the latter during both years of study, but their weights did not differ after the first week posthatch. Tarsal and culmen measurements followed a similar pattern to that of weight. Chicks from normal-sized clutches had a significantly higher fledging success than did those from superclutches. The reproductive success of four polygynous groups is also reported.
4087185|In western Idaho, a breeding population of Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) remained relatively stable over a 7-yr period. Productivity was monitored closely from 1977 through 1979. Clutch mortality rates did not differ significantly among years, and mean clutch survival for a 32-day nesting period (4 days egg laying and 28 days incubation) was 40% for all 3 yr combined. Females laid just one clutch (usually of 4 eggs) each season, and mean clutch size was significantly smaller in 1979 than in 1977 and 1978. Estimated fledging success ranged from 0.40 in 1977 to 0.17 in 1978 and was consistently greater for females that nested early each season. Mean annual adult survival was estimated at 85% based on resightings of color-marked individuals. Limited data for subadult survival precluded complete demographic analysis. Nevertheless, given the estimates of productivity and adult survival pooled for 3 yr, survival of subadults from fledging until first breeding as 3-year-olds needed to be only 58% to maintain the stable population size observed through 1983.
90008581|Seabirds forage in a highly dynamic environment and prey on fish schools that are patchily distributed. Colonially breeding seabirds regularly commute back and forth from their colony to foraging areas and need to acquire information on the location of food before and/or during each foraging trip. The use of conspecifics as cues to locate prey has long been debated, and although the hypothesis was backed up by modeling studies, observations have been contradictory. We deployed GPS devices coupled with micro video cameras on Cape Gannets to observe the social context of foraging seabirds and the influence of conspecifics on the movement of individuals. The Cape Gannets reached their first patch using a succession of flights interrupted by stops on the water, during which the birds were mainly preening. During flight, the birds reacted to conspecifics by changing direction, either flying in the opposite direction of conspecifics that were flying toward the colony or following conspecifics outward. The time to reach the first patch was significantly reduced (by half) when the birds reacted to conspecifics in these different ways, compared with the birds that did not react. The use of conspecifics flying toward the colony to find food is consistent with the hypothesis that colonies can act as a focal place for information transfer, with foragers updating their flying direction when they detect conspecifics flying toward the colony. The fine-scale reaction of seabirds toward each other at sea, and the associated improved foraging efficiency, as well as the division of trips into a succession of flights, constitute elements that indicate the existence and the use of a structured network among foraging Cape Gannets.
10.1525/auk.2009.09053|Quantifying community-level host use by generalist brood parasites is important because it provides a measure of the resources that parasites need for reproduction. During the 20022007 breeding seasons, we quantified host use by the Brown-headed Cowbird (
4090670| We investigated effects of ecological and physiological factors on brood patch area and prolactin levels in free-ranging Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; hereafter "Snow Geese") and Ross's Geese (C. rossii). On the basis of the body-size hypothesis, we predicted that the relationships between prolactin levels, brood patch area, and body condition would be stronger in Ross's Geese than in the larger Snow Geese. We found that brood patch area was positively related to clutch volume and inversely related to prolactin levels in Ross's Geese, but not in Snow Geese. Nest size, nest habitat, and first egg date did not affect brood patch area in either species. Prolactin levels increased as incubation progressed in female Snow Geese, but this relationship was not significant in Ross's Geese. Prolactin levels and body condition (as indexed by size-adjusted body mass) were inversely related in Ross's Geese, but not in Snow Geese. Our findings are consistent with the prediction that relationships between prolactin levels, brood patch area, and body condition are relatively stronger in Ross's Geese, because they mobilize endogenous reserves at faster rates than Snow Geese. /// Investigamos los efectos ecolgicos y fisiolgicos sobre el rea del parche de incubacin y los niveles de prolactina en gansos silvestres de las especies Chen caerulescens caerulescens y C. rossii. Basndonos en la hiptesis del tamao corporal, predijimos que la relacin entre los niveles de prolactina, el tamao del parche de incubacin y la condicin corporal sera ms fuerte en C. rossii que en C. caerulescens. Encontramos que el tamao del parche de incubacin estaba relacionado positivamente con el volumen de la puesta e inversamente relacionado con los niveles de prolactina en C. rossii, pero no en C. caerulescens. El rea del parche de incubacin no fue afectada por el tamao del nido, el hbitat del nido ni la fecha de la puesta del primer huevo en ninguna de las dos especies. Los niveles de prolactina aumentaron a medida que la incubacin progres en C. caerulescens pero esta relacin no fue significativa en C. rossii. La condicin corporal y los niveles de prolactina (corregidos por el tamao corporal) se relacionaron inversamente en C. rossii pero no en C. caerulescens. Nuestros resultados concuerdan con la prediccin de que las relaciones entre los niveles de prolactina, el tamao del parche de incubacin y la condicin corporal son relativamente ms fuertes en C. rossii, debido a que estos gansos movilizan las reservas endgenas a tasas ms rpidas que C. caerulescens. 
10.2307/4088736|Experiments were conducted to separate the influence of tactile and visual stimuli emanating from the nest or eggs on the development of incubation behavior, the termination of egg laying, and the determination of clutch size. Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus spadiceus) hens, whose eggs were left inside the nest (experiment 1), received both tactile and visual information, remained in the nest box longer, and stopped laying after eight days (or six eggs). Sixteen or 17 females incubated. Leaving only the first egg in the nest (experiment 2) gave similar results. When the eggs laid were placed under a wire-mesh basket (experiment 3) such that the hen could see but not touch the accumulating eggs, laying stopped two days (or one egg) later than in experiment 1, and most hens "incubated" on the empty nest until the nest box was removed. Surprisingly, when eggs were continually removed (experiment 4), hens also incubated progressively more, stopped laying after two weeks (or nine eggs), and then sat on the empty nest for one or more days. Stimulation of the brood patch by the nest alone led to more incubation and to termination of egg laying. Visual stimuli alone provided by eggs accelerated both processes and were sufficient for one-half of the hens to maintain full incubation behavior. Red Junglefowl do not appear to judge clutch size visually.
10.2307/4088088|Gallirallus rovianae is an extant new species of flightless or weak-flying rail from the Solomon islands in the southwest Pacific Ocean. Within the Solomon islands it is known from New Georgia and reported from four neighboring islands, all joined at Pleistocene times of low sea level. The new species belongs to the G. philippensis group (sensu Olson 1973a) and is most similar to the widespread G. philippensis and to G. owstoni (Guam) and next most similar to G. wakensis (Wake). It exemplifies the phenomenon of convergent evolution in two respects. First, a volant ancestor similar to G. philippensis has independently given rise to flightless or weak-flying derivatives on numerous oceanic islands, including G. rovianae, G. owstoni, G. wakensis, G. australis (New Zealand), and others. Emphasizing the ease with which rails evolve flightlessness on islands, I note 10 other groups of rails in which insular flightlessness has evolved repeatedly. Second, I suggest that the ancestral species had boldly patterned plumage similar to that of G. philippensis, and that insular reduction of bold patterning has proceeded independently in G. rovianae, G. owstoni, G. wakensis, and several other G. philippensis derivatives.
10.2307/4089596| We studied sexual and individual differences in foraging and parental behavior of King Cormorants (Phalacrocorax albiventer) during the brood-rearing period at Macquarie Island. King Cormorants exhibit sexual dimorphism in size, with males being 16% heavier than females. Females foraged mainly in the morning and males in the afternoon. Five females were shallow divers (1.9 to 6.8 m), and seven females were deep divers (19.6 to 28.0 m); males dived deeper (15.6 to 44.2 m) than both groups of females. The amount of time spent on the bottom ("bottom time") relative to the dive cycle was higher for shallow-diving females (x = 40  SD of 13%) than for males (x = 26  4%) and deep-diving females (x = 27  3%). Total daily dive time and bottom time per day did not differ significantly among groups because shallow-diving females dived more often (x = 211  81 dives per day) than males (x = 68  21) and deep-diving females (x = 70  7). Provisioning rate, trip duration, and proportion of time at sea did not differ significantly for males, deep-diving females, and shallow-diving females. Females, especially shallow divers, compensated for their shallow and short dives with more frequent dives. Consequently, male and female King Cormorants provisioned their chicks at similar rates despite large individual variation in foraging behavior. 
25488565|Understanding daily lipid-reserve changes in migrating wild birds is important for habitat assessment and species conservation. Plasma-lipid metabolites have been used to estimate rates of lipid accumulation or catabolism in small-bodied wild birds (<75 g), but this has not been validated for larger-bodied wild birds such as waterfowl. We developed an index for detecting whether individual birds accumulate or catabolize lipid reserves by regressing plasma-lipid metabolite levels (triglyceride and -hydroxybutyrate) and known one-day mass changes (daily mass change) of 22 free-living Lesser Scaup (
10.1525/auk.2012.12011|Differential reproductive investment between sexes can lead to asymmetric costs of reproduction in birds. Long-lived procellariiform seabirds are single-egg layers with little sexual dimorphism and similar parental investment in incubation and chick rearing. However, sex-specific tasks exist at the beginning of the breeding season, including egg production by females (no courtship feeding by males in this group of species) and nest and mate guarding by males. Costs of reproduction could be evident during critical periods such as the first breeding attempt, because of inexperience in reproductive tasks or a higher proportion of low-quality individuals in young age classes, or both. Little is known about sex-specific costs of reproduction in monomorphic species, in which we expect costs to be similar. We investigated the effects of first reproduction on the subsequent survival of male and female European Storm-Petrels (
4086283|The responses of young Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus) to playback of the songs of parents and strangers were examined. I found that young grosbeaks moved about more, called more, and were more often oriented toward speakers in response to parental song (both male and female) than in response to the songs of strangers. I suggest that such a response is part of a system used by Black-headed Grosbeaks to maintain family groups after the young fledge. In this system, an adult with food, but unaware of the location of its young, sings to elicit begging from its young. The parent bird is then able to locate and feed its young.
10.1525/auk.2011.10165|S
4089542|We compared sequences of mitochondrial cytochrome-b and ND5 genes in a phylogenetic analysis of seven species of jacanas, representing all six genera and including the Greater Painted-snipe (Rostratula benghalensis) as an outgroup. When analyzed separately by parsimony and maximum-likelihood bootstrapping, the two genes produced consistent trees, although the ND5 tree was better resolved than the cytochrome-b tree. When combined, the data from the two genes produced a fully resolved tree that was identical to the ND5 tree. This tree had the following form: ((((Irediparra, Microparra), Metopidius), Actophilornis), ((Jacana jacana, J. spinosa), Hydrophasianus)), Rostratula. The phylogeny consists of two major clades that were known to traditional and phylogenetic taxonomists. It also contains sister taxa that are geographically disjunct: the New World Jacana and Asian Hydrophasianus, and the African Microparra and Australian Irediparra. We postulate that this biogeographic pattern results from the extinction of intervening African and Asian taxa, respectively.
25488528|Approximately 55% of the world's population of Cassin's Auklets (
10.2307/4089335|Cyanogenic glycosides are common secondary compounds in ripe fruits that are dispersed by birds. These substances are toxic to some mammals. We examined the repellent effect of amygdalin, a cyanogenic glycoside, on Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum). Amygdalin did not reduce food ingestion in Cedar Waxwings, even at relatively high concentrations. In addition, these birds did not exhibit preference for amygdalin-free over amygdalin-containing fruit. Cedar Waxwings given artificial food that contained four times the amount of amygdalin found in some wild fruits ingested the equivalent of 5.5 times the oral lethal dose for rats in 4 h without exhibiting any external signs of toxicity. Amygdalin ingestion appeared to have a negative effect on nitrogen retention and food assimilation. However, when nitrogen retention and food assimilation were recalculated assuming that all amygdalin ingested was excreted intact, these negative effects disappeared. The presence of large amounts of unhydrolyzed amygdalin in the excreta of waxwings fed on amygdalin-laced food confirmed our conjecture that amygdalin was excreted intact. We hypothesize that in Cedar Waxwings, amygdalin is absorbed in the intestine but is not hydrolyzed by endogenous enzymes and thus is excreted intact in urine. The apparent lack of repellent effects of amygdalin in Cedar Waxwings suggest that toxicity data for rats and humans may be a poor predictor for the deterrent effect of fruit secondary compounds on frugivorous birds. Many hypotheses that have been posed to explain the presence of secondary compounds in ripe fruit assume that these substances have repellent/toxic effects on avian seed dispersers. For some compounds, such as amygdalin and other cyanogenic glycosides, this assumption may not be valid.
40406070|We recorded and analyzed the songs of 23 male House Finches (
10.2307/4090034| In Procellariiformes, parents guard the chick for some time after it has attained homeothermy. Such a strategy may have evolved to protect the chick from predation or inclement weather, but it is costly because only one parent can forage at a time. Therefore, the decision to leave the chick seems to be a trade-off between the chick's ability to care for itself, body condition of the parent present at the nest, and ability of the bird out foraging to return to the nest before its mate's body condition has degraded. We studied chick growth and survival together with number of days Snow Petrel (Pagodroma nivea) chicks were guarded before being left alone for the first time in relation to the parents body condition and ability to return to the nest in time. Parents in good body condition were more likely to produce a chick that survived the guard stage. They also guarded their chick for a longer period (range 2-8 days, x = 4.5) and finally left it alone with a higher body mass than those in poor body condition. However, whether the foraging bird was able to return to the nest in time to relieve its mate was also strongly related to number of days the chick was guarded and its body mass. The chicks' survival from when they were left alone and until day 10 posthatch was positively related both to number of days they were guarded and their body condition (body mass corrected for age). /// En los Procellariiformes, los padres cuidan del pichn por cierto tiempo despus que ste ha alcanzado la homeotermia. Esta estrategia pudo haber evolucionado para proteger a los pichones de la depredacin o de las inclemencias del clima, pero es costosa pues slo uno de los padres puede forrajear en un momento dado. Por tanto, la decisin de abandonar al pichn parece ser un compromiso entre la habilidad de ste para cuidar de s mismo, la condicin corporal del padre que se encuentra en el nido y la habilidad del ave que se encuentra forrajeando para regresar al nido antes que la condicin de su pareja se degrade. Estudiamos la relacin entre el crecimiento y la supervivencia de pichones y el nmero de das en que fueron resguardados antes de ser dejados solos por primera vez, la condicin corporal de los padres y su habilidad para regresar al nido a tiempo. Los padres en buena condicin fsica tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de producir pichones que sobrevivieran a la etapa de resguardo. Ellos tambin resguardaron a sus pichones por perodos ms prolongados (rango 2-8 das, x = 4.5) y finalmente los abandonaron cuando tenan una masa corporal superior que aquellos padres en peor condicin corporal. La capacidad del ave que se encontraba forrajeando para regresar al nido a tiempo para relevar a su pareja, estuvo estrechamente relacionada con el nmero de das en que el polluelo fue resguardado y con su masa corporal. La supervivencia de los pichones desde el momento en que fueron dejados solos hasta el dcimo da despus de la eclosin estuvo relacionada positivamente tanto con el nmero de das en que fueron resguardados como con su condicin corporal (masa corporal corregida por edad). 
4086960|We collected data from 30 territories of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) during 3 breeding seasons (1979-1981) in eastern Texas. Territory size was positively correlated with tree height and negatively correlated with the density of foliage at ground level and at 3 m above the ground, and with the density of shrubs. Nesting success was positively correlated with presence of patchy understory foliage and arthropod biomass in territories. Cardinals with low song complexity and shorter songs held better-quality territories and had better nesting success than cardinals with more complex songs. We suspect that young males may use long, complex songs to establish a territory initially, and in subsequent years put less time and effort into song and more into care and defense of young.
10.2307/4088972|In a laboratory study, the vocal responses of Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) embryos to egg cooling and egg turning were examined. Nineteen late-stage, prepipping embryos were twice subjected to 10 min of egg cooling and 10 min of normal incubation temperatures. Experimentally cooled embryos vocalized more than embryos exposed to normal incubation temperatures. Cooled embryos produced more bouts of calls and fewer calls per bout than when exposed to normal incubation temperatures. Intercall intervals within bouts did not differ between warm and cold periods. Results of the egg-cooling experiment support the "care-soliciting signal" hypothesis. In a separate paired experiment, embryos vocalized more when turned than when at rest. Because grebe nests are composed of sodden materials, embryos that are about to hatch may signal their parents to turn the eggs, because positioning a pipped egg upside down may suffocate the embryo. Also, prepipped embryos may vocalize more frequently when turned as a signal to their parents that they are viable and will soon hatch. Eared Grebe embryonic vocalizations probably are multifunctional, with care-soliciting being one of their functions.
4086226|Changes in Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) digestive organs reflect adaptations to accommodate changes in diet quality, metabolism, and food intake. The size of the gizzard, intestine, ceca, and liver of males decreased between fall and spring and correlated with a reduction in the fiber content of the diet. The mean size of the intestine, liver, and ceca of hens increased in response to high dietary fiber in fall and hyperphagia during laying. Decreases in the size of digestive organs in hens were associated with reduced feeding during incubation and decreased dietary fiber between fall courtship and prebreeding.
10.2307/4088643|Sex-specific growth analyses were conducted for 20 male and 12 female Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) in 19 broods in Nova Scotia, Canada during 1984-1986. The graphical methods of Ricklefs showed the logistic model to be most appropriate for mass increase with a growth-rate constant K of 0.18.
4090668| The sperm of the Eurasian Bullfinch (Pyrrhula pyrrhula) differs markedly in gross morphology from that of all other passerines examined to date. In other passerines, the sperm head is pointed and helical, and the midpiece comprises a mitochondrial helix extending along the flagellum; whereas in the Eurasian Bullfinch, the sperm acrosome is rounded, not helical, and the midpiece is extremely short. In a pairwise study, using principal component analysis (PCA), we combined quantitative and qualitative sperm morphology traits and conducted a phylogenetic correlation to compare the sperm morphology of Eurasian Bullfinch and Beavan's Bullfinch (P. erythaca) with nine other pairs of congeneric passerines. The analysis revealed that Eurasian Bullfinch was a dramatic outlier in sperm morphology and that Eurasian and Beavan's bullfinches are more different than any other pair of species. Excluding Eurasian Bullfinch from the analysis showed that most variation in sperm morphology in the other species was attributable to phylogeny. The Eurasian Bullfinch also has extremely small testes for its body size, which indicates that sperm competition is infrequent in this species; we discuss the possibility that relaxed selection, via lack of sperm competition, may have contributed to the species' unusual sperm morphology. /// Los espermatozoides de Pyrrhula pyrrhula difieren marcadamente en su morfologa de los de todas las dems especies de aves paseriformes examinadas hasta ahora. En otras aves paseriformes, la cabeza del espermatozoide es puntuda y helicoidal, y la parte media est formada por una hlice mitocondrial que se extiende a lo largo del flagelo, mientras que en P. pyrrhula el acrosoma del espermatozoide es redondeado, no es helicoidal y la parte media es extremadamente corta. En un estudio paralelo, utilizando anlisis de componentes principales, combinamos caracteres cuantitativos y cualitativos de la morfologa espermtica y realizamos una correlacin filogentica para comparar la morfologa espermtica de P. pyrrhula y de P. erythaca con la de otros nueve pares de especies paseriformes del mismo gnero. El anlisis revel que P. pyrrhula es una gran excepcin en cuanto a la morfologa espermtica y que P. pyrrhula y P. erythaca son ms distintos entre ellos que cualquier otro par de especies. Al excluir a P. pyrrhula del anlisis, la mayor parte de la variacin en la morfologa espermtica en las otras especies puede ser atribuida a la filogenia. Adems, P. pyrrhula tiene testculos extremadamente pequeos con relacin a su tamao corporal, lo que indica que la competencia espermtica es poco frecuente en esta especie. Discutimos la posibilidad de que un proceso de seleccin laxo debido a la ausencia de competencia espermtica, podra haber contribuido a la morfologa espermtica inusual en esta especie. 
10.2307/4088815|Although designating the Night Parrot (Geopsittacus occidentalis) and the Ground Parrot (Pezoporus wallicus) as each other's closest taxonomic relatives is generally accepted, placing this group with respect to other Australo-Pacific parrots has proven problematical. To examine the phylogenetic relationships of these two species, a 924-bp fragment of the cytochrome-b gene was sequenced from single representatives of the following genera: Geopsittacus, Pezoporus, Neophema, Melopsittacus, Platycercus, Polytelis, Strigops, and Calyptorhynchus. Maximum-parsimony, maximum-likelihood, and distance trees all supported a close association between Geopsittacus and Pezoporus. These two genera were also found to be closely linked with Neophema and Melopsittacus. Despite superficial morphological similarities, Geopsittacus and Strigops (Kakapo) were found not to be closely related.
4090353| Vocal alarm calls are important to the vigilance and likely the organization of mixed-species flocks, but community-wide studies of alarm calling in flocks are lacking. We investigated which species alarm-call, and the characteristics of their calls, in a large flock system of a Sri Lankan rainforest. We recorded naturally elicited alarm calls during several attacks by Accipiter hawks and while following flocks for 10 h. We then artificially elicited alarms by throwing a stick to the side of the flock, in a total of 70 trials at 30 flock sites. The Orange-billed Babbler (Turdoides rufescens) was the most frequent caller to both the artificial and natural stimuli, followed by the Greater Racket-tailed Drongo (Dicrurus paradiseus). Several other species also called, and multiple species often called to the same stimulus (in 23 trials, and in all of the hawk attacks). The species differed in their rapidity of response and in their sensitivity to different natural stimuli. Calls of the gregarious babbler usually provided a first, unreliable warning of an incoming threat, whereas later calls of other species emphasized the seriousness of the threat. We suggest that birds in mixed-species flocks may be particularly aware of aerial predators for two reasons: (1) a "numbers effect," whereby nongregarious species are more aware of predators when surrounded by large numbers of other species; and (2) an "information effect," whereby species differ in the information available in their alarm calls, leading to an accumulation of information in a mixed-species flock. /// Las llamadas de alarma son importantes en la vigilancia y probablemente en la organizacin de las bandadas mixtas, pero existen pocos estudios sobre llamadas de alarma en bandadas a nivel de comunidad. Investigamos cules especies presentan llamadas de alarma y las caractersticas de sus llamadas en un amplio sistema de bandadas en una selva lluviosa de Sri Lanka. Registramos llamadas de alarma emitidas naturalmente durante varios ataques llevados a cabo por rapaces del gnero Accipiter y mientras seguamos bandadas por un perodo de 10 h. Luego inducimos artificialmente llamadas de alarma arrojando una vara sobre el costado de la bandada, en un total de 70 pruebas en 30 sitios. Turdoides refescens fue la especie que llam con ms frecuencia en relacin con los estmulos artificiales y naturales, seguida por Dicrurus paradiseus. Otras varias especies tambin llamaron, y mltiples especies comnmente reaccionaron con el mismo estmulo (en 23 pruebas y todos los ataques de Accipiter). Las especies difirieron en su velocidad de respuesta y en su sensibilidad a differentes estmulos naturales. Las llamadas de T. rufescens usualmente brindaron una primera seal de alerta no confiable sobre la aparicin de una amenaza, mientras que las llamadas posteriores de otras especies enfatizaron la seriedad de la amenaza. Sugerimos que las aves en bandadas mixtas podran estar particularmente atentas a depredadores areos por dos razones: (1) un "efecto del nmero," en el cual especies no gregarias estn ms atentas a los depredadores cuando estn acompaadas por una gran cantidad de individuos de otras especies; y (2) un "efecto de informacin," en el cual las especies difieren en la informacin disponible en sus llamadas de alarma, generando la acumulacin de informacin en una bandada mixta. 
4085815| Breakdown of ecological segregation of nesting Cave Swallows (Petrochelidon fulva) at the northeastern margin of their continental range has been followed by nesting syntopy and hybridization with Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) at highway culvert sites. Hirundo rustica  P. pyrrhonota hybridization also may be involved at several culvert sites at which Cliff, Cave, and Barn swallows nest syntopically. Employing morphological, observational, and biochemical techniques, 12 instances of hybridization (14 hybrid nestlings) between these genera have been identified and examined at sites near the periphery of the range of P. fulva in Texas. Hybrid individuals occurred alone in nests or together with young of H. rustica morphology. With one exception (H. rustica, P. fulva attendants), only adults of H. rustica phenotype were observed at hybrid-containing nests. Hybrids displayed general morphological and developmental intermediacy between parental species. When assessed by analyses of protein variation, genotypes of hybrids, their nestmates, and attendants were consistent with those inferred from their phenotypes. No evidence of introgressive hybridization or of drastic changes in frequency of hybridization presently exists. Review of present behavioral, chronological, and spatial factors, as well as the history of contact between Barn, Cave, and Cliff swallows, suggests that, in situations of three-species syntopy, P. fulva is more likely than P. pyrrhonota to participate in hybridization with H. rustica. Data presented here are integrated with other evidence supporting the merger of Petrochelidon with Hirundo. 
10.2307/4090225| Most recent research on character evolution attempts to identify either (1) homology or homoplasy (systematic use of the term character), or (2) the adaptive function or selective regime underlying the origin of a character ("adaptationist" use of the term character). There have been relatively few serious considerations or examples of neutral character evolution above the molecular level. Wing feather taxis in birds, the presence or absence of the fifth secondary feather, provides an intriguing possible example of nonadaptive character evolution. We examine the phylogenetic pattern of wing feather taxis among birds to (1) determine its polarity in modern birds (Neornithes), (2) hypothesize the frequency and taxonomic locations of changes in the taxic state, (3) test whether taxis is relatively labile or inert phylogenetically, and (4) allow preliminary consideration of whether adaptive or selectively neutral processes have produced those patterns. Minimum tree length necessary to explain the distribution of wing feather taxis was calculated at the family level using Sibley and Ahlquist's DNA-DNA hybridization tree (1990). Parsimony analysis indicates that the eutaxic condition (fifth secondary present) is ancestral in modern birds, and that diastataxy (fifth secondary absent) has originated independently at least 7 times and reversed to the eutaxic condition on at least 13 occasions within modern birds. Despite multiple independent origins and reversals, wing feather taxis is extremely conserved throughout the tree, such that one or the other state completely characterizes many large multiordinal or multifamilial clades. Lack of obvious correlations with morphological and ecological traits suggest that no single adaptive scenario will explain the evolution of wing feather taxis. Instead, the biological details and phylogenetic patterns make nonadaptive, or selectively neutral evolutionary processes, such as genetic drift, an equally if not more plausible explanation for the distribution of wing feather taxis. /// Gran parte de la investigacin reciente sobre la evolucin de caracteres, intenta identificar (1) las homologas u homoplasias (uso sistemtico del trmino carcter), o (2) la funcin adaptativa o rgimen selectivo que subyace al origen de un carcter (uso "adaptacionista" del trmino carcter). Ha habido relativamente pocas consideraciones o ejemplos serios de evolucin neutra de caracteres por sobre el nivel molecular. La taxia de las plumas del ala en las aves, la presencia o ausencia de la quinta pluma secundaria, proporciona un posible ejemplo intrigante de evolucin de caracteres no adaptativa. Examinamos el patrn filogentico de la taxia de las plumas del ala entre aves para (1) determinar su polaridad en las aves modernas (Neornithes), (2) hipotetizar la frecuencia y localizacin taxonmica de los cambios en el estado de la taxia, (3) poner a prueba si la taxia es relativamente lbil o inerte filogenticamente y (4) permitir hacer consideraciones preliminares sobre si dichos patrones han sido producidos por procesos adaptativos o selectivamente neutros. Se calcul la longitud mnima del rbol necesaria para explicar la distribucin de la taxia de las plumas del ala a nivel de familia, utilizando el rbol de hibridizacin ADN-ADN de Sibley y Ahlquist (1990). El anlisis de parsimonia indica que la condicin eutxica (quinta secundaria presente) es ancestral en las aves modernas, y que la diastataxia (quinta secundaria ausente) se ha originado independientemente por lo menos 7 veces y se ha invertido a la condicin eutxica en por lo menos 13 ocasiones dentro de las aves modernas. A pesar de los mltiples orgenes independientes e inversiones, la taxia de las plumas del ala es sumamente conservada a lo largo del rbol, tal que uno o el otro estado caracteriza por completo una gran cantidad de grandes clados multiordinales o multifamiliares. La falta de correlaciones obvias con rasgos morfolgicos y ecolgicos sugiere que un slo escenario adaptativo no podra explicar la evolucin de la taxia de las plumas del ala. En cambio, los detalles biolgicos y patrones filogenticos observados sugieren que procesos evolutivos no adaptativos o selectivamente neutros, como la deriva gnica, pueden ser una explicacin igualmente, si no la ms plausible, para la distribucin de la taxia de las plumas del ala. 
4087860| Three different subspecies are recognized for Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea diomedea, C. d. borealis, and C. d. edwardsii). This long-lived colonial procellariiform shows an east-west cline in several morphometric characters. A strong colony and site fidelity has been reported, which suggests genetic isolation among colonies and low levels of gene flow. Three different colonies, including two subspecies (C. d. borealis, from the Azores, and C. d. diomedea, from Sardinia and Sicily), were sampled to investigate the genetic structure of the population. Six polymorphic loci were found in 36 tested. The percentage of polymorphism (P) and average heterozygosity (H) were P = 0.139 and H = 0.027, respectively. There were differences among colonies. Three of the polymorphic loci (PEP-A, PGM-1, and Pt5) showed significant values for F
10.2307/4089117| We studied patterns of cavity placement and orientation by the Gilded Flicker (Colaptes chrysoides) in the cardn cactus (Pachycereus pringlei) of Mexico, a columnar cactus characterized by a complex branching pattern. Overall, Gilded Flicker cavity entrances were oriented significantly toward the north-northwest, and they tended to face away from the rest of the cactus structure. There were more cavities proportional to the number of arms in the northwest quadrant, and these cavities had the strongest tendency to be oriented to the northwest and to face away from other arms. Cavities in the northeast quadrant were oriented slightly east of north, maintaining a strong pattern of orientation away from other cactus arms. Southwest quadrant cavity orientations were similar to those in the northwest quadrant but deviated from the trend of facing directly away from the bulk of the cactus structure. The fewest cavities proportional to number of arms were in the southeast quadrant, and these showed no significant orientations, instead having the greatest variation in directional orientation as well as orientation with respect to other cactus arms. 
10.2307/4089194| Many ripe fruits contain toxic chemicals that presumably protect them against attacks by frugivores that do not disperse seeds. These secondary metabolites may be generally toxic, representing an evolutionary compromise between defense from pathogens and attraction of seed dispersers (the General Toxicity hypothesis). Alternatively, they may be nontoxic to seed dispersers and simultaneously toxic to vertebrate frugivores that do not disperse seeds (the Directed Toxicity hypothesis). To tease apart these hypotheses, we tested whether consumption of artificial fruit agar by captive Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) was reduced by the presence of -solamargine, a glycoalkaloid common in solanaceous fruits. We recorded consumption of three artificial fruit types differing in -solamargine concentration and a control fruit that lacked -solamargine. Waxwings were strongly and equally deterred by all concentrations of -solamargine. These concentrations, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3% wet mass, are commonly found in some Solanum fruits. In a second trial, we addressed another hypothesis, the Nutrient-Toxin Titration hypothesis, which predicts that the deterrent effects of -solamargine can be overridden by highly nutritious fruit pulp. We offered waxwings three types of artificial fruits that varied in nutrient concentration but not in -solamargine concentration. Nutrient content had no effect on consumption when -solamargine was present. In summary, our results are inconsistent with both the Directed Toxicity and the Nutrient-Toxin Titration hypotheses. 
10.2307/4090304| When feather-degrading Bacillus licheniformis is grown in culture, it secretes a keratinase that hydrolyzes the -keratin matrix of a feather, thereby releasing oligopeptides that dissolve into the medium surrounding the feather and feather-degrading bacilli. These peptides absorb light passed through a sample of medium from which feather fragments, melanin granules, and bacteria have been removed by centrifugation. Samples of medium in which white, nonmelanic feathers are degrading absorb more light than samples of medium in which black, melanic feathers are degrading, which indicates that more oligopeptides are dissolved in medium surrounding white feathers than in medium surrounding black feathers. The differential absorption of light supports the conclusion that B. licheniformis degrades white feathers more rapidly than black feathers. /// La bacteria degradadora de plumas Bacillus licheniformis, cuando es criada en cultivo, secreta una queratinasa que hidroliza la matriz de queratina de las plumas, liberando oligopptidos que se disuelven en el medio que rodea a la pluma y a los bacilos. Estos pptidos absorben luz en una muestra de medio en la que los fragmentos de pluma, los grnulos de melanina y las bacterias fueron removidos por centrifugacin. Las muestras de medio en que se estn degradando plumas blancas sin melanina, absorben ms luz que las muestras de medios en que se estn degradando plumas negras con melanina, lo cual indica que hay una mayor cantidad de oligopptidos disueltos en los medios que rodean a las plumas blancas que en los medios que rodean a las plumas negras. La absorcin de luz diferencial apoya la conclusin de que B. licheniformis degrada ms rpido a las plumas blancas que a las plumas negras. 
10.2307/4090204| Vitellogenin is a lipophosphoprotein found in plasma of egg-producing birds prior to laying that may be used to identify fecund females whose reproductive status is otherwise unknown. We captured Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at sea in Desolation Sound, British Columbia, and used vitellogenin to (1) identify variation in egg production between 1999 and 2000, (2) predict timing of subsequent breeding stages on the basis of egg production, and (3) describe proportion of captured females producing eggs. We also used vitellogenin to investigate a capture bias previously detected in mist-netted birds in the study area and found a corresponding bias in number of egg producers caught. Dates that egg producers were present (27 April to 6 July 1999, 20 April to 6 July 2000) indicate that breeding is highly asynchronous in that species but was similar in both years. Predicted chick-fledging based on vitellogenin analyses was within one day of first sightings of fledglings at sea in both years, confirming that the vitellogenin technique provides accurate information on breeding chronology. Percentage of egg producers (54% in 1999, 56% in 2000) were similar in both years. Vitellogenin analyses provided a chronology very similar to that previously estimated using multiple techniques in the same study area (1996-1998), confirming that vitellogenin analyses alone may be used to describe chronology when sampling encompasses the entire laying period. We recommend that technique for use in other studies of secretive species where egg production cannot normally be monitored by direct observation. /// La vitellognine est une lipophosphoprotine que l'on retrouve dans le plasma des ufs produits par les oiseaux avant la ponte. Cette protine peut tre utilise pour identifier les femelles fcondes dont le statut reproducteur resterait inconnu autrement. Nous avons captur des Guillemots marbrs (Brachyramphus marmoratus) en mer  Desolation Sound, Colombie-Britannique, et nous les avons utilis pour (1) identifier les variations dans la production d'ufs entre 1999 et 2000, (2) prdire le droulement des tapes de reproduction subsquentes en se basant sur la production d'ufs. Nous avons galement utilis la vitellognine pour examiner le biais de capture prcdemment dtect chez les oiseaux capturs au filet dans l'aire d'tude. Nous avons ainsi dcel ce biais dans le nombre d'oiseaux capturs produisant des ufs. Les dates durant lesquelles ces oiseaux taient prsents (du 27 avril au 6 juillet 1999, du 20 avril au 6 juillet 2000) indiquent que la reproduction est fortement asynchrone chez cette espce mais elle a t similaire pour les deux annes. En se basant sur les analyses de vitellognine, la prdiction du nombre d'ufs pondus correspondait aux nombres de jeunes recenss au cours des premires observations en mer et ce pour les deux annes. Ceci vient confirmer que la technique de la vitellognine fournit une information prcise sur la chronologie de reproduction. Le pourcentage d'oiseaux produisant des ufs (54% en 1999, 56% en 2000) taient similaires dans les deux annes. Les analyses de vitellognine ont fourni une chronologie trs similaire  celle prcdemment estime  partir de l'utilisation de techniques multiples pour la mme aire d'tude (1996-1998), confirmant que les analyses de vitellognine peuvent tre utilises comme technique unique pour dcrire la chronologie quand l'chantillonnage porte sur la totalit de la priode de ponte. Nous recommandons l'utilisation de cette technique dans les autres tudes traitant d'espces dont la production d'ufs ne peut pas tre suivie normalement par observations directes. 
4087810|I examined the consequences of breeding-site fidelity and natal philopatry on reproductive performance in Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola). Return rates of breeding females averaged 44% over 4 years. Females were twice as likely to return after their second breeding year than after their first. This difference was not associated with a poor reproductive performance in the previous year because birds that failed to return to the study area had a reproductive performance similar to those that returned, irrespective of breeding experience. Probability of return for successful breeders (45%) did not differ significantly (P > 0.1) from failed nesters (29%). However, nest-site fidelity was high (68%) and was associated with nesting success because successful breeders (83%) were much more likely to reuse the same nest site than were failed breeders (29%). Nest-site fidelity provided some benefits to females. Birds who used the same site laid earlier and laid more eggs. The return rate of females banded as ducklings was 13% in the first two years after banding. Natal philopatry was strongly female-biased and no male ducklings were known to have returned to the study area. The average distance of natal dispersal for returning females was 0.99 km. My results supported Rohwer and Anderson's (1988) prediction that female ducks should gain in terms of reproductive success by returning to a familiar area.
4085402|S. Rohwer recently has proposed that intraspecific plumage variability in winter flocking birds represents a polymorphism that functions to signal social status. We test several predictions of Rohwer's status signaling hypothesis for Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis), explore some theoretical implications of our findings for juncos, and discuss the generality of social status signaling. Both darkness of hood and whiteness of tail were positively, although imperfectly, associated with social rank in captive winter flocks of first-year juncos. If plumage differences function as cues to dominance status in this species, our results suggest that their signal value derives primarily from learned associations between plumage attributes and other variables (such as sex or body size) that might influence fighting ability. Ultimate factors possibly responsible for winter plumage variability in juncos, both within and between age/sex classes, appear to be complex; selective pressure for a system of social status advertisement could (but need not) be one of these factors. Findings for some other winter flocking species reveal both similarities to, and differences from, our results for juncos. We suggest that more information on the behavior and ecology of a variety of winter flocking birds is needed before a satisfactory generalized model of social status signaling can be formulated-if such a model is possible.
90008556|Movement and space use of birds is driven by activities associated with acquiring and maintaining access to critical resources. Thus, the spatial configuration of resources within home ranges should influence bird movements, and resource values should be relative to their locations. We radio-tracked 22 Brown-headed Nuthatches (
10.2307/4090207| The age at which female gulls first reproduce is poorly documented. We examined plumage and reproductive organs of Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) collected from May-August 2000-2001 at John F. Kennedy International Airport, New York, to determine age-specific reproductive effort. Each gull was classified as one year old (hatched in previous year), two years old, or 3 years old on the basis of color patterns of the hood and tail feathers and fifth primary flight feather. For females, each ovary was examined to determine if postovulatory follicles were present. In 2000 and 2001, the first gulls with postovulatory follicles were recorded on 15 and 18 May, respectively. Overall, 54% of the 211 two-year-old female Laughing Gulls collected during June-August showed evidence of egg laying compared to 88% of the 320 gulls 3 years old. None of the 50 one-year-old females examined showed evidence of egg laying. Although a lower proportion of two-year-old females laid eggs compared to older gulls, we found no difference (P  0.06) in mean number of postovulatory follicles or in frequency distribution of numbers of postovulatory follicles for the two age classes for those birds that did lay eggs. Within each sex, mean body mass increased (P < 0.05) with age. Mean left testis length of males increased (P < 0.05) with age. Our findings clearly established that two-year-old female Laughing Gulls can contribute significantly to the annual reproductive effort and that some adult (3 years old) females did not lay eggs. /// La edad a la que las gaviotas hembras se reproducen por primera vez est pobremente documentada. Para determinar el esfuerzo reproductivo de aves de diferentes edades, estudiamos el plumaje y los rganos reproductivos de gaviotas Larus atricilla colectadas entre mayo y agosto de 2000 y 2001 en el Aeropuerto Internacional John F. Kennedy de Nueva York. Con base en los patrones de coloracin de la capucha, las plumas de la cola y la quinta pluma primaria de vuelo, cada gaviota fue clasificada como de un ao (nacida el ao anterior), de dos aos, o de 3 o ms aos de edad. En las hembras, cada ovario fue examinado para determinar la presencia de folculos post-ovulatorios. Las primeras gaviotas con folculos post-ovulatorios fueron registradas el 15 y 18 de mayo en 2000 y 2001, respectivamente. El 54% de las 211 gaviotas hembras de dos aos de edad colectadas entre junio y agosto mostraron evidencia de haber puesto huevos, en comparacin con el 88% de las 320 gaviotas de 3 aos o ms. Ninguna de las 50 hembras aales examinadas mostr evidencia de haber puesto huevos. Aunque una menor proporcin de las gaviotas de 2 aos pusieron huevos en comparacin con las de mayor edad, no encontramos diferencias (P  0.06) en el nmero promedio de folculos post-ovulatorios ni en la distribucin de frecuencias del nmero de folculos post-ovulatorios para las dos clases de edad en aquellas aves que pusieron huevos. En cada sexo, el peso corporal promedio aument con la edad (P < 0.05), al igual que la longitud promedio del testculo izquierdo de los machos (P < 0.05). Nuestros hallazgos establecen claramente que las gaviotas L. atricilla hembras de dos aos de edad pueden contribuir significativamente al esfuerzo reproductivo anual, y que algunos individuos adultos (de tres o ms aos) no pusieron huevos. 
10.2307/4089724|We studied hybridization and introgression between Black-capped (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina (P. carolinensis) chickadees along two transects in the Appalachians using four genetic markers and multivariate analysis of morphology. Genetic data revealed that at least 58% of the birds in the center of each transect were of mixed ancestry and that recombinant genotypes predominated among hybrids, demonstrating that hybridization is frequent and that many hybrids are fertile. Genetic clines generally were steep and coincident in position, but introgression was evident well beyond the range interface. Introgression was higher at the one autosomal locus surveyed than in mitochondrial DNA or in two sex-linked markers, suggesting that the hybrid zone is a conduit for gene flow between the two forms at some loci. On a broad scale, morphometric variation was concordant with genetic variation. Clines in morphological variation based on principal components (PC) scores were steep and coincident with genetic clines. Also, a strong correlation within a population between PC scores and an individual's genetic makeup suggested that a large amount of morphological variation was genetically determined. However, morphological analysis indicated that hybrids were uncommon on one transect, whereas genetic data clearly showed that they were common on both. In addition, patterns of morphological variation were equivocal regarding introgression across the hybrid zone. Thus, genetic data provided a complementary and more detailed assessment of hybridization, largely due to the discrete nature of genetic variation. Genetic markers are useful in understanding hybridization and introgression, but diagnostic markers may underestimate average gene flow if selection against hybrids maintains steep clines at diagnostic loci. To gain a clearer picture of the genome-wide effects of hybridization, a much larger number of loci must be assayed, including non-diagnostic ones.
25488610|Two morphologically distinct subspecies of the Australian Ringneck Parrot (
10.2307/4088275|Four months after Hurricane Gilbert we resampled 10 habitats that were sampled previously in December 1987. Overall, we found no change in the total number of species nor in the mean number of individual birds detected. The mean number of individuals declined in three montane habitats (cloud forest, pine plantation, and coffee plantation), where structural damage to tree trunks and branches was often severe, and trees were still defoliated. In the mountains, higher proportions of nectarivores and fruit/seedeaters declined than insectivores. We found increased mean numbers of individuals in two lowland sites (wet limestone forest and mangroves), where structural damage to trees was also severe, but where new foliage was present. Mean numbers of individuals did not change in five other lowland habitats, despite varying levels of vegetation damage. Populations of several species declined in some habitats and increased in others, a pattern consistent with interhabitat migration. Population declines in montane habitats were related to diet, suggesting that Hurricane Gilbert's greatest stress on Jamaica's montane bird populations occurred after its passage rather than during its impact. Frequent hurricanes may contribute to some of the commonly observed characteristics of the Caribbean avifauna.
4087334|A recently discovered skull of the Cretaceous toothed diving bird Hesperornis permits evaluation of previous descriptions of the skull, analysis of cranial kinesis in hesperornithid birds, and discussion of the evolution of avian cranial kinesis. We found no evidence in hesperornithids for mesokinesis, a system that in lizards involves relative movement of the frontals and parietals. "Maxillokinesis," the fore-aft movements of the palato-maxillary arcade, was also rejected. Evidence for cranial kinesis in hesperornithid birds involves the presence of a streptostylic quadrate bone of virtually modern morphology, three types of flexion zones at the posterior end of the upper jaw, and a hiatus in the nasal-interorbital septum. Among the forms of kinesis found in modern birds, prokinesis, in which the upper jaw moves as a unit, was the dominant type of cranial kinesis in hesperornithids as indicated by the rigid construction of the upper jaw, the position of the holorhinal nostril, and the anteriorly truncate mesethmoid bone; rhynchokinesis and amphikinesis were not possible. Prokinesis is considered primitive for at least the group including Hesperornithiformes and later birds. Discovery of prokinesis in Hesperornis represents the first time all of the morphological correlated of prokinesis have been identified in a bird plesiomorphically lacking pterygoid segmentation.
10.1525/auk.2009.09151|In many songbirds, the nesting period for a breeding attempt is extremely short, often lasting only a few weeks. Breeding adults can shorten this period by decreasing the number of eggs laid or reducing the length of the nestling period. Nestling-period length has received little attention in the literature but could have profound effects on annual fecundity, because each day represents a risk of nest depredation. Consequently, we were interested in assessing the biotic and abiotic factors that govern the nestling period in the Ovenbird (
4087031|Captive King Penguin (Aptenodytes patagonica) chicks can fast for 5 months during the subantarctic winter with a 70% decrease in body mass. To investigate the adaptive value of this remarkable resistance to starvation, we compared captive chicks with free-ranging chicks in their colony at Possession Island, Crozet Archipelago. The chicks in the colony, from mid-April to beginning of September (i.e. all winter) were fed only every 39 days by their parents; some were not fed at all. In spring (October-December) the surviving chicks were fed every 6 days, and their growth was completed. Overall chick mortality in the colony during the winter and subsequent spring was about 50%. Mortality was highest in October, 6 months after the beginning of the winter, and may be attributed mainly to starvation. The decrease in body mass in the free-ranging chicks was remarkably similar to that for captive birds. In both groups, three periods were characterized according to the observed changes in the daily decrease in body mass per unit body mass (dm/mdt): dm/mdt dropped during the first period (I) of 5-6 days, was minimum and steady during period II, which lasted about 4 months, and increased in period III. Blood analysis of the captive chicks indicated the three periods correspond to modifications in protein breakdown. An initial decrease in uricacidemia indicates period I is a short period of transition, marked by a decrease in protein breakdown. In period II a minimum and constant uricacidemia, in parallel with a progressive increase in ketonemia, indicates efficient protein sparing while most of the energy is derived from lipids. Period III is critical because, from a rise in uricacidemia concomitant with a decreasing ketonemia, proteins are no longer spared. The extreme resistance of King Penguin chicks to starvation in winter may be explained partly by the ability to spare proteins for several months (period II). It occurs at a growth stage when the parents' feeding visits are rare. Other laboratory and field investigations of birds suggest that the means by which a wide variety of domestic and wild species adapt to fasting also may be interpreted in terms of three periods corresponding to changes in protein breakdown.
10.1525/auk.2010.09079|Frugivorous birds are expected to maximize pulp ingestion and, hence, prefer large fruits. Experience and learning may play a role in fruit-size choices, and species may also have innate preferences. We investigated preference for fruit size of Oneseed Hawthorn (
10.2307/4088718| I observed a population of White-winged Trumpeters (Psophia leucoptera) in undisturbed rain forest in Peru for over 2,400 h between 1983 and 1987. At this site, I was able to habituate and band three groups of trumpeters and make occasional observations on four unhabituated groups. The habituated trumpeters lived in cooperatively polyandrous groups that defended large (x = 72 ha) permanent territories against conspecifics. The habituated groups always contained a dominant male and female, and usually contained two unrelated subordinate adult males, one unrelated subordinate adult female, and the group's offspring. Only the dominant female contributed eggs to the clutch, and the group's adult males competed to obtain copulations with her. In the habituated groups, the dominant male obtained the majority of the successful copulations with the breeding female during her fertile period, and the beta male obtained a greater number of copulations than the gamma male. Individuals assisted to varying degrees with helping to rear the group's chicks. Subordinate males provided significantly more food to the chicks than the dominant male, and the subordinate female provided significantly less food than the dominant female, while the dominant male and female fed chicks equivalent amounts of food. Offspring usually helped raise one brood of siblings, but both males and females dispersed from their natal group at about two years of age, when they reached sexual maturity. The evolution of cooperative breeding in White-winged Trumpeters appears to be related to the need to defend large permanent territories to provide access to sufficient food during the dry season when resources are scarce. Defense of large territories results in a surplus of adults in the trumpeter population relative to the number of available breeding positions. The low probability of acquiring a breeding position for individuals that remain on their natal territory appears to result in sexually mature offspring dispersing from their natal groups and attempting to join new groups where they have some chance of breeding nonincestuously. The apparent need to have multiple adult males within a group for successful territory defense may explain why unrelated males are accepted into territorial groups, where they are able to copulate surreptitiously with the breeding female. 
10.2307/4088098|We used 19 restriction endonucleases to analyze patterns of cleavage site variation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of the five recognized species of Zonotrichia. Each species possesses a unique mtDNA profile. Relative to most congeneric avian comparisons, these species are closely related, with an average percent nucleotide divergence of 4.1%. The Golden-crowned Sparrow (Z. atricapilla) and White-crowned Sparrow (Z. leucophrys) differ by a single restriction site (out of 122), which yields an estimate of 0.11% sequence divergence. These species are sister species in all phylogenetic analyses (Wagner and Dollo parsimony, bootstrapping, distance analyses), and White-throated Sparrow (Z. albicollis) is the sister to these, followed by Harris' Sparrow (Z. querula) and Rufous-collared Sparrow (Z. capensis). The phylogeny based on mtDNA restriction sites differs from that based on allozymes (Zink 1982) in that Harris' and White-throated sparrows are reversed in this sequence. In general, however, the allozyme and mtDNA phylogenies are highly concordant. Similarities in song between White-throated and Golden-crowned sparrows can be interpreted as ancestral retentions. The song of the White-crowned Sparrow is derived relative to other north temperate congeners, and song dialects appear to have evolved independently in White-crowned and Rufous-collared sparrows. Based on the mtDNA data, patterns of hybridization are inconsistent with phylogenetic relationships, and we suggest that hybridization should not be used in taxonomic decisions.
4085741|The only reliable field characteristic distinguishing Whistling from Bewick's swans appears to be the proportions of yellow on their bills, although this has never been quantified. Photographs of the right bill profiles of 300 Whistling Swans and 104 Bewick's (of bill pattern type similar to that of Whistling Swans) were compared. The average proportions of yellow were 3.1% for Whistling Swans and 31.5% for Bewick's, with discrete ranges. Such a large separation in amount of yellow lends credence to the growing number of records of Whistling and Bewick's swans outside their normal ranges. These records are reviewed, as well as records of intergrades. In seven cases where suitable photographs existed, the proportions of yellow on the bill were measured. This confirmed two Whistling Swans in Japan, one (or an intergrade) in England, and three Bewick's Swans and an intergrade in North America.
10.2307/4089289|We estimated fat load, length of stopover, and rate of mass change for six Neotropical migrant landbird species at a site along the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus), Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis), White-eyed Vireos (Vireo griseus), Red-eyed Vireos (V. olivaceus), Magnolia Warblers (Dendroica magnolia), and American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) were captured on Fort Morgan Peninsula in coastal Alabama during fall migration, 1990 to 1992. In Swainson's Thrushes, White-eyed Vireos, and American Redstarts, adults carried significantly higher fat loads than young birds, whereas no age-related differences in fat loads were evident in the other species. The likelihood of staying beyond the day of capture and the rate of change in body mass did not differ between age classes. One consequence of differences in fat load is reflected in flight range in relation to the Gulf of Mexico. On average, adult Swainson's Thrushes, White-eyed Vireos, American Redstarts, and both age classes of Magnolia Warblers carried sufficient energy stores to complete a trans-Gulf flight, whereas young Swainson's Thrushes, White-eyed Vireos, American Redstarts and both age classes of Gray Catbirds carried insufficient stores for such a flight, based on flight-performance simulations.
10.2307/4087493|Simultaneous variable circular-plot censuses were conducted by two observers at five heights above ground in lower montane rain forest in Puerto Rico. One observer began the censuses at the top of a 22-m walk-up tower, and the other observer began at the bottom. Tests for interobserver variability indicated that the observers were not significantly different in their ability to detect birds. Sufficient numbers of 6 species (Columba squamosa, Spindalis zena, Vireo altiloquus, Coereba flaveola, Nesospingus speculiferus, and Todus mexicanus) were observed to compare differences in the efficiency of canopy and ground observers. More birds that sing from the canopy were detected by the canopy observer than by the ground observer. The reverse was true for birds that sing near the ground. Species were most often detected at the station closest to their mean singing height. Population densities of canopy-singing species were underestimated by 33-46% by the ground observer. Measurements of the attenuation of pure tones of different frequency indicate that low-frequency sound attenuates less rapidly than high-frequency sound. Species with low-frequency songs are heard equally well by ground and canopy observers.
10.2307/4089633|Brood-parasitic nestlings have a unique opportunity to encounter host-specific lice (Phthiraptera). Lice are permanent ectoparasites found strictly on the body of the host, and they are transferred almost exclusively by bodily contact during copulation and care of young. We investigated whether Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestlings become infested with lice from their host parents and carry these after fledging, in effect bearing ectoparasite indicators of the species that raised them. Examining lice on cowbirds to identify foster parents would be less costly than determining parasitism patterns in the conventional way by finding many host nests. The 244 cowbird fledglings that we examined carried 11 species and 6 genera of lice, almost the entire spectrum of louse genera known from passerines. We also examined 320 songbirds from 30 species of hosts. As a group, the diversity of louse species on hosts was comparable to that on fledgling cowbirds: 13 species and 7 genera. In contrast, most individual host species yielded only one or two louse species, significantly fewer than on cowbird fledglings. Of 44 fledgling cowbirds with lice, 11 were linked with probable avian foster parents, and 18 other fledglings were linked with one of two possible foster parents. We conclude that cowbird fledglings carry away host lice and that our technique provides a partial assessment of parasitism patterns. The incomplete state of louse taxonomy requires that users of the technique obtain a reference collection of lice from host species in addition to the sample collection from cowbird fledglings. Lice from cowbird fledglings can be identified by a taxonomist and linked to particular host species, and the principal difficulty is the scarcity of skilled louse taxonomists. We also found an unusually rich louse fauna on 219 adult cowbirds, which supports the interpretation that lack of opportunity due to physical isolation has been the fundamental factor in the host specificity of lice in certain avian orders.
10.2307/4090145| Ruby Lake, Nevada, is a large palustrine wetland that hosts the southern-most major breeding population of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria). That arid marsh, fed by springs derived from mountain snowpack, differs in climate and hydrology from glaciated potholes of the northern prairies where most Canvasbacks breed. Fourteen years of nesting data on Canvasbacks over a 31 year period (1970-2000) were analyzed to determine factors affecting breeding performance at Ruby Lake and whether they differed from those in the prairies. Long-term Mayfield nest success at Ruby Lake (50% of all nests) was in the range of that in the northern prairies (21-65%). Of all Canvasback nests, 73% were parasitized (mostly by Redheads [Aythya americana]) as compared to 83-97% in a large Manitoba marsh and 57-65% in Manitoba potholes. However, as in the northern prairies, nest parasitism generally had little or no effect on either nest success or percentage of host eggs that hatched. In Manitoba potholes, nest success was unrelated to habitat variables measured; but successful nests at Ruby Lake were over shallower water, farther from shore, in wider bands of emergent vegetation, and surrounded by lower stem densities than unsuccessful nests. Water level is the key factor in breeding performance of Canvasbacks at both Ruby Lake and the northern prairies; however, the source of water differs (mountain snowpack at Ruby Lake, direct precipitation in the prairies) and effects of water-level variations are reversed. In small prairie potholes (mostly <0.4 ha) with many mammalian predators, productivity of Canvasbacks (which build floating nests) is increased by high water that floods the emergent fringe. At Ruby Lake, a very large marsh (2,830 ha) with mostly avian predators, Canvasback productivity is decreased by high water that floods interior emergent stands too deeply. Water level at Ruby Lake was highly correlated (multiple R
10.2307/4089728|An understanding of geographic and phylogenetic variation in passerine life histories is hampered by the scarcity of studies from the Southern Hemisphere. We documented the breeding biology of the White-browed Scrubwren (Sericornis frontalis), an Australia endemic in the Pardalotidae (parvorder Corvida). Like other members of the Pardalotidae, scrubwrens had a long laying interval (two days), a long incubation period (declining from 21 to 17 days through the season), and a long period of postfledging parental care (6 to 7 weeks). Scrubwrens appeared to be typical of the Australian Corvida in having a small clutch size (three eggs) and a long breeding season (5.4 months), and they also had a long interval between breeding attempts (10 days after a failed attempt, 21 days after a successful attempt). Scrubwrens were multibrooded, often raising two broods successfully and occasionally raising three broods. The breeding biology of scrubwrens adds further support to claims of a distinct life-history strategy for members of the Corvida but also reinforces evidence that some "Corvida" life-history traits more specifically are those of the Pardalotidae.
10.1525/auk.2013.13088|Attendants of Neotropical mixed-species flocks are hypothesized to benefit primarily by gaining protection from predators, while potential costs have received little attention. The Wedge-billed Woodcreeper (
10.2307/4088941|Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) nest in few colonies in the northeastern United States, and the population is listed as endangered. We compare reproductive success from 1987 through 1990 at Cedar Beach, Long Island, and in 1980 and 1987 through 1990 at Bird Island, Massachusetts, to examine yearly and seasonal differences. Productivity was highest for terns breeding in the first six days of the egg-laying period and decreased thereafter. Clutch size, hatching success, and productivity declined significantly during the season, with some variations in pattern among years and between colony sites. Pairs initiating nests after 22 June fledged almost no young. Patterns of reproductive success were more irregular at the smaller colony (Cedar Beach) than the larger colony. Reproductive success was related to age of adults; young birds (two to three years old) had lower clutch sizes, had lower reproductive success, and laid later than older birds. The effective reproductive population of the colony included primarily birds that bred in the early and peak periods; thus, monitoring reproductive success only from early or peak nests overestimates overall reproductive success. Selection against even earlier breeding in this species may be due to lower food resources early in the season and higher predation rates on early nests.
10.2307/4089166|We describe the prebasic molt of Northern Rough-winged Swallows (Stelgidopteryx serripennis) using museum specimens. Birds from eastern North America initiate their flight-feather molt about 40 days earlier than birds from west of the Rocky Mountains, suggesting that ecological differences between the two populations affect their molt schedules. In both populations, juveniles start their flight-feather molt 1 to 4 weeks later than adults, but the timing of body molt does not differ for adults and juveniles. Molt occurs simultaneously with the fall migration in both populations. However, eastern birds interrupt their migration when they reach the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Here, they spend about two months finishing their flight-feather molt before crossing the Gulf in October and November. Molt and migration often are concurrent in diurnally migrating swallows, but the two activities do not occur simultaneously when migration must be sustained without interruption.
10.2307/4086821|Shell, yolk, and albumen represent 10.5%, 21.9%, and 67.6%, respectively, of fresh-egg weight of Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major). The proportion of egg composed of dry yolk increases as egg weight increases. The average 8.1-g egg contains 33.6 kJ of which 66.1% is in yolk and 33.9% is in albumen. The average three-egg clutch was estimated to cost 131 kJ for yolk development and albumen deposition. These costs were spread over a 6-day period, with a peak of 28 kJ occurring on the day before egg laying began. At hatching, the yolk sac represents 19% of hatchling wet weight. Only 10% of the energy present in the egg at laying is expended during incubation. Hatchlings have substantial yolk reserves that contain 49% of the hatchlings' energy.
10.2307/4089284|We compared laying date, nesting success, clutch size, and productivity of four bird species that nest in boxes and tree cavities to examine whether data from nest boxes are comparable with data from tree cavities. Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) gained the most advantage from nesting in boxes. They initiated egg laying earlier, had higher nesting success, lower predation rates, and fledged marginally more young in boxes than in cavities but did not have larger clutches or hatch more eggs. Plain Titmice (Parus inornatus) nesting in boxes had marginally lower predation rates, hatched more eggs, and fledged more young. They did not have higher overall nesting success, nor did they initiate clutches significantly earlier in boxes. House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) nesting in boxes laid larger clutches, hatched more eggs, and fledged more young and had marginally higher nesting success and lower predation rates. Ash-throated Flycatchers (Myiarchus cinerascens) experienced no apparent benefits from nesting in boxes versus cavities. No significant relationships were found between clutch size and bottom area or volume of cavities for any of these species. These results suggest that researchers should use caution when extrapolating results from nestbox studies of reproductive success, predation rates, and productivity of cavity-nesting birds. Given the different responses of these four species to nesting in boxes, the effects of the addition of nest boxes on community structure also should be considered.
10.2307/4089927|Due to extensive clearing of bottomland forest in the southeastern United States, Swainson's Warbler (Limnothlypis swainsonii) is restricted in many drainages to seasonally inundated buffer zones bordering rivers and swamps. This migratory species is especially vulnerable to flooding because of its ground foraging ecology, but little is known about patterns of habitat occupancy at wetland ecotones. I investigated the physiognomic and floristic correlates of habitat use along a subtle hydrological gradient in the Great Dismal Swamp, southeastern Virginia. Hydrology is the driving force influencing vegetation and the distribution of Swainson's Warbler in that habitat. Foraging and singing stations of territorial males were significantly drier and more floristically diverse than unoccupied habitat. There was scant evidence that the distribution and abundance of particular plant species, including giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea), influenced habitat selection. Instead, Swainson's Warbler seems to evaluate potential territories on the basis of multiscale physiognomic, hydrological, and edaphic characteristics. Territories were characterized by extensive understory thickets (median = 36,220 small woody stems and cane culms per hectare; range, 14,000-81,400/ha), frequent greenbriar tangles, deep shade at ground level, and an abundance of leaf litter overlying moist organic soils. Those sites occurred most frequently in relatively well-drained tracts of broad-leaf forest that had suffered extensive canopy damage and windthrow. Data suggest a preference for early successional forest in the current landscape or disturbance gaps in primeval forest. Because territories in otherwise optimal habitat are abandoned when flooding extends into the breeding season, it is recommended that the water table be maintained at subsurface levels from late March through September in natural areas managed primarily for this species. Direct and indirect environmental factors that influence the breeding biology of the warbler are summarized in an envirogram.
10.2307/4089379|We report movements and habitat use during the postbreeding period of radio-tagged adult Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) at the United States Marine Corps Base, Quantico, Virginia, from May to October 1993 to 1995. Thirty of 61 radio-tagged adults stayed on the study area up to two months after they finished reproductive activities. During this time they underwent molt. Of these 30 birds, 11 (6 females and 5 males) molted in the same sites where they nested, 4 males moved to stands of deciduous saplings adjacent to their nesting territories, and 15 (4 females and 11 males) moved to molting sites 545 to 7,291 m from their nesting territories. We found no clear patterns that sex or reproductive success were related to the probability of moving away from nesting sites to molt, nor that the location of molting adults was correlated with the presence of fruiting plants. However, structural attributes of the vegetation that may enhance predation avoidance, such as the number of woody stems, the density of the understory, and the number of deciduous saplings, were significantly higher in molting sites than in nesting sites. We hypothesize that during molt, Wood Thrushes may need access to "safe havens" where protection from predators is enhanced. Our study strongly suggests that a conservation strategy that focuses on identifying and protecting nesting habitat is inadequate if the events and needs during the postbreeding period are not considered as well.
4087454|Biochemical characters have been proposed as ideal sources of phylogenetic information. The homologous characters are easily identified, the relationships between such characters and the underlying genetic code is well understood, and, most importantly, biochemical characters are thought to evolve in a stochastic, clock-like manner. I present a modified version of the Zuckerkandl and Pauling (1965) model of stochastic evolution which is used to explore the consequences of a stochastic mode of evolution. The probability of observing shared character states is determined as a function of the evolutionary rate of a character, the time of independent ancestry for two sister taxa, the time of shared ancestry for the sister taxa independent of their next closest relative, and the number of functionally equivalent, equally probable character states. I found that, while many branching patterns can be reliably reconstructed using stochastically evolving characters, a large subset of theoretically possible phylogenies (as defined by the duration of shared and independent ancestry) would not be derived correctly. The model simulates a "best-case scenario" in which the rate of character evolution is constant over time. Violation of this assumption complicates phylogeny reconstruction and further limits the types of phylogenies that can be addressed with stochastically evolving characters. I discuss the implications of these findings for data analysis and experimental design.
4084896|The White Ibis population nesting in the fluctuating water ecosystem of southern Florida numbered up to 62,000 birds and used several nesting habitats including islands in large lakes, the vast freshwater marshes of the Everglades, and coastal estuaries. Periodic reproduction at large inland colonies, accounting for 93-98% of the nesting birds, sustains the population at its current level, but smaller, more consistantly successful coastal colonies provide recruitment during years of inland nesting failure. Clutch size, brood reduction pattern, and energy requirements showed intraregional variation. Clutch size differences may be related to habitat, with lowered clutch sizes along the coast. Despite clutch size differences, the number of young fledged was similar in different colonies. Intraregional variation in timing of brood reduction resulted in differences in the energy required for nesting. The daily energy expenditure of White Ibis was estimated from the time-activity budget and multiples of measured metabolic rates. Although existence metabolism was similar to that predicted by Kendeigh's (1970) regression, daily energy expenditure was considerably below that predicted by extrapolating King's (1974) regression, suggesting a slower increase of DEE at higher body weights. The White Ibis consumed about 21% of its body weight daily, similar to that found in other studies of ciconiiformes. The energy required to raise a brood of young was
10.2307/4088007|In a sample of breeding Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) observed in 4-5 years, up to 43% of the variability in 13 attributes of breeding behavior was consistent among individuals or pairs. Sample means for most attributes were correlated in a predictable way with annual levels of breeding success. Except for laying dates, there was little evidence that individual differences in these attributes contributed to variation in breeding success. A test of breeding experience as a contributing factor revealed an interaction between individual and annual components of variation. During years when the whole population did relatively poorly, pairs with no previous breeding experience were affected disproportionately. Late-nesting fulmars were more successful than early layers, possibly because delayed breeding ensured that food availability was adequate for successful incubation.
10.2307/4088500|We used DNA-DNA hybridization to determine large-scale phylogenetic structure among hummingbirds (Trochilidae). Analyses of complete matrices of
10.2307/4089370|We determined whether nest-site characteristics influence reproductive success and whether experience influences nest-site selection in a population of cooperatively breeding Long-tailed Tits (Aegithalos caudatus). Nest predation was high; only 17% of breeding attempts resulted in fledged young. The height of nests was an important determinant of success; low nests were significantly more successful than high nests. A breeder's age, natal nest site, and breeding experience had no significant effect on nest-site selection. However, failed breeders who helped at the successful nests of conspecifics built subsequent nests lower than nests built prior to their helping experience. Failed breeders who did not help showed no reduction in the height of subsequent nests. Moreover, the subsequent reproductive success of failed breeders who helped was significantly higher than that of failed breeders who did not help. We conclude that helpers gain information on nest-site quality through their helping experience and thus gain a direct fitness benefit from their cooperative behavior. We suggest that experience as a helper offers a more reliable cue to nest-site quality than breeding experience because helpers are associated with nests only during the nestling phase when few nests are depredated. In contrast, although successful breeders may experience success with a low nest, they are even more likely to have experienced the failure of low nests because of the high rate of nest predation.
4086639|Among songbirds, adult song forms usually are determined culturally during an individual's early experience. In the Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), we have demonstrated that the quantity of this learned behavior (i.e. song repertoire size), its style of delivery, and the size of controlling nuclei in the forebrain have a genetic basis. Nestling males taken from New York and California and reared under standardized conditions in the laboratory still develop population-typical behavior and neuroanatomy. We do not know the developmental mechanisms responsible for these differences, but we believe that year-round residency, high densities, and polygynous mating systems are likely factors contributing to an escalation of vocal abilities in the western populations.
10.2307/4090281| Previous studies have shown Olive-sided Flycatchers (Contopus cooperi) to be associated with burned forest, which suggests that wildfire is beneficial to the species. To examine that more closely, we studied the short-term effects (first two years after disturbance) of moderate- to high-severity wildfire on Olive-sided Flycatchers breeding in northwestern California. During summers of 2000 and 2001, we investigated distribution of and compared the relative nest loss, foraging rates, and aerial arthropod biomass at Olive-sided Flycatcher territories in burned and adjacent unburned forest. The probability of postfire site occupancy was best predicted by the presence of pre-existing forest edges (odds ratio = 8:1). Probability of relative nest loss was much higher in the presence of fire (odds ratio = 9:1). Adult female peak foraging rates were nearly twice as high in unburned (2000 = 2.1 attacks min
4085848| We measured the consumption of oxygen and the accumulation of energy in fat and tissues of nestling Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) on Kent Island, New Brunswick. Fat deposits of the chicks increased by an average of about
10.2307/4090240| A new intergeneric hybrid manakin is characterized using morphological characters and mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences. Many morphological traits suggest the bird is intermediate between Ilicura militaris and Chiroxiphia caudata. Sequences of the maternally inherited mitochondrial ND2 gene demonstrate the female parent to be Chiroxiphia caudata, and the nuclear beta-fibrinogen intron 5 sequences can not eliminate Chiroxiphia and Ilicura as parents. Therefore, DNA sequence data lead to the conclusion that Ilicura is the male parent of this unusual bird. This study is important because it highlights the significance of using multiple character systems in diagnosing unusual bird specimens. /// Um novo hbrido intergenrico foi caracterizado utilizando caracteres morfolgicos e seqncias de DNA nuclear e mitocondrial. Vrios caracteres morfolgicos sugerem que a ave  um intermedirio entre Ilicura militaris e Chiroxiphia caudata. Seqncias do gene mitocondrial ND2 herdados via materna demonstram que a progenitora feminina foi uma Chiroxiphia caudata, e seqncias nucleares do intron 5 do beta-fibrinognio no eliminaram Chiroxiphia e Ilicura como potenciais pais. Logo, os dados de seqncia de DNA levam  concluso de que Ilicura  o progenitor masculino desta ave pouco comum. Este estudo  importante porque demonstra a significncia de utilizar sistemas de mltiplos caracteres na diagnose de espcimes pouco comuns de aves. 
10.2307/4089719|We evaluated the relationship between blood parasites and body condition of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) during the breeding season. Females that were infected with at least one species of parasite were in poorer condition than those without parasites during incubation but not prior to egg laying. We suggest that the relationship between parasitism and condition was masked before laying because of large increases in body mass of females during egg formation. Reduced condition of males during incubation also was associated with higher intensity of infections by Haemoproteus in one of two years. The negative association between condition and intensity of infection suggests that blood parasites impose costs on kestrels owing to competition for nutrients or allocation of energy by hosts to immune function or tissue repair. Alternatively, kestrels in poor condition may be more likely to have relapses of chronic infections, or they may be less able to control new infections because of resource limitations. In contrast to results during incubation, during the prelaying period the prevalence of parasites tended to be higher, and in one year infections were more intense, among males in good condition. One possible explanation for these results is that body condition of males during courtship is an important determinant of the quality of mate they are able to obtain, and males may be accumulating body reserves at the expense of decreased immune function. Return rates of female kestrels to the study area declined as the intensity of their Haemoproteus infections increased, suggesting that blood parasitism is associated with reduced survival or increased dispersal probability.
4090588| Food-hoarding birds use memory to relocate caches, and species that store thousands of scattered food items must have an extraordinary memory capacity to be able to relocate them. Because the hippocampus is important in the functioning of spatial memory, it is logical to assume that the amount of food stored should correlate with hippocampal volume. Previously, food-hoarding capacity has been used as the predictor variable for hippocampal volume. Using the opposite approach, I tested whether hippocampal volume can be used to predict the amount of food stored. The atricapilla complex, a superspecies in the Paridae, has a wide Holarctic distribution, with the Black-capped Chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) in America and the Willow Tit (Parus montanus) in Eurasia. Although they live in similar ecological conditions, the Willow Tit possesses a hippocampus almost twice the size of the Black-capped Chickadee's. I sampled hoarding intensities in Black-capped Chickadees in British Columbia with the same methods I used previously in Willow Tits in Sweden. Contrary to expectation, Black-capped Chickadees stored at the same high rates as Willow Tits, which suggests that both species are large-scale hoarders. I discuss possible explanations for why the difference in hippocampal volume did not translate into differences in food-hoarding rates. /// Les oiseaux qui constituent des rserves de nourriture utilisent leur mmoire pour retrouver leur caches. Les espces qui stockent des milliers de morceaux de nourriture en les parpillant doivent avoir une capacit de mmoire extraordinaire pour tre capable de les retrouver. Puisque l'hippocampe joue un rle important dans le fonctionnement de la mmoire spatiale, il est logique de considrer que la quantit de nourriture stocke devrait tre corrle avec le volume de l'hippocampe. Auparavant, la capacit  stocker de la nourriture a t utilise comme variable prdictive du volume de l'hippocampe. En utilisant l'approche oppose, j'ai test si le volume de l'hippocampe pouvait tre utilis pour prdire la quantit de nourriture stocke. Le groupe atricapilla, une superespce chez les Parids, a une large distribution dans l'Holarctique, avec Poecile atricapillus en Amrique et Parus montanus en Eurasie. Bien que ces espces vivent dans des conditions cologiques comparables, Parus montanus possde un hippocampe presque deux fois plus gros que celui de Poecile atricapillus. J'ai chantillonn les intestins de Poecile atricapillus en Colombie-Britannique avec les mmes mthodes utilises auparavant avec Parus montanus en Sude. Contrairement aux attentes, Poecile atricapillus stockait avec le mme taux lev que Parus montanus, suggrant que les deux espces stockent  grande chelle. Je discute les explications possibles au fait qu'une diffrence dans le volume de l'hippocampe ne se traduit pas en une diffrence dans le taux de stockage de nourriture. 
25488724|Recent hybridization has been reported between the Herring Gull (
4085890| Estimates of the average heterozygosity, H, based on the genic variability at 44 loci, are presented for eight Pacific coastal populations of the White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys). Four of the localities sampled span the geographic distribution of Z. l. nuttalli, at least one represents Z. l. pugetensis, and the others fall along a north-south transect of the zone of intergradation between these two subspecies. Estimates of H are highest in the zone of intergradation and decrease significantly with distance north or south from the presumptive midpoint of the contact zone. This decrease closely approximates an exponential decay curve that peaks in the contact zone, decreases exponentially both northward and southward, and asymptotically approaches a value equal to the average heterozygosity of passerine birds. 
10.2307/4089890| Plasma lipid metabolites may be useful indicators of mass changes in migratory birds. To test utility of plasma metabolites in field studies, we examined effects of several extrinsic (bleed time, time of day, location) and intrinsic (body mass, sex, age, migratory state) factors on plasma concentrations of triglycerides (TRIG), glycerol (GLYC), and B-OH-butyrate (BUTY) in free-living Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri). TRIG and GLYC decreased rapidly following capture (2-20 min), whereas BUTY did not change. GLYC and BUTY were negatively correlated to body mass. TRIG was positively correlated to body mass in migrant females, but not consistently in migrant males, or in females captured on the wintering grounds. Taking into account other sources of variation, the two measures of lipid utilization (GLYC and BUTY) varied little through the year. TRIG showed the greatest potential for use in field studies. TRIG was lowest during winter, when birds were leanest, and highest during spring and fall migration, when sandpipers were gaining mass rapidly at stopovers. TRIG differed between sandpipers refuelling a two stopover sites separated by 35 km, demonstrating that populations of birds can have characteristic lipid metabolite profiles that may reflect local differences in fattening rate. /// Los metabolitos lipdicos del plasma pueden ser buenos indicadores de cambios en la masa corporal de las aves migratorias. Para poner a prueba su utilidad en estudios de campo, examinamos los efectos de varios factores extrnsecos (tiempo de toma de la muestra de sangre, hora del da y lugar) e intrnsecos (masa corporal, sexo, edad, estado migratorio) sobre las concentraciones plasmticas de triglicridos (TRIG), glicerol (GLIC) y B-OH-butirato (BUTI) en individuos silvestres de Calidris mauri. TRIG y GLIC disminuyeron rpidamente luego de la captura (2-20 min), mientras que BUTI no cambi. GLIC y BUTI estuvieron correlacionados negativamente con la masa corporal. TRIG se correlacion positivamente con la masa corporal en hembras migrantes, pero esta relacin no fue consistente en machos migrantes ni en hembras capturadas en las reas de invernada. Teniendo en cuenta otras fuentes de variacin, las dos medidas de utilizacin de lpidos (GLIC y BUTI) variaron poco a travs del ao. TRIG mostr el mximo potencial para uso en estudios de campo. TRIG fue ms bajo durante el invierno cuando las aves estaban ms livianas y ms alto durante la primavera y el otoo cuando stas estaban aumentando rpidamente su masa en las reas de escala migratoria. TRIG mostr diferencias entre aves que se estaban reaprovisionando en dos sitios de escala separados por 35 km, demostrando que las poblaciones pueden tener perfiles de metabolitos lipdicos caractersticos que podran reflejar diferencias locales en las tasas de engorde. 
4088374|Breeding associations between Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus) and Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica) were studied in Finnmark, northern Norway. Bar-tailed Godwit nests were distributed closer than expected by chance to Whimbrel nests. Timing of egg laying showed that the godwit, not the Whimbrel, chose to nest close to the other species. Whimbrels defended their nests aggressively against predators, while Bar-tailed Godwits did not. Godwits nested within the aggressive response distance of nesting Whimbrels. We suggest that Bar-tailed Godwits seek nest protection by breeding under the "protective umbrella" of the Whimbrel.
10.2307/4088859|The delineation of species groups and determination of relationships among taxa within the Tetraoninae (grouse and ptarmigan) have relied heavily on anatomical and behavioral specializations associated with reproduction. As a result, the various classifications of tetraonines differ considerably with respect to the phylogenetic relationships depicted for the primary species groups. We used nucleotide sequence data derived from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene to examine relationships among all New World taxa and the major Old World "superspecies" groups of grouse and ptarmigan. The cytochrome-b sequence data: (1) indicated an early divergence of the Bonasa species; (2) grouped Dendragapus obscurus with Tympanuchus and supported an association of these taxa with Lagopus and Tetrao; and (3) suggested that tetraonines underwent a period of rapid diversification in North America. The molecular phylogeny provides support for adaptive interpretations of morphological and behavioral variation among grouse and ptarmigan and indicates that the complex reproductive systems of tetraonines reflect homoplasy probably as a result of convergent evolution. We recommend that grouse and ptarmigan taxonomy incorporate genetic considerations and that classifications reflect common ancestry.
4085095|Nocturnal autumn passerine migrants are frequently drifted by wind or carried by downwind flight from New England to offshore islands. Most individuals in these flights are immatures. Many recover the mainland via reoriented northward flights. During fall 1972, I made field observations and performed orientation cage tests on nocturnal migrants on Block Island, Rhode Island. Migrants reached the island during four southward movements in following winds. Migration was very light or absent on most other nights. Reoriented diurnal flights left from the island immediately after the arrival of a large nocturnal migration. Northward movements occurred on two nights following daytime reoriented flights. These nocturnal movements are tentatively interpreted as constituting reoriented flights. About 27% of the 79 individuals tested in orientation cages showed significantly directional nocturnal activity. About two-thirds of these oriented basically northwestward, corresponding to the reoriented flight of free-flying birds. These and similar reorientations of immature birds can be explained by a simple compass reorientation in response to wind drift over the ocean without invoking complicated navigation mechanisms. The remaining individuals oriented toward the southeast. Eleven birds exhibited a significant eastward orientation during the first few hours after dawn; this is interpreted as a positive phototaxis. Three of four Blackpoll Warblers oriented southward. No correlation existed between the quantity of Zugunruhe and the amount of subcutaneous fat, but fatter birds were significantly more likely to show oriented nocturnal activity.
4087093|It is generally observed in gulls (Larus spp.) that produce a typical clutch of three that the third- or last-laid egg is smaller and lighter than its earlier-laid counterparts. This typically results in the third chick hatching later, growing at a slower rate, and having a higher rate of mortality. This suite of factors has been described as the "third-chick disadvantage," and various functional interpretations have been suggested to explain its adaptive basis. We report on egg size, chick growth, and survival in a population of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) where the third-chick disadvantage appeared to be nonexistent. We suggest that functional interpretations of this phenomenon may be premature and that variation in egg size in gulls may simply be due to variation in female energy reserves, and that in colonies where food is abundant and nest density low, the third-chick disadvantage may be reduced or absent.
90008162|In addition to estimating survival probability of adult birds, estimating recruitment of new individuals into avian breeding populations is fundamental to understanding rates of population change. Notions about mean recruitment age can lead to erroneous conclusions about population projections if the probability of capture is ignored. We calculated the mean recruitment age of King Eiders (
10.2307/4085503|About 10% of the Brown Pelicans breeding in South Carolina are in immature plumage. In comparison to adult breeders, immatures nested later, laid a smaller clutch, nested more frequently in low ground that was flooded, lost a larger proportion of nestlings, and produced fewer downy young per nest. Factors such as experience in breeding and fishing success probably influence reproductive success of pelicans of various ages.
10.2307/4087622|I measured the foraging rates of breeding and nonbreeding populations of White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera) and Red Crossbills (L. curvirostra) throughout the year in the northeastern United States and adjacent Canada. I compared actual food intake rates (80 samples from 26 populations) to those predicted for five hypotheses that pertain to the timing of reproduction. To form eggs, crossbills required greater intake rates to meet energy demands than to meet protein requirements. Intake rates predicted to be necessary for the nestling stage (first five days after eggs hatch) were greater than those required for egg formation. Nearly all breeding and nonbreeding populations had intake rates adequate for egg formation. Thus, the ability to form eggs may only infrequently limit nesting. Crossbills nested when intake was sufficient for the nestling stage, but ceased nesting if intake rates were declining so that they would be inadequate for the nestling stage. When intake rates were less than those required for the nestling stage, crossbills nested if intake rates were increasing and would be sufficient for the nestling stage. The timing of crossbill reproduction was most consistent with the hypothesis that crossbills bred whenever intake was sufficient for egg formation and would be sufficient three weeks later during the nestling stage. That is, crossbills bred as if they were sensitive to both net intake and rates of change in intake. Intake rates may provide a proximate cue for crossbills to nest, but other factors such as maturing cone crops and changing day length probably affect breeding readiness.
4087946|We describe a new species of parrotlet, Nannopsittaca dachilleae, known from several localities in southeastern Peru and northwestern Bolivia. Its characters place it in the genus Nannopsittaca, which was formerly considered to be monotypic and restricted to the Pantepui region of northern South America. The two species probably form a superspecies.
10.1525/auk.2011.10181|In birds, molt duration is an important trait that can affect plumage functionality and, consequently, the fitness of individuals. However, knowledge about the factors that affect variation in molt speed is sparse, mostly because of the methodological difficulties of studying avian molt. We used a ptilochronology-based approach to estimate the rate at which tail feathers were produced during molt to shed light on the relationship between molt duration and feather growth rate. For that purpose, we used three data sets. First, we tested whether the average molt durations of 22 passerine species were correlated with the mean growth rates of their feathers, using both conventional and phylogenetically corrected statistical procedures. Second, we explored this same association among captive Great Tits (
4086474|North American Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) and Redheads (Aythya americana) lay eggs parasitically in other waterfowl nests. Interspecific egg parasitism at Farmington Bay Waterfowl Management Area (WMA), Utah during 1972-1974 affected 290 (36%) of 809 duck nests. Redheads deposited 812 eggs into 264 nests of other species, whereas Ruddy Ducks deposited 146 eggs into 62 nests. Of 620 Redhead eggs deposited interspecifically and for which success rates were known, 21% hatched, compared with 24% of 146 Ruddy Duck eggs. Forty-three percent of the Redheads and 7% of the Ruddy Ducks produced on the study site hatched from eggs deposited interspecifically. An unknown number of Redhead and Ruddy ducklings hatched from eggs deposited intraspecifically. Rates of egg parasitism in Redheads and Ruddy Ducks did not increase in response to severe fluctuations in water levels affecting habitat used by nesting waterfowl, nor was a lack of suitable nesting cover associated with Redhead or Ruddy Duck parasitism. These results counter the contention that parasitic tendencies in the Redhead, and perhaps the Ruddy Duck, are environmentally induced.
4088686|I examined the effects of successional changes in vegetation on the breeding dispersion of grassland birds in hayfields in New York. I sampled vegetation and counted birds in 90 hayfields of various ages (i.e. number of years since planting) and sizes that were originally planted to a legume-dominated seed mixture. I also resampled a subset of these fields two years later. Over time, these hayfields changed from tall, dense, homogeneous stands of legume-dominated vegetation to short, sparse, patchy stands of grass-dominated vegetation. Fields of all ages were dominated by introduced plant species. Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), the most common bird species breeding in these fields, were most common in fields of intermediate ages, whereas numbers of Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), the second most abundant species, increased logarithmically with field age. Upland Sandpipers (Bartramia longicauda), Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna), Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), and Henslow's Sparrows (A. henslowii) were most abundant in the oldest hayfields, whereas abundances of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis, the third most common species) did not differ in fields of different ages. Bird-species richness and diversity increased linearly with hayfield age. Three species (Red-winged Blackbird, Bobolink, Savannah Sparrow) accounted for more than 90% of the breeding individuals. Vegetation structure, composition, and patch size were the most important proximate correlates of habitat selection for these species. Hayfield size was positively correlated with abundance for five of the seven most common species. Furthermore, those species that nested late in the season (Bobolinks, Grasshopper Sparrows, and Henslow's Sparrows) had low breeding densities in fields with early mowing dates the previous year.
90008061|Secondary sexual traits in males are thought to convey information about the quality of the male to rivals and potential mates. Semi-static signals such as sexually selected plumage are thought to convey information about how well a male fared through a critical period, such as development or molt, but it is unclear if they should relate to his current condition during the breeding season. We examined the relation between epaulet size and two measures of immune function, levels of baseline corticosterone (CORT), and body condition in adult male Red-winged Blackbirds (
10.1525/auk.2011.10241|We investigated the relationships among space-use patterns, home-range attributes, and individual characteristics to determine the consequences of different space-use strategies for the overwinter physical condition of Northern Waterthrushes (
10.1525/auk.2010.10069|Birds meet the energy and nutrient demands of egg formation by using dietary (exogenous) sources, somatic (endogenous) nutrients, or combinations of both. Therefore, understanding plasticity in resource acquisition and the allocation strategies that are used is important for predicting how ecosystem changes across a species range could affect vital rates. Sources of egg nutrients have traditionally been assessed through analyses of body composition, but stable-isotope analysis has provided a new tool in cases where animal tissues differ isotopically from the local food webs where they breed. We provide the first simultaneous comparison of these two techniques and test the "seasonally variable nutrient threshold hypothesis." Using body-composition analysis of White-winged Scoters (
10.2307/4088777|The Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) is a polygynous, colonial, marsh-nesting passerine. We determined the causes of Yellow-headed Blackbird reproductive failure. For the population studied, predation was the most important source of nesting mortality, causing failure of 51% of all nests over a two-year period. The most important nest predator was the Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), a conclusion supported by several lines of evidence. First, predators that were offered mixed-egg clutches consisting of Common Quail (Coturnix coturnix) and Yellow-headed Blackbird eggs destroyed only the blackbird eggs, which are smaller. Second, nesting success of Yellow-headed Blackbirds was positively correlated with their distance from Marsh Wrens. Third, all 26 photographs of predation events obtained at experimental nests showed Marsh Wrens pecking eggs. Yellow-headed Blackbirds recognized Marsh Wrens as a potential danger to their nests and aggressively excluded wrens from the vicinity of their territories. Marsh Wren attacks on blackbird nests and blackbird aggression towards wrens promoted spatial segregation of the breeding grounds of the two species. We conclude that nest predation is an important selective force that likely has played a role in shaping reproductive tactics in the Yellow-headed Blackbird.
4085545|The extent of paternal investment and pair-bonding in two southeast Australian populations of polygamous Superb Lyrebirds (Menura superba) was studied over 6 yr. Male visits to nests during both my prolonged, concealed observations and brief, unconcealed inspections were rare. The few visits seen were either incidental to foraging or induced by observer disturbance, and no male anti-nest predator behavior occurred. Because males do not rear young, they are thus totally emancipated from a parental care role. Solitary adult males and female-plumaged birds comprised 71% of the 585 sightings of lyrebird social units obtained. Single adult males and female-plumaged birds that I pursued for long periods contacted opposite-sexed birds infrequently and briefly. Male courtship display was common during these contacts, but females were mostly unresponsive. Some females' breeding territories overlapped those of more than one male, and one female well established on such a territory visited at least two displaying males prior to mating. Some females and males made extra-territorial courtship excursions. Collectively these observations suggest that pair bonding does not occur or involves a very limited time commitment. The lack of paternal care and limited time and energy expenditure in heterosexual association are thought to be significant in relation to the criteria used in mate-choice, the intensity of sexual selection, and males' ability to exploit the environmental polygamy potential.
10.2307/4090009| A subspecies is a collection of populations within a biological species that are diagnosably distinct from other such collections of populations. That infraspecific designation has motivated a litany of spirited debates over the past half-century, from impassioned pleas for its retention to heated outcries for its abolition. We believe that the vast majority of attacks on the subspecies concept have resulted from displeasure with its improper application, not from serious flaws in the concept itself. The recognition of diagnosable subspecies allows one to address many questions not easily answered otherwise, ranging from dispersal and migration to local selection and adaptation and biogeographic affinities, yet that goal was lost for many years. Many taxonomists in the late nineteenth century and first half of the twentieth century named subspecies on the basis of average differences between populations under study, a procedure at odds with identification of diagnosable populations. To resolve that dilemma, we make explicit the established 75% rule for subspecies recognition, including formalizing the rule and developing a simple statistic to test whether diagnosability is met. The equations can be adapted readily to any level of diagnosability. We apply the concept and the statistic to a revision of the subspecies of the Sage Sparrow (Amphispiza belli). Rather than the seven named subspecies or the five that are generally considered valid, we show that only three aggregates of populations are diagnosable, and thus only three subspecies should be recognized: (1) A. b. belli in chaparral and sage scrub of coastal California, northwestern Baja California, and San Clemente Island; (2) A. b. cinerea in desert scrub of west-central Baja California; and (3) A. b. nevadensis in sagebrush and saltbush of the Great Basin and interior California. Consistent application of the 75% rule will result in fewer trinomials and a more biologically meaningful and taxonomically useful subspecies concept. /// Una subspecie es un grupo de poblaciones que forman parte de una especie biolgica y que tienen caractersticas diagnsticas que las separan de otros grupos de poblaciones de ese tipo. Esta designacin infraespecfica ha motivado una letana de debates acalorados durante el ltimo medio siglo que van desde splicas apasionadas por mantenerla hasta llamados a gritos por abolirla. Nosotros creemos que la gran mayora de ataques al concepto de subespecie han sido el resultado de inconformidad causada por su aplicacin inadecuada y no de problemas serios del concepto mismo. El reconocimiento de subespecies diagnosticables permite abordar muchas preguntas que no seran contestables fcilmente de otra manera. stas van desde cuestiones relacionadas con dispersin y migracin hasta seleccin local, adaptacin y afinidades biogeogrficas. Sin embargo, esto no fue posible por muchos aos pues muchos taxnomos de finales del siglo diecinueve y principios del siglo veinte nombraron subespecies con base en diferencias promedio de las poblaciones de estudio, un procedimiento que es incompatible con la identificacin de poblaciones diagnosticables. Para resolver ese dilema, hacemos explcita la regla del 75% para el reconocimiento de subespecies, incluyendo su formalizacin y el desarrollo de un estadstico simple para determinar si hay o no diagnosticabilidad. Las ecuaciones se pueden adaptar fcilmente a cualquier nivel de diagnosticabilidad. Nosotros aplicamos el concepto y el estadstico al hacer una revisin de las subespecies de Amphispiza belli. En lugar de las siete subespecies nombradas o de las cinco que generalmente se consideran vlidas, demostramos que slo tres grupos de poblaciones son diagnosticables. Por tanto, slo deberan reconocerse tres subespecies: (1) A. b. belli del chaparral y matorral de Artemisia de la costa de California, el noroeste de Baja California y la Isla San Clemente; (2) A. b. cinerea del matorral desrtico del oeste-centro de Baja California; y (3) A. b. nevadensis de los matorrales de Artemisia y de Atriplex del Great Basin y el interior de California. La aplicacin consistente de la regla del 75% conducir a la existencia de menos trinomios y a un concepto de subespecie con un mayor significado biolgico y una mayor utilidad taxonmica. 
10.2307/4089327|Cavity-nesting birds that excavate nest holes may be limited by the availability of suitable substrates for excavation. Suitability of trees for excavation may be influenced by substrate hardness and excavation strength of the bird. Excavation strength, in turn, may vary among bird species, causing nest-tree selection to vary among excavator species. We examined use of quaking aspens (Populus tremuloides) for nest trees as a function of tree hardness in four species of woodpeckers: Williamson's Sapsucker (Sphyrapicus thyroideus), Red-naped Sapsucker (S. nuchalis), Downy Woodpecker (Picoides pubescens), and Hairy Woodpecker (P. villosus). Hardness of trees was measured at 95 nest trees, 94 neighboring trees, and 150 random trees using a new technique described here. Other investigators have speculated that the gross external appearance of trees/snags can be used to estimate hardness. Hardness decreased from live trees to partly dead trees to dead trees and with increasing height in trees, but hardness was not related to other external features such as numbers of conks or percentage of the tree covered with bark. All four bird species chose nest trees that were softer than neighboring or random trees, and nest trees were softer at nests than at other heights measured. The four species selected trees of different hardness for nesting; Red-naped Sapsucker and Hairy Woodpecker chose harder trees than Williamson's Sapsucker and Downy Woodpecker. These results suggest that primary cavity nesters are sensitive to subtle characteristics of trees that reflect hardness, some of which may not be apparent in the external appearance of the trees.
4085218|Breeding density, clutch size, hatching and fledging success, and survival of adult Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) were monitored over a 7-year period near the Naval Arctic Research Laboratory, Barrow, Alaska. Nesting begins as soon as the tundra starts to clear of snow and appears to be timed so that the young of the year reach independence before the end of adult insect emergence. Arthropod prey become abruptly scarce after the period of insect emergence and thus probability of success for late broods is low. Time of nesting is also discussed in relation to factors of predation and timing of molt. At least 42.9% of males and 45.4% of females survived the next season after 1 year of age. Maximum longevity observed for both sexes is 6 years. Mean clutch size for all years investigated was 5.06 eggs per clutch. Clutch size showed both yearly and seasonal variation. The data indicate that timing of nesting is the chief factor in the observed clutch size differences, further modified by habitat quality, second nesting attempts, and probably age of female. Over a 4-year period the longspur breeding population on a 17-ha study plot declined from 15 to 2 breeding females. Life-table analysis indicates that low fledgling success for 3 consecutive years apparently was the main cause of this decline. Overall mean egg success was 44.0%, but close to 60% in 4 years considered more "normal." The low egg success was due to 3 consecutive years of high predation, which may have been related to the disrupted lemming cycle of the Barrow region.
4085448|Degree of secondary sexual size dimorphism in House Sparrows, Passer domesticus, varies from small at low latitudes to large at high latitudes. This organization of size dimorphism is an expression of geographic variation of locality variance in body size. For North American populations variance in body size is inversely correlated with number of interspecific competitors, and may result from the interplay between interspecific competition tending to decrease size variation and intraspecific competition tending to increase size variation. For European populations variance in body size is inversely related to number of congeneric species of Passer, but possible causal factors seem to be more complicated than they are for North American House Sparrows. Nevertheless, in either set of continental populations, degree of body size variation at a locality may reflect relative niche width.
40406068|Climatic changes induced by the El NioSouthern Oscillation (ENSO) commonly influence biological systems; however, climatic variability and multitrophic interactions within tropical latitudes remain poorly understood. We examined relationships between migrant condition and ENSO during spring migration in Costa Rica. Our study is based on correlating an ENSO index with body-condition metrics of six NearcticNeotropic migrant bird species during stopover in Costa Rica over a 10-year period. This study is the first to report correlations between El Nio and changes in condition of multiple migrant species. The condition of one insectivore improved, whereas two frugivores experienced reduced condition during El Nio. Our detected correlations suggest that the ENSO cycle may influence changes in migrant mass; such interactions may ultimately affect demographics of certain frugivorous and insectivorous migrant species. Potential future management considerations are discussed in light of global climate change and our findings.
10.2307/4089679| Individual quality is often assessed using a static measure of body condition, such as size-corrected body mass. Plasma metabolites have the potential to provide information on the dynamics of physiological state and thus may be better measures of individual performance capacity (and fitness). We studied relationships between rate of mass change and circulating levels of triglycerides, glycerol, and -hydroxybutyrate in captive Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri). The rate of mass change over one and two days prior to blood sampling was positively related to residual triglyceride (controlling for body mass at sampling) and negatively related to residual glycerol and residual -hydroxybutyrate. The relationship between metabolite level and mass change was still apparent over a seven-day interval for glycerol, but not for the other two metabolites. In a stepwise multiple regression of mass change over two days (controlling for body mass), only -hydroxybutyrate and glycerol were entered in the model at P < 0.15. Analysis of group means for seven sampling events showed that body-mass change in a group of individuals was related to mean circulating levels of each metabolite, i.e. to a characteristic metabolite profile. Thus, it may be feasible to employ these metabolites to assess habitat quality based on animal performance (e.g. at migratory stopover sites), or to understand the effects of climatic or anthropogenic factors on the health and survival of animals. 
10.2307/4090110|Habitat edges are well-studied components of fragmented landscapes, yet factors mediating edge effects remain unclear. We report how different types of edges surrounding patches may affect spatial distributions of Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), a declining, area-sensitive songbird that breeds in grasslands. We expected Bobolinks to be less abundant near edges, and we investigated a set of alternative hypotheses for explaining that spatial pattern: (1) passive displacement, in which individuals do not avoid edges but use edges as boundaries for territories; (2) habitat gradients, in which individuals respond to habitat structure gradients near edges; (3) territory size, in which size of territories increases near edges; and (4) active avoidance, in which individuals actively avoid edges by positioning territory boundaries away from edges. To examine those hypotheses, we surveyed Bobolinks in grassland habitats near 34 edges of three different edge types (agriculture, road, and woodland) in northern Iowa, 1999-2000. Bobolink density was lower near woodland edges than near other edge types, and density increased as a function of distance from edge for all edge types. There was no evidence for a habitat gradient close to edges, but there was some evidence for habitat structure differing among edge types. Territory size increased near roads, decreased near woodlands, but did not change near agricultural edges. Territory positioning was consistent with active avoidance near woodland edges, and to a lesser extent road edges, but positioning was only consistent with passive displacement near agriculture edges. We conclude that land use surrounding patches can have variable effects on territorial dynamics and habitat use of this area-sensitive species. Linking edge avoidance with fitness is needed to understand the demographic consequences of those responses for species in fragmented landscapes. /// Los bordes de los hbitats son componentes bien estudiados de los paisajes fragmentados, pero los factores que determinan los efectos de borde son an poco claros. En este estudio documentamos cmo diferentes tipos de borde alrededor de parches pueden afectar la distribucin espacial de Dolichonyx oryzivorus, un ave canora cuyas poblaciones estn disminuyendo y es sensible al rea. Esperbamos que D. oryzivorus fuera menos abundante cerca de los bordes, e investigamos una serie de alternativas para explicar dicho patrn espacial: (1) desplazamiento pasivo, en la que los individuos no evitan los bordes pero los usan como lmites de sus territorios; (2) gradientes de hbitat, en la que los individuos responden a gradientes en la estructura del hbitat cerca de los bordes; (3) tamao de territorio, en la que el tamao de los territorios aumenta cerca de los bordes; y (4) evitacin activa, en la que los individuos evitan activamente los bordes ubicando los lmites de sus territorios lejos de stos. Para examinar estas hiptesis, hicimos censos de D. oryzivorus en pastizales cerca de 34 bordes de diferentes tipos (reas agrcolas, carreteras y bosques) en el norte de Iowa en 1999 y 2000. La densidad de D. oryzivorus fue menor cerca de bordes de bosque que de bordes de otro tipo, y la densidad aument como funcin de la distancia a bordes de todos los tipos. No hubo evidencia que indicara gradientes de hbitat cerca de los bordes, pero hubo indicaciones de diferencias en la estructura del hbitat entre los diferentes tipos de borde. El tamao de los territorios aument cerca de las carreteras, disminuy cerca de bosques y no cambi cerca de reas agrcolas. La ubicacin de los territorios fue consistente con la idea de evitacin activa cerca de los bordes de bosque y en un menor grado en bordes de carretera, pero la ubicacin de los territorios fue consistente slo con desplazamiento pasivo cerca de los bordes de reas agrcolas. Concluimos que el uso del suelo en los parches circundantes puede tener efectos variables sobre la dinmica territorial y el uso de hbitat en esta especie sensible al rea. Para entender las consecuencias demogrficas de estas respuestas para las especies en paisajes fragmentados, es necesario conectar la evitacin de los bordes con la adecuacin biolgica de los individuos.
4086645|We recorded variations in sizes of breeding territories of Sage (Amphispiza belli) and Brewer's (Spizella breweri) sparrows at four locations in shrubsteppe habitats during 1976-1983. There was considerable variation in territory sizes of both species, and ANOVA tests indicated that site, plot within site, and year all contributed to this variation. Territory-size variations of Sage Sparrows were correlated with differences in several habitat features, while those of Brewer's Sparrows showed no relation to habitat variation. Territory sizes in both species varied inversely with breeding population densities, although in different ways. Our findings cast doubt on the meaning or value of "average" territory-size measures for a species as a whole.
10.2307/4089685|Based on comparisons of skeletons from 228 species of sparrows (Emberizinae), we detected 24 characters that were useful for generic separations. Of these, 19 quantitative characters were used in a detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) ordination. Presence or absence of a lacrimal bone, degree of inflation of the squamosal area, length of the lateral process of the laterosphenoid, ratio of ulna length to femur length, length of the skull, and premaxilla length-to-width ratio were the most informative characters. The first two axes of the DCA clearly grouped most genera. Based on our analysis of these skeletal characters, we recommend the following changes to the classification of Paynter (1970): Sporophila obscura belongs in Tiaris; Emberizoides ypiranganus is a valid species; Pselliophorus and Pezopetes should be lumped with Atlapetes; and Torreornis and Oriturus should be lumped with Aimophila. In addition, a different sequence of genera should be adopted. Two groups of genera are distinct: seedeaters and North American sparrows. A third group, South American grassland finches, overlaps with the first two groups.
10.2307/4090188| Trends in Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) populations at Prince Leopold Island and Coats Island, Nunavut-colonies at opposite ends of the species range in the eastern Arctic-were compared over the period 1985-2000. Population trends were monitored by daily counts of fixed study plots on six or more days each year. At Coats Island, annual mean counts were well correlated with numbers of breeding pairs located on separate breeding study areas, suggesting that the monitoring counts provided a useful index of the breeding population. Overall, counts at both colonies increased over the period of observations (by 2.1% annually at Coats Island and 1.5% at Prince Leopold Island), but a period of significant decline occurred during 1989-1991 and numbers remained stable after 1998. Fluctuations at the two colonies were well-synchronized. Changes in numbers from year-to-year were positively correlated with the mean mass of breeders during the first half of incubation. Hence, birds appeared to be in poorer condition in years when the population decreased. The similarity in fluctuations at colonies as far apart as Coats and Prince Leopold islands suggests that population changes may be determined by events on the common wintering grounds. The correlation between changes in counts and body mass at Coats Island suggests that the common factor may be one that affects the availability of food during the nonbreeding period. /// L'volution du nombre d'individus appartenant  des populations de Guillemots de Brnnich (Uria lomvia) de l'le Prince Leopold et l'le Coats, Nunavut-colonies situes  chacune des extrmits de l'aire de rpartition de l'espce dans l'est de l'Arctique-a t compare au cours de la priode 1985-2000. L'volution du nombre d'individus observs au sein de ces populations a t suivie par des dcomptes journaliers grce  des points d'observations fixes pendant au moins six jours  chaque anne.  l'le Coats, les dcomptes annuels moyens taient corrls avec le nombre de couples reproducteurs situs sur des aires de reproduction spares. De manire gnrale, les dcomptes effectus dans les deux colonies ont augment durant la priode d'observation (de 2.1% annuellement  l'le Coats et 1.5%  l'le Prince Leopold), mais une priode de dclin significative a t not droule au cours de la priode 1989-1991. Les dcomptes sont finalement rests stables aprs 1998. Les fluctuations observes dans les deux colonies montraient une bonne synchronisation. Les variations annuelles du nombre d'individus taient positivement corrles avec la masse moyenne des reproducteurs durant la premire moiti de l'incubation. Par consquent, les oiseaux semblaient en moins bonne condition dans les annes o la population diminuait. La similarit dans les patrons de fluctuations du nombre d'individus dans des colonies aussi loignes que celles des les Coats et Prince Leopold suggre que les changements observs dans la population pourraient tre dtermins par des vnements survenus sur les aires communes d'hivernage. La corrlation entre la variation du nombre d'individus et la masse corporelle  l'le Coats suggre que le facteur incrimin pourrait tre un des facteurs qui affecte la disponibilit de la nourriture au cours de la priode o les oiseaux ne se reproduisent pas. 
10.2307/4090324| Survival rate from fledging to breeding, or juvenile survival, is an important source of variation in lifetime reproductive success in birds. Therefore, determining the relationship between juvenile survival and environmental factors is essential to understanding fitness consequences of reproduction in many populations. With increases in density of individuals and depletion of food resources, quality of most habitats deteriorates during the breeding season. Individuals respond by dispersing in search of food resources. Therefore, to understand the influence of environmental factors on juvenile survival, it is also necessary to know how natal dispersal influences survival of juveniles. We examined effects of various environmental factors and natal dispersal behavior on juvenile survival of endangered Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in central and southern Florida, using a generalized estimating equations (GEEs) approach and model selection criteria. Our results suggested yearly effects and an influence of age and monthly minimum hydrologic levels on juvenile Snail Kite survival. Yearly variation in juvenile survival has been reported by other studies, and other reproductive components of Snail Kites also exhibit such variation. Age differences in juvenile survival have also been seen in other species during the juvenile period. Our results demonstrate a positive relationship between water levels and juvenile survival. We suggest that this is not a direct linear relationship, such that higher water means higher juvenile survival. The juvenile period is concurrent with onset of the wet season in the ecosystem we studied, and rainfall increases as juveniles age. For management purposes, we believe that inferences suggesting increasing water levels during the fledging period will increase juvenile survival may have short-term benefits but lead to long-term declines in prey abundance and possibly wetland vegetation structure. /// La tasa de supervivencia desde volantn a individuo reproductivo, o tasa de supervivencia juvenil, es una fuente de variacin importante del xito reproductivo a lo largo de la vida de un ave. Por esto, entender la relacin entre la supervivencia juvenil y los factores ambientales es esencial para entender las consecuencias sobre la adecuacin biolgica de la reproduccin en las poblaciones. Con el aumento de la densidad de individuos y la consecuente reduccin de los recursos alimenticios, la calidad de la mayora de los hbitats se deteriora durante la poca reproductiva. Los individuos responden dispersndose fuera del rea en busca de recursos alimenticios. Por lo tanto, para entender la influencia de los factores ambientales sobre la supervivencia de los juveniles, es necesario tambin entender cmo la dispersin natal afecta la supervivencia de los juveniles. Examinamos los efectos de varios factores ambientales y de la dispersin natal sobre la supervivencia de juveniles en la especie en peligro Rostrhamus sociabilis en el centro y norte de Florida. Utilizamos ecuaciones de estimacin generalizadas (GEE) y criterios de seleccin de modelos. Nuestros resultados sugirieron efectos de ao y una influencia de la edad y de los niveles mensuales hidrolgicos sobre la sobrevivencia de juveniles. Otros estudios tambin han reportado variacin anual en la supervivencia de los juveniles, y otros componentes de la reproduccin tambin exhiben dicha variacin. En otras especies tambin se han observado diferencias en la sobrevivencia juvenil asociadas con la edad. Nuestros resultados demuestran una asociacin positiva entre los niveles de agua y la supervivencia de los juveniles. Sugerimos que sta no es una relacin lineal directa, de manera que niveles de agua mayores continan implicando una mayor supervivencia juvenil. En el ecosistema que estudiamos, el perodo de juveniles coincide con el inicio de la poca de lluvias y las precipitaciones aumentan a medida que los juveniles envejecen. Para propsitos de manejo, creemos que la inferencia que sugiere que el aumento de los niveles del agua durante el perodo de emplumamiento aumenta la supervivencia de juveniles puede tener beneficios a corto plazo, pero en el largo plazo puede provocar disminuciones en la abundancia de las presas y posiblemente en la estructura de la vegetacin del humedal. 
4087384|Crossbills (Loxia) are specialized to extract and handle seeds from conifer cones. I evaluated the ability of crossbills to handle nonconifer seeds by comparing seed handling efficiencies with other cardueline finches. For all seed sizes, crossbills required seed encounter rates or seed abundances 2-3 times greater than other species to meet their daily energy requirements. Consequently, crossbills may suffer high mortality during conifer cone failures. Crossbills are inefficient at meeting their energy demands on nonconifer seeds because of their narrow mandibles, lowered horny palate, and large body size. The narrow mandibles enable crossbills to efficiently extract seeds from conifer cones and the lowered palate enables them to handle small seeds rapidly. Crossbills have evolved larger bills, and associated musculature and body mass, to provide the power necessary to separate cone scales. Some of the increase in body mass, however, may counterbalance the large bills to improve predator evasion.
4087188| From 1980 to 1982, 8-30% of male Blackpoll Warblers (Dendroica striata) studied on Kent Island, New Brunswick, were bigamous each year (x = 16.8%). I tested whether differences in the quality of the breeding situation can give rise to polygynous matings. Five territory parameters and two male parameters were used as measures of quality. Male arrival times were correlated with male mating status and the reproductive success of monogamous females. Territories of bigamous males had more large conifers than did those of monogamous males. Territory parameters did not appear to influence female choices. Strong site attachment by females may lead them to mate bigamously when few males are available early in the season near the females' former nest sites. The reproductive success of secondary females was not different from that of monogamous females. Any costs of mating bigamously may be offset by increased reproductive success associated with early nest initiation and competitive advantages conferred by site dominance. Site attachment and return patterns can account for the incidence of polygyny in this population, but probably could not give rise to high levels of polygyny or large harems. More information is needed to evaluate the influence of site fidelity on mating decisions of females in other polygynous passerine species. 
10.2307/4090137| State-level Breeding Bird Survey (1980-1998) and U.S. Department of Agriculture statistics were used to test the hypothesis that changes in agricultural land use within the eastern and central U.S. have driven population trends of grassland and shrub habitat birds over the past two decades. The degree to which population trends differed between grassland and shrub habitats was evaluated with respect to migratory and nesting behavior. Grassland birds declined significantly between 1980 and 1999, but, on average, shrub habitat species did not. Grassland-breeding, long-distance migrants exhibited the strongest negative trends. Most species (78%; n = 63) exhibited at least one significant association between population trends and changes in agricultural land use, and in most, land use "explained" 25-30% of the variation in population trends among states. Changes in the farmland landscape accounted for more of the interstate variability of population trends of short-distance migrants than of both long-distance migrants and residents, and that variability was greater in grassland than shrub species. Declines in the area of rangeland and cover crops were followed by population declines and increases, respectively, by many species. Increases of land in the Conservation Reserve Program had negative associations with population trends of some shrub species. The results indicate that grassland birds have declined strongly over the past two decades, and that regardless of migratory behavior or nesting habits, avian population trends are linked strongly to changes in agricultural land use within North America. /// Se utilizaron censos de aves reproductivas a nivel estatal (1980-1998) y estadsticas del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos para poner a prueba la hiptesis de que los cambios en el uso de las tierras agrcolas del este y centro del pas han afectado las tendencias poblacionales de las aves de pastizal y de vegetacin arbustiva a travs de las ltimas dos dcadas. Se evalu el nivel al que las tendencias poblacionales difirieron entre los hbitats de pastizal y vegetacin arbustiva con relacin al comportamiento migratorio y de anidacin. Las aves de pastizal declinaron significativamente entre 1980 y 1999, pero en promedio, las especies de hbitats arbustivos no. Las especies migratorias de larga distancia que se reproducen en pastizales presentaron las tendencias poblacionales negativas ms fuertes. La mayora de las especies (78%; n = 63) mostraron al menos una asociacin significativa entre sus tendencias poblacionales y los cambios en el uso de las tierras agrcolas, y en la mayora, el uso de la tierra "explic" entre el 25 y el 30% de la variacin en las tendencias poblacionales entre estados. Los cambios en el paisaje agrcola fueron responsables por una mayor parte de la variabilidad interestatal de las tendencias poblacionales de aves migratorias de corta distancia que de la de las migratorias de larga distancia y las residentes. Esta variabilidad fue mayor en las especies de pastizal que en las de zonas arbustivas. Las disminuciones en el rea de campos de pastoreo y de cultivos fueron seguidas, respectivamente, por disminuciones e incrementos poblacionales de muchas especies. Los incrementos del rea incluida en el programa de reservas de conservacin presentaron asociaciones negativas con las tendencias poblacionales de algunas especies de zonas arbustivas. Los resultados indican que las aves de pastizal han disminuido ostensiblemente durante las dos ltimas dcadas, y que independientemente de su comportamiento migratorio o sus hbitos de anidacin, las tendencias poblacionales de las aves estn estrechamente ligadas a los cambios en el uso de las tierras agrcolas dentro de Norte Amrica. 
10.2307/4090052| The group of small forest robins, or akalats, that dwell in lowland and montane forests in Africa have complicated parapatric or partly overlapping distributions, the details of which are still being discovered. Here, we use external morphology and mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequence data to determine the reciprocal monophyly of several populations, including one form that is related to Sheppardia lowei and S. montana. Those data corroborate the recognition of a new species, Sheppardia aurantiithorax, and show relatively high levels of sequence divergence among populations of the different species. The discovery of this new species, narrowly endemic in the Eastern Arc montane forests, emphasizes the complex biodiversity of the region and underscores the need for prompt and effective conservation measures. /// Los zorzales pequeos ("akalats") que se encuentran en los bosques montanos y de tierras bajas de frica tienen complejas distribuciones que son paraptricas o se superponen parcialmente, y cuyos detalles estn an siendo descubiertos. En este estudio utilizamos la morfologa externa y secuencias de ADN mitocondrial y nuclear para determinar la monofilia recproca de varias poblaciones, incluyendo una forma que est relacionada con Sheppardia lowei y S. montana. Estos datos corroboran el reconocimiento de una nueva especie, Sheppardia aurantiithorax, y muestran niveles relativamente altos de divergencia en secuencias entre poblaciones de las diferentes especies. El descubrimiento de esta nueva especie, que es estrechamente endmica a los bosques montanos del arco oriental, enfatiza la compleja biodiversidad de la regin y recalca la necesidad de implementar medidas efectivas de conservacin con prontitud. 
10.2307/4086823| To search for the existence of stability gradients in North American breeding land bird communities we operationally defined stability (after Jrvinen 1979) as year-to-year persistence in species composition and distribution of species abundances. From the census data for 174 study plots we derived nine indices that estimate the annual variability of species composition, the species abundance distribution, diversity, and breeding density. The resulting matrix of study plot by stability indices was used to estimate the correlation structure of the stability indices. The correlation matrix was, in turn, subjected to a principal components analysis to derive synthetic gradients of variation. We then searched for patterns of variation in these stability gradients associated with either geographic location or habitat type. Three independent principal component axes reproduced most of the variation in the initial data and were interpreted as gradients of variation in species turnover, diversity, and breeding abundance. Thus, the annual stability of community structure apparently responds independently to species and abundance variation. Despite the clarity of the derived gradients, few patterns emerged when the plots were ordinated by either habitat or geographic location. In general, grasslands showed greater annual variation in diversity than forested habitats, and, for some habitats, northern communities were less stable than more southern communities. However, few of these patterns were very strong, and we interpret them cautiously. 
10.2307/4089856| Radio transmitters were deployed on Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) at Desolation Sound, British Columbia, Canada, during the 1998 breeding season to assess individual variation in distance birds nested from foraging areas, and potential energetic and ecological consequences of commuting those distances. Radio-tracking from a helicopter was used to locate nests, and tracking from the air and boats was used to locate murrelets on the water. Twenty-three nests were found, with active incubation at 16, and active chick-rearing at 12. A minimum of 3 nests fledged chicks, 9 were failures, and 11 were unknown. Nests were at an elevation of 806  377 m and a distance of 39.2  23.2 km (range 12-102 km) from locations on the water. Birds spent an estimated 1.2  0.7 h per day commuting to and from nests (range 0.3-3.5 h per day). It was estimated that birds expended 3,883  2,296 kJ (range 1,200-10,144 kJ) over the breeding season when commuting to those nests, which was 5-41% of their estimated field metabolic-rate during the breeding season. There was no relationship between distance to nests and breeding success. Either Marbled Murrelets can accommodate that additional energy expenditure, or reduce commuting costs by modifying their foraging behavior. They may forage closer to nest sites when provisioning chicks, thereby reducing commuting costs with a payload, or alter nest visitation rates in relation to distance they nest from foraging areas. Nests further inland may also confer advantages that compensate for the added commuting, or birds might replenish body reserves at the end of the breeding season. 
4086538|Sandpipers in the subfamily Calidridinae (Scolopacidae) breed in the Arctic and Subarctic. In all species, unpaired males engage in distinctive aerial displays. Such displays are described for three species: Dunlin (Calidris alpina L.), Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla L.), and Stilt Sandpiper (Calidris himantopus Bonaparte). In each of the species, displays last several minutes, during which simple monotonous calls are emitted; more complex calls (including "song") also occur. C. himantopus has a unique flight mode, which is considered as apomorphous (derived) within the subfamily. C. alpina is apomorphous for the buzziness of the main vocalization emitted in aerial display and C. pusilla for loss of the same vocalization and elaboration of another. The ancestral/derived status and systematic value of these and other display components are discussed, with reference to information available for other calidridine species.
25488652|We describe the occurrence and behavior of Razorbills (
10.2307/4088830|Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) are an obligate brood parasite and a potential threat to some populations of migratory songbirds. I used radio-telemetry to study temporal patterns in behavior, habitat use, and sociality, as well as spatial patterns and movements among breeding, feeding, and roosting areas. I obtained a mean of 42 locations of 84 radio-tagged female cowbirds on three study sites in Illinois and Missouri. Radio-tagged females usually were located in forest and shrub-sapling habitats with a mean of 1.4 males during the morning breeding period. During midmorning to early afternoon, females commuted to short-grass, cropland, and feedlot habitats; they fed in small flocks. At dusk females roosted singly or in small groups near breeding or feeding areas, or commuted to a large communal roost. Behavior and time of day, behavior and habitat use, and habitat use and time of day were highly associated. For approximately 90% of the radio-tagged cowbirds, breeding, feeding, and roosting locations were distributed nonrandomly within home ranges, and came from distinct utilization distributions. Cowbirds moved an average of 3.6 km between roosting and breeding locations, 1.2 km between breeding and feeding locations, and 2.6 km between feeding and roosting locations. Midwestern cowbirds show the same pattern of commuting between disjunct breeding and feeding areas as elsewhere in their range.
10.2307/4089937|We manipulated nestbox choices in Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) to assess (1) whether the presence of a previously used (and presumably parasite-ridden) nest cavity increases or decreases the likelihood of within-season nestbox reuse and (2) whether birds prefer previously successful cavities. Initially, birds were presented with two clean identical nestboxes erected 1 m apart. After the first nesting, we removed nest material from half of the successful box pairs and recorded subsequent nesting choices. Given a choice between a used and an unused box, bluebirds chose the unused but parasite-free cavity significantly more often. Presented with a cleaned successful box and an identical unused one, bluebirds opted to reuse the former significantly more often. Those results suggest that (1) bluebirds recognize a cost of within-season nest reuse and are willing to switch nest sites to minimize parasitism, (2) bluebirds prefer successful cavities, but only if they are clean, and (3) in our population, in which cost of nest switching was minimized, the aversion to parasites was stronger than the preference for successful cavities.
4087032|Yearling and adult Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) used similar methods in searching for buried Japanese littleneck clams (Venerupis japonica) and therefore encountered similar proportions of different-size clams. The mean size of clams eaten by yearling birds was significantly smaller than the mean of those eaten by adults despite the similar proportions encountered. The estimated lower limit of the diet (the smallest clams eaten by the average bird) was 25.5 mm for yearlings and 29.0 mm for adults. Yearlings took more time to find and handle clams and required more drops to break them open than did adults. Consequently, yearlings achieved only one-third the rate of net energy intake of adults feeding from the same food source. However, the extended diet consumed by the yearlings yielded close to the maximum possible rate of energy intake, within the limits imposed by their inefficiency.
10.2307/4090189| Fragmentation of grassland habitat may increase predation rates on grassland passerine nests and contribute to population decline of several species. Studies that simultaneously document the nest predator community and associate predator species with edges created by fragmentation have not been conducted for grassland habitats. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effects of using miniature video camera systems to document predation events, identify grassland passerine nest predators in grazed pastures, and determine whether predation patterns of nest predators known to prefer wooded edges differed from those of other nest predators. In 1998-2000, we deployed cameras at 89 nests of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), meadowlarks (Sturnella spp.), and Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) in southwestern Wisconsin pastures 16-169 ha in size. Abandonment rates were higher for nests with cameras than for nests without cameras (P = 0.04). Trampling rates did not differ between nests with and without cameras. There was limited evidence of differences in predation rates between nests with and without cameras. Predation rate was high in the early incubation stage. Grassland passerine nests were depredated by at least 11 different species in that system, and the predator community differed from those documented in similar studies in other regions. Raccoon (Procyon lotor), thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus), and snakes (Thamnophis spp. and Elaphe spp.) were most common. Over one-third of documented predation events were caused by species that prefer wooded edges. Those species usually depredated nests located closer to wooded edges than to any other type of edge, but there was no evidence that those species restricted their movements to depredate nests within a certain distance from wooded areas in the landscape compared to grassland specialist species (P = 0.28). Predators known to prefer wooded edges traveled up to 190 m into pastures and up to 150 m from wooded areas. Effects of edge predators in pastures are likely to extend beyond the 50 m suggested by other grassland passerine studies. /// La fragmentacin de hbitat en pastizales puede aumentar las tasas de depredacin sobre los nidos de las aves paseriformes que los habitan y contribuir al decaimiento poblacional de varias especies. No se han realizado estudios que documenten simultneamente la comunidad de depredadores de nidos y las especies depredadoras asociadas a los bordes creados por la fragmentacin de hbitat en pastizales. El objetivo de nuestro estudio fue evaluar el efecto del uso de sistemas de cmaras de video en miniatura para documentar los eventos de depredacin, identificar a los depredadores de nidos de paserinos en pastizales de pastoreo y determinar si los patrones de depredacin de los depredadores que prefieren bordes boscosos difieren de aquellos de otros depredadores de nidos. Entre 1998 y 2000, utilizamos cmaras en 89 nidos de Passerculus sandwichensis, Ammodramus savannarum, Melospiza melodia, Sturnella spp. y Dolichonyx oryzivorus en pastizales de 16 a 169 ha en el suroeste de Wisconsin. Las tasas de abandono fueron mayores en nidos con cmaras que en nidos sin cmaras (P = 0.04). Las tasas de pisoteo no difirieron entre nidos con y sin cmaras. Slo hubo evidencia limitada de diferencias en las tasas de depredacin entre nidos con y sin cmaras. La tasa de depredacin fue alta durante el perodo de incubacin temprana. En este sistema, los nidos de paserinos de pastizales fueron depredados por lo menos por 11 especies diferentes y la comunidad de depredadores difiri de aquella documentada en estudios similares en otras regiones. Mapaches (Procyon lotor), ardillas (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus) y serpientes (Thamnophis spp. y Elaphe spp.) fueron los ms comunes. Ms de un tercio de los eventos de depredacin documentados fueron causados por especies que prefieren bordes de bosque sobre cualquier otro tipo de borde. Sin embargo, no hubo evidencia de que estas especies restringieran sus movimientos para depredar nidos dentro de una cierta distancia de las reas boscosas en el paisaje en comparacin con las especies especialistas de pastizal (P = 0.28). Los depredadores conocidos por preferir bordes de bosque se dispersaron hasta 190 m hacia el interior de los pastizales y hasta 150 m de reas boscosas. Los efectos de borde por depredacin en pastizales se extienden probablemente mas all de los 50 m sugeridos para otros estudios sobre paserinos de pastizal. 
4087324|I observed the establishment of 240 winter territories by American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) on a 293-km census route in south-central Florida during autumn 1985. Most females arrived before males. Analysis of banding records revealed that immatures of both sexes and adult females preceded adult males in autumn migration in eastern North America; thus, the sex ratio of early arrivals was skewed toward females. In south Florida territorial kestrels occupied habitats in decreasing order of foraging quality, as measured by percentage cover of suitable hunting substrate (grasses or weedy forbs <25 cm in height) and woody canopy cover (which was correlated negatively with suitable hunting substrate and obstructed the view of hunting kestrels). Early-arriving males also occupied habitats of superior foraging quality and were as successful as females in defending territories against same-sex and opposite-sex kestrels as high-quality habitats became limited. Results of experiments in which free-flying intruder kestrels were released onto defended territories suggested that males defended winter territories more tenaciously than did females. Because there was no evidence of male submissiveness on the wintering grounds, the female-dominance hypothesis is not a plausible explanation for sexual segregation by habitat in wintering kestrels. Each kestrel's arrival date was apparently the principal determinant of the foraging quality of habitats still available for occupancy; foraging quality was correlated negatively with arrival date for the adult males and for the females and immatures. A delayed molt in adult males, associated with differential sex roles on the breeding grounds, may delay the migratory departure, resulting in the late arrival on the wintering grounds.
10.1525/auk.2011.09161|We modeled migration intensity as a function of weather, using nightly migration measurements from Doppler surveillance weather radar during autumn migration on the north (Cte-Nord) and south (Gaspsie) shores of the St. Lawrence estuary, Qubec, Canada. The radar had negative elevation angles, an uncommon characteristic among weather radars, which allowed simultaneous low-altitude monitoring of bird migration on each side of the estuary. Precipitation and wind both had strong effects on the intensity of migration. Very few birds migrated when >40% of the area had precipitation, especially when winds were strong. Light winds were associated with the strongest migration intensity, regardless of wind direction; in stronger winds, migration was likely only when winds were predominantly from the north. Days immediately after adverse weather events, which are assumed to lead to an accumulation of migrants, were associated with an increase in the intensity of migration in Cte-Nord, but not in Gaspsie. Time since the passage of a cold front had no effect in either region. Bird flight direction and behavior in relation to wind differed on each side of the estuary. On Cte-Nord, birds tended to migrate in a southwesterly direction along the St. Lawrence north coast, in a direction relatively unaffected by wind direction; they compensated or overcompensated for wind drift by following the coast. By contrast, birds in Gaspsie tended to fly in a more southerly direction. They migrated partially or almost fully downwind with only limited compensation, their flight direction often changing with wind direction.
10.1525/auk.2010.09014|We describe
10.1525/auk.2011.10262|Passerine birds on islands tend to have larger bills than their mainland relatives. The morphological shift may be related to reduced interspecific and increased intraspecific competition. Emberizid sparrows in North American salt marshes also show consistently greater bill size. We tested the hypothesis that passerines restricted to mangrove forests, another continental system with low species diversity and high population densities, also have larger bills than their closest nontidal relatives. We found a consistent pantropical pattern of longer and deeper bills in passerine birds restricted to mangroves. These results indicate that disproportionately longer bills in relation to body size in passerines restricted to coastal saline habitats, just like those found on islands, seems to be a general ecological rule. The similar pattern in bill morphology suggests that ecological and evolutionary processes thought to occur only in island systems might also occur in some continental systems.
10.2307/4086026|I examined colony-site tenacity and reproductive success in 19 colonies of Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger) for 5 yr in New Jersey. Frequent colony-site shifts occurred, and only two sites were occupied in all 5 yr. Although in one year fledging success was nearly zero due to flood tides, in most years tides destroyed less than 25% of the colonies, while predators destroyed up to 50% of the colonies. Skimmers usually abandoned unsuccessful sites and continued to nest in successful sites. Colony abandonment was greater in colonies subjected to predation pressures than in those subjected to flooding. I suggest that this difference related to the high predictability of future low reproductive success when a colony was destroyed by predators (high probability of future loss) as compared to floods (low predictability).
4088458|To assess the functions of male song in Bluethroat (Luscinia svecica svecica), seasonal and diurnal patterns of song and song-flight activity were analyzed by using data on individually marked birds. The seasonal patterns of singing and song-flight activity were found to peak shortly after male arrival and before the onset of egg laying. The diurnal pattern of song production peaked in the early morning (0300-0900), with a less clear increase in song rate around 2200. Male singing activity decreased significantly after clutch initiation. Only unpaired males, or males that failed in their breeding attempt, were heard singing after the egg-laying period. Seasonal and diurnal patterns of song-flight activity were strongly correlated with patterns of singing activity. In addition, male pairing speed was positively correlated with song-flight activity. These results suggest that both song and song flights in Bluethroats serve to attract females.
4087287| The dynamics of foraging habitat use by long-legged wading birds was analyzed with respect to water-level fluctuation patterns in Florida Bay. Wading-bird presence at four sites situated to sample the heterogeneity of the bay was quantified by repeated surveys collected throughout the day and year. Models for habitat availability were generated using water-level data collected from continuous recorders, staff guages, and habitat profile maps. These models were tested against the survey data. Roseate Spoonbills (Ajaia ajaja) foraged on the study areas primarily at night. Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) fed both day and night, but primarily at night where the tidal range was small. Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), Snowy (Egretta thula) and Reddish (E. rufescens) egrets, Little Blue (E. caerulea) and Tricolored (E. tricolor) herons, and White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) fed during daylight. Where tidal range was small (<5 cm) diurnal species fed throughout the day. Florida Bay has a pronounced annual water-level cycle that causes monthly mean water levels to vary by as much as 30 cm between October (high) and May (low). Models derived from hydrology data predicted that this seasonal variation in water level would have a major impact on habitat availability, particularly where tidal flux was small. The predictions were supported by survey data. At sites with minor tides, most wading-bird species had a cycle in seasonal abundance that correlated with seasonal changes in water level; only the tallest species, Ardea herodias, was uniformly present throughout the year. The large daily range in tide (x = 80 cm) afforded year-round access to foraging habitat, and these abundance patterns did not exist. The seasonal variability in habitat availability has major management implications because the maintenance of stable wading-bird populations depends on the availability of alternative foraging sites when water levels are high. Historically, these sites have tended to be targeted for human development. 
4086708|Hummingbirds are noted for their hovering flight, and it has been shown that a bird that hovers can move more quickly between flowers than one that perches. Because the relative importance of energetic costs vs. speed increases with body size, it has been assumed that if birds forage in ways that maximize their net energy gain, small birds, such as hummingbirds, should hover and large birds should perch. This study shows that hovering is not necessarily the preferred mode of feeding in hummingbirds, and that floral architecture, rather than energetics, dictates whether a bird hovers or perches.
4087953| In Kenya, Green Woodhoopoes (Phoeniculus purpureus) seem constrained to sleep in aboreal cavities in spite of a high risk of capture within these chambers by nocturnal predators. Ligon et al. (1988) proposed that because woodhoopoes are incapable of adequate shivering thermogenesis at low nocturnal ambient temperatures, they are forced to roost in insulated tree cavities to maintain their body temperatures. We tested the thermoregulatory insufficiency hypothesis on 10 wild-caught woodhoopoes. From measurements of oxygen consumption
40406723|The influence of landscape structure on abundance or spacing patterns of generalist bird species may be nonlinear and vary annually depending on the severity of environmental conditions. The Eastern Wild Turkey (
10.2307/4088151| As a structural component of crustacean exoskeletons, chitin is the most important carbohydrate in the diets of many marine carnivores. To investigate the physiological and biochemical adaptations that may enable seabirds to break down this "prey defense," we estimated chitin digestibilities for Sooty Albatrosses (Phoebetria fusca), White-chinned Petrels (Procellaria aequinoctialis), Rockhopper Penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome), Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua), King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) and Leach's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) fed Antarctic Krill (Euphausia superba). These species retain a substantial proportion (46.5  SD of 13.1%, 39.1  4.9%, 52.8  37.6%, 45.3  5.6%, 84.8  11.7% and 35  12.2%, respectively) of ingested chitin. We also obtained preliminary estimates of chitinolytic activity in the gastric mucosae of the above six species by incubating extracts of tissue samples with a chitin substrate and measuring the production of the end product of chitin hydrolysis, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (NAG). Chitinolytic activity (up to 5,000 g NAG
10.2307/4087613|Most studies of mate choice in birds consider questions such as the existence of mate choice, which traits are preferred, and how the preferences evolved. In order to answer these questions, it is necessary to distinguish between pairs of key processes such as dominance and choice, assortative mating and type preference, or male choice and female choice. We review these and other difficulties in the study of avian mate choice. As an illustration of methodological issues, we discuss our work on Pinyon Jays (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus). Males that were successful in mate-choice experiments were more brightly colored and had large testes, but were not necessarily larger or dominant. Preferred females were large, dominant, and had thicker bills. In free-living populations, smaller than average males and larger than average females lived longer. Pairs composed of small males and large females had sons with higher fecundities and greater survivorship. We suggest that many ornithologists could combine their long-term field observations with controlled experiments to profitably study mate choice.
4085554|Breeding and demographic parameters are examined for 434 Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) attempting 324 nests in southeastern Michigan during 1968-1977. Nesting birds spent an average of 10.4 weeks (63.9% of a 16.2-week season) in the study area. Only 154 (35.5%) of the nesting birds remained for entire breeding seasons; these season-long residents averaged 2.14 nests/season and had a higher success rate (68.4%) and presumably greater productivity (
10.2307/4089687|The breeding population of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) in the southeastern United States has declined since the 1930s, resulting in the listing of all United States populations of the species as endangered in 1984. We assessed genetic structure within and among nine colonies of Wood Storks from Georgia and Florida. Levels of band sharing based on multilocus oligonucleotide DNA fingerprinting of individuals from seven colonies ranged from 58% among nests within the same tree to approximately 55% within the same colony. Levels of band sharing were similar to those reported for other populations of birds that have experienced drastic reductions in population size. A more thorough analysis of four polymorphic microsatellite loci for 136 individuals from nine colonies indicated low levels of allelic diversity and low genetic divergence among colonies. Genetic differentiation (F
4086713|Two sympatric species of Lanius shrikes were studied near Lake Naivasha, Kenya, in an effort to understand the ecological factors favoring the evolution and maintenance of cooperative breeding in one of them. The Gray-backed Fiscal Shrike (L. excubitorius), a cooperative breeder, occupied territories of significantly higher tree and shrub cover than did the Common Fiscal Shrike (L. collaris), which is not a cooperative breeder. Areas with greater vegetational cover held significantly more insects in the dry months of the year than did relatively open sites. Possibly associated with the shrikes' differences in habitats and resources was their significant difference in disappearance rates during the study. Turnover of individuals among gray-backs was about half that of common fiscals. Similarly, territorial stability (as measured by the percent of territories continually occupied during the 18-month study) was nearly twice as high in the gray-backs. Within the restricted acacia woodland gray-backs were dominant to common fiscals, and in four instances we observed gray-backs expel common fiscals from the latter's territories. We suggest that cooperative breeding in gray-backs is related to occupancy of a temporally stable, but spatially restricted, habitat of high quality. This in turn may lead to relatively higher survivorship in gray-backs and, as a result, their habitat becomes relatively "saturated." In such an ecological and demographic setting, options for juvenile dispersal are restricted, and one evolutionary solution is group living.
10.1525/auk.2010.09155|Bile salts are the major end-metabolites of cholesterol and are important in lipid digestion and shaping of the gut microflora. There have been limited studies of bile-salt variation in birds. The purpose of our study was to determine bile-salt variation among bird taxa and relate this variation to current avian phylogenies and hypotheses on the evolution of bile-salt pathways. We determined the biliary bile-salt composition of 405 phylogenetically diverse bird species, including 7 paleognath species. Bile-salt profiles were generally stable within bird families. Complex bile-salt profiles were more common in omnivores and herbivores than in carnivores. The structural variation of bile salts in birds is extensive and comparable to that seen in surveys of bile salts in reptiles and mammals. Birds produce many of the bile salts found throughout nonavian vertebrates and some previously uncharacterized bile salts. One difference between birds and other vertebrates is extensive hydroxylation of carbon-16 of bile salts in bird species. Comparison of our data set of bird bile salts with that of other vertebrates, especially reptiles, allowed us to infer evolutionary changes in the bile-salt synthetic pathway.
10.2307/4088516|I studied vocal recognition in populations of Singing Honeyeaters (Meliphaga virescens) on Rottnest Island and the adjacent mainland of Western Australia through songplayback experiments. Morphological evidence suggested the island population had differentiated. I addressed the question of whether there was divergence in the vocal signaling system. I found significant loss of function of the territorial advertising song by comparing responses of the Rottnest subjects and those of subjects from the mainland Nedlands population. The low level of response by Rottnest birds to songs from the mainland was similar to the response by Rottnest birds to songs of the co-occurring Golden Whistler (Pachycephala pectoralis). On the mainland, Nedlands birds responded to the songs of another mainland population, located the same distance away as Rottnest Island, at an elevated level similar to their response to songs of their own Nedlands population. I conclude that there are population-specific vocal features in the songs of Rottnest Singing Honeyeaters that result from isolation. The isolation caused by the water barrier between Rottnest Island and the mainland is greater than isolation by distance through continuous populations on the mainland. I speculate that vocal recognition was probably lost as a result of an early colonization of Rottnest and the subsequent establishment of a new vocal tradition in the island birds.
10.2307/4087545|Breeding male House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) were implanted with testosterone (T), the antiandrogen flutamide (F), or an empty capsule as a control (C). Parental feeding rates by C-treated males were high until nestlings reached 10 days of age, then declined significantly. This is the typical temporal pattern of parental behavior for free-living males. In contrast, F-treated males fed young at a high rate throughout the nestling stage, while T-treated males fed young much less frequently and were more involved in male-male competition during this period of time. There was a significant decrease in the breeding success of T-treated males resulting from increased starvation of their nestlings. Despite lowered levels of testosterone, F-treated males were able to maintain control of their nest boxes and exhibited normal sexual behavior. During the subsequent brood, breeding success of T-treated males again was reduced by nestling starvation. Our results demonstrate that high levels of testosterone inhibit the expression of parental care in male House Sparrows. Moreover, they suggest that the typical pattern of testosterone levels in males (high when mate guarding and low when feeding young) represents an optimal compromise between allocation of effort to male-male competition vs. parental care.
10.2307/4088779| The energy requirements of 12 hand-reared Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) chicks were determined using a continuous feeding trial. Male (n = 8) and female (n = 4) chicks did not differ in their hatching mass, but by day 30 the mass of male chicks was significantly greater than the mass of female chicks. At fledging, male chicks (x = 2,465  SE of 51 g) were about 13% heavier than female chicks (2, 179  10 g). The growth rate of male chicks (logistic growth rate [k] of 0.167  0.004/day and absolute growth rate [AGR] of 70.7  4.1 g/day) was significantly different from the growth rate of female chicks (k of 0.178  0.0003 /day, and AGR of 60.5  0.4 g/day). Metabolizable energy intake
10.2307/4089865| We examined variation in growth of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) goslings among two colonies on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in southwestern Alaska and the Colville River Delta on Alaska's Arctic coast. We simultaneously measured abundance and quality of a key food plant, Carex subspathacea, and grazing pressure on that plant at the three colonies. Our goal was to measure variation in gosling growth in relation to variation in grazing pressure and food abundance because growth of goslings is directly linked to first-year survival, and consequently is the principal mechanism for density-dependent population regulation. Goslings grew substantially faster on the arctic coast and were nearly 30% larger than those on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta at four to five weeks old. Faster growth on the arctic coast was associated with 2 greater standing crop of C. subspathacea during brood rearing than on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta. Dispersal rates are high enough (Lindberg et al. 1998) to rule out local adaptation and genetic variation as explanations for observed variation in growth. Our results are consistent with lower survival of goslings from the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta during their first fall migration and stronger density-dependent regulation on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta than on the Arctic coast. 
10.2307/4085507|During 1974 and 1975 brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird was studied in a tallgrass prairie community in northeastern Kansas. Hosts of primary interest were the Grasshopper Sparrow, Dickcissel, and Eastern Meadowlark, although ancillary data are recorded for the Cardinal, (Cardinalis cardinalis), Blue Grosbeak (Guiraca caerulea), Red-winged Black-bird (Agelaius phoeniceus), Robin (Turdus migratorius), Brown Thrasher (Toxostoma rufum), and Orchard Oriole (Icterus spurius). A total of 77 nests of the three ground-nesting species were found, of which 54 (70.1%) were parasitized. Parasitized nests contained an average of 2.7 cowbird eggs per nest. In parasitized nists of 5 species, 13 (8.3%) of 157 cowbird eggs were successful, while 17 (12.4%) of 137 host eggs were successful. In the unparasitized nests, 23 (21.5%) of 107 eggs were successful. A high intensity of brood parasitism is indicative of high relative densities of cowbirds. In this system nesting success was very low, suggesting that the high densities of cowbirds were due to high adult survival. The implications of this situation are discussed.
10.2307/4089518| Using data from 10,726 captures of birds in mist nets, we document the high alpha and beta diversity of the understory avifauna in the Tilarn mountains of north-central Costa Rica. We grouped the capture data from 20 sampling sites into five Holdridge life zones that represent a gradient in elevation and seasonality of precipitation. Despite the limited size of the study area
10.2307/4090101|Environmental quality has the potential to influence dispersal if cost of dispersing is outweighed by cost of staying. In that scenario, individuals experiencing different conditions in their natal area are expected to differ in their dispersal. Even if there is wide agreement that reasons behind the dispersal decision are multiple, it is often less clear what conditions actually add to the observed dispersal behavior. The scale at which the dispersal behavior is analyzed can also be of crucial importance for a correct understanding of the dispersal process. Furthermore, in long-lived species factors influencing dispersal behavior of juveniles may differ from those adding to dispersal of adults. Using 12 years of banding data (1989-2000), we studied dispersal behavior of Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) hatched over a wide area in Finland in relation to local demographic and ecological conditions. Hatching rank and hatching date added to the probability of leaving in the first place; whereas hatching date, local prey availability, and sex of the disperser were related to dispersal distance. Among adult birds (+3 years), none of the analyzed variables were related to distance; whereas the probability of remaining locally was related to local grouse density in the hatching year (for males only). Results show that the combined effects of factors working at several levels act together on dispersal behavior in Northern Goshawks and highlight the importance of studying different age classes separately in long-lived species. In summary, our results suggest that goshawk individuals distribute themselves spatially in parallel with factors determining the costs and advantages of dispersing where philopatry seems to be connected to factors positively associated with survival; but to test the validity of that idea, more data on fitness consequences of dispersal are needed. /// La calidad ambiental puede influir en la dispersin si el costo de sta es superado por el costo de permanecer. En este escenario, se esperara que los individuos que experimentan diferentes condiciones en su rea natal difieran en sus patrones de dispersin. Aunque hay un consenso sobre la existencia de mltiples factores que afectan la dispersin, las condiciones especficas que influyen el comportamiento de dispersin son menos claras. Tambin, la escala a la que se analiza el comportamiento de dispersin puede ser de gran importancia para un mejor entendimiento del proceso de dispersin. Adems, en especies longevas, los factores que influyen la dispersin de los juveniles pueden diferir de aqullos que afectan la dispersin de los adultos. Con informacin de 12 aos de anillamiento (1989-2000), estudiamos el comportamiento de dispersin de Accipiter gentilis en un rea de gran extensin en Finlandia con relacin a las condiciones demogrficas y ecolgicas locales. El orden y la fecha de eclosin contribuyeron a la probabilidad de partir primero, mientras que la fecha de eclosin, la disponibilidad local de presas, y el sexo, estuvieron relacionados con la distancia de dispersin. Entre las aves adultas (+3 aos), ninguna de las variables analizadas estuvo relacionada con la distancia, mientras que la probabilidad de permanecer estuvo relacionada con la densidad local de perdices en el ao de eclosin (slo en machos). Los resultados muestran que los efectos combinados de los factores que operan a diferentes niveles actan conjuntamente en el comportamiento de dispersin de A. gentilis y demuestran la importancia de estudiar por separado a las diferentes clases de edad en especies longevas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la distribucin espacial de A. gentilis resulta de los factores que determinan los costos y ventajas de dispersin. La filopatra parece depender de los factores asociados positivamente con la sobrevivencia; sin embargo, para probar la validez de esta idea, se requiere mayor informacin sobre el impacto que las consecuencias de la dispersin tienen sobre la adecuacin.
10.2307/4090021| Frugivorous birds may be able to reduce the cost of processing seeds by discarding seeds, selecting fruits that have a high pulp-to-seed ratio, or by choosing fruit in which seeds are packaged in a way that the frugivore's gut can void them more rapidly. A preference for fruit based on pulp-to-seed ratio or seed composition within a fruit is likely to have important implications for plants and evolution of seed size. We tested whether captive Silvereyes (Zosterops lateralis) discriminate among artificial fruit on the basis of seed presence by presenting birds with artificial fruit with or without a seed. In the first experiment, fruit were translucent so that birds could see which fruit contained a seed. In the second experiment, the visual cue was removed. When Silvereyes were presented with a choice between translucent, artificial fruit with or without a seed, they showed a strong preference for fruit that did not contain a seed. However, when the visual cue to seed presence was removed, preference for seedless fruit was still significant, but markedly reduced. We also tested seed-size preference of Silvereyes in the field in Victoria, Australia. Seeds from a fruit commonly consumed by Silvereyes, fragrant saltbush (Rhagodia parabolica), were recovered from Silvereye faecal samples and their volumes measured. Comparisons were made between seed volumes of fruit consumed by Silvereyes and those within fruit available on the plant. Silvereyes consumed significantly smaller seeds than the mean size available on saltbush plants. When Silvereyes were presented with a cereal-based diet containing artificial seeds (designed to mimic large fruit containing many small seeds), they avoided seed ingestion and were able to consume proportionally more cereal than seeds, even when on a high seed-load diet (30%). Seed dispersal by Silvereyes may be inefficient for plant species with large fruit containing many small seeds, because Silvereyes in this experiment were able to avoid ingesting seeds. /// Las aves frugvoras pueden ser capaces de reducir el costo de procesar semillas descartndolas, seleccionando frutos que tengan una alta relacin fruto-semilla o eligiendo frutos en los cuales las semillas estn empaquetadas de modo que el sistema digestivo del frugvoro pueda evacuarlas ms rapidamente. Es probable que una preferencia de los frutos basada en la relacin pulpa-semilla o en la disposicin de las semillas adentro del fruto tenga implicancias importantes para las plantas y para la evolucin del tamao de las semillas. Expusimos a individuos cautivos de Zosterops lateralis a frutos artificiales con o sin semilla para evaluar si estas aves discriminan a los frutos artificiales basndose en la presencia de semillas. En el primer experimento empleamos frutos translcidos para que las aves pudieran ver cules frutos contenan semilla. En el segundo experimento esta seal visual fue removida. Los individuos de Z. lateralis expuestos a la posibilidad de escoger frutos artificiales translcidos con o sin semilla mostraron una fuerte preferencia por los frutos que no contenan semilla. Sin embargo, cuando se removi el indicio visual sobre la presencia de semillas, la preferencia por frutos sin semillas fue an significativa, pero marcadamente reducida. Tambin evaluamos en el campo (en Victoria, Australia) las preferencias de Z. lateralis con base en el tamao de las semillas. Recobramos semillas de Rhagodia parabolica, un fruto comnmente consumido por Z. lateralis, en muestras de heces y medimos su volumen. Realizamos comparaciones entre el volumen de las semillas consumidas por Z. lateralis y aquellas contenidas en frutos disponibles en la planta. Z. lateralis consumi semillas de tamao significativamente menor que el tamao promedio disponible en las plantas. Individuos de Z. lateralis expuestos a una dieta basada en cereales que contena semillas artificiales (diseadas para imitar frutos grandes con muchas semillas pequeas) evitaron ingerir semillas y fueron capaces de consumir proporcionalmente ms cereal que semillas, incluso cuando estuvieron sometidos a una dieta con alta carga de semillas (30%). La dispersin de semillas por Z. lateralis puede ser ineficiente para especies de plantas con frutos grandes que contienen muchas semillas pequeas, ya que en este experimento Z. lateralis fue capaz de evitar ingerir semillas. 
10.2307/4088508|We have demonstrated that male hummingbirds in the genus Colibri share song types. The Sparkling Violet-ear (C. coruscans) from an Ecuadorian population and Green Violetear (C. thalassinus) from populations in Costa Rica form aggregates or neighborhoods. Males of a neighborhood sing the same song type and those of distant neighborhoods have different song types. The resultant geographic variation in song, we suggest, is due to cultural drift acquired through song learning. Song sharing was determined not only by traditional, visual examination of spectrograms of song but with a relatively new, digital cross-correlation method that permits statistical treatment. The statistical procedures included cluster analysis that reflects the distribution of songs in geographic space and an evaluation for randomness of that distribution by use of the Mantel test.
4088472|I examined body-size variation in age and sex classes of the Evening Grosbeak (Coccothraustes vespertinus) to test the hypothesis that differential migration in this species can be explained by the body-size hypothesis. This hypothesis proposes that larger-bodied age and sex classes of migratory species should winter farthest north because body size influences the probability of winter survival. From the known winter distribution of age and sex groups (males wintering farther north than females, but no distributional differences between adults and immatures), I predicted that males should be larger-bodied than females, but that there should be no size differences between age classes of either sex. I also predicted that individuals within age and sex classes should increase in size from south to north during winter. Body size was assessed using multivariate analysis of measurements obtained from 1,739 museum specimens of birds collected throughout the winter range and from 73 live-caught birds wintering in southern Alberta. Males were larger-bodied than females, but adult males and females were larger than immatures of the same sex. A positive (but weak) relationship between body size and latitude occurred only in females. I suggest that females, because of their relatively small size, may be most influenced by climatic conditions occurring on the wintering grounds. The physiological implications of body-size variation (cold tolerance and fasting endurance) must be determined before a full assessment of the body-size hypothesis can be made.
10.2307/4089503| Eggs of the parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) often hatch before those of its hosts. I artificially incubated the eggs of the cowbird and the taxonomically related but nonparasitic Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) to determine if cowbird eggs have unique adaptations. To determine if cowbirds have a wider tolerance of acceptable incubation temperatures, the eggs from both species were incubated at 35, 38, and 40C. Neither species' eggs hatched at 35 or 40C, whereas 24 out of 42 cowbird eggs and 19 out of 36 redwing eggs hatched at 38C. When corrected for differences in mass, cowbird and redwing eggs hatched 10 and 15%, sooner than expected, respectively, suggesting that cowbirds do not have an accelerated rate of embryonic development. Cowbirds may be adapted to lay smaller eggs that generally hatch sooner. Using values obtained from allometric equations that relate body mass and egg mass, cowbird and redwing eggs were 25 and 4% smaller, respectively, than expected. For cowbirds, there was no correlation between egg mass and length of incubation period, whereas there was a positive (but not significant) correlation for redwings. Additional cowbird eggs were incubated at 36 and 39C to determine the effect on the length of the incubation period. The incubation periods of individual cowbird eggs ranged from 10.49 to 14.04 days at 39 and 36C, respectively, whereas eggs incubated at 38C had a mean incubation period of 11.61 days (n = 24), suggesting that cowbirds can tolerate some variation in incubation temperature and indicating a strong temperature effect. I found evidence that internal egg temperature varies with clutch composition. This may partially explain the variation in cowbird incubation periods and why cowbird eggs often hatch before host eggs. 
4090352| Hybridization is pivotal in framing ideas about species concepts and has the potential to produce novel genotypes that may serve as starting points for new evolutionary trajectories. Presently, Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrows (Ammodramus nelsoni subvirgatus)(and Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (A. caudacutus caudacutus) are in contact in salt marshes of Maine, New Hampshire, and northern Massachusetts. These two species hybridize, but the extent and direction of introgression has not been determined. We assessed morphological and genetic variation of 123 sharp-tailed sparrows from 5 salt marshes in New England. We used six morphological variables, including a plumage-scoring index, and five microsatellite primers to assess the extent of introgression and to determine whether there was concordance between phenotypic and genotypic variation. We identified apparent hybrids and each of the two sharp-tailed sparrow species using a plumage-scoring index. In general, we found that hybrids were more similar morphologically and genetically to Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows. The alleles of hybrids were 62% Saltmarsh and 38% Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrows, supporting the asymmetrical hybridization hypothesis. /// La hibridacin es un proceso clave para plantear ideas sobre conceptos de especie y tiene el potencial de producir genotipos novedosos que pueden representar puntos de partida para nuevas trayectorias evolutivas. En la actualidad, los gorriones Ammodramus nelsoni subvirgatus y A. caudacutus caudacutus estn en contacto en los pantanos de agua salada de Maine, New Hampshire y el norte de Massachusetts. Estas dos especies hibridan entre s, pero el grado y la direccin de la introgresin no han sido determinados. En este estudio examinamos la variacin morfolgica y gentica de 123 individuos de cinco pantanos ubicados en Nueva Inglaterra. Empleamos seis variables morfolgicas, incluyendo un ndice para calificar el plumaje y cinco iniciadores de microsatlites para determinar el grado de introgresin y determinar si existe concordancia entre la variacin fenotpica y la variacin gentica. Identificamos hbridos aparentes e individuos de cada una de las dos especies usando un ndice para calificar el plumaje. En general, encontramos que los hbridos fueron ms similares morfolgica y genticamente a A. caudacutus caudacutus. El 62% de los alelos de los hbridos fueron de A. caudacutus caudacutus y el 38% de A. nelsoni subvirgatus, lo que apoya la hiptesis de hibridacin asimtrica. 
4090369| Capture-mark-recapture models require estimation of parameters that may be either constant or time-dependent. Open-population models have been adapted for use in estimating stopover duration of migratory songbirds. However, with data collected over an extended period or with relatively few recaptures, small sample sizes may preclude use of fully time-dependent models. Pooling is commonly used to reduce the number of parameters estimated in time-dependent models. In pooling, all captures and recaptures during a specified interval are treated as a single capture event, which results in a loss of information about recaptures within the interval. Additionally, pooling of banding data of migratory songbirds appears to bias stopover-length estimates upwards. An alternative to pooling is use of multiple-day-constancy models. Advantages of this approach include maintenance of all recapture data, simultaneous Akaike's Information Criterion-based comparison of models using different constancy intervals, and unbiased stopover estimates. /// Los modelos de captura-marcado-recaptura requieren la estimacin de parmetros que pueden ser ya sea constantes o dependientes del tiempo. Los modelos de poblaciones abiertas han sido adaptados para estimar la duracin de las paradas de aves canoras migrantes. Sin embargo, con datos colectados a lo largo de un perodo extenso o con relativamente pocas capturas, los tamaos de muestra pequeos pueden impedir el uso de modelos totalmente dependientes del tiempo. Usualmente se combinan estos datos para reducir el nmero de parmetros estimados en modelos dependientes del tiempo. Al combinar los datos, las capturas y recapturas obtenidas durante un intervalo de tiempo determinado son tratadas como un evento de captura nico, lo que conduce a una prdida de informacin de las recapturas dentro del intervalo determinado. Adems, la combinacin de los datos de anillado de aves canoras migratorias parece sobrestimar la duracin de las paradas. Una alternativa a la combinacin de datos es usar modelos de constancia de mltiples das. Las ventajas de este enfoque incluyen el mantenimiento de todos los datos de recaptura, la comparacin de modelos basados en el Criterio de Informacin de Akaike usando intervalos de constancia diferentes y estimaciones no sesgadas de la duracin de los perodos de escala migratoria. 
4085745|I used statistical analysis to compare the amino acid compositions of avian epidermal proteins. Comparisons were made of individual monomers from a single tissue of the morphological parts of various tissues, and of unfractionated tissues, at both the intra- and interspecific levels. The results imply a chemical basis for tissue protein structural heterogeneity, document tissue specificity, and indicate design relationships between protein distribution and tissue function. The amino acid composition of keratins provides information on the evolutionary relationships of natal down, feather, scale, claw, and beak.
4085921|Field and laboratory studies have clarified the generic relationships of the Flammulated Flycatcher (Deltarhynchus flammulatus), a monotypic Mexican endemic. A derived character state of the nasal septum argues for the placement of Deltarhynchus with the myiarchine flycatchers (Myiarchus, Rhytipterna, Casiornis, and Sirystes). External morphology and behavior suggest a close relationship with Myiarchus. The number, location, and configuration of the syringeal cartilages are sufficiently divergent, however, to suggest that Deltarhynchus is not as closely related to Myiarchus as are Rhytipterna and Sirystes and that it should be maintained as a separate genus.
4088469|The fragmentary effects of Pleistocene glacial activity have been implicated in speciation among avifauna endemic to the Central Plains of North America. The prairie-grouse complex (genus Tympanuchus), distributed throughout the central United States and Canada, contains three sister taxa believed to have originated from the expansion of late Pleistocene refugial populations. We assayed mitochondrial-DNA (mtDNA) restriction-site and allozyme variation in prairie grouse obtained from localities throughout their current range in North America to examine the nature and timing of events promoting differentiation in Tympanuchus. The genetic data were not consistent with Pleistocene isolation of sufficient duration to allow a taxonomically or geographically structured pattern of genetic variation to emerge. No clear genetic differences among species were observed. Allozymes could not distinguish populations belonging to different species and frequencies were generally similar across taxa. The mtDNA differentiation was characterized by a predominant haplotype shared by all taxa; the remainder (15) were generally infrequent and closely related to the prevalent (and presumably ancestral) haplotype. The presence of unique mtDNA haplotypes within species and absence of certain allozyme alleles from particular taxa implied a degree of isolation and restrictions to gene flow. However, the mtDNA haplotypes did not sort phylogenetically, which suggests recent common ancestry of the lineages and may explain the lack of congruence between genetic variation and species designations. Despite the absence of quantitative genetic differentiation, considerable morphological and behavioral differences are apparent among the putative species. Adult male plumage, vocalization structures, and courtship behaviors form the basis for taxonomic divisions among prairie grouse, but, considering their close association with reproduction, such characters may be subject to sexual selection and may evolve rapidly relative to mtDNA or allozymes.
40406706|Maternal preference for nest sites is predicted to be an adaptive consequence of selective pressures acting on parents and young at the nest site. Nest predation risk has been linked to nest-site placement in birds, but microclimatic extremes can impose fitness costs on both adults and young, and these two factors may conflict. I used the temporal and spatial variation in microclimatic conditions and nest predation risk generated by variation in wildfire severity to examine the relationship between nest-site preference, nest microclimate, and fitness costs to parents and young in the Dark-eyed Junco (
10.2307/4088633| An analysis of the mechanism responsible for controlling clutch size was carried out in the Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata) by manipulating the number of eggs present in the nest during laying. Sensory cues involved were also investigated. Stimulation from the eggs present in the nest during the second and third day of the egg-laying period determined how females cease to lay in this species. Disruption of ovarian follicular growth was triggered on the third day of laying, 6  1 h after the onset of light (14L:10D), by tactile stimulation. Contact with eggs also was required to induce the onset of sensitivity to the stimulus responsible for ending laying. The hypothesis that individual variations in clutch size (four to six eggs) are caused by early disruption of follicular growth for smaller clutches versus late disruption for larger clutches was tested. The timing of follicular disruption showed no significant variation between females (n = 12) in relation to clutch size. There is good evidence that this result, established in domesticated Zebra Finches, holds true for wild Zebra Finches as well. Individual variation in clutch size resulted from the variable number of growing follicles that, once follicular disruption has been triggered, were able to complete the rapid-growth phase and ovulate. 
25488516|The annual migration of Pacific salmon (
4086966|Consideration of the problem of sampling a population within a finite study area suggested that recruitment results might be related to the size of the study area. Specifically, the proportion of recruits observed within a defined study area that originate in that area (local recruits) should be a function of the proportion of the population that the study area represents. Computer simulations of dispersal, using Nuttall's White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) as a model, were designed to test this hypothesis, and the effect of territory size and population size on this relationship. The simulations confirmed that local recruitment is a function of the proportion of the population sampled in the study area. Additionally, these simulations demonstrated that by holding the distribution of dispersal distances constant, local recruitment for a given proportion of the population sampled increased with territory size and population size. These latter results, however, are artifacts of the simulations and have no biological significance. Finally, the proportion of local recruits predicted for a natural population was remarkably close to that obtained from fieldwork. I suggest that conclusions about dispersal and population structure should not be drawn from proportions of local recruitment within finite study areas, and require more detailed analysis of dispersal.
10.2307/4089599|I used mark-recapture analysis and radio telemetry to characterize winter movement patterns of six grassland sparrows in southeastern Arizona. Mark-recapture data were generated by banding birds captured during repeated flush-netting sessions conducted on a series of 7-ha plots over three consecutive winters. This resulted in 2,641 captures of 2,006 individual sparrows of the six species. Radio telemetry was conducted concurrently on 20 individuals of four of these species. Recapture data and radio telemetry indicated that Cassin's Sparrow (Aimophila cassinii) and Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum) were the most sedentary, followed by Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii), Vesper Sparrow (Pooecetes gramineus), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), and Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri). Grasshopper, Baird's, Savannah, and Vesper sparrows tended to remain within fixed home ranges during winter. With the exception of Savannah Sparrows, whose movement behavior varied among study sites, movement patterns remained constant within species across years and study sites despite radical fluctuations in the absolute and relative abundances of all species. Interspecific differences in movement pattern suggest that species in this system partition niche space according to the regional-coexistence mechanism. Abundances of the most sedentary species, Cassin's, Grasshopper, and Baird's sparrows, were poorly or negatively correlated with summer rainfall at the between-year landscape scale, whereas abundances of the more mobile Savannah, Vesper, and Brewer's sparrows were strongly positively correlated. This is consistent with the theoretical prediction that movement constrains large-scale habitat selection, favoring mobile species in fragmented environments.
4090545| In urban environments, anthropogenic noise may mask bird song, especially the notes occurring at lower frequencies (1-2 kHz). Birds living in urban environments may modify their songs, particularly the low-frequency portions, to minimize masking by anthropogenic noise. Such modifications have been observed in Great Tits (Parus major) in The Netherlands, as well as in some mammals. We studied Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), which are common in both urban and rural environments in much of North America, and recorded the songs of 28 free-living males in Portland, Oregon. We also measured the amplitude and spectrum of ambient noise at singing locations. Song Sparrows singing at noisier locations exhibited higher-frequency low notes and had relatively less energy (amplitude) in the low-frequency range of their songs (1-4 kHz), where most anthropogenic noise also occurred. Although the mechanism(s) producing the correlation are as yet undetermined, the observed match between song and noise may result from behavioral plasticity. We discuss explanations for these patterns and how to test them. /// Dans les environnements urbains, les bruits d'origine anthropique pourraient masquer les chants d'oiseaux, particulirement les notes mises  basses frquences (1-2 kHz). Les oiseaux qui vivent en milieux urbains pourraient modifier leur chants, particulirement les portions  basse frquence, pour minimiser le masquage par les bruits d'origine anthropique. De telles modifications ont t observes chez Parus major aux Pays-Bas, ainsi que chez certains mammifres. Nous avons tudi Melospiza melodia, qui est une espce commune dans les environnements urbains et ruraux, un peu partout en Amrique du Nord. Nous avons enregistr les chants de 28 mles en libert  Portland, en Orgon. Nous avons galement mesur l'amplitude et le spectre des bruits ambiants sur des lieux de chants. Les Melospiza melodia qui chantaient aux sites les plus bruyants montraient des notes basses de plus haute frquence et avaient relativement moins d'nergie (amplitude) dans la gamme des basses frquences de leurs chants (1-4 kHz), o la plupart des bruits d'origine anthropique ont lieu. Bien que le (ou les) mcanisme(s) qui est (sont)  l'origine de cette corrlation est (sont) encore indtermin(s), la correspondance observe entre les chants et les bruits pourrait rsulter d'une plasticit comportementale. Nous discutons dans l'article des explications qui concernent ces patrons et de la faon de les tester. 
10.2307/4087235|The sex of Canada Goose (Branta canadensis) goslings was not correlated with the position in the laying sequence, egg mass, or size of goslings at hatching. However, male goslings were larger at fledging than female goslings. This suggests that sex determination in Canada Geese and probably in other Anserinae occurs randomly over the laying sequence and that parental allocation of resources is equal for male and female goslings.
10.2307/4089635|Tiny hoopoe-like birds of the extinct family Messelirrisoridae are among the predominant small perching birds in the Middle Eocene (ca. 49 million years ago) avifauna of Messel (Hessen, Germany). Members of the Messelirrisoridae are the earliest-known representatives of the hoopoe/wood-hoopoe lineage and are sister taxa of recent Upupidae (hoopoes) and Phoeniculidae (wood-hoopoes). Outgroup comparison with the Messelirrisoridae facilitates character-state analysis within the Phoeniculidae and Upupidae. In this study, I describe a new species, Messelirrisor grandis, which is the largest species of the Messelirrisoridae known so far.
10.2307/4089287|We measured spatial use and habitat selection of radio-tagged Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) at eight to nine territories each year from 1992 to 1994 in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area. Use of space did not vary between years or sexes, but did vary among seasons (home ranges and travel distances were larger during the nonbreeding than during the breeding season) and among individuals. Home ranges were large, ranging from 190 to 8,330 ha during the breeding season and from 1,370 to 170,000 ha outside of the breeding season, but activity was concentrated in small core areas of 30 to 1,535 ha and 485 to 6,380 ha during the breeding and nonbreeding seasons, respectively. Eagles selected shrub habitats and avoided disturbed areas, grasslands, and agriculture. This resulted in selection for habitat likely to contain their principal prey, black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus). Individuals with home ranges in extensive shrubland (n = 3) did not select for shrubs in the placement of their core areas or foraging points, but individuals in highly fragmented or dispersed shrublands (n = 5) concentrated their activities and foraged preferentially in jackrabbit habitats (i.e. areas with abundant and large shrub patches). As home ranges expanded outside of the breeding season, individuals selected jackrabbit habitats within their range. Shrubland fragmentation should be minimized so that remaining shrub patches are large enough to support jackrabbits.
25488688|Stable-isotope analysis of feathers is an increasingly important source of information on diet and movement of birds. Feathers are typically cleaned with a solvent before analysis, but the effects of this cleaning on the resulting data have not been examined critically. We conducted an experiment to determine whether a cleaning regime affected hydrogen (D), carbon (
4085707|This paper presents notes on 17 species of birds that have not previously been reported for Peru, all of which were collected or observed on a large isolated grassland surrounded by tropical forest in southeastern Peru.
4088463| Temperatures of Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) eggs during the hatching period indicate that parents allow their last-hatched embryos to cool to 36.8C, about 2C below first-hatched eggs. Temperatures of artificial last-hatched eggs, corrected upwards to take account of embryonic metabolic heat, averaged only 35.5C, suggesting an active effect of live embryos on parental incubation. In the laboratory, embryos in pipped eggs vocalized strongly when body temperature dropped below 36C. When cold-induced calls triggered 4-min periods of rewarming (vocal regulation), embryonic temperature stabilized. Vocally regulated temperature was independent of the duration of the rewarming periods over a range of 3 to 8 min, but increased significantly with embryonic development over the final day of incubation. During the final 12 to 18 h before hatching, most embryos were able to regulate vocally their body temperature at or above the level at which cold-induced hatching delays occur. Results are consistent with the interpretation that cold-induced vocalizations are honest signals of offspring need for warmth. Vocal thermoregulation by pipping embryos is a potentially adaptive mechanism facilitating the maintenance of safe embryonic temperature during the critical hours before hatching. 
4087950|We investigated dispersion patterns and habitat associations of Rufous-sided Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus), Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), and Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor) in the southeastern Massachusetts pine barrens. All three species were regularly dispersed within study sites and among study sites at fine grain sizes, apparently the result of intraspecific competition. At increasingly coarse levels of resolution, however, both Rufous-sided Towhees and Common Yellowthroats were dispersed randomly across successional stages, whereas Prairie Warblers exhibited a patchy dispersion. Prairie Warblers exhibited stronger relationships between density and habitat, and showed relatively strong habitat associations. They apparently responded to broad-scale patterns of habitat variation across successional stages. Rufous-sided Towhees and Common Yellowthroats had weaker associations at this scale. We suggest that the most abundant avian species in the pine barrens respond to habitat variation at different scales and point to the need for careful consideration of scale when investigating habitat relationships and interpreting patterns of community structure.
4087676|In cooperatively breeding birds, the feeding of nestlings by nonbreeding helpers may be derived from a general stimulus-response interaction, widespread among altricial species. It has been suggested that adaptationists have overinterpreted this helping behavior. Two distinct points can be recognized here: evolutionary origin and current functional significance. The significance of helping behavior to the helper appears to vary on a species-to-species basis. However, the evidence overall does not support a unitary, nonfunctional or nonadaptive interpretation of avian helping behavior.
10.2307/4086906|Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) can acquire food preferences and aversions merely by observing conspecifics. In Experiment 1, red-wings were trained to prefer or avoid food paired with yellow, as conspecifics watched. After training, all birds were given two-choice tests between food paired with yellow or green for 12 days. Trainers were tested in visual isolation, whereas watchers were tested either in visual isolation or in visual contact with birds who had observed the opposite behavior during training. Food aversions were more resistant to extinction than food preferences (P < 0.05), and, among watchers, social cues facilitated avoidance (P < 0.05). In Experiment 2, red-wings were trained to avoid food paired with yellow, as Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) and red-wings watched, or vice versa, and then two-choice tests were given between yellow and green. Both grackles and red-wings exhibited observational learning, regardless of the training species (P's < 0.05). Social interactions among avian predators may influence how predator abundance affects the Batesian model-mimic complex. We speculate that avoidance learning, which occurs when a predator observes the ingestion of a model, is stronger than preference learning, which occurs when a mimic is ingested. Relatively few models would be needed for the model-mimic complex to operate successfully, and the number of mimics could exceed the number of models without jeopardizing the mimetic advantage.
10.2307/4086769|Growth rates varied little among unparasitized (normally developing) Pearlyeyed Thrasher nestlings. Botfly ectoparasitism, however, significantly retarded growth and development in parasitized young. Parasitized nestlings showed different growth patterns at various ages, depending on the timing of the initial parasitic attack and the extent of larval infestation. Nestling growth was most affected within the first 1.5 weeks after hatching, the period of maximum growth rate in 4 of 5 sampled growth characters (body mass, culmen, ulna, tarsus). The ninth primary feather showed accelerated growth as fledging approached. Body mass and tarsus were most affected by ectoparasitism. Nestling body mass fluctuated markedly in response to the biomass of the infesting larvae. Tarsus length was retarded in parasitized young throughout the nestling period. A combination of inherent and environmental factors showed the need to consider morphological characters in addition to body mass as possible determinants of avian growth.
4087863| We monitored natural incubation in the Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus) with temperature probes fixed in the nest cup. At undisturbed nests, eggs hatched after 30.1  0.6 days of incubation. Egg neglect was common during the early stages of incubation, but did not occur in the second half of incubation unless the incubating bird was disturbed. We removed eggs from burrows after 10 and 20 days of incubation and kept them for 48 h at the prevailing burrow temperature. Where desertion did not occur, hatchability was unaffected. In Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia), eggs removed similarly during the second half of incubation did not hatch. The ability of Ancient Murrelet embryos to withstand chilling during late incubation is matched only by some Procellariiformes. 
25488523|Breeding seabirds have been well studied but seabird ecology during the nonbreeding season is poorly understood because many species disperse far from breeding colonies to molt at sea. We characterized the timing of prebasic molt and postbreeding dispersal, described postbreeding dispersal movements, and estimated changes in body mass during molt for Marbled Murrelets (
10.1525/auk.2012.11101|We present the first molecular phylogenetic hypothesis for
4090555| Theory suggests that the persistence of metapopulations will be influenced by the degree of synchrony in the dynamics of their component populations. Various studies have shown that climate can promote synchrony in the size of adjacent populations linked by dispersal, but fewer studies have examined the effects of climate on underlying demographic rates. We studied annual variation in the timing of breeding and reproductive rates in Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) on islands linked by dispersal to determine whether biotic factors acting at local scales or climatic factors acting at a regional scale were more influential of variation in demography. The onset of egg laying varied markedly among years but was roughly synchronous across islands within years. Despite this synchrony, island populations varied markedly in reproductive rate, mainly from spatial variation in nest depredation and brood parasitism. In general, populations farther from Vancouver Island and with fewer resident predators experienced less nest depredation and brood parasitism, and higher reproductive rates, than populations closer to Vancouver Island. Our results show that even when climate acts regionally to synchronize reproductive timing in adjacent populations, its effects on reproductive rate may be overridden by biotic factors that vary among populations. /// En teora, se espera que la persistencia de las metapoblaciones est influenciada por el grado de sincrona en la dinmica de las poblaciones que las componen. Varios estudios han mostrado que el clima puede promover la sincrona en el tamao de poblaciones adyacentes conectadas mediante dispersin, pero relativamente pocos estudios han examinado los efectos del clima sobre las tasas demogrficas subyacentes. Para determinar si los factores biticos que actan a escalas locales o si los factores climticos que actan a escalas regionales tienen una mayor influencia sobre la variacin en la demografa, estudiamos la variacin anual en el momento de inicio de la reproduccin y en las tasas reproductivas en Melospiza melodia en islas conectadas mediante dispersin. El inicio de la postura de huevos vari marcadamente entre aos, pero fue aproximadamente sincrnico entre islas en cada uno de los aos. A pesar de esta sincrona, las tasas reproductivas de las poblaciones variaron sustancialmente, principalmente como consecuencia de la variacin espacial en la depredacin y el parasitismo de los nidos. En general, las poblaciones ubicadas ms lejos de Vancouver Island y las que presentaban menos depredadores residentes, presentaron menores niveles de depredacin de nidos y de parasitismo de cra, y mayores tasas reproductivas, que las poblaciones ubicadas ms cerca de Vancouver Island. Nuestros resultados muestran que an cuando el clima acta regionalmente sincronizando el momento en que tiene lugar la reproduccin en poblaciones adyacentes, sus efectos sobre las tasas reproductivas pueden ser invalidados por los factores biticos que varan entre las poblaciones. 
10.2307/4089802|I measured structural characteristics of 160 Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) nests at Riske Creek, British Columbia, and placed electronic data-loggers in a subsample of 86 nests to record internal temperatures after the flickers completed nesting. Using multiple regression, I found that the best predictors of a variety of nest-cavity temperature variables were tree health, diameter of the tree at cavity height, and orientation of the cavity. Small and dead trees showed the most extreme (maximum and minimum) temperatures during the day, but, on average, were the coldest nests from the perspective of incubation. Southfacing cavities reached the highest temperatures during the day, and the orientation of natural cavities was also biased towards the south. I predicted that cold nests would be energetically expensive for adults and nestlings, and found that clutch size was positively correlated with mean cavity temperature. However, there did not appear to be any relationship among nest temperature and hatching or fledging success.
10.2307/4089681|The at-sea distribution of the threatened Spectacled Eider (Somateria fischeri) has remained largely undocumented. We identified migration corridors, staging and molting areas, and wintering areas of adult Spectacled Eiders using implanted satellite transmitters in birds from each of the three extant breeding grounds (North Slope and Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in Alaska and arctic Russia). Based on transmitter locations, we conducted aerial surveys to provide visual confirmation of eider flocks and to estimate numbers of birds. We identified two principal molting and staging areas off coastal Alaska (Ledyard Bay and eastern Norton Sound) and two off coastal Russia (Mechigmenskiy Bay on the eastern Chukotka Peninsula, and the area between the Indigirka and Kolyma deltas in the Republic of Sakha). We estimated that >10,000 birds molt and stage in monospecific flocks at Mechigmenskiy and Ledyard bays, and several thousand molt and stage in eastern Norton Sound. We further identified eastern Norton Sound as the principal molting and staging area for females nesting on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and Ledyard Bay and Mechigmenskiy Bay as the principal molting and staging areas for females nesting on the North Slope. Males marked at all three breeding grounds molt and stage in Mechigmenskiy Bay, Ledyard Bay, and the Indigirka-Kolyma delta region. Males from the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta molt and stage mainly at Mechigmenskiy Bay. Equal numbers of males from the North Slope molt and stage at all three areas, and most males from arctic Russia molt and stage at the Indigirka-Kolyma delta region. Postbreeding migration corridors were offshore in the Bering, Chukchi, and Beaufort seas. In winter, eiders were in the Bering Sea south of St. Lawrence Island. Our estimates from surveys in late winter and early spring suggest that at least 333,000 birds winter in single-species flocks in the pack ice in the Bering Sea.
90008589|American Robins (
4085613|Evidence of the decline of Golden-winged Warblers (Vermivora chrysoptera) in Tompkins County, New York is presented, which adds to other examples of decline elsewhere. This decline is temporally correlated with an increase in Blue-winged Warblers (V. pinus). In Tompkins County, the Golden-winged Warbler nests only in the shrub stage of successional habitat on large patches of abandoned farmland. Blue-winged Warblers use later stages of succession as well as the early stages. A small decrease in the amount of recently abandoned farmland in Tompkins County with a larger increase in the amount of land in later stages of succession helps explain the decrease in Golden-winged Warblers and the increase in Blue-winged Warblers. The large magnitude of decline in Golden-winged Warblers, however, suggests that there may also be some negative biological interaction with the recently arrived and increasingly abundant Blue-winged Warbler.
4085304|Tyrannus couchii, usually considered a subspecies of T. melancholicus ranging from southern Texas to central Veracruz, is a distinct species, with a range from southern Texas to the Yucatan Peninsula. It overlaps melancholicus south of southern Tamaulipas and San Luis Potosi. Where the two species are equally common, there is no sign of intergradation, but in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, where couchii is rare, there is some hybridization. The characters that permit the separation of adult specimens are the form of the wing tip and the relative length of the bill. There are also average differences in color and size, and some of these vary geographically within the area of sympatry.
10.2307/4090227| Nesting success of birds often is influenced by habitat features surrounding nests. However, few studies have investigated habitat influences at multiple levels and spatial scales. We examined the relationship between Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata) nesting success and habitat at three levels (macrohabitat, microhabitat, and nest site) and at three different scales within the microhabitat level (3.1, 0.3, and 0.07 ha circular plots surrounding nests) in central Florida. We defined successful nests as those fledging at least one offspring. An eight-fold difference in probability of nesting success existed among seven distinct macrohabitats, with Mayfield success estimates ranging from 8 to 63%. However, no difference in number of fledglings per nest existed among macrohabitats when unsuccessful nests were excluded from the analysis. Macrohabitats in which nests were more often successful had more extensive slash pine (Pinus elliottii) forest. Logistic regression analyses indicated that slash pine canopy cover was significantly related to nesting success at all three microhabitat scales, although the tree species in which a nest was placed was unimportant to nesting success. Other microhabitat and nest-site features were unrelated to nesting success. Strong circumstantial evidence indicates predation was the major cause of nest failure, but relative abundance of one potential predator, the gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), was not related to nesting success in macrohabitats or slash pine canopy cover within microhabitats. In this study, logistic regression models using habitat features measured at higher levels and larger scales had better predictive power, indicating that habitat may have influenced predation at scales larger than that of a typical nest patch. /// El xito de nidificacin en las aves es a menudo influenciado por las caractersticas del hbitat que circunda a los nidos. Sin embargo, pocos estudios han investigado las influencias del hbitat a mltiples niveles y escalas espaciales. Examinamos la relacin entre el xito reproductivo de Cyanocitta cristata y el hbitat a tres niveles (macrohbitat, microhbitat y sitio del nido) y a tres niveles diferentes dentro del microhbitat (parcelas circulares alrededor de los nidos de 3.1, 0.3 y 0.07 ha) en Florida central. Definimos como nidos exitosos a aquellos en que por lo menos una cria lleg a la etapa de emplumamiento. Encontramos una diferencia de ocho veces en la probabilidad de anidar exitosamente entre siete macrohbitats distintos, con valores de la estimacin del xito de Mayfield entre un 8 a un 63%. Sin embargo, no se encontr diferencia en el nmero de volantones por nido entre macrohbitats cuando se excluyeron los nidos no exitosos del anlisis. Los macrohbitats en que los nidos fueron exitosos ms a menudo, presentaban una mayor extensin de bosques de pino (Pinus elliottii). Los anlisis de regresin logstica indicaron que la cubierta del dosel de P. elliottii se relacion significativamente con el xito de nidificacin a los tres niveles de microhbitat, aunque la especie del rbol en que se encontraba un nido no fue importante para el xito de nidificacin. Otras caractersticas del microhbitat y rasgos del sitio del nido no se relacionaron con xito de nidificacin. Fuerte evidencia circunstancial indica que la depredacin fue la mayor causa de fracaso de los nidos, pero la abundancia relativa de un de predador potencial, la ardilla gris (Sciurus carolinensis), no se relacion con el xito de nidificacin en los macrohbitats ni con la cubierta del dosel de P. elliottii dentro de los microhbitats. En este estudio, los modelos de regresin logstica que utilizan caractersticas del hbitat medidas a niveles ms altos y a mayores escalas tuvieron un mejor poder de prediccin, indicando que el hbitat puede influenciar a los patrones de depredacin a una escala mayor que a la de un parche tpico de un nido. 
10.2307/4088195|We examined the physiological limitations to flight duration in small migrating birds with a computer-simulation model. Given preflight body mass, fat and water contents, and flight-path meteorological data, we calculated water and energy budgets and possible flight time. The model can be applied to birds of any size that migrate by flapping flight. As an example, we simulated the flight of small Palearctic passerines (body mass = 10 g) during their annual migration over the Sahara desert. Sensitivity analysis of model input variables indicated that oxygen extraction and expired air temperature are the most important physiological variables in a bird's water budget and can profoundly influence flight duration. This manifests the importance of: (1) efficient cooling in the nasal passages of flying birds; and (2) the choice of flight altitude (which affects both ambient air temperature and expired air temperature). The model predicted that: (1) Prior to migration, these birds must have stored fat comprising at least 22% of their initial body mass; otherwise, they cannot complete their journey. (2) In relatively fat birds (stored fat >0.22 body mass), dehydration rather than energy will limit flight duration. (3) Birds should fly at an altitude not exceeding 1,000 m to cross the Sahara successfully. (4) Even in low-flying fat birds, flight duration will be limited by their stringent water budget. The model further predicted that small passerines cannot cross the Sahara in a 30- to 40-h nonstop flight, as commonly accepted, but should confine flying to the cooler hours (i.e. nights) and rest during the day in order to avoid elevated rates of water loss due to higher ambient air temperatures. Available data and observations of birds trapped at stopover sites in the Sahara support these predictions.
25150310|Point-count surveys are often used to collect data on the abundance and distribution of birds, generally as an index of relative abundance. Valid comparison of these indices assumes that the detection process is comparable over space and time. These restrictive assumptions can be eliminated by estimating detection probabilities directly. We generalize a recently proposed removal model for estimating detection probabilities using a time-of-detection approach, which can account for more sources of variation in point-count data. This method is specifically designed to account for variation in detection probabilities associated with singing rates of birds. Our model accounts for both availability bias and detection bias by modeling the combined probability that a bird sings during the count, and the probability that it is detected given that it sings. The model requires dividing the count into several intervals and recording detections of individual birds in each interval. We develop maximum-likelihood estimators for this approach and provide a full suite of models based on capture-recapture models, including covariate models. We present two examples of this method: one for four species of songbirds surveyed in Great Smoky Mountains National Park using three unequal intervals, and one for the Pearly-eyed Thrasher (Margarops fuscatus) surveyed in Puerto Rico using four equal intervals. Models incorporating individual heterogeneity were selected for all data sets using information-theoretic model-selection techniques. Detection probabilities varied among count-time intervals, which suggests that birds may be responding to observers. We recommend applying this method to surveys with four or more equal intervals to reduce assumptions and to take full advantage of standard capture-recapture software. The time-of-detection approach provides a better understanding of the detection process, especially when singing rates of individual birds affect detection probabilities. /// Es comn usar censos en puntos de conteo para recolectar datos de abundancia y distribucin de aves, generalmente como ndices de abundancia relativa. Una comparacin vlida de estos ndices supone que el proceso de deteccin es comparable en el espacio y en el tiempo. Estas restricciones pueden eliminarse mediante la estimacin de las probabilidades de deteccin. Generalizamos un modelo de remocin propuesto recientemente para la estimacin de probabilidades de deteccin usando un enfoque basado en el tiempo de deteccin, el cual considera diversas fuentes de variacin en los datos obtenidos de puntos de conteo. Este mtodo fue diseado especficamente para considerar la variacin en las probabilidades de deteccin asociadas con las tasas de canto de las aves. Nuestro modelo considera tanto el sesgo de disponibilidad como el sesgo de deteccin mediante el modelado de la probabilidad combinada de que un ave cante durante el conteo, y de que sea detectada dado que canta. El modelo requiere dividir el conteo en varios intervalos y registrar la deteccin de aves individuales en cada intervalo. Desarrollamos estimadores de mxima verosimilitud para este enfoque y brindamos un paquete completo de modelos basados en modelos de captura-recaptura, incluyendo modelos de covariacin. Presentamos dos ejemplos de este modelo: uno para cuatro especies de aves canoras muestreadas en el Parque Nacional Great Smoky Mountains usando tres intervalos desiguales y otro para la especie Margarops fuscatus, muestreada en Puerto Rico usando cuatro intervalos iguales. Seleccionamos modelos que incorporan la heterogeneidad individual para todos los datos usando tcnicas de la teora de la informacin. Las probabilidades de deteccin variaron entre los intervalos de tiempo, lo que sugiere que las aves podran estar respondiendo a los observadores. Recomendamos aplicar este mtodo a los muestreos con cuatro o ms intervalos iguales para reducir las restricciones y para aprovechar al mximo los programas de computacin de captura-recaptura. El enfoque del tiempo de deteccin brinda un mejor entendimiento del proceso de deteccin, especialmente cuando las tasas de canto de las aves individuales afectan las probabilidades de deteccin.
25488720|We used radiotelemetry, habitat sampling, camera trapping, and line-transect surveys to explore movement patterns, distribution, and abundance of Great Argus Pheasants (
4085358| The behavior of landbirds involved in the predominating SSW-W migration over and near Nova Scotia during autumn nights was studied by radar. Takeoff began 28  5 min after sunset. Many landbirds flew from Newfoundland across Cabot Strait to Nova Scotia and from western Nova Scotia across the Gulf of Maine toward New England. Contrary to most previous night observations, some changed course to reach land or to avoid moving offshore. However, many crossed coasts at right or acute angles without hesitation or turning. Landbirds moved offshore on nights with offshore, alongshore, and even onshore winds. Landbirds flying SSW-W over the sea late in the night sometimes ascended and/or reoriented WNW-NNE toward land, especially when winds were unfavorable for continued SW flight and/or favorable for flight to the NW. Reoriented birds usually continued to arrive at the coast until noon, but the density of arrival declined steadily through the morning. Indirect but strong evidence indicates that directional cues additional to sight of land were often used for reorientation. No evidence of dawn reorientation by landbirds flying SE-SSW toward the West Indies was found. 
10.2307/4088091| Total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) and near infrared interactance (IRI) are noninvasive techniques with potential utility for monitoring body composition of free-ranging birds or captive experimental subjects. I used live Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to validate these methods for estimation of total body lipid. Total body electrical conductivity and IRI measurements were compared with body composition as determined by solvent extraction of carcasses. I measured IRI at three body sites (subscapular, pectoralis, and subfemoral) on 42 bobwhites. Only the subscapular and pectoralis sites yielded IRI measurements that were significantly correlated with percent body lipid, but IRI from these sites explained only 17.5% and 10.0% of the variation in percent body lipid, respectively. The cause of the low correlations is unknown, but it was not a function of differences in subject posture or light-wand position between replicate measures on the same subject. Total body electrical conductivity measurements explained 92% of the variation in lean body mass in a sample of 62 bobwhites. Measurements were affected by small differences in subject movement and position in the measurement chamber. There was no significant difference in TOBEC of subjects with or without aluminum leg bands. Measurements obtained from the same subjects with two different SA-1 TOBEC analyzers were not significantly different. The residuals about the regression of TOBEC against lean body mass were not correlated significantly with body temperature, but were significantly correlated with hydration. Total body electrical conductivity explained 99.1% of the variation in lean body mass when only those data from normally hydrated and properly restrained subjects were included (n = 38). Estimated body lipid from TOBEC measurements was highly correlated with total body lipid (R = 0.96) as determined by solvent extraction. The 95% confidence limits from the inverse regression procedure for the estimate of total body lipid from TOBEC measurements were 4.75 g at 25 g lipid, 4.85 g at 10 g lipid, and 5.62 g at 50 g lipid. Estimated total body lipid from TOBEC measurements was on average within 10% of total body lipid from solvent extraction. Although IRI analysis failed to yield a suitable index to body composition, TOBEC analysis provided an accurate estimate of total body lipid in live bobwhites. 
10.2307/4089808|Shorebirds encounter variable and unpredictable food resources at stopover sites during migration through interior North America. We studied foraging strategies and niche dynamics of American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana), Long-billed Dowitchers (Limnodromus scolopaceus), Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla), and Western Sandpipers (C. mauri) at stopover sites in 60 playa lakes of the southern Great Plains. Those species were selected because they are common in our study area during migration and represent a wide range of morphological classes. Overall foraging niches (linear combination of diet diversity, prey size, foraging-method diversity, and water depth) of avocets and dowitchers were segregated from each other and from Least and Western sandpipers. Overall foraging niches of Least and Western sandpipers were similar. Examination of single niche dimensions showed that avocets and dowitchers consumed larger prey and foraged in deeper water than did Least and Western sandpipers. Within the range of prey sizes consumed by the four individual species, all species selected small prey (0.1-5.0 mm). Preference of relatively small prey by avocets and dowitchers was likely a function of small prey being more abundant in playas than large prey (>10 mm). However, selection of small prey by Least and Western sandpipers was likely a function of lower handling costs associated with small prey. Abundance of prey items in diets of each species was not correlated with nutritional and energetic quality of prey items, but abundance of prey in the diet was correlated with abundance of prey in playa lakes. That suggests that all four shorebird species adopt an opportunistic foraging strategy during migration. Use of opportunism is likely critical for shorebirds to continue migration and arrive on breeding grounds in good condition.
10.2307/4088002| We compared circulating prolactin levels in two species of shorebirds which have very different social systems, and which breed sympatrically at La Prouse Bay, 40 km east of Churchill, Manitoba. Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) are monogamous and share incubation equally, although females normally desert broods earlier than males. Red-necked Phalaropes (Phalaropus lobatus) are facultatively polyandrous, and only males care for eggs and young. High prolactin values were correlated with persistent incubation behavior in male Red-necked Phalaropes, and male and female Semipalmated Sandpipers. Prolactin levels in Semipalmated Sandpipers increased dramatically at the onset of incubation, and were not different between the sexes. Incubating male phalaropes had greater prolactin values than the non-incubating males and females. Changes in prolactin levels, however, did not explain the early brood desertion of female Semipalmated Sandpipers. Prolactin levels did not decline with age of brood in either sex of this species. 
4085739|We collected about 850 female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in southern Ontario in six breeding seasons to determine the average number of eggs laid annually by a cowbird. We estimated this number by multiplying the length in days of the laying season of an average female by the average daily laying rate. In each of 1965 and 1976, two unexceptional years, the laying season was about 56 days and the average daily laying rate was 0.73 eggs (95% confidence limits of 0.65-0.80 eggs). Thus, an average female cowbird lays annually about 40 eggs. As she lives for about two breeding seasons, her lifetime fecundity is about 80 eggs. This estimate is consistent with estimates of cowbird survival: 0.15 from egg to fledging, 0.50 from fledging to independence, and 0.40 from independence to adulthood.
10.2307/4086831|Rainfall is known to influence seed production markedly in arid habitats of the northern Great Basin. We tested the effect of between-year rainfall variation on the abundance of wintering seed-eating sparrows, using published data from Audubon Christmas Bird Counts for the period 1965-1981. Results do not support the proposition that wintering sparrows in the northern Great Basin are limited directly by competition for food. Other seasonal climatic factors, such as winter snow cover and temperature, appear to be more important than rainfall in influencing winter sparrow abundance. The winter densities of coexisting sparrows were found to be strongly correlated, suggesting that species in this guild respond similarly to variable winter conditions in different years.
10.1525/auk.2013.12209|Better knowledge of bird response to savanna and woodland restoration is needed to inform management of these communities. We related temporal and habitat variables to breeding demography and densities of the Eastern Wood-Pewee (
4088680|A population of brood-parasitic Cameroon Indigobirds (Vidua camerunensis) in Sierra Leone mimics the songs of its apparent foster species, Dybowski's Twinspot (Eustichospiza dybowskii). Song mimicry includes the widespread song elements and phrases and the major features of organization of song (introductory units, terminal units, repetition of certain units, and complexity in number of kinds of units in a song) of the twinspots. The song mimicry by indigobirds of Dybowski's Twinspots was predicted from a hypothesis of the origin of brood-parasitic associations by colonization of new foster species that have parental behavior and habitat similar to their old foster species. Indigobirds (Vidua spp.) now are known to mimic five species and genera of estrildids that are not firefinches (Lagonosticta spp.), their more common foster group. The evolutionary significance of song mimicry by indigobird populations and species of several genera of estrildid finches, including the twinspot, is that the brood-parasitic indigobirds (Vidua spp.) appear to have associated with their foster species through recent colonizations rather than through ancient cospeciations.
4088674|Physical characteristics of the nesting habitat of the endangered Hawaiian Dark-rumped Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia sandwichensis), nesting on Haleakala volcano, Maui, were quantified in order to determine whether birds were choosing nesting sites nonrandomly. Nesting habitat was sampled at three spatial scales: burrow (within immediate vicinity of a petrel burrow), colony (10-60 m from a petrel burrow), and landscape (1,000-m transects through habitat containing colonies). We used a probability model based on logistic regression to discriminate among the three sampling scales. The model was quite successful in reclassifying the locations, correctly identifying over 91% of the burrow sites as such. In general, burrows were located on steep slopes under large rocks in the vicinity of shrub cover. This set of characteristics was not indicative of habitat at either the colony or landscape scales. Our study reveals two important aspects in evaluating habitat preferences for the Dark-rumped Petrel population on Haleakala: (1) habitat must be evaluated multidimensionally, and (2) important aspects of habitat associations may become apparent only at certain scales. The nesting range of the Dark-rumped Petrel is currently severely restricted from historical levels to extreme elevations within Haleakala National Park. Probability models such as ours can be useful in delineating suitable habitat patches where, in this case, Dark-rumped Petrel burrows have a higher probability of being found. This approach is powerful because it can make use of remotely sensed and stored data sets to direct and refine on-the-ground searches.
10.2307/4090400| Although the effects of habitat edges on avian nesting success are well documented for forest ecosystems and for forest-interior species, there is almost no evidence for nonforest, agriculturally dominated landscapes, namely for the matrix of shrubby wetlands and agricultural land. In 1995-1998 I searched for and monitored nests of the Scarlet Rosefinch (Carpodacus erythrinus) in pristine patches of shrubby wet meadow to evaluate the generality of the "edge effect on nest predation" hypothesis. Predation was the major cause of nest failure, accounting for 92.3% of total nest losses. Microhabitat features of the nest sites were not related to proximity to agricultural edges. The model best describing variation in daily nest-survival rates (DSRs) included nest concealment and distance to agricultural edge. Nest survivorship for the entire nesting period was estimated at 41% (1,143 exposure days, n = 79 nests) for edge nests (<100 m from and edge) and 83% (1,831 exposure days, n = 96) for interior nests, respectively. The DSRs were also consistently higher in large than in small wetland patches. Using habitat-specific demographic parameters, I found that per-capita annual productivity was 66.3% higher in core areas than in edge areas (4.14 and 2.49 fledglings, respectively). Three key components of annual reproductive success-brood size, nest success, and renesting rate-contributed unevenly to variation in site-specific annual per-capita productivity, only the latter two being important predictors. The results indicate that edge habitats may not be perceived as suboptimal by breeding individuals, despite high rates of brood loss there. /// Aunque los efectos de borde de hbitat sobre el xito de nidificacin de las aves han sido bien documentados para ecosistemas forestales y para especies de interior de bosque, la evidencia es prcticamente inexistente para paisajes no forestales dominados por cultivos, como la matriz de humedales arbustivos y tierras agrcolas. Para evaluar la generalidad de la hiptesis del efecto de borde sobre la depredacin de nidos, busqu y monitore nidos de Carpodacus erythrinus en parches prstinos de praderas arbustivas hmedas entre 1995 y 1998. La depredacin fue la causa principal del fracaso de los nidos, correspondiendo al 92.3% del total de nidos fallidos. Las caractersticas del microhbitat de los sitios de nidificacin no estuvieron relacionadas con la proximidad a los bordes agrcolas. El modelo que mejor describi la variacin en las tasas de supervivencia diaria de los nidos (TSD) incluy datos de qu tan ocultos estaban y la distancia al borde agrcola. La supervivencia de los nidos a travs de todo el perodo de nidificacin se estim en 41% (1143 das de exposicin, n nidos = 79) para nidos de borde (ubicados a menos de 100 m de un borde) y 83% (1831 das de exposicin, n nidos = 96) para nidos de interior. Las TSD tambin fueron consistentemente mayores en parches grandes de humedales que en parches pequeos. Utilizando parmetros demogrficos especficos para cada hbitat, encontr que la productividad anual per cpita fue un 66.3% mayor en reas de interior que en res de borde (4.14 y 2.49 volantones, respectivamente). Tres componentes claves del xito reproductivo anual (el tamao de la nidada, el xito de nidificacin y la tasa de renidificacin) no contribuyeron de forma equivalente a la variacin en la productividad anual per cpita entre sitios; slo los ltimos dos componentes fueron importantes. Los resultados indican que los ambientes de borde podran no ser percibidos como subptimos por los individuos nidificantes, a pesar de sus altas tasas de prdida de nidadas. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10283|Forest soils in many areas of the world are becoming increasingly acidified, in part because of atmospheric deposition of strong acids produced by the burning of fossil fuels. Soil acidification and subsequent calcium depletion of forest soils in eastern North America have the potential to affect forest songbird populations negatively by reducing the availability of calcium-rich food items that are critical for reproduction. Nonetheless, little experimental evidence exists for the purported relationship between soil calcium and avian reproduction. Our objective was to use an experimental and observational study to determine how forest songbird-habitat quality is related to soil calcium availability. We experimentally elevated soil calcium using limestone sand and observed a 1.8-fold increase in Ovenbird (
10.1525/auk.2010.09222|The taxonomic identity of endangered populations of the Least Tern (
10.2307/4088003| Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) in Sweden have low levels of variation in nuclear genes relative to most other bird species. This lack of variation has been attributed to population bottlenecks caused by Pleistocene glaciations. We studied mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation in 20 Pied Flycatchers from four Swedish localities. Eight restriction endonucleases yielded a total of 207-212 DNA fragments (approximately 5% of the mtDNA genome). The mean pairwise divergence between the individuals was 0.35  0.16% (range 0.00-0.82%), which suggests that the 18 identified mtDNA clones diverged within the past million years, and that the majority of clones evolved within the last 100,000 years. If genetic variation was reduced by prolonged bottlenecking during the last glacial period, low protein heterozygosity and high variability in mtDNA can be explained by a difference in rates of recovery of nuclear and mtDNA variation. The Pied Flycatcher in northern Europe may have only recently begun to regain variation in nuclear genes, whereas considerable variation in mtDNA has already accumulated through mutation. 
10.2307/4086779| Experimental manipulations of clutch size showed that neither incubation nor brood rearing constrains clutch size of Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors). Manipulated nests with small (x = 4.9), normal (x = 9.9), or large (x = 16.0) clutch sizes did not differ significantly in nest success (72.5%), hatchability (94.8%), or incubation periods (24.5 days). Survival of ducklings hatching from experimental nests was not related to the initial size of the brood, nor was duckling weight (at 35 days post-hatch) related to the initial brood size. Differences in duckling survival rates between years were associated with pronounced differences in habitat conditions. The variance of survival rates did not differ between the three brood size classes in either the wet or dry years. The variance in success among normal and large broods was significantly greater than that predicted from a binomial distribution. The size of the clutch being incubated did not affect the weight of females in late incubation, nor did brood size affect the weight of females accompanying nearly flying young. The results from this study are consistent with most of the limited data available for other waterfowl. 
10.2307/4089334|Some of the 16 dove species in the genus Streptopelia are very similar with respect to plumage pattern, but all seem to produce species-specific "perch-coo" vocalizations. Here, we describe variation in perch-coo recordings of all 16 species. All individuals could be correctly classified by species in a discriminant function analysis, which means that the overlap in inter- and intraspecific variation was limited for the total set of acoustic parameters. Interspecific similarity in acoustic parameters was compared with taxonomic classification, based upon qualitative morphological characteristics and geographic distribution (Goodwin 1983). The clustering of species using the acoustic data set showed little congruence with taxonomic clustering. This indicates that differentiation in plumage pattern does not necessarily coincide with differentiation in acoustic characteristics. However, our analysis did not completely contradict the subdivision into four taxonomic groups based on morphology and distribution. Two of the four putative groups differed significantly from the other groups in one of the components of a principal components analysis. Vocal differentiation in Streptopelia doves was strongest in temporal components, which is in line with expectations based on the evolutionarily conservative syringeal constraints.
4087666|Wing tags influenced Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) unfavorably for up to four years after they were marked. Fewer tagged birds returned to the colony site, and birds that returned arrived approximately one week later, on average, than leg-banded birds. Although arrival dates and hatching dates were unrelated, the eggs of tagged birds hatched 2-5 days later than those of banded birds. Pair bonds of tagged birds were broken more often than those of banded birds. This may have contributed to delayed hatching. Most wing-tagged females (54-60%) that returned to the colony were unable to acquire mates. Birds whose tags were replaced with color bands resumed normal reproductive performance. Wing tags presumably interfered with Ring-billed Gull migration and had pronounced, long-term effects on behavior and reproduction. The potential impact of marking techniques must be evaluated carefully before or during any study of avian behavior.
4084891| The oxygen consumption, total evaporative water loss, and deep-body temperatures of Sooty Terns were measured at air temperatures within the range 10-45C. At air temperatures from 10C to 30C, the cloacal temperatures were relatively constant, the temperature of the fledglings tending to exceed that of the adults. At air temperatures of 35C and higher, the birds became hyperthermic. The thermoneutral temperature was approximately 30C. The heat production of the terns was lower than the predicted value for nonpasserine birds of their weight. Thermal polypnea was observed at the higher air temperatures, but at an air temperature of 44-45C, only one bird was able to dissipate heat in excess of heat production by evaporative cooling. The calculated thermal conductance was constant at air temperatures of 10-30C, but the conductance increased at higher temperatures. It was concluded that Sooty Terns are not especially proficient at evaporative cooling, in spite of the thermal demands of their tropical environment. They appear to rely also on a rather low level of heat production, air movement, and behavorial mechanisms of temperature regulation. 
4086975|The thermal insulation of the down and feathers of Chinstrap (Pygoscelis antarctica) and Gentoo (P. papua) penguin chicks was measured throughout development in still air and in wind parallel and perpendicular to the plumage. Insulation increased with age. Whole-body insulation of chicks measured in still air (body core to environment) was significantly correlated with the insulation of their pelts at a given age. The insulation of the downy pelts of 10- and 15-day-old chicks was significantly lower than that of all older chicks, and explains the dependence of chicks of that age on continuous brooding by parents, despite their high thermogenic capacities. The down of older chicks provided good insulation in wind speeds of 3-5 m/s. With no wind, the down of Gentoos immediately before molting was a better insulator than feathers of prefledged chicks. The insulation of the feathers of prefledged chicks in parallel air flow up to 5 m/s was 87-112% of its value in still air. However, the insulation increased at higher wind speeds; in Gentoo pelts at winds of 15 m/s, it averaged 136% (maximum 179%) of the insulation in still air. Increasing insulative values of feathers or fur under increasing wind speeds have not been demonstrated previously in any bird or mammal. The insulation of down at various wind speeds and micrometeorological data from the Gentoo Penguin rookery on King George Island, Antarctica were compared. It follows that heat loss of older downy Gentoo chicks is not affected significantly by wind. These chicks can remain within their thermoneutral zones on windy days.
10.2307/4089986| We continuously recorded temperatures of the nest cup
10.2307/25150223| Distance and direction of natal dispersal were studied in a Polish White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) population on the basis of 25 years of banding and resighting data. Multiple regression analysis showed a significant sex-linked bias (females settled farther from the natal sites than males) and effect of banding year, in that dispersal distances were decreasing toward the end of the study period. Population indices in the hatching year and the presumed recruitment year did not help to explain the variance. The birds showed a trend toward settling southeast of the natal site, but this was significant only in individuals that settled within 50 km of the natal site. We suggest that when returning from winter sites in the southeast, young White Storks settle before they reach their presumed migratory target in the vicinity of the natal site. This is only possible if, in spite of a relatively high population density, many breeding areas and potential nesting sites remain vacant. This might also explain our failure to find density dependence in the interannual variation of dispersal distances. ///    Ciconia ciconia   25-             .        (     ,  )  :       .               .    -        ,      50 .  ,          -,    ,          .    ,       ,          .      ,            . 
10.2307/4086771|Incidental catches of 12,243 Common Murres (Uria aalge), 875 Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica), 36 Black Guillemots (Cepphus grylle), and 9 Razorbills (Alca torda) were recorded off Newfoundland during the summers of 1980-1982 (26,445 net-days of fishing effort). Most catch occurred in stationary gill nets set on the sea floor at depths of up to 180 m and revealed that murres, Razorbills, puffins, and guillemots can dive to depths of at least 180, 120, 60, and 50 m, respectively. Diving ability appeared to be directly correlated with body size.
10.2307/4089384|I measured population dynamics and cooperative breeding in an isolated population of Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) on an urban barrier island in southern Brevard County, Florida. In 1992, the scrub-jay population consisted of 29 breeding pairs within six population clusters that comprised two subpopulations. By 1998, the population declined to 10 pairs in four clusters because of poor reproductive success. The frequency of breeding by one-year-olds was related to the availability of breeding vacancies that increased as the population declined. Nearly half of the breeding vacancies were filled by jays that had bred previously but lost their mates. Sex differences in dispersal tendencies led to frequent exchanges of females (but not males) among clusters. The largest clusters did not sustain the smallest ones. Mortality of scrub-jays that resided in the smallest subpopulation exceeded reproductive success, but this subpopulation served as a net source of replacement breeders for the largest subpopulation as the population declined.
4085400| To test the hypothesis that wing molt causes nutritional stress for geese and ducks, I investigated what effect wing molt has on nutrient reserves of adult Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens). The study was done in 1971 and 1972 at the McConnell River (6050N, 9425W), Northwest Territories, Canada. Body weight, weight of body fat, dry weight of breast and leg muscle, and leg bone weight were used to index reserves. The data showed that these geese rely very little, if at all, on catabolism of body tissue to obtain nutrients for feather growth. Thus, I conclude that the molt does not cause nutritional stress for Lesser Snow Geese. I argue that this is predictable and suggest that it is true of other waterfowl. 
25488519|We examined the effects of mate and site fidelity on Western Sandpiper (
10.2307/4088825|We investigated seasonal changes in the body condition of migrant and resident Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura meridionalis and C. a. ruficollis), as well as Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus brasiliensis), in the Llanos of central Venezuela. Although the condition of adult migrants was below average in October and November following migration from the breeding grounds, it increased through the dry season to reach a peak before northward migration in March and April. Juvenile (FY; first-year) migrant Turkey Vultures followed a similar trend, but their condition improved more slowly than adults, perhaps due to intraspecific competition. The condition and mass of Black Vultures also increased through the dry season. This suggested that abundant carrion was available for vultures in the Llanos during the dry season. However, the condition of resident Turkey Vultures was below average when sympatric with migrants, whereas they were in above-average condition when migrants were absent. Unlike the linear relationship between condition and date in migrants, this relationship for residents was quadratic (second-order polynomial). Strikingly, condition of resident Turkey Vultures was negatively correlated with the density of Cathartes vultures (almost entirely migrants) during the study period. Migrant Turkey Vultures were significantly larger than resident Turkey Vultures in the majority of body measurements, explaining why they were dominant to residents in agonistic interactions at carcasses. These results may reflect the detrimental consequences of competition between migrant and resident Turkey Vultures on the condition of residents, and the physiological effects of migration on the condition of migrant Turkey Vultures.
10.2307/4089328|Bird songs often can be described as strings of individually distinct units called syllables. Toward furthering our understanding of the processes and consequences of vocal learning, geographic variation in vocalizations may be as important at the syllable level as it is at the song level. To examine geographic patterns of song variation at the syllable level in House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus), we analyzed the syllable repertoires of 91 males at 21 sites in northern Colorado. Analyses were performed and comparisons were made among individual birds within and between sites. Using Jaccard's similarity coefficient, we determined that syllable sharing among birds was significantly greater within sites and among sites less than 5 km apart than at greater distances. Within a site, any two birds usually did not share the majority of their syllable types, but discriminant function analysis showed that approximately 63% of the birds possessed syllable repertoires that matched most closely those of other birds at the same site. Less than 5% of the birds sang syllables that most closely matched those of birds at a site more than 20 km away. Our results suggest that House Finches in northern Colorado exhibit localized syllable sharing and that syllable sharing decreases exponentially with distance, but we found no evidence for discrete syllable dialects. Geographic variation in bird song typically has been evaluated using whole songs. Depending on how birds assess the singing behavior of other individuals and perceive differences in songs, it may be important to examine geographic variation and population differences at the syllable level as well.
40406709|The Southern Swamp Sparrow (
4086716|Female Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) begin diurnal attentiveness with the laying of the first egg but withhold nocturnal incubation until the penultimate egg is laid. To better understand this behavior, we measured hatching times, egg volumes, and patterns of nestling growth and mortality over a 4-yr period in Z. l. oriantha breeding at Tioga Pass, California. Additional data from 11 yr of study on nestling mortality and nest predation also were examined. Hatching patterns matched the attentiveness patterns observed during the egg-laying period. Eggs tended to hatch in the order of laying, and the time period between hatching of the last two eggs was greater than between other successive eggs. The lag between the hatching of the last two eggs showed a slight increase over the course of the breeding season. Although chicks from last-laid eggs came from generally larger eggs, they tended to be smaller than their siblings because of the hatching asynchrony. Smaller chicks died or disappeared with greater frequency than their larger siblings from nests when the effective food supply had been reduced experimentally. Such selective starvation or "brood reduction" may occur naturally in as many as 14% of all successful nests. The phenomenon of brood reduction is discussed in relation to four current hypotheses, while also considering the implications of intraclutch variations in egg volume. Although hatching asynchrony may provide the advantages proposed in these hypotheses, there is reason to believe that it originally evolved for other reasons. We propose that hatching asynchrony is an epiphenomenon of the hormonal mechanism governing egg-laying and incubation. This hypothesis provides a testable alternative to existing "adaptive" hypotheses.
10.2307/4088150|We studied the effect of growth rate, final size, hatching sequence, hatching asynchrony, and fledging asynchrony on the fledging age of Black and Red kites (Milvus migrans and M. milvus). Feather growth explained 43% and 38% of the variance in fledging age of Black and Red kites, respectively. Fledging age increased with hatching sequence and increased fledging asynchrony in relation to initial hatching asynchrony of both species, especially in broods of three chicks. Once the effect of growth was removed, no differences in fledging age related to hatching sequence were found in the Red Kite, but there was still a delay in fledging of third-hatched Black Kite chicks. Synchronous fledging of first- and second-hatched Black Kite chicks seemed to occur when both chicks had grown at a similar rate, and was caused by a delay in the fledging of the first-hatched chick. First-hatched Black Kite chicks did not delay fledging if second-hatched chicks experienced reduced growth. Differences between the two species in the third-hatched-chick fledging delay could be due to differences in nest provisioning by adults during the postfledging dependence period. Red Kites reduced provisioning to the nest as soon as the first chick fledged, while Black Kites maintained nest provisioning longer. No evidence was found supporting the idea that parents may reduce feedings to hasten first flight of their offspring.
10.1525/auk.2009.09132|Declining populations of grassland breeding birds have led to increased efforts to assess habitat quality, typically by estimating density or relative abundance. Because some grassland habitats may function as ecological traps, a more appropriate metric for determining quality is breeding success, which is challenging to determine for many cryptic-nesting grassland birds. This difficulty led
4086286|Olson (1983) questioned the hypothesis that the order Piciformes is monophyletic and suggested instead that each piciform suborder is allied with a nonpiciform group. His attempt to discredit the synapomorphies joining the Galbulae and Pici is refuted by corrections of his interpretations of previous work. The Piciformes share a complex derived hindlimb morphology involving zygodactyly, a tripartite flexor hallucis longus, and Type VI flexor tendons. Olson's argument for polyphyly combines inadequate data with the inappropriate technique of equating general overall similarity with affinity. His hypothesis is therefore rejected. Problems concerning fossil taxa are also discussed. Based on current information, we believe that a monophyletic origin of the Piciformes remains the hypothesis of choice.
10.2307/4088598|Previous researchers have suggested that egg production in American Coots (Fulica americana) is limited by food availability for the laying female. I studied patterns of variation in laying date, clutch size, egg size, and laying rate of American Coots from 1985-1991 in southwestern Manitoba. Annual variation was evident for all four of these traits. Clutch size declined seasonally during most years, but the rate of decline differed markedly among years. These temporal patterns of variation in laying performance provided a template for assessing the relative importance of food availability. I provided coots with supplemental food during four breeding seasons (1987-1989 and 1991) to determine whether variation in laying performance could be attributed to food availability for the laying female. Supplementally fed coots nested one to two days earlier and laid about one more egg than did controls, but this represented only 1 and 3% of the observed variation in laying date and clutch size, respectively. In contrast, annual effects accounted for 12% of the variation in laying date, and annual plus seasonal effects accounted for 38% of the variation in clutch size. Supplemental food did not affect egg size or laying rate. Feeding effects were independent of year and date, suggesting that most natural variation in laying performance was independent of food availability. I conclude that reproduction in American Coots was weakly limited by food availability for the laying female. Alternatively, supplemental food may have caused female coots to modify their laying date and clutch size in anticipation of future food abundance during the brood-rearing period, but this hypothesis will be difficult to test.
4090645| Brood parasitism selects for defensive mechanisms that enhance host fitness. Therefore, host populations under different parasitism pressures may express different levels of defense against brood parasites. We tested the rejection responses of currently parasitized and unparasitized Common Redstart (Phoenicurus phoenicurus) populations in Finland to artificial Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) eggs. We predicted a higher level of defense in the parasitized population, but in fact the rejection rate was higher in the nonparasitized population. Nonmimetic artificial eggs were rejected more often than mimetic ones. Desertion probability was higher in the nonparasitized population and was independent of artificial egg type. Common Redstarts in the parasitized population rejected the artificial eggs mostly through ejection, whereas desertion was a more frequent rejection method in the nonparasitized population. Our results suggest that current selection pressures from brood parasites do not always explain the current levels of defense. /// El parasitismo de nidada estimula la seleccin de mecanismos de defensa que aumentan la adecuacin biolgica del husped. Por lo tanto, las poblaciones de huspedes bajo diferentes presiones de parasitismo pueden expresar niveles diferentes de defensa contra el parasitismo de nidada. Evaluamos las respuesta de rechazo de poblaciones actualmente parasitadas y no parasitadas de Phoenicurus phoenicurus en Finlandia a la presencia de huevos artificiales de Cuculus canorus. Predijimos un nivel ms alto de defensa en la poblacin parasitada, pero en realidad la tasa de rechazo fue mayor en la poblacin no parasitada. Los huevos artificiales no mimticos fueron rechazados ms frecuentemente que los huevos mimticos. La probabilidad de desercin fue ms alta en la poblacin no parasitada y fue independiente del tipo de huevo artificial. Los individuos de P. phoenicurus de la poblacin parasitada rechazaron los huevos artificiales generalmente arrojndolos del nido, mientras que la desercin fue un modo de rechazo ms frecuente en la poblacin no parasitada. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las presiones actuales de seleccin causadas por el parasitismo de nidada no siempre explican los niveles actuales de defensa. 
10.2307/4089202|We examined use of brood-rearing sites by female Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) that nested at Tutakoke River, Alaska, 1987 to 1993. Adult females exhibited fidelity to brood-rearing sites; however, we observed site-specific and annual variation in movements among sites. Site fidelity of adults was not related to their hatching date, and hatching dates of females did not vary among brood-rearing sites, suggesting that site selection was unaffected by competition. Movement among sites was affected by distance between sites, but this relationship varied annually and among sites. Variation in forage characteristics may affect movements among sites. Natal-site fidelity was equal to fidelity probability of adults, indicating social inheritance of sites and perhaps facilitation through nepotism. We observed heterogeneity in survival probabilities of goslings and adults among sites. For goslings, heterogeneity in survival was probably related to variation in growth. We observed no relationship between hatching date and use of brood-rearing sites. Previously documented seasonal declines in growth of goslings are more likely affected by declines in forage quality and abundance than by site-specific variation in forage characteristics because use of brood-rearing sites was not related to hatching dates.
10.2307/4089191|White-throated Magpie-Jays (Calocitta formosa) breed cooperatively and defend permanent, all-purpose group territories. We measured territory area, resource levels, resource dispersion, group size, and group reproductive success for 14 groups over a three-year period in Costa Rica. Larger groups possessed larger territories containing more bull-horn acacia trees (Acacia cornigera and A. collinsii), which provided a critical food resource during the dry season. On a per capita basis, however, the number of acacia trees and territory area were the same for group members regardless of group size, and survivorship did not vary significantly with group size. Variation in reproductive success among groups was influenced by two factors: (1) larger groups produced more successful nests per year, and (2) territories with a higher density of acacia trees fledged more offspring per successful nest. Magpie-jays bred in pasture and foraged primarily in woodland; both habitat types were patchily distributed. The dispersion of woodland and pasture patches in the landscape appeared to constrain where jays could form territories, whereas the amount of acacia and other food resources determined the size that groups could attain. We conclude that ecological factors are critical to understanding the White-throated Magpie-Jay social system, along with other social and demographic constraints typically found in avian cooperative breeders.
4085442|We studied nest site selection and competitive interactions in a natural, unditched salt marsh colony of 5,000 pairs of Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) and 800 pairs of Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) in Barnegat Bay, New Jersey. Although Laughing Gulls have nested on this island for many years, Herring Gulls first nested there in 1964. Most Herring Gulls nested under Iva bushes, although some nested in Spartina patens. Early nesting pairs placed their nests in bushes while late-nesting pairs built randomly with respect to bushes and grass. Laughing Gulls nested primarily in Spartina alterniflora growth among many pools and pans, selecting the highest locations for nests. Early-nesting pairs nested on higher spots than late-nesting pairs. Nest site selection is a compromise between the conflicting selection pressures of tides, weather, cannibalism, predation, territorial behavior, and nest-building behavior. Nest requirements of these two gulls overlap up to 20% with respect to species of vegetation, elevation of sites selected, and vegetational characteristics. As Herring Gulls arrive and begin nesting before Laughing Gulls, and are considerably larger, they have a competitive advantage. The rapid increase of Herring Gulls on Clam Island suggests further competition as they spread into Laughing Gull nesting areas, leading to possible displacement of Laughing Gulls from this and similar islands.
4087957|During the 1920s, the breeding range of Larus argentatus (Herring Gulls) expanded to Iceland, which enabled secondary contact with L. hyperboreus (Glaucous Gulls). Variable patterns of primary feather melanism exhibited by L. argentatus in Iceland suggest subsequent interspecific hybridization with L. hyperboreus. However, plumage patterns of Icelandic L. argentatus are not significantly more variable than those of northern Norwegian conspecifics. The skeletal morphology of Icelandic L. argentatus populations is not significantly more variable than that of allopatric populations of L. argentatus, L. cachinnans (Yellow-legged Herring Gulls), or the significantly larger L. hyperboreus, as would be predicted in a population composed of variably introgressed hybrids. I hypothesize that intermediate plumage patterns in these Icelandic gulls represent the genetic legacy of light-winged L. argentatus founders, possibly dispersed from Scandinavia, where light-winged L. argentatus individuals are present, albeit in low frequency.
4085555|Studies of dark- and light-phase Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) during 1975-1977 revealed highly significant assortative mating by the color phases. Of 1,185 pair observations made during 2 yr in Utah, only 1.2% represented mixed pairs; the expected frequency of mixed pairs assuming random mating was 33%. Only two mixed pairs were noted in over 600 independent pair observations in California and Oregon. Mixed pairs with broods represented 0.25% of 766 broods surveyed. Nest initiation dates were significantly different between color phases in 1975 and 1976. Plumage development of captive chicks revealed striking differences; black crown feathers emerged 30-40 days later on light-phase chicks. Morphologically, only total culmen length for females differed significantly between color phases. Analysis of spatial distribution clearly indicates that light-phase birds are nonrandomly distributed among and within winter and summer flocks and among and within nesting colonies. The data from Utah and California reveal that dark- and light-phase Western Grebes behave as separate biological species. Isolating mechanisms may involve a combination of inter-color-phase recognition and spatial segregation.
10.2307/4088775|Relationships among eight species of flowerpiercers in the genus Diglossa (Thraupidae) are addressed using data from allozymes, mtDNA sequences, and male plumages. Molecular evolution of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene in this group parallels what has been reported for other birds. Molecular data reveal high levels of genetic differentiation among the taxa studied. There is concordance of evolution among mtDNA sequences, allozymes, and plumages for the three taxa in the Diglossa baritula superspecies complex. The pattern of phylogeny in the complex suggests that plumbea (highlands of southern Central America) is most closely related to baritula (highlands of northern Central America). Diglossa sittoides (highlands of South America) is the sister taxon to the baritula/plumbea clade. The pattern of phylogeny and genetic distances suggest that divergence of taxa in the baritula superspecies complex occurred as the result of both dispersal and vicariance during the Pleistocene.
25488729|Because of the continuing loss of native grasslands, many shorebirds that breed in the temperate zone have become increasingly dependent on non-native grasslands associated with farming for breeding habitat. But invasive land-management in non-native grasslands has placed ground-nesting shorebirds at considerable risk. We studied the reproductive success of Long-billed Curlews (
4088045|We studied the energetics of growth and maturation of sympatric Western Bluebird (Sialia mexicana) and Ash-throated Flycatcher (Myiarchus cinerascens) nestlings in the San Jacinto Mountains, Riverside County, California. Both species fledge at a body mass of 27-28 g, but the flycatcher leaves the nest 4-5 days earlier than the bluebird. The growth curves of these two species become asymptotic by 14 days of age. Energy budgets, derived from estimates of CO
4086650|Intraspecific variation in plumage was used to test the null hypotheses that geographic variation in 280 species of elevationally restricted Andean forest birds is independent of elevation and is not a function of patchy geographic distribution. Both null hypotheses were rejected. At most taxonomic levels, geographic variation in plumage was correlated positively with both the mean of its elevational distribution and the size of its geographic range. Vertical amplitude of elevational distribution was not a significant predictor of geographic variation in plumage in most taxa. Independent of these elevational correlates, patchily distributed species showed significantly more geographic variation than continuously distributed species. These results show that geographic variation and presumably ongoing speciation phenomena are greater at higher elevations. The decreased species richness at high elevations may be attributable to a higher rate of extinction from catastrophic disturbance as well as to ecological factors that limit sympatry in newly formed species.
10.2307/4089513|We collected data on breeding success, nestling mass, fledging data, and recruitment of Eurasian Nuthatch (Sitta europaea) nesting attempts in a number of small (<30 ha) forest fragments and parks, as well as in two larger (>200 ha) forests. Most study areas were dominated by well-developed oak stands. We found no differences in reproductive parameters between fragments and the two large forests, nor any relationship with the size or degree of isolation of individual fragments. Failed nests more often were taken over by nest competitors (particularly starlings) in fragments, but this did not seem to affect overall success rates. Pairs nesting in parks had a lower chance to produce recruits than pairs in similarsized oak fragments, and early broods recruited more offspring than late broods. We conclude that fragmentation does not affect the suitability of mature oak stands for reproduction of nuthatches within the size range of oak stands frequented by this species.
10.1525/auk.2010.09254|Birds with single-sex incubation must resolve tradeoffs in time allocated between incubation and foraging by adopting optimal incubation strategies. We used temperature loggers to study the incubation behavior of the Blood Pheasant (
4085929| This study analyzes ecological and morphological relations of the Black-throated Gray (Dendroica nigrescens; BTG) and Hermit (D. occidentalis; HW) warblers in western Oregon. Wing and tail lengths differed between the male and female of each species. Wing shapes, however, were similar between sexes within each species. Playback experiments showed strong responses to homospecific songs by the HW and BTG in areas of allopatry and sympatry. Response to heterospecific song was evident only in areas of allopatry for the two species. Habitats used by the HW were characterized by relatively heavy total conifer cover. The BTG used habitats with relatively heavy deciduous tree cover. Territories of the two species overlapped in an ecotone between stands dominated by conifer and those dominated by oak. The habitat utilization functions of the species did not overlap. The type and proportion of foraging maneuvers used were also similar for both species and sexes. Use of trees usually occurred at different heights for sexes of HW. Comparison of male BTG with both male and female HW showed a slight possibility of encounter while foraging. Indices of foraging height diversity (J) were similar between species and sexes, except for the female HW, which had a higher J. Overlap while foraging was minimized because of the lack of substantial overlap in habitat use for the two species. The division of foraging zones is discussed in relation to morphology and habitat use. 
10.2307/4088933|Each fall, migrating Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) are counted at traditional raptor-migration watch sites in eastern North America. During the 1980s and early 1990s, declines in the numbers of Sharp-shinned Hawks sighted at many of these sites raised concerns about the population status of the species. Using count data from Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, Pennsylvania, and Cape May Point, New Jersey, we offer additional evidence that the reported decline is greater at raptor-migration watch sites along the Atlantic coast than at sites farther inland. Band-recovery data for fall migrants indicate that Hawk Mountain Sanctuary and Cape May Point count birds that essentially are from the same eastern population. An analysis of Christmas-bird-count data for easternmost North America during the 1980s indicates significant increases in the numbers of Sharp-shinned Hawks observed north of the two sites. We suggest that at least part of the decline in numbers of Sharp-shinned Hawks sighted at traditional watch sites in eastern North America may result from migratory short stopping.
4086419|Grayson's Dove (Zenaida graysoni) is extinct in the wild but is still found in aviaries. It has been treated variously as a full species or as a subspecies of the Mourning Dove (Z. macroura). The two taxa differ in shape, color, and color pattern of the rectrices and can be readily distinguished by characteristics of museum skins. They also differ in vocalizations and visual displays. Previous studies described differences in serology. The two taxa interbreed only rarely in captivity. It is proposed that Z. graysoni be recognized as a full species, closely related to Z. macroura.
4088467| The Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin) is the only avian folivore known to have fermentative digestion in the crop. We compare results on nesting, growth, and feeding in Piero Ranch, Cojedes State, Venezuela, with results from another location in the Venezuelan plains. The Hoatzin nests in trees abundant in the habitat. Nests containing two eggs were predominant. Growth rate of chicks was linear over the nesting period (5.68 g/day). The diet of the Hoatzin consisted of young leaves and twigs of some of the most abundant trees in its habitat. Although there are no reports on the phytochemistry of dietary plants, families to which these plants belong include plants known to contain secondary compounds. The crop, which functions as a mediator in plant-Hoatzin interactions and as a detoxification chamber, deserves further study. 
auk.2012.11196|Flooding can cause widespread nest failure and chick mortality in sandbar- and beach-nesting waterbirds, particularly when human activity has either altered natural hydrology or limited available nesting habitat. Such widespread reproductive failure could increase breeding-season dispersal, leading to the abandonment of established nesting sites. We examined how annual movement () varied by sex, reproductive success, and flooding in three Piping Plover (
10.2307/4089725|Area sensitivity in songbirds is commonly attributed to increased nest predation in forest fragments. In 1995 and 1996, we tested whether the nest predators and nesting success of an area-sensitive forest bird, the Eastern Yellow Robin (Eopsaltria australis), varied with fragment size, and we also conducted an artificial nest experiment. The study occurred in two small (55 ha) and two large (>400 ha) forest fragments in a matrix of agricultural land in New South Wales, Australia. Predation accounted for 95% of all failures of 282 robin nests, and the survival of robin nests was negatively correlated with how frequently we observed avian nest predators near nests (i.e. nest-predator activity). Of 461 artificial nests, 84% were depredated, nearly all (99%) by birds. Thus, birds were important predators of nests. The abundance, species richness, and activity of avian nest predators were not related to fragment size. Survival of robin nests averaged 19%; nests in small fragments had a 22% chance of producing at least one fledgling compared with 15% in large fragments, but the difference was not significant. Survival of artificial nests averaged 12% in both small and large fragments. Nest-predator activity accounted for the most variation (68%) in the fate of robin nests, followed by the cumulative density of open-cup nesters (16%). The placement of robin nests had no influence on nest fate. We conclude that nest predation was not area dependent and propose food supply as an alternative hypothesis to explain area sensitivity. We suggest that, rather than being related to fragment size, nest predation increases with decreasing forest cover in a landscape. Increased nest predation in fragmented compared with contiguous landscapes may lower the population viability of songbirds in a region, and hence regional numbers. Therefore, the spatial scale at which fragmentation influences nest predation and songbird populations must be considered carefully.
90008548|Androgenic activation of intracellular androgen receptors (AR) influences avian vocal production, though this has largely been investigated at the level of the brain. We investigated the influence of predominantly peripheral AR on vocal output in wild Golden-collared Manakins (
10.1525/auk.2010.09124|The riparian habitats of the arid southwestern United States provide critical stopover habitat for avian migrants, but they have been severely altered by invasive tamarisk (
10.2307/4089371| We sampled bacteria from the plumage of 1,588 individuals of 83 species of birds. Feather-degrading bacteria, those able to extract energy and nutrients by breaking up -keratin, were isolated from 134 individuals in 32 species. Nine of 11 samples of feather-degrading (keratinolytic) bacteria were identified as Bacillus licheniformis, one as B. pumilus, and one as a Bacillus of undetermined species. A strong correlation between occurrence of keratinolytic bacilli and the number of birds sampled per species suggests that feather-degrading bacilli are widespread among birds. The bacillus occurred on 6.7 to 10.7% of birds and showed little annual variation. The incidence of birds with feather-degrading bacilli was highest in late fall and winter and lowest in early spring and late summer. The bacilli occurred most frequently on the venter and less commonly on the dorsum and tail. They occurred most frequently on ground-foraging species and least frequently on aerial-foraging species. Regardless of avian species, time of year, or area of the bird from which the bacilli were isolated, the rate at which bacilli degraded feathers was similar. Because bacilli are active only when conditions are warm and humid, we suggest that they degrade feathers during the summer when the bird becomes wet, for example during thunderstorms. Such feather degradation may contribute to the deterioration of feathers and be a selective force in the evolution and timing of molt. 
4087724| I observed 25 Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) nests during the nestling period. Eleven (44%) were deserted by the female parent, one (4%) by the male, and three (12%) by both parents. Deserters of both sexes left nests soon after single parent care became feasible (x = 22  4 days after hatching, ca. 40% of the time from hatching to the independence of young). Small broods were deserted significantly more frequently than large ones. No chicks died after uniparental desertion. Deserters reacquired courtship coloration on their lores and repeatedly visited particular sites away from their nests before desertion, which suggests that they paired with new mates before leaving their primary nests. During biparental care periods, I found no sexual difference in feeding frequency, though males attended their young longer than females in the daytime. The tendency for female egrets to become ready to remate earlier than males may be because they invest less prezygotic effort in second breeding attempts than males. Males have to establish new territories and guard their new mates against extrapair copulations, although male-biased operational sex ratio also might favor female desertion. 
10.2307/4085266|The similarity in song, habits, and habitat in the Song Sparrow and Bewick's Wren stimulated a study of their interactions in western Washington. Both species respond to models and song of the other species more intensely than to the Black-capped Chickadee, but less intensely than to their own species. Both birds showed a gradual decrease in aggressive behavior to conspecifics over the breeding season, the Bewick's Wren response rising somewhat early in the season before gradually declining over the rest of the study period. While the Bewick's Wren showed a strong decrease in response levels to the Song Sparrow over time, the Song Sparrow showed a significant drop in aggressive response toward the Bewick's Wren at the time the first brood was fledged, the response rising again at the time of the appearance of the second clutch. The Song Sparrow and the Bewick's Wren represent a sustained bidirectional system of interspecific aggression. This system may be more sensitive to changes in breeding behavior over the season than is the intraspecific system. Where they coexist they forage at slightly different heights and on slightly different food, but overlap sufficiently so that aggression and similarity of song have evolved as still other mechanisms to reduce competition.
4085891|This paper proposes that avian classifications should express the content of natural groups, that is, taxa that are our best estimates of genealogically related groups of species. The information content of classifications consists only of the hierarchical arrangement of groups within groups, and phylogenetic classifications can store and retrieve such information precisely because genealogical relationships are hierarchical in their logical structure. Present avian classifications, to the extent that they are based on overall (phenetic) similarity or on elevating morphologically distinct taxa to ranks higher than those of their close relatives, do not allow information about natural groups to be stored and retrieved unambiguously. This paper is a first attempt at a phylogenetic classification of the higher taxa of Recent birds. Most currently recognized orders and families are probably monophyletic (with the exception of some family-rank taxa in the Passeriformes), but present classifications do not adequately express the interrelationships of these groups. Twenty orders are here classified into nine Divisions: Division 1 contains the Sphenisciformes, Gaviiformes (including grebes), Procellariiformes, and Pelecaniformes; Division 2 the Palaeognathiformes; Division 3 the Ciconiiformes and Falconiformes (including owls); Division 4 the Anseriformes and Galliformes; Division 5 the Gruiformes, Charadriiformes, and Columbiformes; Division 6 the Psittaciformes; Division 7 the Cuculiformes; Division 8 the Caprimulgiformes and Apodiformes; and Division 9 the Piciformes, Coliiformes, Coraciiformes, and Passeriformes. The families of each order are arranged into taxa that seem best to express our current knowledge of their phylogenetic relationships.
auk.2012.11180|Timing of molt is a critical life-history trait because molt is a nutritionally demanding process that must be completed before fall migration. We used data from 19922008 to assess hypotheses that initiation of the prebasic molt by Black Brant (
10.2307/4089322|Female Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) solicit extrapair copulations (EPCs) from neighboring high-ranked males, and these EPCs result in extrapair young. Females might choose to locate their nests near the territory boundaries of attractive males to facilitate access to EPCs. Other hypotheses might also explain choice of nest site, namely: (1) habitat characteristics, (2) prey abundance, and (3) previous experience. We tested these four hypotheses in 1996 and 1997. Out of 27 habitat characteristics measured, we found only one that was significantly different between nests and control sites in both years. The abundance of large trees was lower at nest sites than at control sites in each year and when years were pooled. Relative prey abundance did not differ between nests and control sites for either year of the study. We found no difference in interyear nest placement based on female experience; experienced females nested farther than 60 m from their previous nest sites in both years of the study. In 1996, females whose neighboring males were higher ranked than their social partner located their nests significantly closer to territory boundaries than did females whose nearest neighbors were lower ranked than their social partner. In 1997, all pairs nested near territory boundaries. We conclude that choice of nest location in Black-capped Chickadees is influenced by conspecific attraction based on mating tactics.
10.2307/4088424|I looked for evidence of consistent variation in individual quality of breeding females in a population of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia). Consistent differences in individual quality were detected by looking for correlations in reproductive parameters between nesting attempts. Seven reproductive traits were examined for evidence of variation in individual quality. In addition, I determined whether the degree of repeatability was affected by differences in conditions among years, by female age, or by success of previous nesting attempts. There were consistent differences among females in the date of initiation of nesting, clutch size, egg mass, and nutritional condition of offspring. The differences in egg mass between females may be heritable. There was evidence that repeatability of nestling condition is influenced by the success of previous nesting attempts. Although consistent differences were found in quality of female sparrows, there were no "superparents." Females that were good at one given aspect of reproduction were not proficient at all facets of reproduction.
10.2307/4088774| Declines of many forest-dwelling Neotropical migrants have been attributed, in part, to fragmentation of forest habitat on the breeding grounds in North America. During 1990-1991, we determined reproductive success of Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) nesting within contiguous forest habitat (>10,000 ha) and in nine forest fragments ranging in size from 9.2 to 126.5 ha in Berks County, Pennsylvania. We located 171 Wood Thrush nests. Nesting success differed significantly among forest size categories, with 86% of the nests successful in contiguous forest, 72% successful in large fragments (>100 ha), and 43% successful in small fragments (<80 ha). The variable that best predicted nest survival was forest area (R
10.2307/4090234| Using temperature loggers and radio telemetry, foraging and brooding behaviors of female and male Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) were measured during chick rearing at the Gannet Islands, Labrador, to quantify parental roles during this crucial stage of reproduction. We recorded 2,725 foraging dives by 10 females and 7 males during 1,416 bird-hours of monitoring. Our study birds made between 21 and 107 dives per day between 0327 and 2220 hours, with 54% of females' dives and <1% of males' dives occurring in conditions of low illumination between sunset and sunrise. Males foraged mostly at midday and, overall, made longer and presumably deeper dives (mean duration 116.2  37.6 s) than females (mean duration 84.1  46.0 s). The maximum dive duration recorded was 240 s. Final dives of foraging trips were inferred to include dives during which chick meals (95% by number daubed shanny [Lumpenus maculatus]) were obtained. Those dives (mean duration 134.0  36.1 s) and dives in final diving bouts prior to return to the breeding site (mean duration 139.1  40.2 s) averaged longer than other dives, and longer in males than in females, but there was no difference between the sexes in their daily frequency. The modal travel time from the last dive in a feeding trip to arrival at the breeding site was 8 min (no difference between sexes), which represents a maximum travel distance at
25488571|It is widely accepted that tropical birds differ from temperate species in life-history traits and social behaviors, yet baseline ecological data are lacking for most tropical species and comparative studies often fail to control for phylogenetic influences. Within the Americas, the Yellow Warbler (
10.1525/auk.2011.11124|Egg viability in birds declines with increasing length of the delay in the start of incubation (i.e., incubation delay) and may be influenced by microbial infection and exposure of eggs to temperatures above physiological zero (>24C). Onset of incubation during egg laying results in developmental asynchrony of embryos but may help to maintain viability of early-laid eggs. We manipulated incubation delay of Wood Duck (
4085973|Spatial distribution, foraging behavior, and diets of 12-13 insectivorous bird species were measured during two breeding seasons in a cottonwood- and willow-dominated riparian forest in Arizona. Spatially, no negative associations existed between any species in either year. Although foraging behavior varied considerably, diets overlapped broadly, even between members of different foraging guilds. Eight species preyed heavily on cicadas (38-80% of diet). Sampling of emerging cicadas in cottonwood-willow habitat indicated that numbers exceeded the metabolic needs of the bird community by as much as tenfold. Peak cicada numbers coincided with fledging young in all eight species. We propose that this seasonally superabundant and predictable resource permits coexistence without niche segregation and may, in part, explain the high density and diversity of ecologically similar breeding birds in desert riparian communities. It appears that niche variables such as bill shape and foraging behavior may not be true predictors of actual resource use within a community. Assumptions of resource-based interspecific competition among breeding birds are not supported.
10.2307/4088782|From 1984 through 1989, we examined the reproductive success of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) at the Birdsville colony in east-central Georgia. Average fledging success ranged among years from 0.33 to 2.16 fledglings per nest. For nests that produced fledglings, prey availability was an important factor affecting reproductive success. Yearly average prey densities at foraging sites were significantly correlated with the average number of fledglings produced from successful nests. Among 243 nests observed, all eggs or chicks were lost from 104 (43%) nests. Five factors were associated with the loss of entire clutches or broods. During the two driest years, 1985 and 1988, raccoon (Procyon lotor) predation eliminated almost all chicks. Many nests were abandoned early in 1989, following periods of cold weather when the parents appeared to be under stress. In 1985, the birds deserted the colony before egg laying when the area experienced freezing weather. Following nest abandonments within the colony, paired adults that presumably had abandoned their nests were involved in nest takeovers that also caused the loss of eggs and chicks. Three storms during the study caused the loss of a few nests. Some losses were due to unknown factors. The importance of these mortality factors varied from year to year. Nest abandonments and subsequent aggression seem to be related to cold periods early in the season. Raccoon predation seems to be related to drying out of the water under the colony. This suggests that the storks have a window in time when it is best to breed-after the winter and early spring cold weather and before the water dries under the colony in the summer.
4085446|The delay between the peak arrival and peak of nest initiation by Cackling Geese (Branta canadensis minima) in an unusually early spring season coincided with the time required for rapid yolk development. Even though nesting habitat was available, Cackling Geese could not nest earlier than they did because of their physiological state. A review of available data reveals that Canada Geese and Brant (Branta bernicla) regularly nest 10-13 days after their peak arrival at nesting areas, or after their departure from final spring staging areas. This is the interval required for rapid yolk development. Lesser Snow Geese (Anser caerulescens caerulescens) and Ross' Geese (Anser rossii) commonly nest within 3-5 days of their peak arrival at nesting areas. It is suggested that the stimuli causing rapid yolk formation are related to the events just prior to, or at the time of, migration from the usual final spring staging area to nesting areas for Brant and Canada Geese, and at the time of the migration to final staging areas by Lesser Snow and Ross' Geese. This plasticity in ovary preparation is related to weather patterns that affect spring thaw and the availability of nest sites. The probable ecological advantages of the varying patterns of ova formation in different species and populations of geese are related to the premium placed on earliest possible nesting versus maximizing reproductive opportunity by ova formation after arrival at the nesting area.
10.1525/auk.2013.12202|Amazonia now contains vast areas of secondary forest because of widespread regeneration following timber harvests, yet the value of secondary forest to wildlife remains poorly understood. Secondary forest becomes structurally similar to primary forest after abandonment, and therefore we predicted that avian movement across the interface of primary and secondary forest (hereafter the interface) would gradually increase with time since abandonment until recovery to pre-isolation levels. From 1992 to 2011, we captured 2,773 understory birds of 10 foraging guilds along the interface of primary forest fragments and zero- to 30-year-old secondary forest at the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project near Manaus, Brazil. Our objectives were to understand the differences in land-use history that affect cross-interface movement and to determine how long it takes each guild to recover to pre-isolation capture rates. Across guilds, age of secondary forest within 100 m of the interface was the most important explanatory variable affecting capture rates; rates increased with age of secondary forest for all guilds except non-forest species. Mean recovery to pre-isolation was 26 years (asymmetric SE = 13 years below and 16 years above estimate) after secondary forest abandonment and 9 of 10 guilds recovered within 13 to 34 years. In the slowest guild to recover, terrestrial insectivores, 6 of 12 species were never caught along the interface, and we projected that this guild would recover in ~60 years. Our recovery estimates quantify the dynamic permeability of the interface and contribute to a better understanding of the value of secondary forests as corridors among primary forest fragments.
4086181|A recently proposed "phylogenetic" classification of birds (Cracraft 1981b) is not constructed according to cladistic principles and contains little information to support most of the taxa proposed in it. That which is presented is frequently misleading or erroneous. The nomenclature used is inconsistent and ungrammatical. In failing to provide synapomorphies to cluster taxa, in using data that are not presented in a primitive-derived sequence, in citing differences as evidence of nonrelationship, and using convergence to refute phylogenetic hypotheses, Cracraft commits the very methodological transgressions for which he has long criticized other systematists.
10.2307/4087487| We studied the effect of a recent gap in the range of Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) on interpopulation variability and differentiation. Chicks from 79 broods (122 individuals) in Saskatchewan, North Dakota, Manitoba, Minnesota, and New Brunswick were examined by protein electrophoresis. Of 36 presumptive loci examined, 4 were polymorphic (99% criterion). Genotypic distributions in each population conformed to Hardy-Weinberg predictions in 16 to 20 Chi-square tests performed (P < 0.05). Variability within populations was comparable to other avian species (x heterozygosity = 0.016  0.014) and was slightly greater than reported for other species of Charadrius. Inbreeding was not a significant factor within any of the sampled populations
10.2307/4088154|Variation was assessed among mitochondrial DNAs (mtDNAs) from geographically dispersed individuals of two species of white-eyes (Zosterops lutea and Z. lateralis) in Australia. The survey revealed high levels of intraspecific divergence. The mtDNA of Z. lutea was paraphyletic; eastern samples were more closely related to eastern Z. lateralis than to western Z. lutea. The mtDNA of Z. lateralis showed a major phylogenetic break within the distribution of one subspecies, Z. l. halmaturina, and was relatively uniform across four subspecies distributed along the east coast of Australia. The discordance between species boundaries and the distribution of mtDNA haplotypes is probably due to historical hybridization. The poor correspondence between subspecies boundaries and mtDNA discontinuities in Z. lateralis implies that patterns of morphological variation may reflect local processes more than evolutionary history. In a sample of the morphologically divergent island race, Z. l. chlorocephala, mtDNA haplotypes were identical to those found on the adjacent mainland. However, the frequencies of mtDNA variants differed considerably between the two places. These data suggest that the island race is recently derived from the mainland, but that current gene flow is rare.
4085742| A linear correlation of existence metabolism (
4090627| We assessed the reproductive success of the California Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris obsoletus), an endangered subspecies restricted to San Francisco Bay, and the relative importance of predation, flooding, and contaminants as factors affecting that success. Our study was conducted in six tidal marshes in the northern and southern reaches of San Francisco Bay. This assessment, conducted in four breeding seasons (1991, 1992, 1998, 1999), determined that productivity of California Clapper Rails was much reduced over the natural potential. Only 69% of clapper rail eggs whose viability could be assessed were viable. Hatchability of eggs in North Bay and South Bay marshes was 65% and 70%, respectively. Only 45% of the nests successfully hatched at least one egg. Despite mean clutch sizes of 6.7 and 6.9 in the North and South bays, respectively, clapper rails produced only 1.9 and 2.5 young per nesting attempt. Flooding was a minor factor, reducing the number of eggs available to hatch by only 2.3%. Predation on eggs was a major factor affecting nest success, reducing productivity by a third. Failed eggs were examined for abnormal development and contaminant concentrations. Contamination appeared to adversely influence California Clapper Rail reproductive success, as evidenced by deformities; embryo hemorrhaging; embryo malpositions; a depressed rate of hatchability; excess concentrations of mercury, barium, and chromium over known avian embryotoxic thresholds; and a correlation of deformities with elevated concentrations of some trace elements in eggs that failed to hatch. Mercury was the only significant contaminant common to all marshes. /// Evaluamos el xito reproductivo de Rallus longirostris obsoletus, una subespecie amenazada restringida a la baha de San Francisco, y la importancia relativa de la depredacin, las inundaciones y los contaminantes como factores que afectan su xito reproductivo. Nuestro estudio fue realizado en seis pantanos mareales en los extremos norte y sur de la baha de San Francisco. Esta evaluacin, realizada en cuatro pocas reproductivas (1991, 1992, 1998, 1999), determin que la productividad de R. l. obsoletus fue muy reducida con respecto a su potencial natural. Slo el 69% de los huevos cuya viabilidad pudo ser determinada fueron viables. La capacidad de eclosionar de los huevos en los pantanos del norte y el sur de la baha fue del 65% y 70%, respectivamente. Aunque los tamaos medios de las nidadas fueron 6.7 y 6.9 en el norte y el sur, respectivamente, las aves slo produjeron 1.9 y 2.5 pichones por intento de nidificacin. Las inundaciones fueron un factor poco importante, pues redujeron el nmero de huevos disponibles para eclosionar slo en un 2.3%. La depredacin de los huevos fue un factor importante que afect el xito de nidificacin, reduciendo la productividad en un tercio. Los huevos que fracasaron fueron examinados en busca de evidencia de desarrollo anormal y para medir las concentraciones de contaminantes. La contaminacin pareci influenciar negativamente el xito reproductivo, como lo evidencian las deformidades, hemorragias en los embriones, posiciones inadecuadas de los embriones, disminucin en la habilidad de eclosionar, concentraciones en exceso de mercurio, bario y cromo por encima de los umbrales txicos conocidos para los embriones de las aves y una correlacin de las deformidades con concentraciones elevadas de algunos elementos halladas en los huevos que no eclosionaron. El mercurio fue el nico contaminante significativo que estuvo presente en todos los pantanos. 
4088470|Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) defend small territories in isolated patches of trees in cattle pastures in the Lacandon Forest of Chiapas, Mexico. We observed interspecific aggression much more frequently than intraspecific aggression. Although aggression by Yellow Warblers was directed at a minimum of 37 species, resident and migrant alike, attacks on Magnolia Warblers (Dendroica magnolia) comprised 35% of the total observed. We found that individual Magnolia Warblers use overlapping home ranges where one warbler tends to be the predominant occupant of a single Yellow Warbler territory. Overlap between neighbors was promoted by the aggressive chasing of Yellow Warblers. Arthropods were twice as abundant in the canopy as in understory shrubs. Exclosure experiments showed that birds harvested approximately 80% of the arthropods available in the canopy and 50% of those available in the understory vegetation. Yellow Warbler defense may be responsible for this difference in density in foliage arthropods between the canopy and understory. To avoid aggression, subordinate species depended on the presence of refugia, comprised of dense understory vegetation. Maintaining the structural heterogeneity of arroyo vegetation may provide critical habitat for many species of migratory birds in cattle pastures. Taken together, the interspecific aggression, intraspecific territoriality, and high rates of resource depletion indicate that competition plays an important role in determining the carrying capacity of second-growth remnants for migratory birds and their use of habitats.
10.2307/4090318| The breeding biology of Rainbow Bee-eaters (Merops ornatus) was studied between 1997 and 2001 in southeast Queensland, Australia. Rainbow Bee-eaters are unusual in that they combine migration and coloniality with cooperative breeding. Birds migrate from islands north of Australia to build nests either solitarily or in colonies containing 50 active nests that are attended by socially monogamous pairs or trios (45% of nests). Nesting was essentially forsaken during very dry seasons, whereas hatching success was reduced in wet seasons. Incubation period varied in duration, with chicks emerging 22-31 days after incubation commenced. Eggs hatched either synchronously or, more commonly, asynchronously (88% of clutches), with each chick emerging usually 0-3 days after the previous hatchling in the nest. Asynchronous hatching typically led to a marked size hierarchy within the brood, facilitating starvation of 22% of nestlings that had avoided nest disasters, such as predation or flooding. Duration of the nestling period was also variable, with chicks requiring a further 24-36 days to fledge. Nest predation by native predators-monitor lizards (Varanus varius) and yellow-footed antechinus (Antechinus flavipes)-was relatively low, affecting 10% of nests. In contrast, predation by two introduced species-dingoes (Canis familiaris dingo) and, in particular, cane toads (Bufo marinus)-was extreme, terminating 49% of all nests. /// La biologa reproductiva de Merops ornatus fue estudiada entre 1997 y 2001 en el sureste de Queensland, Australia. M. ornatus es una especie inusual en el sentido que combina migracin y hbitos coloniales con reproduccin cooperativa. Las aves migran desde las islas al norte de Australia para construir nidos tanto de modo solitario como en colonias que contienen 50 nidos activos atendidos por tros o por pares socialmente mongamos (45% de los nidos). Bsicamente, las aves dejaron de nidificar durante las estaciones muy secas, mientras que el xito de eclosin se redujo en las estaciones hmedas. La duracin del perodo de incubacin vari, con pichones emergiendo 22-31 das luego del inicio de la incubacin. Los huevos eclosionaron ya sea sincrnicamente o, ms comnmente, de modo asincrnico (88% de las nidadas), con cada pichn emergiendo usualmente 0-3 das luego de la ltima eclosin en el nido. La eclosin asincrnica conduce tpicamente a una marcada jerarqua de tamao dentro de la nidada, siendo responsable de la muerte por hambruna del 22% de los pichones no afectados por desastres como depredacin o inundacin. La duracin del perodo con pichones tambin fue variable, ya que algunos pichones necesitaron 24-36 das ms para emplumar. La depredacin de nidos por parte de depredadores nativos-la lagartija Varanus varius y el marsupial Antechinus flavipes-fue relativamente baja, afectando el 10% de los nidos. En contraste, la depredacin por parte de dos especies introducidas-dingos (Canis familiaris dingo) y particularmente sapos (Bufo marinus)-fue extrema, destruyendo el 49% de los nidos. 
4090357| In many tropical bird species, males and females sing together in coordinated vocal duets. Although studies of duetting present unique opportunities for understanding conflict and cooperation between the sexes, very few investigations describe the similarities and differences between male and female singing behaviors. Here, we present the first detailed account of the singing behavior of Rufous-and-white Wrens (Thryothorus rufalbus), a resident tropical duetting songbird. Male and female songs share a similar structure, yet show pronounced sex differences. Male songs have lower frequency characteristics and more repeated trill syllables, and often sound louder than female songs. Males sing more than females, and only males show elevated song output at dawn. Both males and females have song repertoires. Males have an average repertoire size of 10.8 song types, whereas females have a significantly smaller average repertoire size of 8.5 song types. Although males share proportionately more of their song types with neighbors than females do, both sexes share more song types with nearby individuals than with distant individuals. Breeding partners combine their solo songs to create duets. Duets assume a variety of different forms, ranging from simple, overlapping male and female songs to complex combinations of multiple male and female songs. Most duets (73%) are created by females responding to male song. Males respond to female-initiated duets with shorter latencies than when females respond to male-initiated duets. Each pair sings certain combinations of song types in duets more often than can be explained by random association, which demonstrates that Rufous-and-white Wrens have duet types. The most common duet type was different for each pair. Our results show that Rufous-and-white Wrens have pronounced sex differences in song structure, singing activity, repertoire size, repertoire sharing, and duetting behavior. /// En muchas especies de aves tropicales, los machos y las hembras cantan juntos en duetos vocales coordinados. Aunque los estudios sobre estos duetos representan oportunidades nicas para entender el conflicto y la cooperacin entre los sexos, muy pocas investigaciones han descrito las similitudes y diferencias en el comportamiento de canto entre machos y hembras. En este trabajo presentamos el primer estudio detallado sobre el comportamiento de canto de Thryothorus rufalbus, una especie de ave canora tropical residente que realiza duetos. Los cantos de los machos y las hembras presentan una estructura similar, pero existen diferencias marcadas entre ellos. Los cantos de los machos se caracterizan por ser de menor frecuencia y por presentar ms slabas en trino, y a menudo suenan ms fuerte que los cantos de las hembras. Los machos cantan ms que las hembras y slo los machos presentan una mayor tasa de canto al amanecer. Tanto los machos como las hembras tienen repertorios de canto. Los machos tienen un tamao de repertorio promedio de 10.8 tipos de canto, mientras que las hembras tienen en promedio repertorios significativamente ms pequeos, de 8.5 tipos de canto. Aunque los machos comparten proporcionalmente ms de sus tipos de canto con sus vecinos que las hembras, las aves de ambos sexos comparten ms tipos de canto con individuos cercanos que con individuos distantes. Las parejas reproductivas combinan sus cantos individuales para crear duetos. Los duetos pueden ser de diversos tipos, desde una simple superposicin entre los cantos del macho y la hembra, hasta combinaciones complejas de mltiples cantos de ambos sexos. La mayora de los duetos (73%) son creados por hembras que responden al canto de los machos. Los machos responden a los duetos iniciados por las hembras con perodos de latencia ms cortos que cuando las hembras responden a los duetos iniciados por los machos. Cada pareja canta determinadas combinaciones de tipos de canto en los duetos con ms frecuencia de lo que podra explicarse por una asociacin aleatoria, lo que demuestra que en T. rufalbus existen tipos de dueto. El tipo de dueto ms comn fue diferente en cada pareja. Nuestros resultados muestran que en T. rufalbus existen diferencias profundas entre los sexos en la estructura del canto, la actividad de canto, el tamao del repertorio, el modo de compartir el repertorio y el comportamiento de dueto. 
10.2307/4088947|I studied the foraging habitat use of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) and Sandwich Terns (S. sandvicensis) in southwestern Puerto Rico from 1991 to 1994, and determined foraging success of each species in three distinct habitat types: blue water, inshore shallows, and along reefs. The proportion of Roseate Tern foraging flocks differed significantly among the three habitat types, with over one-half of the flocks occurring in blue water. The proportion of Sandwich Tern flocks did not differ significantly among the three habitats. A higher proportion of Roseate Tern (84%) than Sandwich Tern (59%) foraging flocks occurred over schools of predatory fish, and mean flock size of Roseate Terns, but not of Sandwich Terns, was greater in the presence of predatory fish. Capture success (no. successful dives/no. attempts) of Roseate Terns was highest in shallow-water habitats, when they pirated fish from Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) or used diving pelicans to scare fish to the surface. However, both capture rate (no. fish caught/min) and relative profitability (g fish caught/min) were highest in blue-water flocks over predatory fish. Foraging success of Sandwich Terns was measured only for shallow-water habitats, and did not differ when foraging with or without pelicans. These results suggest that Roseate Terns in Puerto Rico forage primarily in habitats that result in the highest rate of prey capture. Moreover, Roseate Terns may rely heavily on predatory fish or pelicans to increase prey availability to them during the breeding season, whereas Sandwich Terns rely less on these sources to facilitate prey capture.
10.2307/4089113|Circulating levels of glucocorticoids increase rapidly in response to capture and handling in many vertebrate species, which is indicative of the sensitivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis to a variety of acutely stressful events. We measured circulating levels of corticosterone at capture and after 25 min of handling and restraint in free-living Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) during their first two long incubation turns. Initial levels of corticosterone were higher for males than for females; however, levels of corticosterone after 25 min of handling and restraint increased throughout incubation and were higher for females than for males. These 25-min levels of corticosterone were negatively correlated with body mass and body condition. Initial levels of circulating corticosterone, however, were not associated with mass and did not change during the fast, except for an increase among three females that had been incubating the longest. The higher 25-min corticosterone levels for females may be due to their lower body mass and longer fast during incubation. Magellanic Penguins appear to be more responsive to stress as fasting proceeds, suggesting that disturbances should be minimized when penguins have depleted fat stores.
4086533|Habitat structure of the Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens) was examined at five study sites: (1) Mount Desert Island, Maine; (2) Mount Blue State Park, Maine; (3) White Mountain National Forest, New Hampshire; (4) southern Adirondacks, New York; and (5) Itasca State Park, Minnesota. Principal component analysis of 13 habitat-structure variables measured at each site produced habitat gradients from tall to shorter canopies, large to smaller trees, and coniferous to deciduous forests. A second ordination indicated that the habitat sampled included five plant-community types: pine forests, sprucearbor vitae, balsam fir, mixed spruce-fir-deciduous, and beech-maple-birch. Consistent structural features within the total range of habitats sampled were difficult to identify. I suggest that widely occurring species such as the Black-throated Green Warbler have a wide range of habitats with a suitable structure and that regional analyses, even within a single plant-community type, may be of limited value with regard to habitat management when considering the entire range of many species.
10.2307/4088202|Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata) and Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) are among a small group of birds in temperate North America that regularly eat waxy fruits. During the autumn, winter, and spring, these species feed extensively on fruits of the bayberry (Myrica spp.). Covering the pulp of these fruits is a solid, waxy material consisting primarily of saturated long-chain fatty acids. For most animals, saturated fatty acids are poorly assimilated (<50%). Using
4086640|Pelagic seabirds that lay single-egg clutches have been thought to invest less energy in reproduction than inshore-feeding species that rear more than one young. To examine this idea I calculated time and energy budgets for Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) breeding at two large arctic colonies and compared their energy expenditure with that of a hypothetical group (shirkers) that was capable of feeding at the same rate but did not attempt any reproductive activity. The difference in energy investment between breeders and shirkers was strongly dependent on the average foraging range. I also compared my results with similar estimates for inshore-feeding Black Guillemots (Cepphus grylle). For the two Thick-billed Murre colonies, energy allocated to reproduction represented 30% and 24% of total energy expenditure during the breeding season. These values exceed the estimates for Black Guillemots. The amount of energy invested by Thick-billed Murres at the colonies considered probably is similar to that invested by other seabirds laying larger clutches and rearing heavier young.
10.2307/4085492| Territorial and foraging behavior of the South Polar Skua (Catharacta maccormicki) were studied in 1971-72 at the Cape Hallett Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) rookery. The skua population was at maximum 98 pairs, and the Adlie Penguin population was some 43,000 pairs. The size of the skuas' territories varied between 0.5 and 1.8 ha (between 730 and 3,190 penguin pairs). Areas between adjacent territories overlapped. The behavior of three dyemarked pairs in their territories is described. A large enough feeding territory in the penguin rookery apparently enabled certain skua pairs to subsist exclusively on a penguin diet throughout the whole skua breeding season. Skuas breeding farther away from the penguin rookery usually defended only nest territories, which were much smaller than the above all-purpose territories. They hunted in the northwest part of the rookery in "preferred feeding areas" that were not defended against other skuas. Some pairs apparently foraged at sea. The number of skuas hunting per unit area is about sixfold in the parts of the rookery used by skuas as preferred feeding areas, but no resulting decline in penguin breeding success could be found. The breeding success of skua pairs with feeding territories was significantly higher than that of pairs with preferred feeding areas. The possible causes of this difference are discussed. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09048|Although postfledging movement patterns have been described for several species, the factors that influence these movements remain unclear. We quantified natal home-range size and dispersal patterns of two songbird species and evaluated the relative importance of nestling condition, brood size, predation risk, and habitat structure on postfledging movements. We radiotagged and tracked 51 Ovenbirds (
10.2307/4089591|We used DNA fingerprinting to assess genetic structure of populations in Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea). We analyzed mates and parent-offspring relationships, as well as the amount and distribution of genetic variation within and among populations, from the level of subcolony to subspecies. We found no evidence of extrapair fertilization, confirming that the genetic breeding system matches the social system that has been observed in the species. Mates were closely related, and the level of genetic relatedness within populations was within the range usually found in inbred populations. In contrast to previous studies based on allozymes and mtDNA polymorphism, DNA fingerprinting using microsatellites revealed consistent levels of genetic differentiation among populations. However, analyzing the two subspecies separately revealed that the pattern of genetic variation among populations did not support the model of isolation by distance. Natal dispersal, as well as historic and/or demographic events, probably contributed to shape the genetic structure of populations in the species.
10.1525/auk.2011.10285|Accurate estimates of demographic rates are fundamental to understanding population dynamics and can provide insights into the ecology and conservation of a species. We used multistate markrecapture models to estimate apparent annual survival, encounter probability, and life-stage transitions in Laysan Albatrosses (
10.1525/auk.2011.10191|The effects of anthropogenic habitat modification are evident on tropical Pacific islands where forests have been extensively converted to plantations of Coconut Palm (
10.1525/auk.2009.09022|We investigated the phylogenetic relationships of
10.2307/4089586|We studied three Nearctic migrant species (American Redstart [Setophaga ruticilla], AMRE; Black-and-white Warbler [Mniotilta varia], BAWW; Black-throated Blue Warbler [Dendroica caerulescens], BTBW) wintering in 14 isolated shade coffee plantations (0.1 to 8.7 ha) in the Dominican Republic to determine if site fidelity was comparable to that in tropical forests and if it decreased with plantation size. Site fidelity was measured as the percentage of wandering birds captured in mist nets, as overwinter site persistence of uniquely marked birds observed on the same sites (November to March), and as annual return of marked individuals to previously occupied sites (January to January). The percentages of wanderers in net captures were mostly lower than values reported for natural forests (AMRE 21%, BAWW 12%, BTBW 41%) and did not vary with plantation size. Overwinter site persistence (AMRE 65%, BAWW 65%, BTBW 76%) and annual return (AMRE 34%, BAWW 40%, BTBW 31%) in the plantations fell within the range of values reported for natural forests. Overwinter site persistence decreased with plantation size only in AMRE, although BAWW showed lower persistence in small plantations from early to midwinter. Annual return decreased with plantation size only in AMRE. Despite diminished site fidelity in small plantations, these birds showed some fidelity to small plantations, many of which were smaller than the mean size of winter home ranges.
10.2307/4089412|We used the doubly labeled water (DLW) method to measure daily energy expenditure (DEE) in eight brother-sister pairs of free-living Marsh Harrier (Circus aeruginosus) nestlings. We calculated metabolizable energy intake (ME) from DEE and body-mass change. In each pair, males had lower body mass, DEE, and ME than their female siblings. On average, male body mass was 20%, DEE 19%, and ME 20% lower than that of female siblings. Thus, energy turnover was proportional to body mass. Because the average sex ratio at fledging in Marsh Harriers is 55% male, and the energy requirement of sons is 45% of the son-daughter pair, this sex ratio matches exactly that predicted by Fisher's theory (1930). A literature review revealed that DEE (kJ/day) measured by DLW when nestlings were approximately 95% of asymptotic or fledging mass scaled as
25488614|There are many causes of nest failure in birds. Although partitioning the risk of nest failure among causes has long been of interest to ornithologists, application of formal methods for estimating competing risks has received little attention in the literature. We describe how evidence collected at nests can be formally incorporated into likelihood functions for competing risks to control classification uncertainty. We briefly review estimators for an idealized case in which all fates are known with certainty, and then we introduce new estimators for four cases in which evidence is used. In the evidence-based models, we consider several distinct types of evidence, including videographic evidence, static ecological evidence, and ecological evidence that decays over time. For each of the four cases using evidence, we compare the asymptotic sampling variance to the ideal case in which fates are always known. We also develop closed-form expressions for expected bias when assumptions underlying the estimators are not met. In all cases, use of evidence results in larger sampling variances for the failure probabilities than when fates are known with certainty. Typically, the magnitude of increase in sampling variance depends on the inverse of the evidence probabilities. We also show that disjoint evidence does not reduce sampling variance and should be ignored. Finally, we show that violations of underlying assumptions cause bias, though the bias may be tolerable in some cases.
4090446| The Aquatic Warbler (Acrocephalus paludicola) has a unique mating system. Males are free of any parental duties and can fertilize many females during a single breeding season. Females also usually copulate with more than one male, and nestlings in a single nest may be sired by as many as five males. Paternal success of 33 Aquatic Warbler males in a Polish population was determined by microsatellite polymerase-chain-reaction analysis. Males infected by blood parasites (trypanosomes) sired fewer offspring, weighed less, and probably arrived later to breeding grounds than uninfected males. Number of nestlings sired by a male correlated positively with its fat deposits and wing length. These findings indicate that male body condition directly influences paternal success. Number of sired nestlings per individual male ranged from one to eight. Reproductive success among males was uneven, with six males (18%) fathering 44% of nestlings in the study area. Males with high reproductive success arrived at the breeding grounds earlier in spring than males with low reproductive success. /// Acrocephalus paludicola tiene un sistema de apareamiento nico. Los machos se ven liberados de toda responsabilidad parental y pueden fecundar a muchas hembras durante una poca reproductiva. Las hembras tambin copulan generalmente con ms de un macho, y los polluelos en un nido pueden haber sido engendrados por un mximo de 5 machos. Se determin el xito parental de 33 machos de A. paludicola en una poblacin polaca, utilizando un anlisis de microsatlites por medio de la reaccin en cadena de la polimerasa. Los machos infectados por parsitos de sangre (tripanosomas) engendraron menos progenie, pesaron menos y probablemente llegaron ms tarde a los territorios de cra que los machos no infectados. El nmero de polluelos engendrados por un macho se correlacion positivamente con sus depsitos de grasa y longitud del ala. Estos hallazgos indican que la condicin corporal del macho influencia directamente el xito parental. El nmero de polluelos engendrados por cada macho vari entre 1 y 8. El xito reproductivo entre los machos no fue parejo; seis machos (18%) fueron los padres del 44% de los polluelos en el rea de estudio. Los machos con alto xito reproductivo llegaron antes a los territorios de cra en la primavera que los machos con un xito reproductivo menor. 
10.2307/25150224| We determined the effects of fire history and a riparian-upland gradient on the breeding bird community at Fort Bragg Military Installation in North Carolina, one of the largest remnant areas of the endangered longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) ecosystem. Study sites were classified into two treatments: fire-intense (areas experiencing growing-season burns) and fire-suppressed (areas lacking fires). Within each treatment, bird and vegetation data were recorded at point-count stations positioned at three distances from streamhead pocosins to characterize the riparian-upland habitat gradient: 0, 75, and 150 m. Total bird abundance and species richness varied significantly along the riparian-upland gradient, with pocosins contributing greatly to avian biodiversity. Our data revealed strong effects of fire history and riparian-upland gradient on bird species, which we described in terms of breeding-bird assemblages. Members of the open longleaf assemblage (e.g., Red-cockaded Woodpecker [Picoides borealis], Bachman's Sparrow [Aimophila aestivalis]) were most common in fire-intense areas and at upland locations. Members of the fire-suppressed assemblage (e.g., Wood Thrush [Hylocichla mustelina], Ovenbird [Seiurus aurocapilla]) were confined to pocosins in fire-intense areas, but became more abundant in fire-suppressed areas. Members of the pocosin assemblage (e.g., Eastern Towhee [Pipilo erythropthalamus], Common Yellowthroat [Geothlypis trichas]) were largely confined to pocosins and, in some cases, were most abundant in fire-intense pocosins. Fire suppression increased structural diversity of vegetation and promoted one breeding-bird assemblage (fire-suppressed), but at the expense of two others (open longleaf, pocosin). Continued management of Fort Bragg to promote longleaf pine restoration is essential for supporting conservation of the open-longleaf bird assemblage; in addition, it will benefit the pocosin assemblage. /// Determinamos los efectos de la historia del fuego y de un gradiente entre res ribereas y tierras altas en la comunidad de aves que cran en la Instalacin Militar de Fort Bragg en North Carolina, una de las reas remanentes ms grandes del ecosistema amenazado de Pinus palustris. Los sitios de estudio fueron clasificados en dos tratamientos: con fuego intenso (reas quemadas durante la estacin de crecimiento) y con supresin de fuego (reas sin fuego). Para cada tratamiento se registraron datos de las aves y la vegetacin en estaciones de conteo ubicadas a tres distancias (0, 75, y 150 m) desde los extremos de los cenagales para caracterizar el gradiente ambiental entre el sector ribereo y las tierras altas. La abundancia total de aves y la riqueza de especies variaron significativamente a lo largo de este gradiente, con una alta contribucin de los cenagales a la diversidad de aves. Nuestros datos revelaron la existencia de fuertes efectos de la historia del fuego y de los gradientes ambientales sobre las especies de aves, los cuales describimos en trminos de los ensambles de aves reproductivas. Los miembros del ensamble de las reas abiertas de P. palustris (e.g., Picoides borealis, Aimophila aestivalis) fueron ms comunes en las reas con fuego intenso y en las zonas de tierras altas. Los miembros del ensamble de las zonas sin fuego (e.g., Hylocichla mustelina, Seiurus aurocapilla) estuvieron restringidos a los cenagales en las reas con fuego intenso, pero fueron ms abundantes en las reas sin fuego. Los miembros del ensamble de los cenagales (e.g., Pipilo erythropthalamus, Geothlypis trichas) estuvieron principalmente restringidos a los cenagales y en algunos casos fueron ms abundantes en cenagales con fuego intenso. La supresin del fuego increment la diversidad estructural de la vegetacin y promovi un ensamble de aves reproductivas (el de las zonas sin fuego), pero a costa de otros dos ensambles (el de reas abiertas de P. palustris y el de los cenagales). Es esencial continuar con el manejo de Fort Bragg para promover la restauracin de reas de P. palustris para apoyar la conservacin del ensamble de aves de este ecosistema. Adicionalmente, esto beneficiar el ensamble de aves de los cenagales. 
4085606|Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) populations breeding in temperate North America obtain a significant part of the energy and lipid requirements of reproduction at sites occupied prior to arrival on the breeding grounds. Protein for egg formation, however, is obtained principally from the diet during the nesting period. Both sexes arrive heavy and fat in North Dakota but experience substantial weight loss and lipid depletion during the nesting cycle. Weight loss is most pronounced among females and averages 25% from prelaying to late incubation. Body weights of both sexes are positively correlated with carcass lipid content. The paired male draws upon lipids early in the nesting season when an activity center is being established and defended and when females are preparing to nest. The female's lipid reserves are utilized primarily during laying and early incubation. The significance of lipid reserves diminishes as the nesting season progresses, and females do not acquire substantial lipid stores prior to renesting when the initial clutch is destroyed. The magnitude of lipid reserves carried in female carcasses is positively correlated with clutch size from mid-April to early June. Protein transfer for egg formation from flight and leg muscle and body organs can account for only a small part of the protein requirement for the clutch. By utilizing lipid reserves to meet energy requirements, the female can acquire sufficient protein from the diet to produce a large initial clutch even when foods are relatively scarce, whereas the renesting female must rely entirely upon food resources available at the breeding site for its nutrient and energy requirements.
4087122|Mass and recapture histories of 6,000 Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) banded in upper Chesapeake Bay were used to test two hypotheses: (1) early-winter body mass is associated with the probability of surviving the winter, and (2) early-winter body mass is associated with annual survival probability. Data were analyzed by a binary regression method that treated mass as a continuous variable and estimated parameters to describe a general relationship between body mass and survival probability. Results for adult males, which provided our largest data sets, presented strong evidence that birds with high relative early-winter masses had both greater overwinter and annual survival probabilities. Results of overwinter analyses necessarily are qualified by the alternative explanation of mass-dependent emigration, i.e. the possibility that lighter birds move south in response to cold weather and leave only heavy birds for recapture. Such a phenomenon remains to be documented. Results concerning annual survival probabilities are not vulnerable to this alternative explanation because of the strong fidelity of Canvasbacks at the banding site. Because of small sample size, data were inadequate to permit mass/survival inferences for adult females. Sample sizes were adequate for young Canvasbacks, but the results were less consistent than for adult males. Although early-winter body mass was associated positively with overwinter as well as annual survival for young Canvasbacks in some years, we suspect that the lack of established wintering patterns among these birds may underlie the less consistent result.
10.2307/4089863|Seasonal declines in rates of renesting following clutch loss are common features of avian breeding, and are generally thought to reflect underlying seasonal declines in food availability that lower survival prospects for late-season offspring. However, in Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia), long-lived Arctic seabirds that lays a single-egg clutch, previous research has shown that early laying females will continue to relay until late in the laying period. Moreover, hatching success is similar between first and replacement attempts, as are nestling growth and survival, when parental quality is controlled. I compared survival between departure from the breeding site and recruitment age (4-5 years) for Thick-billed Murres that hatched from first and replacement eggs, but that were raised by parents that laid their first eggs early in the season. Replacement-egg offspring hatched and departed the colony about three weeks later than did first-egg offspring, but despite that, they were no less likely to survive to recruitment age. That result indicates that the potential fitness payoff from a replacement egg is similar to that from a first egg for the more capable members of the population. I suggest that an adequate and predictable late-season food supply ultimately underlies the considerable relaying capacity exhibited by Thick-billed Murres.
10.1525/auk.2012.12006|Although numerous studies have demonstrated that mature-forest songbirds use successional habitat heavily during the postfledging period, implicit, but yet untested, is the assumption that successional habitat provides high-quality postfledging habitat and promotes juvenile survival. We experimentally tested how access to and use of successional habitat (i.e., regenerating clearcuts) influenced survival and behavior of independent juvenile Ovenbirds (
4088556|Plasma levels of corticosterone (B) have been measured in free-living Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis hyemalis) wintering in Michigan, Indiana, and Tennessee. Total adrenal dry mass also was determined for a large number of wintering juncos collected at these three locations. All populations had access to supplemental food. When Michigan, Indiana, and Tennessee winter populations were compared, plasma B was significantly greater when new snow had fallen on trap days (midwinter) than when it had not (early winter). However, the relative importance of a direct response to proximate snowfall and a seasonal change as independent causes of this pattern could not be determined. In the Tennessee population in early January, plasma B was greater on two days with new snowfall than on two days without new snowfall. Total adrenal dry mass was significantly and positively correlated with recent snowfall, possibly in support of elevated plasma B on snowy days. Together with studies showing increased fat reserves shortly after new snowfall in the Dark-eyed Junco, these results suggest that corticosterone might be involved in directing increased feeding and associated lipogenesis as inclement weather sets in. Although a direct response to snowfall is suggested, factors correlated with snowfall (e.g. barometric pressure) also may cause elevated titers of B during inclement weather.
4084886|I divided 60 Loggerhead Shrikes into five groups, and starting the day after hatching dosed them with either 0, 1, 2, 4, or 8 mg of dieldrin per kilogram of body weight per day. Mean age at death was 78.25 days for the 1-mg group, 36.75 days for the 2-mg group, 21.33 days for the 4-mg group, and 16.75 days for the 8-mg group. When the shrikes in the 0- and 1-mg groups were 25 days old, I began presenting them a cricket and mouse daily and watched their behavior. The two groups showed no significant difference in their ontogeny of cricket killing, but the ontogeny of mouse killing was significantly prolonged in the treated birds. This study is the first to determine the chronic toxicity of an organochloride insecticide to an insectivorous passerine, and the first to demonstrate an insecticide-induced change in a complex behavorial ontogeny.
10.2307/4089158|I present field data on feeding and scanning behavior of White-winged Crossbills (Loxia leucoptera) in relation to flock size. Feeding rates increased and individual levels of vigilance decreased as flock size increased from one to two. Further increases in flock size did not correspond with substantial reductions in individual vigilance, but did correspond with frequent agonistic interactions. As rates of agonistic interactions increased, feeding rates of subordinate age-sex classes (e.g. adult females) declined relative to those of dominant age-sex classes (e.g. adult males). Females (and immatures) may have reduced this effect by avoiding flocks composed mostly of adult males. Assortative flocking occurred in the nonbreeding period (late November to December), but during breeding periods (September and potentially rest of year) the numbers of each age-sex class tended to be positively correlated. Rates of agonistic interactions were higher when crossbills foraged on conifers whose cones were compactly dispersed. Flocks were smaller when rates of agonistic interactions were high and conifers had compact cone dispersions. Flock size increased as seed density declined. Larger flocks, with high levels of collective vigilance, were favored because feeding rate and the time spent scanning while seeds were husked also declined. Crossbills (Loxia spp.) that forage on small-crowned conifers are more sexually dichromatic and have other traits indicating stronger sexual selection than crossbills that forage on large-crowned conifers. I suggest that these differences result from differences in rates of agonistic interactions, which influence female feeding rates compared with male feeding rates, and likely have a differential effect on female mortality rates and the population sex ratio.
4087091| Survival analysis was used to examine the fates of eggs in six colonies of Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) at Cape Bird, Antarctica. Hatching success was 56.2% and fledging success for chicks was 63.3%, giving an overall reproductive success of 35.6%. The major cause of losses of both eggs and chicks was predation by South Polar Skuas (Catharacta maccormicki). The second-most important causes of egg and chick mortality were desertion and starvation, respectively, both of which resulted from inadequate timing of nest relief. Eggs were at risk of predation by skuas throughout the incubation period, while chicks were at risk for the first 30 days after hatching. The likelihood of desertion increased after the eggs had been incubated for 16 days and reached a peak at 22-24 days. Starvation occurred during the guard stage and was most likely to occur when chicks were 6-8 days old. Timing of breeding and clutch size were factors that influenced the survival of eggs through the initial stage of incubation. Nest location had a significant effect on the survival of eggs and chicks, from laying through the end of the guard stage. Eggs laid in 2-egg clutches and in central nests were most likely to produce chicks that fledged. 
10.2307/4089984| Eleonora's Falcon (Falco eleonorae) breeds in the Mediterranean region and is highly adapted for catching small birds on passage migration between Eurasia and their African winter quarters, which they feed their young. We studied gliding flight behavior of Eleonora's Falcon at a breeding colony located on a small island southwest of Sardinia, Italy. Gliding and soaring flight performance was measured using an optical range finder and evaluated against flight mechanical theory. The male falcon does the majority of hunting and usually sets off from the colony to hunting areas located at high altitude over the open sea to catch prey. To lower the cost of transport and maximize the energy gain from hunting, we show that the birds use vertical winds for soaring when available. The occurrence of rising air changes with wind direction. At north-northwesterly winds (on-shore), slope lift is available outside the nesting cliffs, and at south-southeasterly winds thermals that form over the island drift out over the sea. Our observations demonstrated the flexibility of flight behavior in relation to the wind situation, and birds thereby make full use of available soaring conditions. /// Falco eleonorae anida en la regin mediterrnea y se encuentra altamente adaptado para capturar aves pequeas con las cuales alimenta a sus cras durante el paso migratorio de las aves entre Eurasia y los sitios de invernada en frica. Estudiamos el comportamiento de planeo de F. eleonorae en una colonia reproductiva localizada en una pequea isla al sudoeste de Cerdea, Italia. Medimos el desempeo en vuelo de planeo y elevacin utilizando un localizador de rango ptico y lo evaluamos con respecto a la teora de mecnica de vuelo. El halcn macho realiza la mayora de la actividad de caza y generalmente se aleja de la colonia hacia reas de cacera ubicadas a gran altura sobre mar abierto para capturar sus presas. Mostramos que para minimizar los costos de transporte y maximizar la ganancia energtica de la caza, estas aves se elevan utilizando vientos verticales cada vez que se encuentran disponibles. La presencia de corrientes ascendentes cambia con la direccin del viento. Con vientos del nor-noroeste (en la costa), las corrientes ascendentes se encuentran disponibles fuera de los acantilados de nidificacin, y con vientos del sur-sureste las termales de viento que se forman sobre la isla derivan mar adentro. Nuestras observaciones demuestran la flexibilidad del comportamiento de vuelo con relacin las condiciones del viento, y que estas aves son capaces de utilizar la totalidad de las condiciones disponibles para elevarse. 
4087668|The hypothesis that an absolute need for male parental care maintains monogamy in bird populations has been rejected in almost all studies where males have been removed. However, most of these studies examined species in which males contributed less parental care than females. In Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica), the sexes have relatively similar levels of parental care. We removed male magpies during the laying period to early in the nestling period and found that 100% of unaided females failed to produce any offspring (n = 20), while 48% of females with mates (n = 106) failed to produce any young. The nest-visit rate of unaided females was lower than that for both the male and female at control nests during the incubation and nestling periods. Unaided females made <50% of the visits of control pairs after hatch, when many (54%) nests of unaided females failed. Male parental care is more important in Black-billed Magpies than in any other passerine in which the need for male parental care has been examined experimentally. This does not necessarily indicate that an absolute need for male parental care maintains monogamy in magpies. It may still be possible for males to produce more offspring by aiding two females, if two females can each produce some offspring with a fraction of the male's total parental care. We argue that this is unlikely because male magpies do not appear to assist more than one mate successfully. We believe that a need for male parental care is the most likely factor maintaining monogamy in this population of Black-billed Magpies.
10.2307/4088204| The Mediterranean Alectoris (including A. rufa, A. graeca, A. chukar, and A. barbara) comprise a group of closely related and morphologically uniform partridges with largely allopatric distributions and instances of natural hybridization in parapatric contact zones. Their taxonomic status and evolution are controversial. We have used multilocus protein electrophoresis to estimate the extent of genetic divergence among nominal Alectoris species and within A. chukar, A. graeca and A. rufa. The average Nei's (1978) genetic distance among conspecific populations (D = 0.008; range 0.003-0.021) was 26 times smaller than among species (D = 0.208; range 0.071-0.312). The most genetically similar species were A. rufa and A. graeca (D = 0.081); A. barbara and A. chukar were the most divergent (D = 0.303). The F
10.2307/4090308| Mayfield logistic regression is a method for analyzing nest-survival data that extends the traditional Mayfield estimator by incorporating explanatory variables (e.g. habitat structure, seasonal effects, or experimental treatments) in a logistic-regression analysis framework. Although Aebischer (1999) previously showed that logistic regression can be used to fit Mayfield models, few ornithologists have put that finding into practice. My purpose here is to reintroduce this underused method of nest-survival analysis, to compare its performance to that of a dedicated survival-analysis program (MARK), and to provide a practical guide for its use. Like the traditional Mayfield method, Mayfield logistic regression accounts for the number of "exposure days" for each nest and allows for uncertain fates (censoring), thus avoiding the bias introduced by typical applications of logistic regression. Mayfield logistic regression should be widely applicable when nests are found at various stages in the nesting cycle and multiple explanatory variables influencing nest survival are of interest. /// La regresin logstica de Mayfield es un mtodo para analizar datos de supervivencia de nidos que extiende el estimador tradicional de Mayfield mediante la incorporacin de variables explicativas (e.g. estructura de hbitat, efectos estacionales o tratamientos experimentales) en el esquema de un anlisis de regresin logstica. Aunque Aebischer (1999) mostr previamente que la regresin logstica puede ser usada para ajustar los modelos de Mayfield, pocos ornitlogos han puesto en prctica este hallazgo. Mi propuesta aqu es reintroducir este mtodo poco usado en los anlisis de supervivencia de nidos, para comparar su rendimiento con el de un programa de anlisis de supervivencia (MARK) y para brindar una gua prctica para su uso. Como el mtodo tradicional de Mayfield, la regresin logstica de Mayfield considera el nmero de das de exposicin para cada nido y admite situaciones inciertas (censura), evitando as el sesgo introducido por las aplicaciones tpicas de la regresin logstica. La regresin logstica de Mayfield puede aplicarse ampliamente cuando los nidos se encuentran en varias etapas en el ciclo de nidificacin y cuando hay inters en la influencia de mltiples variables explicativas sobre la supervivencia de los nidos. 
4088466|Young American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) were raised in isolated allospecific and conspecific (nest-mate) pairs to determine if Blue Jays could distinguish between a "nest mate" and a strange bird of the nest-mate's species, based on auditory cues or visual stimuli. After 25 days of being raised exclusively with another individual, each subject was tested in an electronic choice apparatus. Jays preferred: (1) to perch near a recording of their nest-mate's vocalizations over those of a bird that was not a nest mate; (2) the visual stimulus of their nest mate over that of a bird that was not its nest mate; (3) an unfamiliar bird of the nest-mate's species when given a choice between two unfamiliar birds, although the preference was not statistically significant; and (4) a recording of a jay when choosing between the recordings of two unfamiliar birds. Robins showed a preference for a recording of the alternate of its nest-mate's species, but no visual preference. In light of these findings, it appears that jays can recognize their nest mate using either visual or auditory cues, regardless of whether the nest mate is a conspecific or a robin. However, jays are more attracted to a conspecific's vocalizations when the choice is between two strange bird recordings (one a robin and one a jay), even if the subject was raised with a robin.
25488578|The Queen Charlotte Islands (QCI), British Columbia, have many putative endemic avian subspecies. We evaluated four speciesNorthern Saw-whet Owl (
4090450| Within a population, the evolution of migratory behavior is accompanied by a suite of physiological, behavioral, and cognitive adaptations. Spatial memory is associated with the hippocampus in mammals and birds; in some cases, hippocampal neuroanatomy correlates with differences in behavior. In a recent study, a migratory subspecies of sparrow, the Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis hyemalis), performed better on room-scale spatial memory tests than did a nonmigratory conspecific. Migrants collected after migration also possessed greater hippocampal neuron density, which suggests a neurological basis for differences in spatial memory and a link between migratory behavior and enhanced spatial memory. It is likely that homing behavior, like migration, relies to some extent on spatial memory. In some instances, spatial memory performance has generalized across spatial scales, with pronounced differences at larger scales. We tested whether differences in spatial memory between migrants and nonmigrants, previously observed at a room scale, were detectable at a landscape scale; specifically, we investigated whether differences in homing ability could be detected after displacements of 1-40 km. We found no difference in number of returning individuals or in duration of return. Our results suggest that homing in this species may not rely on aspects of spatial memory that differed in aviary tests. /// Dentro de una poblacin, la evolucin del comportamiento migratorio est acompaada por una serie de adaptaciones fisiolgicas, comportamentales y cognitivas. La memoria espacial est asociada con el hipocampo en los mamferos y las aves; en algunos casos, la anatoma nerviosa del hipocampo se correlaciona con diferencias en el comportamiento. En un estudio reciente, una subespecie migratoria, Junco hyemalis hyemalis, se desempe mejor en una prueba de memoria espacial a escala de habitacin que un coespecfico no migratorio. Las aves migratorias colectadas luego de la migracin tambin presentaron mayor densidad neuronal del hipocampo, lo que sugiere una base neurolgica para las diferencias en la memoria espacial y una conexin entre el comportamiento migratorio y una capacidad aumentada de memoria espacial. Es probable que el comportamiento de retorno al sitio natal, como la migracin, se base en cierta medida en la memoria espacial. En algunos casos, el desempeo de la memoria espacial se ha generalizado a travs de las escalas espaciales, con diferencias pronunciadas a escalas mayores. En este estudio evaluamos si las diferencias en memoria espacial entre individuos migratorios y no migratorios, previamente observadas a escala de habitacin, eran detectables a escala de paisaje. Especficamente, investigamos si las diferencias en la habilidad de retornar al sitio natal podan ser detectadas luego de desplazamientos de entre 1 y 40 km. No encontramos diferencias en el nmero de individuos que retornaron o en la duracin del retorno. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la habilidad de retornar al sitio natal en esta especie podra no basarse en los aspectos de la memoria espacial que difirieron en las pruebas de aviario. 
10.2307/4088910|The offspring sex ratio at independence in a colony of Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) was significantly male biased. Three possible proximate causes of this bias were examined. (1) The first was that there is a sex-biased laying sequence followed by brood reduction. Males were significantly more likely to hatch from earlier-laid eggs than females, but there was no evidence of increased mortality among late-laid nestlings. (2) The second was that there is sex-biased mortality due to sex-specific growth rates. Male and female offspring had similar rates of mass increase, tarsus growth, and wing-chord growth. (3) The third was that there is sex-biased provisioning by one or both parents, increasing survival probabilities of preferred sex. There was evidence that males fed male-biased broods more frequently than female-biased broods. Fledging age, fledging mass, and the number of days to independence were similar for male and female offspring, suggesting that sex-biased provisioning had no significant biological effect. Although none of the hypotheses adequately explained the observed sex-ratio bias, results from this and other studies suggest that sex-biased laying sequences followed by brood reduction are most likely to cause skewed offspring sex ratios in nature. The implications of a sex-biased laying sequence and of sex-biased provisioning by the male are discussed in reference to the potential evolutionary conflict between males and females over control of offspring sex ratios.
10.1525/auk.2010.09207|Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the evolution of conspecific brood parasitism (CBP), and recent studies suggest that nest predation may be an important factor in shaping this behavior. We assessed whether individuals that engage in parasitic laying preferentially deposit their eggs in safe nest sites (i.e., risk assessment hypothesis). We tested the predictions of this hypothesis using a population of Common Eiders (
10.2307/4087227|We conducted a comparative study of the foraging behavior, hunting success, and diet of wintering Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) at North Inlet Marsh, a salt marsh in South Carolina, and Paynes Prairie, a freshwater marsh in Florida. The relative use of five hunting methods in the salt and freshwater marshes differed significantly (P < 0.0005). Harrier pouncing rates at Paynes Prairie were three times greater than at North Inlet Marsh, but their hunting success was significantly less (5.8% vs. 15.1%, P < 0.0005). Greater capture success at North Inlet Marsh was caused by differences in diet and vegetation structure rather than by differential use of hunting techniques. Harriers hunting at North Inlet Marsh captured exclusively birds, whereas at Paynes Prairie harriers captured primarily cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus). Although differences in pouncing rate, capture success, and diet occurred between the two study areas, prey capture rates at North Inlet Marsh (27 g/h) and Paynes Prairie (23 g/h) were similar. Our finding that harriers had higher capture success hunting small- and medium-size birds on a salt marsh than cotton rats on a freshwater marsh contradicts the generalization that more mobile prey are more difficult to capture and illustrates the importance of comparative foraging studies.
10.2307/4089597|We used behavioral, physiological, and parasitological measures to document effects of acute malarial infections on activity budgets of experimentally infected juvenile Apapane (Himatione sanguinea). Five of eight birds died within 20 to 32 days after exposure to a single infective mosquito bite. Infected Apapane devoted less time to locomotory activities involving flight, walking or hopping, and stationary activities such as singing, preening, feeding, and probing. The amount of time spent sitting was positively correlated with parasitemia and increased dramatically after infection and between treatment and control groups. Birds that succumbed to infection experienced a significant loss of body mass and subcutaneous fat, whereas surviving Apapane were better able to maintain body condition and fat levels. When rechallenged with the parasite five months after initial infection, surviving birds experienced no increase in parasitemia, indicating that they had become immune to reinfection. Regardless of the outcome, infected birds experienced acute illness that would have left them unable to forage or to escape from predators in the wild.
4088315| We studied the nesting biology of the Green-rumped Parrotlet (Forpus passerinus) in the llanos of Venezuela. Clutch size averaged 7 eggs (range: 5-10), and eggs were typically laid daily or every other day over 7-16 days (x = 10). Incubation began with the first egg. Clutches hatched over 2-14 days (x = 8.6) and fledged over 4-17 days (x = 9.7). An average of 5.7 chicks hatched (range: 2-10) and 4.7 chicks fledged (range: 1-8) per successful nest. The number of young fledging increased slightly with clutch size, but parents that hatched more eggs were able to fledge significantly more young. Chicks fledged at 28-35 days of age, and chicks that hatched later and in nests with larger broods took significantly longer to fledge. Hatching success was significantly lower for last eggs in large clutches than for eggs laid earlier or in smaller clutches. However, fertility and volume of last eggs were similar to other eggs. Fledging success was uniformly high for nestlings in small broods, declined slightly for the last two chicks in medium sized broods, and declined sharply for the last two nestlings in large broods. Last-hatched and penultimately hatched chicks were found dead with empty crops significantly more often than earlier-hatched chicks, which implies death by starvation. We evaluated these results in relation to current hypotheses for the evolution of clutch size in tropical birds and the causes of hatching asynchrony. We propose the limited breeding-opportunities hypothesis to explain both the large clutch size and hatching asynchrony in F. passerinus. When opportunities to nest are limited through intra- or interspecific competition, females might be expected to invest heavily in reproductive effort and guard their clutches from nest-site takeovers. This could lead to large clutches, incubation beginning with the first egg, and a large hatching interval. 
10.2307/4087620|We examined hatching patterns and nestling mortality in 118 European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) broods from 1983-1986 in central New Jersey. At most nests hatching began on the morning of the eleventh day after clutch completion and continued 20-25 hours. Most last-laid eggs (78-93%) and 30-50% of penultimate eggs hatched on the second day of hatching. Earlier-laid eggs hatched more synchronously. There was little variation in hatching spread and postlaying incubation period as clutch size increased from four to six, indicating that the amount of incubation before clutch completion increased little in larger clutches. Mortality of nestlings from last-laid eggs accounted for 55% of all brood reduction. Mortality of these nestlings increased from <27% in broods of three and four to >75% in broods of five and six. Mortality of nestlings from earlier-laid eggs was less dependent on brood size. Synchronous hatching rarely occurred naturally, but when it did occur mortality was reduced. Mortality of nestlings from last-laid eggs in broods of three and four was probably due to late hatching, not food shortage.
10.2307/4089849|A major decline in submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) in Chesapeake Bay has altered the diet of wintering Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) from historically plant to a combination of benthic animal foods, especially the ubiquitous Baltic clam (Macoma balthica), supplemented with anthropogenic corn (Zea mays). Because the isotopic signature of corn is readily discriminated from bay benthos, but not SAV, we used stable-isotope methodology to investigate the corn-SAV component of the winter diet of Canvasbacks. Feeding trials with penned Canvasbacks were conducted to establish turnover rates and fractionation end-point loci of 
4085407| The relationship of size and composition of breeding territories to productivity of arthropod prey in the component habitats was studied in a population of Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) nesting on arctic tundra near Barrow, Alaska. Territories are established quite synchronously around the time of snow melt in early June, before their resource value can be assessed directly. Twenty territories averaged 1.76  0.46 (SD) ha in area. Large territories contained nearly equal amounts of wet, mesic, and dry habitat. Small territories contained less wet and dry habitat, but a much larger proportion of mesic habitat. Territory size was positively correlated with prey density in the year of measurement, due to an unusual abundance of prey in the relatively unpreferred wet habitat. Territory size was inversely correlated with indices of resource density based upon 3 and 7 years of data on prey productivity in the various habitats. These indices show average or expected prey density. The inverse correlation is increased when prey biomass data are weighted for prey selectivity by longspurs. No relationship between territory size and reproductive success was seen. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10005|We used stereo recordings of point counts from Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes to estimate inter-observer variability, to compare recordings with field observers, and to evaluate multiple-observer occupancy-model approaches to adjust for incomplete detection. We asked six birders with point-count experience (listeners) to listen to recordings of 80 stops from four BBS routes and report all the species they detected at each stop. Listeners went through each recording only once, without the use of aids such as spectrograms, to simulate field conditions. Listeners differed significantly in the mean number of species reported, ranging from 7.8 to 10.6 species per stop, compared with 12.6 confirmed on the recordings. On average, 14% of the reported records were identification errors (i.e., species not present on the recording), and 23% of species present on the recordings were overlooked. Field observers reported similar numbers of species as some listeners, but fewer species than were on the recordings. Multiple-observer occupancy models failed to correctly account for identification errors and tended to overestimate species richness by 1.08.4 species per stop; species-specific occupancy estimates were positively biased by 69100%. Although inter-observer variability clearly needs to be considered in analysis of point-count data, multiple-observer occupancy models do not adequately correct for this variation. The number of species detected on recordings suggests that they have considerable potential to supplement current monitoring programs, but further development of analysis methods is required to address observer effects.
25150299| Among socially monogamous birds, standard metrics suggest that males are only 5% larger than females. An untested assumption is that, with the exception of reproductive systems, males and females are scaled mirror images of one another. I used external morphological and skeletal data, and information on muscle mass and organ size, to test this assumption in a population of breeding Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus). Male and female Eastern Kingbirds exhibited no differences in body mass or standard measures of size, except in a longer (6%) wing chord and tail in males. However, keel length, a character rarely measured in the field, was 9.7% larger in males. In principal component analysis, overall body size (PC1) failed to differ between the sexes unless keel length was included. Analysis of 16 skeletal characters also showed that only the bones associated with flight were larger in males. However, the most significant differences between the sexes was that lean dry pectoral muscle mass (LDPMM) was nearly 30% greater in males, whereas the alimentary tract was 27.5% heavier in females. Females also carried more fat. In both sexes, LDPMM scaled in a positive allometric manner with body mass (i.e., slope > 1.0), but the significantly higher slope of males suggested especially strong selection for large muscle mass and, presumably, greater power generation during flight. Eastern Kingbirds thus exhibit pronounced cryptic sexual size dimorphism, but it is not clear whether natural or sexual selection is responsible. These data call for a broader perspective for measuring and a re-evaluation of sexual size dimorphism in other socially monogamous species. /// Entre las aves socialmente mongamas, las medidas estndar sugieren que los machos son slo 5% ms grandes que las hembras. Una suposicin que no se ha puesto a prueba es que, con excepcin de los sistemas reproductivos, los machos y las hembras son imgenes especulares a escala uno del otro. Utilic datos de morfologa externa y del esqueleto e informacin sobre la masa muscular y el tamao de los rganos para poner a prueba esta suposicin en una poblacin reproductiva de Tyrannus tyrannus. No existieron diferencias entre sexos en el peso corporal ni en medidas estndar del tamao, excepto por una mayor longitud (6%) de la cuerda alar y la cola en los machos. Sin embargo, la longitud de la quilla, un rasgo que rara vez es examinado en el campo, fue un 9.7% mayor en los machos. En anlisis de componentes principales, el tamao corporal general (CP1) no difiri entre sexos a no ser de que se incluyera la longitud de la quilla. Anlisis de 16 caracteres esquelticos tambin mostraron que slo los huesos asociados con el vuelo fueron de mayor tamao en los machos. Sin embargo, las diferencias ms significativas entre los sexos fueron que la masa seca de msculo pectoral magro fue cerca del 30% mayor en los machos y que el tracto digestivo fue un 27.5% ms pesado en las hembras. Las hembras tambin presentaron ms grasa. En ambos sexos, la masa seca de msculo pectoral magro se relacion positivamente de forma alomtrica con la masa corporal (i.e., pendiente > 1.0), pero la pendiente de esta relacin fue significativamente mayor en los machos, lo que sugiere la existencia de seleccin especialmente fuerte para presentar masa muscular elevada, y presumiblemente para presentar mayor capacidad de generar potencia durante el vuelo. En conclusin, T. tyrannus exhibe dimorfismo sexual crtpico en el tamao, pero no est claro si ste es el resultado de seleccin natural o de seleccin sexual. Estos datos llaman la atencin sobre la necesidad de tener una perspectiva ms amplia para medir y re-evaluar el dimorfismo sexual en tamao en otras especies socialmente mongamas. 
4085357|The song of the Sedge Wren in North America consists of several introductory notes and a trill of repeated syllables. All males studied had nearly identical song introductions of four different note types, but the trill types were extremely variable: two males studied most intensively used 84 and 148 song types, but only about 5% of trill types in the repertoire of neighboring males were similar to one another. Three hand-reared males learned no songs from a tutor tape that was presented between 15 and 90 days of age; however, shared components in their repertoires indicated that the males did, to a limited extent, imitate one another. Neighboring male Sedge Wrens tended to avoid singing simultaneously and changed song types together; furthermore, when other males were singing, song rates increased and a greater variety of song types was used. Overall, as song rates increased, successive songs were more likely to be different and new song types were introduced after fewer songs (i.e. versatility increased). Faster song rates, together with correlated changes in singing behaviors, bombard listeners with a greater diversity of song stimuli per unit time and presumably play a role in capturing and maintaining attention of recipients. Breeding biologies of the Sedge and Marsh wrens (Cistothorus spp.) are similar, yet these two species differ in 1) the degree of similarity in song repertoires among neighboring males, which directly affects the ability to countersing with like songs; 2) the extent of geographical variation in song; and 3) the ability to learn songs from a tutor tape between 15 and 90 days of age. Species differences in habitat stability, site fidelity, and dispersal may contribute to this divergence in patterns of vocal behavior.
10.2307/4089519|We compared eight morphological characters (wing span, wing area, aspect ratio, tail length, bill length, bill depth, tarsus length, and mass of subcutaneous / mesenteric fat) among petrels (family Procellariidae) of tropical versus southern polar avifaunas. Relative to body mass, tropical species have larger wings, bills, and tails, and lighter fat reserves than do polar species. We attributed these differences primarily to adaptations for feeding in markedly different pelagic environments. Larger wings, bills, and tails of tropical species enable them to make use of relatively light winds when foraging over wide ocean expanses to exploit sparse and highly mobile and / or volant prey. In contrast, the smaller wings, bills, and tails of polar species enable them to cope with strong winds to exploit highly abundant, less-mobile prey. Greater fat reserves among polar species probably are an adaptation for surviving extended periods when rough weather (rarely experienced by tropical species) precludes feeding, or for thermoregulation. The most consistent and marked differences between avifaunas are in wing structure and fat load-characters that are directly related to adaptations to physical factors such as wind and climate. Species-specific differences within avifaunas are mostly related to specializations for different foraging habits (i.e. feeding behavior, prey composition, and prey size). Morphological differences and within-species character variances indicated that the tropical ocean is used by a more generalist, migratory group of petrels, whereas the Southern Ocean is used by a more specialized, resident group of petrels.
10.2307/4090246| Environmental variability affects life-history decisions such as allocation of resources to reproduction. However, in the case of small passerine birds, pairs that acquire a territory do not usually skip a breeding season. This study presents breeding-success data from two contrasting years for a population of Bridled Titmice (Baeolophus wollweberi). During an El Nio year (1998), 20 pairs attempted to breed, and 85% were successful. Survival of juveniles from 10 banded broods through nutritional independence was 100%, excluding one depredated nest. Breeding success was much lower in the following La Nia drought year. Fifty-seven pairs established territories in the study area. Twenty-seven never progressed to nest building. Thirteen pairs were successful; survival of young from banding to nutritional independence was 41.4%. An average of 0.47 fledglings per breeding pair was produced in 1999, compared to 4.40 the previous El Nio year. This study examines possible adaptive significance of forgoing breeding in a poor year. /// La variabilidad ambiental afecta las decisiones de historia de vida, tales como la asignacin de recursos a la reproduccin. Sin embargo, parejas de pequeas aves paserinas que adquieren un territorio, usualmente no dejan de reproducirse en una estacin de cra. Aqu se presentan datos del xito reproductivo de una poblacin de Baeolophus wollweberi en dos aos contrastantes. Durante un ao El Nio (1998) veinte parejas intentaron reproducirse de las cuales un 85% tuvo xito. La supervivencia hasta el periodo de independencia nutricional de juveniles pertenecientes a 10 nidadas marcadas fue de un 100% excluyendo un nido depredado. El xito reproductivo fue mucho ms bajo en el siguiente ao de seca correspondiente a La Nia. Cincuenta y siete parejas establecieron territorios en el rea de estudio. Veintisiete nunca llegaron a finalizar la construccin del nido. Trece parejas tuvieron xito y la supervivencia de juveniles desde el marcaje a la independencia nutricional fue de un 41.4%. En 1999 se produjeron en promedio 0.47 volantones por pareja reproductiva, en comparacin a 4.40 volantones por pareja durante el ao El Nio anterior. Se discute la posible importancia adaptativa de abandonar la cra durante un ao pobre. 
4086470|In the mid-1940's, Peruvian managers greatly increased the nesting space available to the three principal surface-nesting species of the Peruvian Coastal Current: the Guanay Cormorant (Phalacrocorax bougainvillii), the Peruvian Booby (Sula variegata), and the Peruvian Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis thagus). The combined populations of these three species increased from 8 to 20 million birds. The annual rate of increase of the population rose from 8 to 18%. The three species appear to have evolved in the face of a shortage of nesting space. They have not diverged in their respective breeding seasons. Each species has habitat preferences for nesting, but the overlap is great. The booby and cormorant compete through a "scramble" to occupy space before it is settled by the other species. Neither can displace the other from nest sites. The pelican is dominant over the other two in aggressive interactions and frequently usurps their nests. Pelicans are apparently confined to nesting in level areas, whereas the other two species can nest on a greater range of gradients. Despite the facts that nesting space is limited and that its scarcity has a demonstrated effect upon the combined populations, interspecific competition for nesting space was difficult to document. Interspecific aggressive interactions were few and involved only a small percentage of the three populations. The individuals most affected by competition, those denied nesting space, were displaced from the area of competition and were thus less accessible for study.
10.2307/4088773|We explored in an exploded lek species the relationships between three alternatives hypotheses for typical skewed male mating success: (1) female preference for display-site characteristics; (2) female preference for male phenotypic traits; and (3) mate choice determined by the outcome of male dominance interactions. The possible role of these mechanisms of female choice was examined in the White-throated Manakin (Corapipo gutturalis), a species in which males display on the top of mossy fallen logs lying on the primary forest floor. Data on light intensity at the display site, lek attendance, male calling and display rates, visits by males and females, and mating success were collected on six males at a single lek. The two males with the brightest two arenas received high rates of female visitation and performed 71% of the mating attempts. However, only one of them successfully copulated because the other male was always disrupted by visiting males. The results suggest that light properties of the display site and attendance of the male determine the attractiveness of male display to females, whereas male interactions subsequently mediate copulatory success. Brightness of the display site appears as the primary cue for mate choice in C. gutturalis, but this is not used by females as an indicator of the males' relative dominance because the dominance status of males is not correlated with the brightness of their display sites.
4087339|Lack (1967, 1968a) proposed that clutch size of waterfowl and other birds with self-feeding young was limited by females' ability to produce eggs. Lack supported this egg-production hypothesis by showing a strong inverse relationship between egg size and clutch size within and among species of waterfowl. A reanalysis using updated data and more appropriate statistics failed to confirm Lack's results. Grouping all the waterfowl produced a weak (
4086124|This study examines the foraging behavior and habitat selection of a MacGillivray's (Oporornis tolmiei)-Orange-crowned (Vermivora celata)-Wilson's (Wilsonia pusilla) warbler assemblage that occurred on early-growth clearcuts in western Oregon during breeding. Sites were divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of deciduous trees. Density estimates for each species were nearly identical between site classes except for Wilson's, whose density declined on nondeciduous tree sites. Analysis of vegetation parameters within the territories of the species identified deciduous tree cover as the variable of primary importance in the separation of warblers on each site, so that the assemblage could be arranged on a continuum of increasing deciduous tree cover. MacGillivray's and Wilson's extensively used shrub cover and deciduous tree cover, respectively; Orange-crowns were associated with both vegetation types. When the deciduous tree cover was reduced, Orange-crowns concentrated foraging activities in shrub cover and maintained nondisturbance densities. Indices of foraging-height diversity showed a marked decrease after the removal of deciduous trees. All species except MacGillivray's foraged lower in the vegatative substrate on the nondeciduous tree sites; MacGillivray's concentrated foraging activities in the low shrub cover on both sites. Indices of foraging overlap revealed a general pattern of decreased segregation by habitat after removal of deciduous trees. I suggest that the basic patterns of foraging behavior and habitat selection evidenced today in western North America were initially developed by ancestral warblers before their invasion of the west. Species successfully colonizing western habitats were probably preadapted to the conditions they encountered, with new habitats occupied without obvious evolutionary modifications.
4090549| Many species of birds start incubation before the last egg of a clutch is laid, which often results in asynchronous hatching and fledging. The incubation pattern favored by natural selection should lead to greater reproductive success than alternative patterns. Equations for calculating the reproductive success of a clutch as a function of the start of incubation have been proposed by Clark and Wilson (1981) and Hussell (1985). Both equations predicted a greater frequency of an earlier start of incubation than occurs in nature. Here, I present a new equation in which the relevant parameters determining reproductive success as a function of the start of incubation are (1) the probability of any young leaving a nest and (2) the post-first-fledging daily survival rates of the remaining nestlings. This equation is universally applicable and accounts for the greater frequency of incubation starting later, rather than earlier, in the laying sequence of most birds. I use the equation to evaluate various hypotheses regarding the evolution of incubation patterns. /// Muchas especies de aves comienzan a incubar antes de poner el ltimo huevo de la nidada, lo que generalmente resulta en una eclosin y salida del nido asincrnica de los volantones. Un patrn de incubacin favorecido por la seleccin natural debera llevar a un xito reproductivo mayor que los patrones de incubacin alternativos. Clark y Wilson (1981) y Hussel (1985) han propuesto ecuaciones para calcular el xito reproductivo de una nidada en funcin del inicio de la incubacin. Ambas ecuaciones predicen una frecuencia mayor de inicio adelantado de la incubacin de lo que ocurre en la naturaleza. Aqu presento una nueva ecuacin en la que los parmetros relevantes que determinan el xito reproductivo en funcin del inicio de la incubacin son (1) la probabilidad de que cualquier polluelo deje el nido y (2) la tasa de supervivencia diaria posterior a la salida del primer volantn del nido para el resto de los polluelos. Esta ecuacin es aplicable universalmente y da cuenta de una mayor frecuencia de inicio tardo, ms que de un inicio adelantado, de la incubacin en la secuencia de puesta de la mayora de las aves. Utilizo esta ecuacin para evaluar varias hiptesis acerca de la evolucin de los patrones de incubacin. 
25150247|Lek-mating Long-tailed Manakins (Chiroxiphia linearis) exhibit an unusual pattern of delayed plumage maturation. Each year, males progress through a series of predefinitive plumages before attaining definitive plumage in their fifth calendar year. Females also exhibit variation in plumage coloration, with some females displaying male-like plumage characteristics. Using data from mist-net captures in northwest Costa Rica (n = 1,315) and museum specimens from throughout the range of Long-tailed Manakins (n = 585), we documented the plumage sequence progression of males, explored variation in female plumage, and described the timing of molt in this species. Males progressed through a series of age-specific predefinitive plumages, which enabled the accurate aging of predefinitive-plumaged males in the field; this predefinitive plumage sequence is the basis for age-related status-signaling in these males. Females tended to acquire red coloration in the crown as they aged. However, colorful plumage in females may be a byproduct of selection on bright male plumage. Females exhibited an early peak of molt activity from February to April, little molt from May through July, and a second, more pronounced peak of molt activity in October. By contrast, males in older predefinitive-plumage stages and males in definitive plumage exhibited comparable unimodal distributions in molt activity beginning in June and peaking between July and October. Our data are consistent with selective pressure to avoid the costs of molt-breeding overlap in females and older males. Our findings have important implications for social organization and signaling in Long-tailed Manakins, and for the evolution of delayed plumage maturation in birds. /// En Chiroxiphia linearis se presenta un patrn inusual de maduracin retardada del plumaje. Cada ao, los machos pasan por una serie de plumajes predefinitivos antes de acanzar su plumaje definitivo en su quinto ao calendario. Las hembras tambin exhiben variacin en la coloracin del plumage: algunas presentan caractersticas del plumaje similares a las de los machos. Empleando datos de capturas hechas con redes de niebla en el noroeste de Costa Rica (n = 1,315) y especmenes de museo de todo el rango de distribucin (n = 585), documentamos la secuencia de plumajes progresivos de los machos, exploramos la variacin en el plumaje de las hembras y describimos el momento en que tiene lugar la muda en C. linearis. Los machos progresaron a travs de una serie de plumajes pre-definitivos especficos para cada clase de edad, lo que permiti determinar la edad de los machos sin plumaje definitivo con exactitud en el campo. Esta secuencia de plumajes predefinitivos en la base para la sealizacin del estatus entre los machos, que est relacionada con la edad en esta especie. Las hembras tendieron a adquirir coloracin roja en la corona a medida que envejecieron. Sin embargo, el plumaje colorido en las hembras podra ser un subproducto de la seleccin por plumaje brillante en los machos. Las hembras exhibieron un pico temprano de actividad de muda entre febrero y abril, poca muda entre mayo y julio y un segundo pico ms pronunciado de actividad de muda en octubre. En contraste, los machos en estados de plumaje predefinitivo ms avanzados y en plumaje definitivo exhibieron distribuciones unimodales de actividad de muda comparables comenzando en junio, con un pico entre julio y octubre. Nuestros datos concuerdan con la existencia de una presin selectiva para evitar los costos del sobrelapamiento de la muda de las hembras y de los machos ms viejos. Nuestros hallazgos tienen implicaciones importantes relacionadas con la organizacin social y la sealizacin entre individuos de C. linearis, y tambin para la evolucin de la maduracin retardada del plumaje en las aves.
10.1525/auk.2012.12039|In some species, habitat edges (ecotones) affect nest-site selection and nesting success. Openness, or how visually open a habitat is, has recently been shown to influence grassland bird density and may affect nest-site selection, possibly by reducing the risk of predation on adults, nests, or both. Because edge and openness are correlated, it is possible that effects of openness have been overlooked or inappropriately ascribed to edge effects. We tested the roles of edges and visual openness in nest-site selection and nesting success of two grassland passerines, the Bobolink (
4086422|The Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV) is the principal wintering area for Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) in the Mississippi Flyway. Here, we consider it a distinct habitat (sensu Fretwell 1972), i.e. fitness is relatively homogeneous among ducks within the MAV but different from that of ducks in other such habitats. We analyzed recovery distributions of Mallards banded preseason (July-September 1950-1980) to test hypotheses concerning the effects of winter temperatures, precipitation, and population levels on Mallard winter distribution. When two groups of years that comprised extremes of warm and cold winter weather were compared, recovery distributions of all four age and sex classes (adult males and females, young males and females) differed significantly; recoveries were located farther south in cold years. Recovery distributions also differed between wet and dry years in the MAV for all groups except adult males, higher proportions of recoveries of adult females and of young males and females occurring in the MAV during wet winters. Although differences in continental Mallard population size were associated with differences in recovery distributions only of adult males and young females, the proportion of young males and of all young Mallards recovered in the MAV increased during years of low populations. We conclude that temperature, water conditions, and population size affect the habitat suitability of Mallard wintering areas and that Mallards exhibit considerable flexibility in winter distribution associated with these factors.
4085160| Adlie Penguin eggs were artificially incubated at five different constant temperatures: 26, 30, 34, 40, and 42C. A general increase in embryonic development rate was observed with higher incubation temperatures. Embryonic growth and development were not completely prevented at either 26 or 42C. Mortality of embryos was lowest at 34C, and embryonic death occurred more frequently during the first week of incubation at higher temperatures than at lower temperatures. Abnormal development was most common at temperatures other than 34C. Some abnormal conditions were characteristic of low incubation temperatures while others were found most often at high temperatures. We suggest that the optimum constant incubation temperature for the Adlie Penguin embryo may be slightly higher than 34C. 
4090553| We studied the effects of chronic avian malaria (Plasmodium relictum) infections on the reproductive success of a native Hawaiian honeycreeper, Hawaii Amakihi (Hemignathus virens). Chronic malaria infections in male and female parents did not significantly reduce reproductive success as measured by clutch size, hatching success, fledging mass, number of nestlings fledged, nesting success (daily survival rate), and minimum fledgling survival. In fact, nesting success of pairs with chronically infected males was significantly higher than those with uninfected males (76% vs. 38%), and offspring that had at least one parent that had survived the acute phase of malaria infection had a significantly greater chance of being resighted the following year (25% vs. 10%). The reproduction and survival of infected birds were sufficient for a per-capita population growth rate >1, which suggests that chronically infected Hawaii Amakihi could support a growing population. /// Estudiamos los efectos de las infecciones crnicas de malaria aviaria (Plasmodium relictum) en el xito reproductivo de un mielero nativo de Hawai (Hemignathus virens). Las infecciones crnicas de malaria en los padres de ambos sexos no redujeron de modo significativo el xito reproductivo medido como el tamao de la nidada, el xito de eclosin, el peso de los volantones, el nmero de pichones que dejaron el nido, el xito de nidificacin (tasa diaria de supervivencia) ni la supervivencia mnima de los volantones. De hecho, el xito de nidificacin de las parejas con machos infectados de modo crnico fue significativamente mayor que el de aquellos con machos no infectados (76% vs. 38%), y los pichones que tuvieron al menos un padre que haba sobrevivido la fase pico de la infeccin de malaria presentaron una probabilidad mayor de ser vistos nuevamente el ao prximo (25% vs. 10%). La reproduccin y la supervivencia de las aves infectadas fueron suficientes como para mantener una tasa de crecimiento poblacional per cpita >1, lo que sugiere que los individuos con infecciones crnicas de H. virens pueden mantener una poblacin creciente. 
25150313| Habitat connectivity and corridors are often assumed to be critical for the persistence of patchily distributed populations, but empirical evidence for this assumption is scarce. We assessed the importance of connectivity among habitat patches for dispersal by a mature-forest obligate, the Boreal Owl (Aegolius funereus). Boreal Owls demonstrated a lack of genetic structure ( = 0.004  0.002 [SE]) among subpopulations, regardless of matrix type and extent, which indicates that unforested matrix does not act as a barrier to dispersal for this vagile species. We found only slightly higher genetic distances (Cavalli-Sforza chord distances ranged from 0.015 to 0.025) among patchily distributed Rocky Mountain subpopulations as compared with largely contiguous boreal-forest subpopulations (0.013 to 0.019) and no evidence of a genetic split across the expansive high plains of Wyoming. Even the most isolated subalpine patches are connected via gene flow. As northern boreal forests continue to experience intensive harvest of mature stands, geographic dispersion of Boreal Owl habitat may begin to more closely resemble that found in the Rocky Mountains. We suggest that decreased connectivity poses much less of a threat to continued abundance of this mature-forest obligate than overall loss of nesting and foraging habitat. Assessment of the importance of corridors and connectivity should be conducted on a species-by-species basis, given the variation in response of species to discontinuity of habitat, even among closely related taxa or guilds. /// Frecuentemente, se suponse que la conectividad del hbitat y los corredores son crticos para la persistencia de poblaciones distribuidas en parches, pero la evidencia emprica sobre esto es escasa. Evaluamos la importancia de la conectividad entre parches de hbitat para la dispersin en Aegolius funereus, una especie restringida a bosques maduros. Encontramos una ausencia de estructura gentica entre subpoblaciones ( = 0.004  0.002 [EE]), independientemente del tipo de matriz y de su extensin, lo que sugiere que las matrices no boscosas no actan como una barrera para la dispersin en esta especie de amplia movilidad. Slo encontramos distancias genticas ligeramente mayores (las distancias cuerda de Cavalli-Sforza estuvieron entre 0.015 y 0.025) entre subpoblaciones de las Montaas Rocallosas distribuidas en parches en comparacin con subpoblaciones de bosques boreales contiguos (0.013 a 0.019), y no observamos evidencia de una diferenciacin gentica a travs de las amplias planicies altas de Wyoming. Incluso los parches subalpinos ms aislados estn conectados por flujo gentico. A medida que los bosques boreales del norte continen siendo sometidos a extraccin intensiva de rodales maduros, la dispersin geogrfica del hbitat de A. funereus en la regin podra comenzar a semejarse ms a la del hbitat de las Montaas Rocallosas. Sugerimos que la conectividad reducida representa una amenaza mucho menor sobre la abundancia de esta especie restringida a los bosques maduros que la prdida general de hbitat de nidificacin y forrajeo. Las evaluaciones de la importancia de los corredores y la conectividad deben realizarse especie por especie, dada la variacin en la respuesta de las especies a la discontinuidad del hbitat, an entre taxones estrechamente emparentados o pertenecientes al mismo gremio. 
4085971| Burrow-nesting Bonin Petrels (Pterodroma hypoleuca) lay a single egg that represents 22% of their body mass; the mean incubation period is 48.7 days, almost twice as long as the value predicted on the basis of egg mass. In spite of the prolonged incubation, the total water loss from the egg represents only 13.7% of the fresh egg mass. This small amount of total water loss is achieved by reducing the daily water loss from the egg to 110 mg/day, which is accomplished by a decrease in both the water-vapor conductance of the shell (5.2
10.2307/4090489| For 1996-2003, we determined reproductive output and success of 70 Lilac-crowned Parrot (Amazona finschi) nests in tropical dry forest of the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve in western Mexico. Only 42% of nests had young that fledged; predation was the main cause of nest failure. Low brood survival in 2000 and 2003 caused significant between-year variation in the probability of nest success during the nestling phase of the nest cycle. Reproductive output of Lilac-crowned Parrots was low, with females producing an average of 0.99 fledglings on an initial investment of 2.6 eggs. The fecundity component of clutch size varied significantly between years, because of the high median clutch size recorded in 2000. Nestling survival also varied significantly between years, creating large interannual fluctuations in reproductive output. The most productive breeding season was 1999, with an average output of 1.7 fledglings on an investment of 2.7 eggs; whereas the poorest breeding season was 2000, with an output of 0.57 fledglings from 3.3 eggs. Loss of reproductive potential was greatest in 2000 and 2003, because of brood reduction through starvation of later-hatched nestlings, with hatching order influencing the probability of nestling survival. Mean number of nestlings per egg-laying female was associated with interannual fluctuations in precipitation resulting from the El Nio-La Nia weather cycle in the Pacific Ocean. Both nest predation and food availability may limit parrot reproduction in tropical dry forests, with populations of threatened species in dry habitats being vulnerable to effects of climatic variability and habitat fragmentation. /// El xito de nidificacin y la productividad reproductiva del loro Amazona finschi fueron determinados para 70 nidos durante 1996-2003 en el bosque tropical seco de la Reserva de la Biosfera Chamela-Cuixmala, en el oeste de Mxico. Slo el 42% de los nidos produjeron volantones, y la principal causa que ocasion que los nidos fallaran fue la depredacin. La alta mortandad de pollos durante los aos 2000 y 2003 produjo variacin significativa entre aos en la probabilidad de xito de nidificacin durante la fase de crianza de los pollos. La productividad reproductiva de A. finschi fue baja, ya que a partir de una inversin promedio inicial de 2.6 huevos las hembras produjeron 0.99 volantones. El tamao de la nidada vari significativamente entre aos, debido a una alta nidada en el ao 2000. La supervivencia de los pollos tambin vari significativamente entre aos, lo cual cre grandes fluctuaciones interanuales en la productividad reproductiva. La temporada reproductiva ms productiva fue la de 1999 con una productividad promedio de 1.7 volantones a partir de una inversin de 2.7 huevos, mientras que la temporada menos productiva fue la del ao 2000 con una produccin de 0.57 volantones a partir de 3.3 huevos. La prdida en el potencial reproductivo fue mayor en los aos 2000 y 2003 debido a una elevada reduccin en la nidada por inanicin de los pollos que eclosionaron tardamente, de modo que la probabilidad de supervivencia de los pollos estuvo asociada con el orden de eclosin. El nmero promedio de pollos por hembra estuvo asociado con las variaciones interanuales en la precipitacin que resultan de los ciclos de El Nio-La Nia en el Ocano Pacifico. Tanto la depredacin de los nidos como la disponibilidad de alimento pueden limitar la reproduccin de los loros en el bosque tropical seco, siendo las poblaciones de especies amenazadas en los hbitat secos muy vulnerables a los impactos de la variabilidad climtica y la fragmentacin del hbitat. 
25150290| When land managers incorporate the habitat needs of grassland birds into their planning, they typically rely on management recommendations based on habitat use by adults during nesting. Habitat requirements for other critical life stages are seldom known and may differ from those of nesting adults. Using radiotelemetry, we examined survival and habitat use by juvenile Dickcissels (Spiza americana) during the postfledging period. In 2003 and 2004, we monitored 60 fledgling Dickcissels for 30 days after they left the nest. Mortality rates were highest during the first week after leaving the nest, and only 33% of the fledglings survived the first four weeks after leaving the nest. Estimated mean survival times were 16.9  1.6 days after birds left the nest. In both years, fledgling survival was positively associated with dense vertical and horizontal structure of forbs at nests. Survival tended to be positively associated with vertical grass density on adult territories and negatively associated with patchily distributed forbs on adult territories. Fledgling habitat use was restricted to areas where Dickcissels nested and adjacent fields. Habitats used included corn and soybean fields, grasslands, and wetlands. Our results suggest that the fledgling period is a critical stage for Dickcissels and that fledglings require habitat similar to habitat used for nesting. /// La informacin sobre las necesidades de hbitat para las aves de pastizal incorporada en los planes de manejo normalmente se basa en recomendaciones hechas con base en el uso de hbitat de aves adultas durante la nidificacin. Los requerimientos durante otras etapas importantes de la vida son rara vez conocidos y stos pueden ser diferentes de los de los adultos que se encuentran nidificando. Utilizando radiotelemetra, examinamos la supervivencia y uso de hbitat de juveniles de Spiza americana durante el perodo posterior al emplumamiento. Durante los aos 2003 y 2004, monitoreamos 60 volantones durante los 30 das posteriores al abandono del nido. Las tasas de mortalidad ms altas fueron durante la primera semana despus del abandono del nido, y slo el 33% de los volantones sobrevivieron las cuatro primeras semanas posteriores al abandono del nido. El tiempo promedio de supervivencia estimado fue de 16.9  1.6 das despus de abandonar el nido. En ambos aos, la supervivencia de los volantones se relacion positivamente con la estructura vertical y horizontal de hierbas distintas a pastos en los territorios de adultos. La supervivencia tendi a estar relacionada positivamente con la densidad de pasto vertical en los territorios de adultos y negativamente con las hierbas distintas a los pastos distribuidas en parches en los territorios de aves adultas. El uso de hbitat por parte de los volantones se restringi a los lugares en que S. americana se reproduce y a campos adyacentes. Los hbitats utilizados fueron campos de maz y de soya, pastizales y humedales. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el periodo de emplumamiento es un perodo crtico para S. americana, y que los volantones requieren de un hbitat similar al utilizado para la nidifcacin. 
4086536|Individual Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor) sing 8-12 song themes. Most or all themes in an individual's repertoire are shared with neighbors, although slight but consistent differences often separate neighbors' performances of a particular theme. Birds first begin to sing recognizable themes while still juveniles on their parents' territory. Established territorial residents can modify their themes slightly from year to year to achieve a closer similarity to neighbors' themes. Neighbors matched themes during concurrent singing more often than would be expected at random. Furthermore, titmouse tended to begin singing in response to a neighbor, particularly if it could match the theme. Playbacks of recorded song also evoked matched singing in response. Playbacks of strangers' songs, recorded 3 km away, evoked a less intense response than did playbacks of neighbor's songs, but an attempt to demonstrate individual recognition of a neighbor's shared themes failed. Evidently, the advantages of coordinated singing by opponents with shared themes outweigh any advantages of individual recognition of neighbors with distinctive songs.
4087857|We examined scleral rings from 44 species of Pelecaniformes and found nonrandom variation in numbers of scleral ossicles among genera, but little or no variability within genera. Phaethon, Fregata, and Pelecanus retain the primitive 15 ossicles per ring, while the most recent common ancestor of the Sulae (Phalacrocoracidae, Anhinga, and Sulidae) is inferred to have had a derived reduction to 12 or 13 ossicles. Within the Sulidae, Sula (sensu stricto) exhibits further reduction to 10 ossicles. These patterns of ossicle reduction are congruent with both Cracraft's hypothesis of pelecaniform relationships (1985) and that of Sibley et al. (1988). The presence of scleral rings in museum specimens is significantly greater for Phaethon and Fregata, and less for Pelecanus, than would be expected from a random distribution. We conclude that the scleral ring is of potential systematic importance, and we make recommendations for its preservation in museum collections.
4085980|Colony-site tenacity and nest-site tenacity have been documented in several larids, but the proximate factors affecting fidelity remain poorly understood. We examined the effect of severe breeding-habitat alterations (bulldozing) on site tenacity in Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis). Return rates of wing-tagged adults were similar in bulldozed and unchanged parts of the colony site. In bulldozed areas, however, most ring-bills abstained from nesting; those that did breed showed an increased tendency to move to a different nest site.
10.1525/auk.2011.11050|Brood size and hatching patterns in birds are widely believed to represent adaptations to food availability during the brood-rearing period. Experimental manipulations of brood size and hatching patterns have been widely employed to determine whether parents can raise larger or more synchronous broods, but concurrent manipulations of food abundance to test the supposed causal mechanism have been rare. I studied survival to fledging of 1,060 American Coot (
10.2307/4090187| Distribution of genealogical lineages within a species is likely the result of a complicated series of ecological and historical events. Nested-clade analysis is specifically designed as an objective phylogeographic approach for inferring evolutionary processes on a spatial and temporal scale for small subclades within a larger set of intraspecific relationships. Here, we use nested-clade analysis as well as other phylogeographic methods to investigate the evolutionary history of California Thrasher (Toxostoma redivivum) populations. Inferences resulting from nested clade analysis suggest a history that includes past fragmentation, range expansion, and isolation-by-distance. Along with root information, those inferences enable the construction of a biogeographic scenario for this species involving general southern ancestry, an early north-south division, northward range expansion, and a southward back-expansion into an already populated southern region. Isolation-by-distance is also identified, particularly in southern California, indicating that gene flow between localities does occur but is restricted. Many conclusions drawn from this study are concordant with geologic data as well as phylogeographic scenarios drawn for other codistributed California taxa. /// La distribucin de linajes genealgicos al interior de una especie probablemente es el resultado de una complicada serie de eventos ecolgicos e histricos. El anlisis de clados anidados fue diseado especficamente como un mtodo filogeogrfico objetivo para inferir procesos evolutivos en escalas espaciales y temporales para pequeos subclados inmersos en un grupo ms amplio de relaciones intraespecficas. Aqu utilizamos el anlisis de clados anidados y otros mtodos filogeogrficos para estudiar la historia evolutiva de las poblaciones de Toxostoma redivivum. Las inferencias hechas con base en el anlisis de clados anidados sugieren una historia que incluye fragmentacin, expansin del rango y aislamiento por distancia. Junto con informacin sobre la raz del rbol, estas inferencias permiten construir un escenario biogeogrfico para esta especie. Este escenario sugiere que las poblaciones del sur son ancestrales y que hubo una divisin norte-sur temprana, una expansin hacia el norte y una expansin secundaria hacia el sur a un rea previamente ocupada. Tambin se identifica aislamiento por distancia, particularmente en el sur de California, lo que indica que aunque hay flujo gnico entre localidades, ste es restringido. Muchas de las conclusiones de este estudio concuerdan con datos geolgicos y escenarios filogeogrficos propuestos para otros taxa con distribuciones similares en California. 
10.2307/4090307| We investigated patterns and causes of variation in clutch sizes in a guild of five species of temperate-nesting dabbling ducks (Mallard [Anas platyrhynchos], Northern Pintail ["pintail," A. acuta], Gadwall [A. strepera], Blue-winged Teal ["teal," A. discors], and Northern Shoveler ["shoveler," A. clypeata]) during 1993-1995 in the Prairie Pothole Region of midcontinental North America. Clutch sizes (mean  SE) were largest for teal (10.80  0.03), followed in descending order by those of shoveler (10.31  0.05), Gadwall (9.92  0.04), Mallard (8.91  0.04), and pintail (7.66  0.06). In Mallard, pintail, and shoveler, predicted clutch sizes at onset of nesting exhibited minimal variation. Clutch sizes of Gadwall and teal displayed statistically significant variation among years at onset of nesting; pintail clutch sizes showed significant variation late in the nesting season. Clutch sizes declined seasonally in all species. Declines in clutch sizes of teal and shoveler were approximately linear; whereas clutch sizes of Mallard, pintail, and Gadwall usually declined at progressively decreasing rates. Linear declines in teal and shoveler clutches suggest that those species experienced greater difficulty securing lipids for egg production late in the nesting season than did Mallard, pintail, and Gadwall. That disparity may result because egg-laying female teal and shoveler feed almost exclusively on animal foods, which are primarily protein; whereas female Mallard, pintail, and Gadwall consume more carbohydrate-rich plant foods. Our findings, when examined in context with existing information, suggest that interspecific variation in clutch sizes results from innate differences in several traits-including body size, diet, timing of lipid acquisition, and nesting-all of which can affect the amount of lipid available for egg production. Temperate-nesting dabbling ducks have evolved traits that facilitate laying of large clutches early in the nesting season, because risk of mortality is lower among early-hatched young. Annual differences in clutch sizes of all five species were not significant when effects of annual variation in nest-initiation dates were accounted for, reflecting the key role of environmental influences on intraspecific variation in clutch sizes among years. /// Investigamos los patrones y las causas de la variacin en el tamao de la nidada en cinco especies de patos de la tribu Anatini que nidifican en la zona templada (Anas platyrhynchos, A. acuta, A. strepera, A. discors y A. clypeata) entre 1993-1995 en la regin de Prairie Pothole en el centro de Norte Amrica continental. Los tamaos de la nidada (media  EE) fueron mayores para A. discors, seguidos en orden decreciente por A. clypeata (10.310.05), A. strepera (9.92  0.04), A. platyrhynchos (8.91  0.04) y A. acuta (7.66  0.06). En A. platyrhynchos, A. acuta y A. clypeata, los tamaos de las nidadas predichos al inicio de la nidificacin presentaron variaciones mnimas. Los tamaos de las nidadas de A. strepera y A. discors mostraron variaciones estadsticamente significativas entre aos en el momento del inicio de la nidificacin, y los tamaos de las nidadas de A. acuta mostraron variaciones significativas tardamente en el perodo de nidificacin. Los tamaos de las nidadas disminuyeron estacionalmente en todas las especies. Las disminuciones en A. discors y A. clypeata fueron aproximadamente lineales, mientras que los tamaos de las nidadas de A. platyrhynchos, A. acuta y A. strepera generalmente disminuyeron progresivamente. La disminucin lineal en las nidadas de A. discors y A. clypeata sugiere que estas especies presentaron una mayor dificultad para mantener los niveles de lpidos necesarios para la produccin de huevos a fines de la poca de nidificacin, en comparacin con A. platyrhynchos, A. acuta y A. strepera. Esta disparidad podra deberse a que las hembras de A. discors y A. clypeata que estn poniendo huevos consumen casi exclusivamente alimentos animales, los cuales principalmente proveen protena, mientras que las hembras de A. platyrhynchos, A. acuta y A. strepera consumen ms alimentos vegetales ricos en carbohidratos. Si examinamos nuestros resultados en el contexto de la informacin existente, stos sugieren que las diferencias interespecficas en el tamao de las nidadas son el resultado de diferencias innatas en varios caracteres - incluyendo tamao corporal, dieta, momento en que se adquieren los lpidos, nidificacin - que afectan la cantidad de lpidos disponibles para la produccin de huevos. Los patos de la tribu Atini que nidifican en las zonas templadas han evolucionado caracteres que facilitan la puesta de nidadas grandes tempranamente en la poca de nidificacin, debido a que el riesgo de mortalidad de los juveniles eclosionados tempranamente es menor. Las variaciones anuales en los tamaos de las nidadas de las cinco especies no fueron significativas cuando se consider el efecto de la variacin anual en la fecha de iniciacin del nido, reflejando el rol clave de las influencias ambientales en la variacin interespecfica en el tamao de las nidadas entre aos. 
10.2307/4089243|We banded 811 nestling and 478 adult American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) at a breeding site in northeastern California and observed their occupancy of space over the next one to two breeding seasons. Of the fledged young, 12% were seen after their hatching year, and 4.6% bred within one to two years after hatching. Twelve birds returned and bred at age two, and one individual bred at age one. Only 21 to 25% of avocets estimated to have survived to age two returned and bred; the rest presumably dispersed elsewhere. Females dispersed farther from their hatching site than did males. Overall, 53.6% of banded adults were seen one or two years following banding, but only 24.3% were known to have bred within 20 km of the banding site. There was a significant tendency for adults to avoid returning or to disperse greater distances in the year after they were banded. Approximately 72 to 78% of the adults estimated to have survived for two years after they were banded were seen subsequently; 56% of these birds returned and bred. There were no significant differences between males and females in dispersal distances or breeding return rates. Males responded to nesting failure by dispersing farther the next year, but females did not. There were no relationships between mate retention, dispersal distance, or subsequent success. Avocets were paired upon arrival at their breeding sites, which led to mate changes between years. We suggest that avocet dispersal patterns are life-history adaptations to unpredictable breeding habitats that yield few benefits from site familiarity.
10.2307/4089634|Carotenoid pigments produce the ornamental red, orange, and yellow integumentary coloration of many species of animals. Among individuals of a population, the hue and saturation of carotenoid-based ornaments can be extremely variable, and studies of fish and birds have shown that females generally prefer males that display the most saturated and reddest coloration. Consequently, there has been a great deal of interest in determining the proximate factors that affect individual expression of carotenoid-based pigmentation. Parasites might affect production of ornamental coloration, and the Hamilton-Zuk hypothesis proposes that parasitized males will show decreased expression of the secondary sexual traits preferred by females. We found that captive male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) experimentally infected with Isospora spp. (coccidians) and/or Mycoplasma gallisepticum produced carotenoid-based plumage coloration that was significantly less red and less saturated than that of noninfected males. These observations validate a necessary condition of the Hamilton-Zuk hypothesis, but heritable resistance to the pathogens we examined remains to be demonstrated.
10.2307/4089462|Skuas and jaegers (Stercorariinae), like other birds with a raptorial lifestyle, display reversed sexual dimorphism in size (RSD) in which females are larger than males. This condition is commonly believed to be associated with the morphology or behavioral ecology of avian predators, and numerous theoretical explanations have been presented to account for its evolution. Most tests of these ideas have been theoretical or based on comparative analyses. We present tests of specific hypotheses of RSD based on field studies of Great Skuas (Catharacta skua) and Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus) breeding in Shetland. We also present a comparative analysis of foraging behavior and degree of RSD within the Stercorariinae. We found no support for the popular theories that claim that RSD evolved as a result of specialized roles during breeding. Large females were not more fecund, nor were they the main defenders of the nest. Male body size was not correlated with any breeding parameter. In addition, interspecific comparisons did not support the idea that the degree of RSD is related to foraging behavior during the breeding season (as opposed to morphology). Female dominance within pairs did not affect any breeding parameters. Support was found for theories that RSD is linked to sexual selection. Large females had an advantage when pairing with older males, which could be a result of intrasexual competition for mates. There was assortative mating for size, indicating that small males could also have an advantage in pairing, because large males seem to be rejected by small females. Given the disparate results of several previous studies, we conclude that a large body of empirical evidence will be needed before we can draw firm conclusions about the main selective factors that act to maintain current levels of RSD in natural populations of raptorial birds.
25150266|We estimated annual return rate, fidelity, and breeding dispersal in a migratory population of Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) in central Colorado. Return rates, based on capture-recapture histories of 39 males and 52 females from 1981 to 2003, were higher for males (84%) than for females (45%). Annual recapture probability was higher for females, because breeders are easier to capture than nonbreeders and females always attempted to nest, whereas some males were unpaired (did not nest) for up to four years. Territory fidelity was male biased (92%, vs. 56% for females, adjusted for undetected emigration), and mean tenure on territories was more than twice as long for males as for females. Females, but not males, had lower return rates to territories in the year following nesting failure compared with females whose nests were successful. Most males appeared to occupy one territory their entire reproductive lives, countering predictions of habitat-selection models that individuals should move to higher-quality habitats when they become available. We estimated that 74% of pairs retained the same mate in consecutive nesting attempts, but mates that bred together for multiple years had no reproductive advantages over mates that bred together for the first time. In most cases, females dispersed from territories if their mates did not return. When females dispersed, they went to territories where total productivity over the study and lifetime reproductive success of new mates were higher than on original territories, which supports the hypothesis that dispersal by females increases individual fitness. /// Estimamos la tasa de retorno anual, la fidelidad y la dispersin reproductiva en una poblacin migratoria de Otus flammeolus en el centro de Colorado. Las tasas de retorno, basadas en las historias de captura-recaptura de 39 machos y 52 hembras desde 1981 a 2003, fueron mayores para los machos (84%) que para las hembras (45%). La probabilidad anual de recaptura fue mayor para las hembras, debido a que las aves reproductivas son ms fciles de capturar que las aves no reproductivas y que las hembras siempre procuran nidificar, mientras que algunos machos permanecieron sin pareja (no nidificaron) por perodos de hasta cuatro aos. La fidelidad al territorio estuvo sesgada hacia los machos (92%, vs. 56% para las hembras, ajustado por la emigracin no detectada), y la ocupacin media de los territorios fue ms de dos veces ms prolongada para los machos que para las hembras. Las hembras, no los machos, presentaron tasas de retorno ms bajas a los territorios en el ao que sigui el fracaso del nido, comparado con las hembras cuyos nidos fueron exitosos. La mayora de los machos pareci ocupar un mismo territorio durante la totalidad de sus vidas reproductivas, contradiciendo las predicciones de los modelos de seleccin de hbitat que indican que los individuos deberan moverse a ambientes de mayor calidad cuando stos se vuelven disponibles. Estimamos que el 74% de las parejas mantuvieron el mismo consorte en intentos de nidificacin consecutivos, pero los consortes que nidificaron juntos por mltiples aos no tuvieron ventajas reproductivas sobre los que nidificaron juntos por primera vez. En la mayora de los casos, las hembras se dispersaron de los territorios si sus consortes no retornaron. Cuando las hembras se dispersaron, se fueron a territorios en donde la productividad total a lo largo del estudio y el xito reproductivo total de vida de los nuevos consortes fueron mayores que en los territorios originales, lo que apoya la hiptesis de que la dispersin por parte de las hembras aumenta su adecuacin biolgica individual.
4086647|An estimate of the phylogeny of 22 extant and 1 extinct species of the Alcidae was determined from compatibility analyses of 33 cladistic characters of the skeleton, integument, and natural history. The puffins were found to be a sister-group to all other alcids. Cerorhinca was found to be a puffin. The auklets were found to be a sister-group to the remaining species. Brachyramphus was found to represent a phyletic line separate from that including the other murrelets. Cepphus was found to be a member of the phyletic line including Endomychura and Synthliboramphus. Alle was found to be a sister-group of the auks. A compatibility analysis of muscle characters of Hudson et al. (1969) yielded a phylogenetic tree in agreement with that found using my data. The relationships among Cepphus and the murrelets were found to need further study. A classification based on these results is suggested. It is recommended that the recent merging of genera by the A.O.U. (1982) be accepted, that Cyclorrhynchus be merged with Aethia, and that Pinguinus be merged with Alca.
10.1525/auk.2012.11227|A new species of marabou,
4085310|Heart:body size ratios were measured in over 1,900 specimens of seven species of Alaskan Tetraonidae. Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) and Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) have hearts averaging only 0.4 to 0.5% of body weight. At the other extreme, Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) have hearts averaging 2.0% of body weight. Between these extremes are White-tailed Ptarmigan (L. leucurus), 1.1%; Spruce Grouse (Canachites canadensis), 1.2%; Sharp-tailed Grouse (Pedioecetes phasianellus), 1.4%; and Willow Ptarmigan (L. lagopus), 1.4%. Intraspecific variations related to sex, age, body size, season, and locality were found in some but not all species. The members of this family seem to have evolved diverse strategies for meeting cardiovascular requirements, and heart size alone does not reveal the nature of these systems.
10.2307/4088868| An unprecedented influx of vagrant vireos and wood-warblers into California occurred in the spring and summer of 1992. The seven species involved (White-eyed Vireo [Vireo griseus], Yellow-throated Vireo [V. flavifrons], Northern Parula [Parula americana], Yellow-throated Warbler [Dendroica dominica], Worm-eating Warbler [Helmitheros vermivorus], Kentucky Warbler [Oporornis formosus], and Hooded Warbler [Wilsonia citrina]) all breed primarily in the southeastern United States, suggesting a common factor for the influx. Furthermore, all seven species have been recorded in California with increasing frequency over the past two decades, suggesting a common trend in the populations of these species. We examined five hypotheses that could explain the increasing number of California records of these species: (1) observer bias, (2) pesticide-caused misorientation, (3) shifts in winter range, (4) anomalous weather conditions (including global warming and El Nio-Southern Oscillation), and (5) range expansions into the western United States and/or dramatic population increases in the southeastern United States. We found little or no support for the first three hypotheses. Anomalous weather conditions probably accounted for the magnitude of the 1992 influx, but the final hypothesis is needed to explain the overall trend. Although available data are not sufficient to distinguish between summer distributional shifts and population increases within the "normal" breeding ranges of these species, the possibility of westward range expansion is intriguing. 
25150351|Oak savannas and woodlands historically covered millions of hectares in the midwestern United States but are rare today. We evaluated the ecological distinctiveness and conservation value of savannas and woodlands by examining bird distributions across a fire-maintained woody-vegetation gradient in northwest Indiana encompassing five habitats - open habitats with low canopy cover, savannas, woodlands, scrublands, and forests - during migration, breeding, and overwintering. Savannas and woodlands were significantly different in overall bird species composition from open and forest habitats but were often intermediate between open and forest in guild densities. Few bird species were consistently and highly concentrated in savannas or woodlands, and the Red-headed Woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) was the only species significantly more abundant in savannas and woodlands than in open, scrub, and forest habitats. Fire frequency over a 15-year interval was a significant predictor of bird community composition and was positively related to species diversity, spring transient migrant density, and density of the most threatened species. Each habitat type had characteristics potentially important for avian conservation. Scrub had the highest density of transient migrants, which suggests it plays an important role as migration stopover habitat. More species were significantly concentrated in open or forest habitats than in the other habitats. Lack of species concentration and intermediate community composition suggested that birds experienced savannas and woodlands more as ecotones than as habitats distinct from forests or grasslands. However, this intermediate character can benefit conservation, as evidenced by savannas and woodlands having the highest density of the most threatened species along this woody-vegetation gradient. /// Las sabanas y los bosques abiertos de roble cubran histricamente millones de hectreas en el oeste central de Estados Unidos, pero hoy son muy raros. Evaluamos las caractersticas ecolgicas nicas y el valor de conservacin de las sabanas y los bosques abiertos mediante el estudio de la distribucin de especies de aves a travs de un gradiente de vegetacin leosa mantenido por el fuego en el noroeste de Indiana. Este gradiente comprendi cinco tipos de hbitats (ambientes abiertos con baja cobertura de dosel, sabanas, bosques abiertos, matorral y bosques cerrados) y el estudio fue realizado durante la migracin, la reproduccin y el periodo de invernada. Las sabanas y los bosques abiertos fueron significativamente diferentes al ambiente abierto y al bosque cerrado en cuanto a la composicin de especies, pero en muchos casos presentaron una densidad de gremios intermedia entre la densidad observada en ambientes abiertos y de bosque cerrado. Pocas especies se concentraron en grandes cantidades y de manera regular en las sabanas o los bosques abiertos, y el carpintero Melanerpes erythrocephalus fue la nica especie significativamente ms abundante en las sabanas y los bosques abiertos que en los ambientes abiertos, el matorral y el bosque cerrado. La frecuencia del fuego a travs de un intervalo de 15 aos predijo de manera significativa la composicin de la comunidad de aves y se relacion positivamente con la diversidad de especies, con la densidad de aves en trnsito de primavera y con la densidad de las especies ms amenazadas. Cada tipo de hbitat tuvo caractersticas potencialmente importantes para la conservacin de las aves. El matorral tuvo la densidad ms alta de aves en trnsito, lo que sugiere que este hbitat tiene un papel importante como parada para las aves migratorias. La concentracin de especies fue significativamente mayor en el ambiente abierto o de bosque cerrado que en los dems hbitats. La falta de concentracin de especies y una composicin comunitaria intermedia sugieren que las aves perciben los ambientes de sabana y de bosque abierto como un ecotono ms que un hbitat diferenciado de los bosques cerrados o los pastizales. Sin embargo, esta caracterstica intermedia puede beneficiar la conservacin de las aves, ya que las sabanas y los bosques abiertos tuvieron las mayores densidades de especies amenazadas a travs de esta gradiente de vegetacin leosa.
4086182|The Committee on Collections of the American Ornithologists' Union is preparing for publication three composite inventories of anatomical collections of the world. One will cover the 45 largest skeleton collections; another, the collections of spirit specimens; and the third, smaller skeleton collections. The inventories will be useful for managing collections and for planning research. Analysis of these inventories shows that some families and orders are well represented in collections but have not been extensively studied; by contrast, many are poorly represented at the generic and specific levels. About a third of the species of birds of the world are not available as skeletons, and the same is true for spirit specimens. Continued collecting is needed to replace specimens that are dissected, to enlarge the series available for most species, to fill gaps that now prevent comparative studies in some families, to build useful research collections in various parts of the world, and to salvage important species in advance of habitat destruction.
4085928| The effect upon solar heat gain of substantial differences in plumage color was quantified for a desert bird, the Phainopepla (Phainopepla nitens), under natural conditions. This was accomplished by measuring the operative temperature of the environment acting upon gray female and black male Phainopeplas. When exposed to conditions likely to maximize the effect of differences due to coat color, the operative temperature acting on the black male averages only 0.9-2.3C higher than that on the gray female. This change is small compared to that produced by simple postural changes and selection between available microclimates. An analysis of the optical properties of desert habitats suggests that dark coloration may be advantageous because it maximizes visual conspicuousness while the animal is active, hence facilitating social communication, and minimizes conspicuousness during inactive periods, thus reducing dangers of predation. 
4085306| The annual molt of adult Chaffinches begins in the third week of June and is completed by the end of September. In first brood juveniles, molt begins in early July, in second brood juveniles in early August, and in both molt is completed about the same time as in adults. Metabolized energy, measured as the difference between food intake and excreta, increased during the first part of molt and then decreased to a level following molt completion of
4086607| I measured the thermal environments experienced by Gambel's Quail (Callipepla gambelii) during the summertime in the Colorado Desert by using estimates of standard operative temperature
10.2307/4088635|The phylogeny of the subfamily Hirundininae was estimated by hybridizing single-copy nuclear DNAs of 21 swallow species, representing 19 former and current genera, and a Tufted Titmouse (Parus bicolor) as outgroup. The phylogeny, which was unusually well resolved, consisted of three fundamental clades: Hirundo and allies, core martins, and African sawwings. The clade of Hirundo and allies comprised Hirundo rustica, Ptyonoprogne fuligula, Delichon urbica, Cecropis semirufa, Petrochelidon pyrrhonota, and P. spilodera. The sister-group of Hirundo and allies was the core martin clade, which consisted largely of endemic New World taxa (Pygochelidon cyanoleuca, Neochelidon tibialis, Atticora fasciata, Phaeoprogne tapera, Progne chalybea, Haplochelidon andecola, Stelgidopteryx ruficollis, and Tachycineta bicolor) and some basally branching Old World groups (Riparia riparia, R. cincta, Phedina borbonica, Pseudhirundo griseopyga, and Cheramoeca leucosternus). The African sawwings (represented by Psalidoprocne holomelas) formed the sister group of the core martins and Hirundo and allies. Among some interesting discoveries, we found a close relationship between the monotypic African and Australian genera Pseudhirundo and Cheramoeca. We also found that Delichon, which has persisted in the nomenclature as a genus separate from Hirundo, is monophyletic with taxa that are commonly considered to be members of Hirundo. On the other hand, Haplochelidon andecola, which is often considered to be a Hirundo or Petrochelidon, is not closely related to those genera, but instead lies among the New World members of the core martin clade.
4090438| We describe Scytalopus stilesi, an overlooked species of tapaculo endemic to Colombia, on the basis of a series of eight specimens taken in 2002 and comparative analyses of its vocalizations, mitochondrial DNA sequences, and distribution. The new species ranges in the northern half of the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes in the Departments of Antioquia, Caldas, and Risaralda, in cloud forests between 1,420 and 2,130 m above sea level. The song, calls, and female song of the new species differ distinctly from those of all other known Scytalopus taxa. Phylogenetic analyses based on sequences of the cytochrome-b gene strongly suggest affinities with S. robbinsi of southwestern Ecuador and with two as-yet-undescribed tapaculos from the Colombian Andes. Scytalopus stilesi coexists locally with, though it is ecologically segregated from, S. atratus, S. latrans, and S. spillmanni. The mid-elevation premontane wet forests to which the new species is restricted have been subject to severe deforestation and fragmentation. The species is, however, relatively common in continuous mature-forest remnants, large primary-forest fragments, riparian forests, and tall secondary-forest patches. We employed a geographic information system (GIS) approach to model the potential distribution of the new species and assess its conservation status under the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) criteria. Scytalopus stilesi does not qualify as threatened according to those criteria, but it should be regarded as near threatened. The new species coexists with numerous threatened bird species that are in need of more effective conservation. /// Describimos a Scytalopus stilesi, una nueva especie de tapaculo endmica de Colombia, con base en una serie de ocho especmenes colectados en 2002 y en anlisis comparativos de sus vocalizaciones, secuencias de ADN mitocondrial y distribucin. La nueva especie se distribuye en la mitad norte de la Cordillera Central de los Andes colombianos en los departamentos de Antioquia, Caldas y Risaralda, en bosques de niebla entre 1,420 y 2,130 m de elevacin. El canto, los reclamos y el canto de la hembra de la nueva especie difieren distintivamente de los de todos los taxa conocidos del gnero Scytalopus. Los anlisis filogenticos basados en secuencias del gen mitocondrial citocromo b sugieren fuertemente afinidades con S. robbinsi del suroccidente de Ecuador y con dos especies an no descritas de los Andes colombianos. Scytalopus stilesi coexiste localmente con S. atratus, S. latrans y S. spillmanni, aunque se segrega ecolgicamente de ellos por uso de hbitat. Los bosques premontanos hmedos de elevaciones medias a los cuales est restringida la nueva especie han sido objeto de una severa deforestacin y fragmentacin. Sin embargo, la especie es relativamente comn en remanentes de bosques maduros continuos, fragmentos de bosque primario, bosques riparios y parches de bosque secundario avanzado. Empleamos un anlisis basado en sistemas de informacin geogrfica para modelar la distribucin potencial de la nueva especie y evaluar su estado de conservacin bajo los criterios de la IUCN. S. stilesi no califica como amenazada de acuerdo con estos criterios, pero debe ser considerada como casi amenazada. La nueva especie coexiste con numerosas especies de aves amenazadas que requieren un nivel de conservacin ms efectivo. 
4088312|We analyzed within-population variation of external characters in Parus caeruleus and its relation to geography. We examined sexual dimorphism, seasonal variation, and individual variation. Characters were measured on 2,184 museum specimens collected over the species range. Males are significantly larger than females in most characters. Extreme dimorphism in bill length only occurred in samples from localities where no other member of the genus Parus co-occurred. We used these data to suggest an ecological explanation for dimorphism. Heterogeneity in character variance was widespread. We identified no geographical trend in variation of character variance. Contribution of season to variance was low and varied according to the character's sensitivity to wear. Seasonal variation in bill length reflected seasonal variation in diet and foraging technique.
10.2307/4089627| Study of vocalizations of Herpsilochmus antwrens in northeastern Brazil revealed that the traditional H. pileatus complex is comprised of not two but three species-level taxa. We show that the systematics and biogeography of the group have been based on an unnamed species that has been called H. pileatus for most of this century. Here, we name this "new" species and conclude that its several morphological and vocal distinctions clearly set it apart from other members of the complex. True H. pileatus, as determined through comparison of the lectotype with recently collected specimens and from the distribution of recordings, is confined to southern coastal Bahia. Morphological and vocal analyses suggest that H. pileatus and H. atricapillus are each other's closest relatives. We provide a simple key to diagnostic plumage and mensural characters to permit identification of museum specimens. An extensive series of specimens demonstrated that H. atricapillus includes two male morphs. Geographic overlap of pure morphs in southern Gois, and the existence of some apparent intermediates in this general area, suggest secondary contact of two weakly differentiated populations, perhaps along complex habitat gradients. Analysis of recordings of H. atricapillus disaggregated geographically and by male morph revealed no diagnostic (by criteria of Isler et al. [1998]) variation within that species, although average measures of overall pace and pace of three sections of loudsongs differed between the morphs by approximately 20%, which we interpret as another indication of incipient differentiation. Revision of the Herpsilochmus pileatus complex provides a case in point for the fundamental role in conservation of both field and taxonomic research and demonstrates the importance of examination of type specimens and inclusion of topotypical samples (whether anatomical, biochemical, or tape recordings) in studies of taxonomy and systematics. /// O estudo de vocalizaes dos Herpsilochmus do nordeste do Brasil revelou que o tradicional complexo H. pileatus nesta regio compreende no dois mas trs txons ao nvel de espcie.  demonstrado que tanto a sistemtica quanto a biogeografia do grupo tem sido baseada numa espcie inominada chamada de H. pileatus na maior parte deste sculo.  dado nome a esta "nova" espcie e conclui-se que seus vrios atributos distintivos de morfologia e vocalizaes a colocam claramente  parte dos outros membros do complexo. O verdadeiro H. pileatus, como determinado atravs da comparao do lecttipo com espcimes recentemente coletados, e da distribuio das gravaes,  confinado a regio costeira do sul da Bahia. Anlises morfolgicas e vocais indicam um relacionamento muito prximo entre H. pileatus e H. atricapillus. Uma chave simples de caracteres diagnsticos da plumagem e relativos as medidas  fornecida para permitir a identificao de espcimes em museus. Uma ampla srie de espcimes demonstrou que H. atricapillus inclui dois morfos de macho. A sobreposio geogrfica dos morfos puros no sul de Gois e a existncia de alguns aparentes intermedirios nessa mesma regio, sugere um contato secundrio de duas fracamente diferenciadas populaes, talvez ao longo do complexo gradiente de hbitats. Anlise de gravaes de H. atricapillus dissociada geograficamente, por morfos dos machos e por sexo, no revelou diferenas diagnsticas (segundo critrios de Isler et al. [1998]) dentro da espcie. No entanto, as mdias do andamento total e das trs sees do canto foram aproxidamente 20% diferente entre os morfos, as quais so interpretadas como sendo outra indicao de diferenciao incipiente. A reviso do complexo Herpsilochmus pileatus chama a ateno para o papel fundamental da pesquisa taxonmica e de campo nas questes conservacionistas, e demonstra a importncia do exame dos espcimes tipo e a incluso de amostras topotpicas (sejam estas anatmicas, bioqumicas ou gravaes) em estudos taxonmicos ou sistemticos. 
4086537|Energy budgets and growth data are presented for nestlings of three species of tropical insectivores: White-bellied Swiftlets (Collocalia esculenta), Blue-throated Bee-eaters (Merops viridis), and Pacific Swallows (Hirundo tahitica). A comparison with temperate nestlings, matched for body size, shows that the peak energy demand in our tropical sample averaged around 60% of temperate counterparts. We attribute savings to slow growth rates, reduced thermoregulatory requirements, a low resting metabolism (in swallows only), asynchronous hatching (in bee-eaters), and low nestling activity levels. Patterns of energy storage as lipid in nestlings of the three species were similar to the pattern in temperate swallows (Hirundinidae) and swifts (Apodidae), with those species feeding at the greatest heights, and hence on the most unpredictable supplies, storing the most fat while in the nest.
10.2307/4089338|Concerns about Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) population recovery following the Exxon Valdez oil spill led biologists to ask whether birds located in different molting and wintering areas belong to genetically distinct and, thus, demographically independent populations. Owing to the lack of direct observations of movements among marine areas, three classes of genetic markers that differed in mode of inheritance were used to evaluate the degree of genetic differentiation among wintering areas within Prince William Sound (PWS) and the Alaska Peninsula and Kodiak Archipelago (APKA). We could not reject the null hypothesis that the wintering aggregations within each region are composed of a single genetically panmictic population. Differences in genotype frequencies among wintering locations within PWS and APKA were low and nonsignificant for all three classes of markers. Furthermore, we saw no evidence for deviations in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium or gametic disequilibrium between loci within a winter collection site as would be expected if these locales were composed of individuals from reproductively isolated (and genetically distinct) breeding locales. Finally, no evidence for significant structuring was noted between PWS and APKA. Lack of spatial genetic structuring could be due to the cumulative effects of low levels of gene flow over long time periods, low levels of gene flow by immature birds moving between marine habitats, or to episodic dispersal caused by habitat alteration (e.g. volcanic eruptions). Harlequin Ducks are likely to recolonize or enhance populations in areas recovering from environmental damage via emigration of birds from non-affected areas. Demographic studies suggest, however, that levels of movements are low, and that population recovery by emigration is a long-term process.
10.2307/4088192|We examined the relationships among parental age, hatching asynchrony, egg size, and the "third-chick disadvantage" of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) on Southeast Farallon Island, California, during the 1984-1990 breeding seasons. Third chicks showed lower survival than first or second chicks for all parental age classes combined. Fledging success of first- and second-hatched chicks was related to parental age in a parabolic fashion, whereas fledging success of the third chick increased sigmoidally with increasing age; the probability of fledging of first-, second-, and third-hatched chicks converged for birds greater than 15 years old, negating the third-chick disadvantage for the oldest parents. Egg volume increased with increasing age for females 4 to 13 years old, and levelled off or declined slightly thereafter. For older females, the size disadvantage of third-laid eggs was relatively less than for younger females. Egg volume did not affect fledging success when parental age and year were considered in a multiple logistic (binomial) regression analysis. Hatching asynchrony decreased slightly with increasing parental age. Fledging success of third-hatched chicks decreased significantly with increasing hatching asynchrony. The greater hatching synchrony in broods of older parents may increase the competitive ability of third chicks. The third-chick disadvantage, often viewed as an adaptive response to variable food supplies, may be a nonadaptive effect of resource availability governed, in part, by the foraging efficiency and/or reproductive effort of the parents.
4087447| Estimates of phylogeny were derived from measures of dissimilarity of single-copy nuclear-DNA sequences for 13 species that represent the currently recognized major groups of New World nine-primaried oscines and an outgroup (Passer). The dissimilarity coefficients (delta mode and delta
25150293|Nest predation and nest parasitism receive the most attention as causes of nest failure for North American songbirds. Yet for many populations, interspecific competition, adverse weather, abandonment, nestling starvation, and egg failure may also be significant causes of nest failure. Despite the long interest in differential failure, serious challenges remain in the estimation of separate probabilities of nest failure from different causes. Apparent rates of failure suffer from at least two sources of bias: heterogeneous ages at discovery and classification error. We developed maximum-likelihood estimators for cause-specific daily probabilities of nest failure. We further show how the estimators can be extended to include classification error, if known. Finally, we demonstrate a simple application to Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus), Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), Violetgreen Swallows (T. thalassina), and Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana). Daily probabilities of survival were lower for the Loggherhead Shrike (0.978  0.004) than for any of the three cavity-nesting species (range: 0.989  0.002 - 0.993  0.001). Weather was an important cause of nest failure for Loggerhead Shrikes (0.15  0.05 overall). Conversely, competition among secondary cavity-nesters was not an important contributor to nest failure (range: 2-5% of nest failures) for bluebirds or swallows. Our estimator differs from others by allowing multiple fates to be modeled as separately estimated parameters rather than as covariates to a single estimated failure probability. Thus, our estimator should be viewed as an important complement to existing methods. /// La depredacin y el parasitismo de los nidos han recibido la mayor atencin como causas de fracaso durante la nidificacin para las aves canoras de Norteamrica. Sin embargo, en muchas poblaciones la competencia interespecfica, las inclemencias del clima, el abandono, la inanicin de los polluelos y fallas de los huevos pueden ser causas significativas del fracaso de nidificacin. A pesar del amplio inters en determinar las diferentes causas de fracaso, aun existen grandes desafos en la estimacin de las probabilidades de cada causa de fracaso de nidificacin. Las tasas de fracaso aparentes tienen por lo menos dos fuentes de sesgo: edades sesgo: edades heterogneas de los nidos al ser descubiertos y error de clasificacin. Desarrollamos estimadores de mxima verosimilitud para probabilidades diarias especficas de cada causa de fracaso. Adems, mostramos cmo incluir un error de clasificacin, si es conocido, en los estimados. Finalmente, demostramos una aplicacin simple en Lanius ludovicianus, Tachycineta bicolor, T. thalassina y Sialia mexicana. Las probabilidades diarias de supervivencia fueron ms bajas para L. ludovicianus (0.978  0.004) que para cualquier otra de las tres especies que nidifican en cavidades (rango: 0.989  0.002 - 0.993  0.001). El clima fue una causa importante de fracaso de nidifcacin para L. ludovicianus (0.15  0.05 en general). Contrariamente, la competencia entre aves no excavadoras que nidifican en cavidades no fue importante para el fracaso de nidificacin (rango: 2-5% de fracaso de nidificacin) en T. thalassina y S. mexicana. Nuestro estimado difiere de otros en que el nuestro permite modelar mltiples destinos de los nidos en forma de parmetros que se estiman separadamente en vez de hacerlo como covariables de un nico estimado de la probabilidad de fracaso. Por esta razn, nuestro estimado debera ser considerado como un complemento importante de los mtodos existentes.
4087129|Interference interactions were studied on the island of Maui among four species of drepanidines that fed on canopy flowers of the ohia tree (Metrosideros collina). The birds had a size-related dominance hierarchy, with ranking (most to least dominant, by location in dominance matrix) as follows: Crested Honeycreeper (Palmeria dolei), Iiwi (Vestiaria coccinea), Apapane (Himatione sanguinea), and Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens). Immatures were subordinate to conspecific adults. Crested Honeycreepers and Iiwis defended tree-canopy territories, Apapanes were nomadic flock foragers, and Common Amakihis were secretive foragers. Dominance by Iiwis was indicated by a lack of reversals in the dominance matrix. For the top-ranked Crested Honeycreeper dominance was also reflected in greater chase or greater resulting retreat distances or both. Age-related differences in interference behavior by dominants appeared to be due to inexperience, as indicated by shorter chase distances for immatures. Among subordinates both experience and plumage could be responsible for age differences in behavior. Immatures were chased equal distances (despite closer spacing) but less often than adults, and they chose safer retreat sites. Apapanes fed in flocks in a dominant's tree. This increased a dominant's territorial costs, reduced chase frequencies, increased Apapane foraging times, and let Apapanes forage in trees from which they otherwise were excluded. Comparisons with the assemblage on the island of Hawaii suggested similar structure among the three species the two islands have in common. On Maui the bottom-ranked Common Amakihi may be more affected by interference competition, perhaps undergoing a niche shift toward greater insectivory because of an additional dominant.
4085359|Nine species of herons, egrets, and ibises were followed by airplane from a nesting colony near Beaufort, North Carolina to their feeding sites. Except for Cattle Egrets, which flew exclusively to fields and dumps, the birds flew mainly to saltmarsh habitat. The selection of feeding habitats by Great Egrets and Louisiana Herons was directly related to tidal depth. The Great Egret was the only species that effectively used eelgrass beds, and its use of this habitat was restricted to between 1.5 h before and after low tide. We suspect that shorter-legged herons did not use eelgrass regularly because the water was too deep. Most Great Egrets, White Ibises, Louisiana Herons, and Snowy Egrets used areas near the colony (<4 km). Great Egrets, Black-crowned Night Herons, and White Ibises flew farther from the colony at high than at low tide. Great Egrets traveled farther from the colony when they used thermals; rate of travel to feeding sites was the same, however, whether or not they used thermals. Aggressive encounters were observed at the landing sites of Great Egrets, Louisiana Herons, Snowy Egrets, and Black-crowned Night Herons. In contrast to the other species studied, Cattle Egrets and White Ibises often flew in groups to feeding sites. Indirect evidence supports the hypothesis that colonies can act as "information centres," wherein unsuccessful birds follow successful ones to better feeding locations.
10.2307/4090323| Animals often exhibit territorial spatial structure in their breeding habitat. This clustering behavior is not well understood. We reviewed eight hypotheses for clustering and tested two ecological hypotheses for the formation of dense, territorial clusters in the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus), a socially monogamous forest bird. The material resources hypothesis suggests that clustering is a response to habitat heterogeneity in vegetation, food, or both. The predation hypothesis proposes that clustering may reduce nest predation. Univariate and multivariate analyses of 170 vegetation plots from 1997 to 1998 indicated that forest-stand structure and tree species composition could not explain clustering in our population (predictions 1-3). Comparison of mean arthropod biomass inside with arthropod biomass outside two clusters sampled in 1999 using Malaise traps revealed that potential food resources were also unrelated to clustering (prediction 4). Nest predation rates were not correlated with territory position in clusters or with cluster size. In addition, predation rates were similar for clustered and solitary pairs (predictions 5-7). We conclude that habitat characteristics and nest predation do not explain clustered breeding in Least Flycatchers, though further tests of those hypotheses would be helpful. We develop the idea that the pursuit of extrapair copulations may promote clustered breeding. Future studies of territorial spatial structure in Least Flycatchers and other species should consider explanations based on mating behavior concomitant with ecological explanations for clustering. /// Los animales muchas veces exhiben estructura espacial territorial en sus ambientes de cra. Sin embargo, el comportamiento de agregacin no se comprende claramente. En este estudio revisamos ocho hiptesis de agregacin y evaluamos dos hiptesis ecolgicas sobre la formacin de agregados territoriales densos en Empidonax minimus, un ave de bosque socialmente mongama. La hiptesis de recursos materiales sugiere que la agregacin es una respuesta a la heterogeneidad ambiental de la vegetacin, del alimento o de ambos. La hiptesis de depredacin propone que la agregacin puede reducir la depredacin de los nidos. Anlisis univariados y multivariados de 170 parcelas de vegetacin desde 1997 a 1998 indicaron que la estructura del bosque y la composicin de especies de rboles no explicaran la agregacin en nuestras poblaciones (predicciones 1-3). La comparacin de la media  EE de la biomasa de artrpodos dentro y fuera de dos agregados muestreados en 1999 usando trampas Malaise revel que los recursos alimenticios potenciales tampoco se relacionaron con los patrones de agregacin (prediccin 4). Las tasas de depredacin de nidos no se correlacionaron con la posicin de los territorios en los agregados o con el tamao de los agregados. Adicionalmente, las tasas de depredacin fueron similares para parejas agregadas o solitarias (predicciones 5-7). Concluimos que las caractersticas del ambiente y la depredacin de nidos no explican la agregacin reproductiva en E. minimus, aunque anlisis posteriores de estas hiptesis podran ser tiles. Desarrollamos la idea de que la bsqueda de cpulas extra-pareja puede promover la agregacin reproductiva. Estudios posteriores de la estructura espacial de los territorios en E. minimus y en otras especies deberan explicar la agregacin considerando aspectos del comportamiento de apareamiento y explicaciones ecolgicas. 
10.2307/4089118|Payne and Risley's (1976) comparison of 33 osteological characters of herons was the first cladistic estimate of heron phylogeny. Among their findings were two major clades: (1) Boat-billed Heron (Cochlearius cochlearius), night-herons, and bitterns; and (2) tiger-herons and day-herons. In contrast, more recent DNA-DNA hybridization comparisons, cladistic analyses of vocalizations, and mtDNA sequence data portray a more asymmetric phylogeny, with day-herons and night-herons forming a clade with bitterns as their sister group, and tiger-herons and the Boat-billed Heron branching basally. To explore the source of the disagreement between these phylogenetic estimates, we reanalyzed the osteological data using modern cladistic methods and compared the results with the DNA-DNA hybridization tree using taxonomic congruence analysis. Character-by-character comparisons between trees and among lineages within trees suggest that similar cranial morphology in the relatively unrelated tiger-herons and day-herons has resulted in the misleading attraction of these two lineages in osteological estimates of phylogeny. Apparent convergence in bill morphology and modifications of orbital structures for nocturnal feeding in night-herons and Boat-billed herons have led to further disagreement between data sets. In part, problems in the osteological data stem from the relatively small character matrix of Payne and Risley (1976), but ultimately they may derive from using highly adaptive characters to reconstruct phylogeny. In this case, the cranial characters are functionally correlated as part of the piscivorous heron Bauplan. As such, they relate to the forces responsible for speciation and divergence in the early history of the group but may not be useful for phylogenetic inference. The discovery of bias in cranial characters underscores the value of taxonomic congruence analysis and the need to explore cases of phylogenetic incongruence.
25150296|The Solomon Archipelago is the largest and most biologically complex archipelago in northern Melanesia. We collected tissues and voucher specimens from codistributed bird species found on five island groups that provided the first opportunity to apply molecular methods to this avifauna. Using the mitochondrial marker ND2, we constructed a series of intraspecific phylogenies for 23 ecologically and taxonomically diverse species (13 families from 5 orders). Intraspecific comparisons across islands revealed a broad range of genetic differentiation, from 0% in widespread dispersive species such as Eurystomus orientalis and Nectarinia jugularis, to as high as 4-8% in species such as Ceyx lepidus and Dicaeum aeneum. Fifteen of the 23 species had well-supported phylogeographic structure, and for many of these, endemic and otherwise, molecular phylogenetic relationships closely matched those delineated by morphology. However, degrees of genetic differentiation appeared to be inconsistent across taxonomic designations, and the monophyly of some endemic taxa was not well supported. The data reveal the limits of morphology in tracking complex evolutionary histories and suggest that taxonomic revision of some Solomon Islands birds is warranted. As the first molecular analyses of this avifauna, results presented here create a platform for further biogeographic and evolutionary studies of bird diversity in this influential region. /// L'archipel des les Salomon est, du point de vue biologique, le plus grand et le plus complexe de tous les archipels du nord de la Mlansie. Nous avons rcolt des tissus et des spcimens d'espces d'oiseaux co-distribues sur cinq groupes d'les.  l'aide du marqueur mitochondrial ND2, nous avons tabli une srie de phylognies intraspcifiques pour 23 espces diffrentes du point de vue cologique et taxonomique (13 familles et 5 ordres). Les comparaisons intraspcifiques entre les les ont rvl un large ventail de diffrentiation gntique, de 0% chez les espces  grande dispersion tel que Eurystomus orientalis et Nectarinia jugularis, jusqu' 4-8% chez les espces tel que Ceyx lepidus et Dicaeum aeneum. Quinze des 23 espces avaient une structure phylo-gographique bien tablie. Pour plusieurs d'entre elles, qu'elles soient endmiques ou non, les relations phylogntiques molculaires s'apparentaient fortement  celles dpeintes par la morphologie. Cependant, le degr de diffrentiation gntique tait inconstant parmi les dsignations taxonomiques et la monophylie de certains taxons endmiques n'tait pas bien tablie. Les donnes rvlent les limites de l'utilisation de la morphologie pour retracer les histoires volutives complexes et suggrent une rvision de la taxonomie de certains oiseaux des les Salomon. En tant que premires analyses molculaires de cette avifaune, les rsultats prsents ici servent de base pour des tudes plus pousses sur la biogographie et l'volution de la diversit des oiseaux dans cette rgion.
10.2307/4089727|Male Club-winged Manakins (Machaeropterus deliciosus) are known to produce a unique mechanical sound with their extremely modified secondary feathers, yet the species remains poorly known behaviorally. I observed lekking males in Reserva Maquipucuna, Pichincha Province, Ecuador, to better understand the role of mechanical sounds, the behavioral repertoire, and other details of the natural history of this species. The behavioral repertoire of M. deliciosus is much more diverse than previously documented; it includes four mechanical phrases, two vocal sounds, and seven display behaviors. Mechanical sounds constitute the most prominent elements of the species' displays, replacing vocal sounds for territorial advertisement. I examine possible homology of the observed behaviors and propose a new phylogenetic hypothesis, that Machaeropterus forms a monophyletic clade with the genus Pipra, based on the existence of a complex shared courtship display.
10.2307/4090477| A breeding population of Aplomado Falcons (Falco femoralis) remains in the desert grasslands of Chihuahua, Mexico, despite their extirpation in the nearby southwestern United States. We monitored falcon reproduction at 35 territories during 1996-2002, a period of severe drought in the region. To test the influence of prey abundance and vegetation on falcon reproduction, we surveyed avian prey abundance through plot counts in 1998-2002 and characterized vegetation at each plot. Aplomado Falcon productivity declined from 1.57 fledglings per occupied territory in 1997 to 0.63 in 2002 at the larger of two study areas, a trend consistent with cumulative effects of consecutive years of low rainfall. Reproduction in the smaller area remained low throughout the study. Both productivity and incubation start date were significantly associated with prey bird abundance. Summer rain most likely influenced falcon reproduction by affecting seed abundance and therefore abundance of granivorous prey birds the following winter and spring. Falcons nested in open grasslands with sparse woody vegetation, an adaptation likely related to higher prey vulnerability and fewer predators. However, important prey birds were positively correlated with woody-plant density, which suggests that proximity of shrublands increased nest-site suitability. /// Una poblacin reproductiva del halcn Falco femoralis persiste en los pastizales desrticos de Chihuahua, Mxico, a pesar de haber desaparecido de las reas aledaas del suroeste de los Estados Unidos. Monitoreamos la reproduccin de estos halcones en 35 territorios desde 1996 hasta 2002, durante un perodo de sequa severa en la regin. Para determinar la influencia de la abundancia de presas y de la vegetacin sobre la reproduccin de Falco femoralis, estimamos la abundancia de aves presa en parcelas de conteo desde 1998 hasta 2002 y caracterizamos la vegetacin de cada parcela. La productividad de Falco femoralis disminuy de 1.57 volantones por territorio ocupado en 1997 a 0.63 en 2002 en la ms grande de las dos reas de estudio, una tendencia consistente con los efectos acumulativos de varios aos consecutivos de baja precipitacin. La reproduccin en el rea ms pequea se mantuvo baja durante todo el estudio. Tanto la productividad como la fecha de inicio de la incubacin estuvieron significativamente correlacionadas con la abundancia de aves presa. Las lluvias de verano probablemente influenciaron la reproduccin de los halcones al afectar la abundancia de semillas y en consecuencia la abundancia de aves presa granvoras en el siguiente invierno y primavera. Los halcones anidaron en pastizales abiertos con poca vegetacin leosa, una adaptacin probablemente relacionada con una mayor vulnerabilidad de las presas y con menos depredadores. Sin embargo, algunas aves importantes como presa se correlacionaron positivamente con la densidad de plantas leosas, sugiriendo que la proximidad de matorrales incrementa la calidad del sitio de nidificacin. 
10.2307/4088599|DNA sequences spanning 1,042 nucleotide bases of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene are reported for all 15 species and selected subspecies of cranes and an outgroup, the Limpkin (Aramus guarauna). Levels of sequence divergence coincide approximately with current taxonomic ranks at the subspecies, species, and subfamilial level, but not at the generic level within Gruinae. In particular, the two putative species of Balearica (B. pavonina and B. regulorum) are as distinct as most pairs of gruine species. Phylogenetic analysis of the sequences produced results that are strikingly congruent with previous DNA-DNA hybridization and behavior studies. Among gruine cranes, five major lineages are identified. Two of these comprise single species (Grus leucogeranus, G. canadensis), while the others are species groups: Anthropoides and Bugeranus; G. antigone, G. rubicunda, and G. vipio; and G. grus, G. monachus, G. nigricollis, G. americana, and G. japonensis. Within the latter group, G. monachus and G. nigricollis are sister species, and G. japonensis appears to be the sister group to the other four species. The data provide no resolution of branching order for major groups, but suggest a rapid evolutionary diversification of these lineages.
25488525|We examined the demographic response of Middle Spotted Woodpeckers (
40406067|Although critical to habitat and population management, the proximate cues that birds use to establish territories are largely unknown. Understanding these cues is important for birds, such as many grassland birds, that exhibit high annual variability in population density and make new habitat-selection decisions annually. Identifying the actual cues used is difficult in the field, but the factors associated with the arrival densities of birds can help uncover variables that are involved in or correlated with cues used for selection. During the summers of 20022004, we investigated how weather and local vegetation factors were related to arrival densities of Grasshopper Sparrows (
10.2307/4088866|We studied the migration and winter distribution of adult Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) radio-marked on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD) and Bristol Bay Lowlands (BBL) of Alaska from 1987 to 1992. The major autumn staging site for geese from both breeding areas was the Klamath Basin on the California/Oregon border. However, temporal use of this area differed markedly between populations. Geese from the BBL arrived at the Klamath Basin nearly 30 days before geese from the YKD and departed before most YKD geese had arrived. Ninety percent of BBL geese used the Klamath Basin in autumn, whereas 30% of YKD geese bypassed the Klamath Basin during autumn and instead flew directly to the Central Valley of California. Nearly all BBL geese migrated directly from the Klamath Basin to wintering areas in Mexico, bypassing the Central Valley. Ninety percent of the BBL geese wintered in Mexico, as opposed to <20% of the YKD geese. Wetlands of the Interior Highlands in the state of Chihuahua, particularly Laguna Babicora, were used by >90% of the radio-marked geese in Mexico. Marshes along the West Coast comprised the other important wintering habitat in Mexico. The Sacramento Valley of California was the predominant wintering area for YKD geese. BBL geese migrated north from Mexico into the San Joaquin Valley or Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta of California by the last week of January. Fifty-five percent of the BBL population used the Klamath Basin in spring, but many birds staged in eastern Oregon and western Idaho. In contrast, geese from the YKD staged almost exclusively in the Klamath Basin during spring before flying to staging areas in Alaska. Breeding allopatry and temporal partitioning on staging and wintering areas likely has contributed to the evolution of previously described phenotypic differences between these populations. These two populations, along with the Tule Greater White-fronted Goose (A. a. gambeli), may constitute a portion of a Rassenkreis, a group of subspecies connected by clines, each ecotype of which has independent conservation needs.
10.2307/4089065|The seasonal timing of male song during breeding affects the timing of territory establishment, mate attraction, pair formation, egg laying, and transmission of information about breeding songs to young. Thus, alteration of the seasonal timing of song may influence reproductive success and survivorship. Human intrusion has the potential to influence avian singing behavior. Accordingly, we determined whether repeated intrusion affected the seasonal timing of male song for three passerines (Ruby-crowned Kinglet [Regulus calendula], Yellow-rumped Warbler [Dendroica coronata], Dark-eyed Junco [Junco hyemalis]) in Wyoming forests. Intrusions involved one person walking through habitats for 1-2 h (Snowy Mountains, 1989-1993) or for 5 h (Pole Mountain, 1991-1993) each week for 10 consecutive weeks of each breeding season. For most comparisons, we did not detect a significant difference in the seasonal timing of singing activity between control and intruded sites. Two exceptions were: (1) the mean singing date for Ruby-crowned Kinglets was 11 days earlier on intruded sites than on control sites at Pole Mountain; and (2) the proportion of intruded sites with singing by Yellow-rumped Warblers (0.40) was smaller than that for control sites (1.00) during mid-June at Pole Mountain. Moderate and large differences in the timing of singing activity were detectable with a probability of 0.80, but small differences were not reliably detectable. Thus, our results are a conservative estimate of the effects of intrusion on the seasonal timing of song. Curtailment of singing on intruded sites may have reduced breeding activity and, consequently, the quality of those sites for producing young. Because intrusion-induced effects often are context-specific and can vary among individuals and species, and because our results are conservative, avian ecologists should continue to assess whether intrusion influences seasonal patterns of singing activity.
4088304|I examined spatial relationships between nesting colonies of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) and their aquatic foraging areas by synthesizing data from a survey of nesting colonies, a study of foraging Great Blue Herons, and a wetland inventory. I assessed whether Great Blue Herons gained energetically by nesting colonially at sites central to foraging areas versus solitarily and dispersed evenly over foraging areas. Nesting colonies (n = 29) were closer to local concentrations of foraging habitat and to points of minimum aggregate travel to all regional foraging areas than expected by chance. The number of nests per colony correlated positively with the availability of foraging habitat (in hectares) within commuting distance of a colony and negatively with foraging costs (km flown per ha wetland visited). Through computer simulations I found that an equally sized, hypothetical population of solitarily nesting herons dispersed evenly over foraging areas would experience higher foraging costs than colonially nesting herons. The spatial arrangement of wetlands upon the landscape of inland Maine limits the availability of sites with efficient access to heron foraging areas, and favors clumped nesting patterns.
10.2307/4088153|The communal breeding system of the Guira Cuckoo (Guira guira) was studied near Brasilia, Brazil. Guiras occurred in groups of 2 to 13 adults (mode of 6) in the 86 nests observed. Communal clutch size was correlated with group size, an indirect indication that more birds contribute to the clutch in larger groups. Clutch size varied from 4 to 20 eggs, but usually fewer eggs were incubated than were laid, since egg tossing by the adults was common. The temporal patterns of egg laying and egg loss, while generally similar to those of other crotophagines, differed in some ways. Egg losses occur at any time after laying starts. Losses may occur after several eggs have accumulated in the nest, may affect only part of the clutch, and may happen close to, or during, the hatching of chicks. Only 26% of eggs developed into fledglings; high mortality rates for eggs and chicks are due to several causes. An individual may pay a price for group membership through a lowered short-term reproductive success; however, long-term data are needed to clarify individual lifetime benefits associated with communal breeding in this species.
10.2307/4089588|We used data from an 11-year study of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) to test the hypothesis that fledging success is a reliable index of recruitment at the population and the individual level. Natal philopatry was only 2.37% overall (3.51% for males and 1.49% for females) in our study population. However, the number of fledglings that returned as breeding adults from an annual fledgling cohort was significantly correlated with the size of the cohort. The correlation was also significant when males and females were analyzed separately, despite sex differences in natal philopatry, age of first breeding, and probable differences in mortality factors. Recruitment increased disproportionately with the size of the fledgling cohort. Thus, years of high production produced proportionately more breeding adults. At the individual level, the number of fledglings sired by a male in his lifetime was significantly correlated with the number of his descendants that eventually returned to breed in the study population. These results support the widely held assumption in avian field studies that fledging success is a reliable index of fitness.
10.2307/4085269|The interactions among Lesser Black-backed Gulls and Herring Gulls during the breeding season while feeding on a refuse dump on Walney Island, England were analyzed. Herring Gulls were found to be more aggressive than Lesser Black-backs, and they were equally aggressive toward Lesser Black-backs and Herring Gulls. It is suggested that Lesser Black-backs are more timid than Herring Gulls and avoid being pecked at by them. Most of the Herring Gulls (77%) found their own food, 95% of the Lesser Black-backs stole theirs. In contrast to Herring Gulls, Lesser Black-backs rarely dug for food and those that fed independently (5%) found less food than Herring Gulls. Lesser Black-backs were very efficient in stealing food, mostly from Herring Gulls. It is suggested that the number of Lesser Black-backs feeding on the dump is dependent on the number of Herring Gulls.
10.2307/4089848|Age of first breeding (AFB) and natal dispersal distance (NDD) were investigated relative to proximate and ultimate factors in 276 known-age Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) breeding during 1981-1999 on Southeast Farallon Island, California. Breeding density in 446 study boxes declined significantly during the period 1987-1999, confirming other information indicating a long-term decline (since at least the 1970s) in the population. Mean AFB was 3.34 years when sexes were combined, ranging from 2-10 (mean 3.36) years in females and 2-9 (mean 3.36) years in males. AFB showed a significant linear increase with decreasing colony density, suggesting that increased stress on the entire population, such as that caused by decreasing food availability, may have prevented younger birds from attaining breeding condition at an early age. Median NDD was 8.84 m, ranging from 0-448.7 m; two individuals of each sex recruited into their natal boxes. NDD showed a significant linear increase with decreasing breeding density but no significant linear or curvilinear correlations with mate fidelity, annual reproductive success, or lifetime reproductive output. A significant proportion (66.9%) of movements after recruitment (breeding dispersal) resulted in closer proximity to the natal site. Thus, although natal philopatry was strongly developed in the Cassin's Auklet, it did not seem to be adaptive. Those paradoxical results suggest that selective equilibrium may be acting on natal philopatry in response to the population decline: a low-philopatry, low-cost (later breeding and increased survival) strategy has become increasingly adaptive in Cassin's Auklets, explaining increases in AFB and NDD with the declining breeding densities. The lack of sex-specific effects on AFB and NDD suggests that an even sex-ratio and roughly equal roles in reproduction among Cassin's Auklets exists on Southeast Farallon Island, and that inbreeding avoidance may be counter-balanced by relatively low mate fidelity in this species.
10.2307/4090417| Recorded vocalizations from 18 known Great Bitterns (Botaurus stellaris) were analyzed, both quantitatively and qualitatively, to determine the amount of intra- and inter-individual variation. All parameters examined showed significant variation among males, and vocalizations of the same male were not stable over time. Variability within males over time makes re-identification of individuals on the basis of vocalizations difficult. The high degree of uncertainty in recognizing individuals limits the usefulness of vocalizations for censusing of bitterns. /// Para determinar la cantidad de variacin intra- e inter-individual, se analizaron cualitativa y cuantitativamente grabaciones de las vocalizaciones de 18 garzas conocidas de la especie Botaurus stellaris. Todos los patrones examinados mostraron variacin significativa entre machos y las vocalizaciones de un mismo macho no fueron estables en el tiempo, lo que hace que la identificacin de los individuos con base en sus vocalizaciones sea difcil. El alto grado de incertidumbre en el reconocimiento de los individuos limita el uso de las vocalizaciones para censar estas garzas. 
4087323|Dried scleral rings of Opisthocomus, Galliformes, Cuculiformes, and other birds were examined to determine the pattern of ossicle overlap in Opisthocomus and its bearing on the phylogenetic relationships of this taxon. Although Opisthocomus shares a derived number of 12 scleral ossicles with cuculid Cuculiformes, the pattern of ossicle overlap differs. Nevertheless, fewer modifications are required to derive the number and pattern of ossicles in Opisthocomus from the conditions in cuculid or musophagid Cuculiformes than from the conditions in any galliform. Our findings also indicate that the scleral rings of birds, unlike those of lizards, often do not conserve overlap relations between adjacent ossicles during phylogeny.
4086720|Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) and Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) nesting on South Manitou Island in Lake Michigan were subjected to at least 9 yr of intense fox predation. Both gull species experienced total or nearly total reproductive failure during all but 1 yr between 1975 and 1983. The number of active nests declined significantly during this period, with Ring-bills showing a more regular rate of reduction. These gull species are unlikely to produce progeny when subjected to regular fox predation. Persistence of the colonies may be the result of a nucleus of experienced, site-tenacious breeders returning to the site year after year.
10.2307/4090249| Measurements of corticosterone levels from blood samples of birds provide accurate snapshots of systemic hormone concentrations. However, those birds must be caught and handled, which may be unfeasible especially when multiple sampling is required. Furthermore, handling causes stress and may therefore interfere with hormone measurements. Therefore a non-invasive technique was developed to measure metabolites of corticosterone in excreta of European Stonechats (Saxicola torquata rubicola) using a corticosterone enzyme-immunoassay. High-performance liquid chromatography of excreta of a female and a male stonechat injected with tritiated corticosterone showed that corticosterone is excreted in the form of numerous metabolites and that the corticosterone enzyme-immunoassay cross-reacted with most of those metabolites. Injection of adrenocorticotrophic hormone in one female and seven male stonechats led to a significant increase in the levels of excreted corticosteroid metabolites within 1 h 20 min after administration of adrenocorticotrophic hormone. These results suggest that the corticosterone enzyme-immunoassay used in this study provides a quantitative measure of excreted corticosteroid metabolite levels in European Stonechats and has the potential to replace plasma measurements of these hormones. /// Las mediciones de los niveles de corticosterona en muestras de sangre de aves proveen informacin puntual exacta sobre las concentraciones de hormonas sistmicas. Sin embargo, las aves deben ser capturadas y manipuladas, lo que puede ser difcil especialmente cuando se requieren mltiples muestras. Mas an, la manipulacin causa estrs y podra interferir con las medidas hormonales. Por lo tanto, se desarroll una tcnica no invasora para medir metabolitos de corticosterona en las excretas de Saxicola torquata rubicola por medio de un inmunoensayo enzimtico. Practicando cromatografa lquida de alto rendimiento en las excretas de una hembra y un macho que fueron inyectados con corticosterona tritriada, se encontr que la corticosterona es excretada en forma de numerosos metabolitos y que el inmunoensayo reaccion con la mayora de stos. La inyeccin de la hormona adrenocorticotrfica en una hembra y siete machos condujo en 1 h 20 min a un incremento significativo de los niveles de metabolitos corticosteroides excretados. Estos resultados sugieren que el inmunoensayo enzimtico de corticosterona empleado en este estudio provee una medida cuantitativa de los niveles de metabolitos corticosteroides excretados en Saxicola torquata rubicola y tiene potencial para reemplazar las mediciones plasmticas de esta hormona. 
25488719|Many species of birds lay clutches that include eggs of varying sizes. Smaller eggs laid late in a clutch may facilitate brood reduction when there is insufficient food, whereas larger eggs may offset the disadvantage of late-hatching chicks when hatching is asynchronous. Alternatively, egg size may not be adaptive but may reflect energetic constraints on females. Magellanic Penguins (
4088557|Among Sharp-tailed Sparrows (Ammodramus caudacutus), a northern group of populations can be distinguished from a southern group. The northern group, comprising the races nelsoni, alterus, and subvirgatus, occurs in three disjunct populations distributed from the continental interior to the north Atlantic coast. The southern group, including the nominate race and diversus, is found only along the mid-Atlantic coast south to northern Virginia. The two groups, which are in limited contact in southwestern Maine, are defined by uniquely derived behavioral (song-related) characteristics, as well as by differences in morphology (bill size and ventral streakiness) and habitat. In the southern group, song-related behaviors are divergent compared to such behaviors in congeneric relatives. Instead of loud primary songs uttered repetitively in discrete bouts (the usual pattern in Ammodramus and other emberizines, and in males of the northern group within the species), southern males sing a continuous series of variable, muted phrases and sharp notes in a single display called "complex whisper song." They also have largely "suppressed" a typical emberizine flight song and display that are frequently employed by northern males. Males in both groups are nonterritorial and lack male parental care. A morphological reanalysis of two populations (Scarborough Marsh and Popham Beach) in the contact zone in Maine suggests that there is gene flow between the two groups, but that it is limited geographically, and perhaps in intensity. Phenotypic males of both groups, each exhibiting their characteristic song-related behaviors, co-occur at Popham Beach, with no evidence of behavioral intermediacy in the population. Since the two groups are distinct phylogenetic species, I suggest that the Maine contact is a zone of secondary intergradation. A cladistic hypothesis of relationship in the complex, together with geographic considerations, suggests a history of vicariance in which widely distributed interior-to-coastal populations were split apart during a Pleistocene glaciation. The northern group evidently evolved as an isolate in freshwater wetlands south of the glacial ice front in the interior of the continent, while the southern group differentiated in slat marshes along the Atlantic coast. Most recently, the interior isolate dispersed eastward during early Holocene time, perhaps via a James Bay/Gulf of St. Lawrence route to the Atlantic coast, where it met the northward-advancing southern group in Maine. I recommend that the two groups be treated taxonomically as allospecies of a superspecies.
4086285|Despite two recent anatomical studies to the contrary, the order Piciformes appears to be polyphyletic. The structure of the zygodactyl foot in the Galbulae is very distinct from that in the Pici, and no unique shared derived characters of the tarsometatarsus have been demonstrated for these two taxa. The supposedly three-headed origin of M. flexor hallucis longus shared by the Galbulae and Pici is doubtfully homologous between the two groups, leaving only the Type VI deep flexor tendons as defining the order Piciformes. This condition is probably a convergent similarity. Evidence is presented supporting a close relationship between the Galbulae and the suborder Coracii and between the Pici and the Passeriformes. There are fewer character conflicts with this hypothesis than with the hypothesis that the Piciformes are monophyletic. Problems concerning fossil taxa are also addressed.
10.1525/auk.2013.12077|Little is known about the timing of migration, migration routes, and migratory connectivity of most of the >230 species of birds that breed at south temperate latitudes of South America and then migrate toward the tropics to overwinter. We used light-level geolocators to track the migration of 3 male and 3 female Fork-tailed Flycatchers (
10.2307/4090068| Studies of the dawn chorus in birds have focused mainly on the behavior and song output of males and on the function(s) of male song. Less attention has been paid to the females' behavior and to communication between members of a pair. In Great Tits (Parus major), males sing vigorously at dawn in the vicinity of the female's nest hole just before and during egg laying. We studied the female's vocal behavior during the dawn chorus as well as communication between pair members. All females vocally interacted with their mates from inside the nest box. Females produced a sound with a very low sound-pressure level only audible from few meters, which we have named the "quiet call." This quiet call was unique to females and was only produced from inside the nest box. To our knowledge, our study is the first to show that both members of a pair vocally interact during the dawn chorus. Given that many temperate-zone bird species have similar life histories as the Great Tit, it is very likely that similar interactive behavior occurs in other (song)birds. This interactive behavior may provide a new and manipulable tool for testing hypotheses about the dawn song and can be used as a future bioassay of male vocalizations. /// Les tudes portant sur les chants mis  l'aube chez les oiseaux se sont intresses principalement au comportement, au son et aux fonctions du chant chez le mle. Moins d'attention a t porte sur le comportement des femelles et aux communications entre les membres d'un couple. Chez Parus major,  l'aube, les mles chantent vigoureusement aux alentours des trous de nidification des femelles et ce juste avant et durant l'closion des ufs. Nous avons tudi le comportement vocal des femelles pendant l'mission de chants  l'aube ainsi que la communication entre les membres d'un couple. Toutes les femelles interagissaient vocalement avec leur partenaire de l'intrieur du nichoir. Les femelles produisaient un son de trs faible pression, audible seulement sur quelques mtres, que nous avons appel le "chant silencieux". Ce chant silencieux tait unique aux femelles et il tait seulement produit de l'intrieur du nichoir. Selon nos connaissances, cette tude est la premire  montrer que les deux membres d'un couple interagissent vocalement au cours des chants mis  l'aube. tant donn que de nombreuses espces d'oiseaux de la zone tempre ont des traits d'histoire de vie similaires  Parus major, il est trs probable que ce mme comportement interactif existe chez d'autres oiseaux (chanteurs). Ce comportement interactif pourrait fournir un nouvel outil pour tester des hypothses sur les chants  l'aube et les vocalisations des mles. 
10.2307/4090272| We used data from statewide surveys of riparian birds in Utah, 1992-1998, to compare relative-abundance and distance-sampling methods. By generating relative-abundance indices with point-count methods and density with point-transect sampling methods, we examined whether the assumptions underlying each method were met during field surveys for four bird species (Brown-headed Cowbird [Molothrus ater], Bullock's Oriole [Icterus bullockii], Warbling Vireo [Vireo gilvus], and Yellow Warbler [Dendroica petechia]). Point-count methods failed to reasonably meet the fundamental assumption of constant proportionality, with estimated detectability varying 3- to 5-fold despite the use of widely accepted and well-standardized methods. Population trends based on relative abundance were subsequently unstable, often varying in both magnitude and direction with the survey plot radius used (25 m, 50 m, or unlimited distance). Distance-sampling methods appeared to meet critical assumptions, were robust to assumption violations, allowed methodological self-assessment, and were demonstrably efficient in a large-scale, multispecies survey setting. Our data show surveys of birds without estimations of detectability are likely biased because the assumption of constant proportionality is violated to a degree that precludes strict inference and may confound trend analyses. /// En este estudio utilizamos datos de censos a nivel estatal de aves ribereas en Utah (1992-1998) para comparar los mtodos de abundancia relativa y de muestreo de distancia. Generando ndices de abundancia relativa con mtodos de conteo de punto y de densidad con muestreos de puntos en transectos, examinamos si los supuestos de cada mtodo se cumplan durante censos de campo realizados para cuatro especies de aves (Molothrus ater, Icterus bullockii, Vireo gilvus y Dendroica petechia). Los mtodos de conteo de punto no cumplieron de forma razonable el supuesto fundamental de proporcionalidad constante; la detectabilidad estimada vari de 3 a 5 veces a pesar del uso de mtodos ampliamente aceptados y bien estandarizados. Las tendencias poblacionales basadas en abundancia relativa fueron subsecuentemente inestables y a menudo variaron tanto en magnitud como en direccin con el radio de la parcela de muestreo utilizado (25 m, 50 m  distancia ilimitada). Los mtodos de muestreo de distancia parecieron cumplir los supuestos crticos, fueron robustos ante violaciones de los supuestos, permitieron hacer autoevaluaciones metodolgicas y fueron eficientes de forma demostrable en un escenario de censo de mltiples especies a gran escala. Nuestros datos muestran que los censos de aves sin estimaciones de la detectabilidad son probablemente sesgados porque el supuesto de proporcionalidad constante es violado a un grado que no permite hacer inferencias estrictas y puede confundir los anlisis de tendencias. 
4085461|Habitat selection in Spizella passerina and S. pusilla was studied in the laboratory and in the field at monthly intervals from December through June. The two species showed a significant difference in their responses to photographic transparencies of two habitats in the laboratory, S. passerina exhibiting a consistent though slight preference for a coniferous tree habitat in both morning and afternoon and S. pusilla showing a preference for the tree habitat in the morning and the field habitat in the afternoon. In free-living populations the species both fed in the field habitat, mostly on the ground. There was a significant difference in non-feeding habitat preference, S. passerina preferring the tree habitat in both morning and afternoon and S. pusilla preferring the field habitat in both morning and afternoon. Field observations on a population of S. pusilla where S. passerina was not present showed a non-significant shift in preference similar to that seen in laboratory tests; the birds perched in trees in the morning and in fields in the afternoon. The non-feeding preferences shown in the field were considered most closely analogous to the laboratory results.
40406722|Hemoglobins play a key role in oxygen transport. High-oxygen-affinity hemoglobins are adaptive in hypoxic environments. To better understand adaptation to high-altitude hypoxia, we extracted RNA from the bone marrow of six Crested Ducks (
4087386|We assessed the effects of winter food supplementation on differential survival between sex, age and dominance classes, and the effects of feeding and territorial defense on breeding density in a northern population of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus). Survival rates were higher in a food-supplemented area than in a control area, which suggests that food abundance limited winter survival. Survival was greater among males than lower-ranking females in 1 of 2 years, and greater in dominants than in subordinates, within sex and age classes. Survival of adults and first-year birds, however, did not differ significantly. In the 2 years of this study, a sharp decline of population size occurred at the onset of territoriality in spring. Birds that disappeared in spring were mainly subordinates of each sex. Breeding densities in control and feeder areas were similar in the two years. Eight of 14 territorial birds removed in 2 years were replaced, implying that a nonbreeding surplus was present in early spring.
10.2307/4089198| We obtained 1,040 bp of sequence from the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes cytochrome b (cyt b; 736 bp) and NADH-subunit 2 (ND2; 304 bp) to address phylogenetic relationships among the four species in the Scaled Quail complex. California Quail (Callipepla californica) and Gambel's Quail (C. gambelii) were sister taxa, whereas the relationships of the Elegant Quail (C. douglasii) and Scaled Quail (C. squamata) were unclear; they might be sister species, or Elegant Quail might be the sister to California plus Gambel's quails. A third, less-likely alternative predicts a contemporaneous origin of Elegant Quail, Scaled Quail, and the ancestor of California and Gambel's quail. The latter phylogenetic hypothesis, however, matches Hubbard's (1973) biogeographic model. Irrespective of which biogeographic hypothesis is correct, calibration of mtDNA genetic distances suggests that the speciation events are much older than the late Pleistocene dates given by Hubbard. Calibration of the rate of mtDNA (cyt b, ND2) evolution based on dating of fossil remains of the extinct species Cyrtonyx cooki suggested a rate of 2% per million years. Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus), and Montezuma Quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) were successively more distantly related to the Scaled Quail complex. Phylogenetic trees derived from allozymes (Gutirrez et al. 1983) and mtDNA sequences were topologically identical, suggesting that both types of gene trees recover the species tree. 
10.2307/4089280|Arctic-nesting geese build large, insulated nests to protect developing embryos from cold ambient temperatures. Ross' Geese (Chen rossii) are about two-thirds the mass of Lesser Snow Geese (C. caerulescens caerulescens), have higher mass-specific metabolic rate, and maintain lower nest attentiveness, yet they hatch goslings with more functionally mature gizzards and more protein for their size than do Lesser Snow Geese. We compared nest size (a reflection of nest insulation) in four distinct habitats in a mixed breeding colony of Ross' Geese and Lesser Snow Geese at Karrak Lake, Northwest Territories, Canada. After adjusting measurements for nest-specific egg size and clutch size, we found that overall nest morphology differed between species and among habitats. Nest size increased progressively among heath, rock, mixed, and moss habitats. When nesting materials were not limiting, nests were smaller in habitats that provided cover from wind and precipitation than in habitats that did not provide cover. Ross' Geese constructed relatively larger, more insulated nests than did Lesser Snow Geese, which may hasten embryonic development, minimize energy expenditure during incubation, and minimize embryonic cooling during recesses. We suggest that relative differences in nest morphology reflect greater selection for Ross' Geese to improve nest insulation because of their smaller size (adults and embryos), higher mass-specific metabolic rate, and lower incubation constancy.
10.2307/4089515|We developed a Markov process model for colony-site dynamics of Gull-billed Terns (Sterna nilotica). From 1993 through 1996, we monitored breeding numbers of Gull-billed Terns and their frequent colony associates, Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) and Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger), at colony sites along 80 km of the barrier island region of coastal Virginia. We also monitored flooding events and renesting. We developed the model for colony survival, extinction, and recolonization at potential colony sites over the four-year period. We then used data on annual site occupation by Gull-billed Terns to estimate model parameters and tested for differences between nesting substrates (barrier island vs. shellpile). Results revealed a dynamic system but provided no evidence that the dynamics were Markovian, i.e. the probability that a site was occupied in one year was not influenced by whether it had been occupied in the previous year. Nor did colony-level reproductive success the previous season seem to affect the probability of site occupancy. Site survival and recolonization rates were similar, and the estimated overall annual probability of a site being occupied was 0.59. Of the 25 sites that were used during the four-year period, 16 were used in one or two years only, and only three were used in all four years. Flooding and renesting were frequent in both habitat types in all years. The frequent flooding of nests on shellpiles argues for more effective management; augmentation with shell and sand to increase elevations as little as 20 cm could have reduced flooding at a number of sites. The low colonysite fidelity that we observed suggests that an effective management approach would be to provide a large number of sand and/or shellpile sites for use by nesting terns. Sites not used in one year may still be used in subsequent years.
10.2307/4086775|We analyzed changes in masses, proportions, and water contents of components of Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) following long-term selection for 4-week body mass. Chicks from selected and control lines were sacrificed at 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 9 weeks of age and dissected into 12 components, including plumage, major muscle masses, visceral organs, and brain. Selection for 40 generations had led to more than a doubling in mature mass and a 26-28% decrease in the time required to achieve that size. The difference in growth rates was expressed only before the age of 2 weeks post-hatching, hence before chicks had achieved 50% of mature mass. Proportions of several organs and components during the growth period were not markedly affected, but the mass of the pectoral muscles of the selected chicks increased, and the mass of the brain and the wing area decreased, relative to body size. The absolute growth of the brain did not differ between lines. There were no differences between lines in the relative water contents of tissues of chicks of similar ages. These results suggest that growth rate can be increased without decreases in the apparent levels of functional maturity of tissues or changes in body proportions that lead to a decrease in the growth increment of a constraining tissue.
10.1525/auk.2009.09060|Habitat selection is a hierarchical process that proceeds from broad to fine spatial scales. Failure to account for spatial scale in studies of habitat selection may result in an incomplete understanding of key habitat characteristics. For juvenile songbirds, postfledging habitat may be important for migratory preparation and survival; however, there is currently little information regarding habitat associations during this period. We used radiotelemetry to investigate habitat associations at fine and broad spatial scales in juvenile Yellow-rumped Warblers (
10.2307/4089632|We asked whether geographic variation exists in the complexity of song repertoires in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) by quantitatively comparing four measures of repertoire organization across four geographically distant populations: (1) repertoire size (the number of distinct song types), (2) the number of "minimal units of production" per repertoire, (3) mean similarity among variants of the same song type ("within-type" similarity), and (4) mean similarity among song types in a repertoire ("between-type" similarity). We found significant geographic differences among populations in three of these four measures, with mean similarity among song types being the exception. In general, relatively sedentary populations in North Carolina and Washington were more similar to each other than to migratory populations in Pennsylvania and Maine. Contrary to our expectation based on prior interspecific analyses of variation in repertoire complexity, the relatively sedentary populations in our sample had more complex repertoires than did the more migratory populations. The origin and functional significance of population differences in repertoire complexity in this species remain uncertain.
4086528|Observational and experimental procedures were used to evaluate the potential importance of brood size and weather on the evolution of clutch size in the Eastern Kingbird. Modal clutch size was three eggs, yet broods of four were most productive. Nestling size varied inversely with brood size, so that "nestling quality" was lower in broods of four than in broods of three. Asymptotic weight of nestlings in broods of three was directly and significantly correlated with ambient air temperature, followed by hatch order. Because larger broods were being fed during a period of relatively cool and wet weather, the effects of brood size were probably confounded by weather-induced changes in food availability, suggesting that the ability to produce surviving young successfully from large broods is dependent upon weather conditions during the nestling period. These observations match patterns seen in other aerial foragers and indicate that unpredictable changes in temperature and precipitation dramatically affect the ability of the adults to feed young. A high variance in fledging success from the largest broods is indicated and probably selects for a reduced number of offspring in the Eastern Kingbird. Trade-offs in reproductive effort and parental survival do not appear to be required to explain patterns of clutch size in the Eastern Kingbird or, probably, other aerial foragers.
4085155|The House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) became established in the eastern United States after liberation in the New York City area, spreading from there along the Atlantic seaboard. It has been assumed that the liberated birds were from California. Specimens of the new eastern population resemble most closely those from western California in size but differ from them in having relatively smaller legs and feet. In color, eastern birds resemble House Finches from northeastern Colorado and southeastern Wyoming, as well as those from eastern Washington and northern Idaho. On the basis of historical and size evidence we conclude that the eastern House Finch population is descended from California stock but has differentiated from it in color and size after liberation in the east. The change took place rapidly, as two specimens taken 9 and 11 yr after introduction showed the differences from California birds that now characterize the eastern population. The case of the House Finch parallels that of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) in its rapid evolutionary change after introduction and spread into new environments. Several climatic and associated vegetational differences from California were encountered by eastern House Finch pioneers. The lower temperatures have not selected for larger size in the new eastern population as was the case in House Sparrows that moved into colder climates, and no other environmental factor or combination of factors including substrate aspect is the obvious cause of differentiation of eastern birds from their California ancestors.
10.2307/4089858|Proper management of endangered species requires an understanding of habitat use at a variety of spatial scales, and information on nesting habitat is especially important in that regard. We examined vegetation features associated with nest patches of the Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia), a federally endangered migrant songbird that breeds only in central Texas. We used a spatially paired design to measure 13 vegetation variables at 43 nests and at an equal number of randomly chosen nonuse patches, one located near each nest. Canopy closure was greater at nest patches than at nonuse patches. However, none of the other vegetation variables differed between a nest patch and its paired nonuse patch on the same territory, despite high power to detect such differences. In contrast, 8 of the 13 variables exhibited significant variation among territories. For all 13 variables, effect size was substantially greater for variation between territories than for variation between nest patches and their paired nonuse patches. Lack of within-territory variation may reflect the scale at which vegetation varies in that habitat. Such a result suggests that territory selection may be more important than nest-patch selection in this species.
10.2307/4087997|We conducted experiments to determine the effect of time postmortem, feeding activity, and diet on changes in digestive organ morphology in Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) and Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula). We measured digestive organs immediately, or at 30, 60, or 90 min postmortem, but detected no time-related differences in Dark-eyed Juncos. The small intestines of free-feeding Dark-eyed Juncos were longer than those of food-deprived birds. We found no significant diet-related differences in lengths of small intestines of Harris' Sparrows. Liver mass reflected energy intake of free-feeding versus food-deprived Harris' Sparrows.
4085617|Behavior and attendance patterns of breeding Fork-tailed Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma furcata) were monitored over two nesting seasons on the Barren Islands, Alaska. The asynchrony of egg laying and hatching shown by these birds apparently reflects the influence of several factors, including snow conditions on the breeding grounds, egg neglect during incubation, and food availability. Communication between breeding birds was characterized by auditory and tactile signals. Two distinct vocalizations were identified, one of which appears to be a sex-specific call given by males during pair formation. Generally, both adults were present in the burrow on the night of egg laying, and the male took the first incubation shift. Incubation shifts ranged from 1 to 5 days, with 2- and 3-day shifts being the most common. Growth parameters of the chicks, reproductive success, and breeding chronology varied considerably between years; this presumably relates to a difference in conditions affecting the availability of food. Adults apparently responded to changes in food availability during incubation by altering their attendance patterns. When conditions were good, incubation shifts were shorter, egg neglect was reduced, and chicks were brooded longer and were fed more frequently. Adults assisted the chick in emerging from the shell. Chicks became active late in the nestling stage and began to venture from the burrow several days prior to fledging. Adults continued to visit the chick during that time but may have reduced the amount of food delivered. Chicks exhibited a distinct prefledging weight loss.
10.2307/4090205| On the basis of plumage coloration and mitochondrial DNA variation, four main groups are recognized within the Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca): the red group (iliaca, RE), sooty group (unalaschcensis, SO), thick-billed (megarhyncha, TB), and slate-colored (schistacea, SC). To establish phylogenetic relationships among those four groups, we analyzed 2119 base pairs of sequence from four mitochondrial regions: ND2, ND3, cytochrome b, and control region. The control region is less variable than the coding genes surveyed. Both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood resolved the same ingroup relationships (RE(SC(TB,SO))). However, placement of the root could not be established, even with four outgroups. Lack of resolution of the root is due to the nearest living relative of the Fox Sparrow being over 11% divergent. Despite lacking a clear root, the data suggest that the two taxa connected by a hybrid zone (TB, SC) are not sister species, which has implications for species limits because under the biological species concept they should be lumped. We recommend that all four main groups be recognized as species. /// Con base en la coloracin del plumaje y variacin en el ADN mitocondrial, se reconocen cuatro grupos dentro de Passerella iliaca: el grupo rojo (iliaca, RO), el grupo fuliginoso (unalaschcensis, FU), el grupo de pico grueso (megarhyncha, PG) y el grupo de color pizarra (schistacea, CP). Para establecer las relaciones filogenticas entre estos cuatro grupos, analizamos 2119 pares de bases de cuatro regiones mitocondriales: ND2, ND3, citocromo b y la regin control. La regin control es menos variable que los genes codificantes estudiados. Anlisis de parsimonia y mxima verosimilitud resolvieron las mismas relaciones en el grupo (RO(CP(PG,FU))), pero no fue posible establecer la raz del rbol, an usando cuatro grupos externos. La poca resolucin de la raz se debe a que la divergencia entre P. iliaca y el grupo viviente ms cercano es superior al 11%. A pesar de la incertidumbre en cuanto a la raz, los datos sugieren claramente que los dos taxa que estn conectados por una zona de hibridacin (PG y CP) no son hermanos, lo que tiene implicaciones para establecer los lmites especficos, pues bajo el concepto biolgico de especie deberan ser considerados coespecficos. Recomendamos que los cuatro grupos sean reconocidos como especies diferentes. 
4086524|Resplendent Quetzals (Pharomachrus mocinno) are typically termed "specialized" fruit-eating birds, although there are few data describing the breadth of their diet or the characteristics of the fruits they select. In fact, there is no general consensus about the meaning or consequences of being a fruit specialist. In the lower montane forests at Monteverde, Costa Rica, quetzals feed on a minimum of 12-18 species of fruits at most times of the year and on an annual total of at least 41 species. Although their diet includes the watery, small-seeded berries of many second-growth plants, they depend mostly on the large drupes of about 18 species in the laurel family (Lauraceae). The phenologies and habitat distributions of the Lauraceae appear to dictate the timing and direction of seasonal movements by quetzals. Mutual dependence and, possibly, general coevolution between quetzals and the lauraceous trees whose seeds they disperse are suggested by the birds' morphology, distribution, behavior, and life history. Nestling quetzals are brought entire fruits as early as the second day after hatching. Thereafter, they consume gradually increasing amounts of fruit, but, even immediately before they fledge, most of their diet consists of insects, snails, and lizards. Brooding drops off rapidly by the time chicks are 9 days old. Considerable variation in brooding duration, parental sex roles, and nestling diet exists between nests, however, and apparently between clutches. Adults take far less time to deliver fruits to nestlings than to deliver insects or lizards, which reflects the relative ease of "capturing" ripe fruits (as opposed to animal prey) during the breeding season. The male parent delivered significantly more insects and food items in general than did the female at a first-clutch nest but not at a second-clutch nest. Several Central American montane reserves have been established to protect populations of quetzals, the national symbol of Guatemala and an important tourist attraction throughout the Isthmus. Unfortunately, the reserves tend to be too small and to include only a limited representation of critical habitats. If other Central American quetzal populations are similar to Monteverde's, the birds must migrate to different habitats as the availability of ripe fruits fluctuates between seasons or years. Once reserves become isolated by deforestation, they will fail to prevent local extinction of quetzals.
4087962|Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) exhibit both large geographic differences in growth rate and variable levels of brood reduction, which are assumed dependent on local prey abundance. We examined Ospreys nesting along the mid-Atlantic coast to determine how growth rate and brood reduction were influenced by an abundant, available prey base. Growth rate was substantially higher than previously reported and best described by a logistic growth curve (k = 0.173). We found little or no difference in growth related to year, to brood size, or in broods with and without nestling loss. Brood reduction occurred in this area, despite an apparently ample prey base, and was more common in larger broods. Higher incidence of brood reduction in large broods was a function of larger disparities in within-brood nestling size, probably caused by inadequate food provisioning by males. We believe large intercolony differences in Osprey growth are primarily a function of local food abundance and availability, whereas intracolony variation-reflected in higher rates of brood reduction-may be a function of a male's ability, experience, or motivation to provide food to nestlings.
4085318|A tundra population of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) was studied during the 1976 and 1977 breeding seasons. The mating system was monogamous, although variability in breeding-habitat quality indicated some potential for polygyny. Clutch initiation was highly synchronous, and renesting attempts were limited to early nesters suffering early nest failure. Temporal variations in reproductive success and the reduced success of females rearing young without male assistance suggest that monogamy is maintained as a consequence of the brevity of the tundra breeding season.
4087717| Radar observations of passerine trans-Saharan migrants during autumn migration (August and September 1981, 1983, 1984, and 1985) in the Straits of Gibraltar revealed intense movements to the south and southwest. On average birds flew to the southwest (211). Thus, after crossing the coast of southwestern Europe, migrants did not change their direction to the southeast towards the interior of Africa. If the birds maintained their southwesterly direction, they would continue along the west coast of Africa. Along this route the birds might find better conditions than on any route through the interior of the continent. The reported average direction of birds at Gibraltar represents a sample of the general behavior pattern in the southern Iberian Peninsula. The variance of nightly directions could be explained by the fact that birds fly on a fixed heading in strong crosswinds that alternate between east and west, but are only of local importance on a southbound migration route. 
10.2307/4086911|We studied and color-banded a population of Eurasian Dotterel on a middle alpine breeding ground in southern Norway over 4 yr. Birds arrived paired in mid-May, dispersed onto nesting sites in late May to early June, when 75% of the ground was still covered by snow, and began to lay eggs a few days later. The egg-laying season of the population was long, up to 1 1/2 months. After completion of the earliest clutches, females started to perform display flights, apparently to seek males. The female displaying period lasted until the second week in July, when the females began to form flocks and prebasic molt was in progress. The display period thus covered most of the egg-laying period of the population. Females had a low site tenacity during the season, and evidence for territoriality was found in neither of the sexes. We argue that sequential polyandry is common in this dotterel population.
40406074|The fusion of two or more thoracic vertebrae, independent of the synsacrum, is more widespread in the Passeriformes than has previously been reported. The bone thus formed is known as a "notarium." I surveyed oscine passerine skeletons and found a notarium with fully fused vertebrae in Chabert's Vanga (
10.2307/4090017| Parents are expected to vary the sex ratio of their offspring in relation to the sex-specific fitness benefits. However, benefits of producing sex-biased broods may be dependent on condition of the female. For example, mothers in good condition could achieve greater fitness if they produced high-quality sons, whereas, mothers in poor condition would gain more by producing daughters rather than poor-quality sons. As a consequence, we would expect to see a relationship between female condition and sex ratio of offspring. We examined effect of maternal condition on nestling condition and sex ratio in the House Wren (Troglodytes aedon). Overall sex ratio of nestlings in the population was not baised, but females in better condition produced relatively more sons. Overall positive relationship between female condition and proportion of male offspring was due to second broods, which were significantly male-biased and more likely to be produced by females in good condition. Females in better condition also tended to provision young more often and produced both male and female nestlings in better condition. Polygyne and extrapair mating are common in House Wrens. If males in good condition are more likely to be successful breeders as adults, then it may benefit mothers in good condition to produce more sons. /// Se espera que los padres varen el cociente de sexos de sus pichones en relacin a beneficios sexo-especficos en la adecuacin biolgica (fitness). Sin embargo, los beneficios de producir nidadas sesgadas en sexo pueden depender del estado de la hembra. Por ejemplo, madres en buen estado podran alcanzar mayor fitness si produjeran hijos de alta calidad, mientras que madres en mal estado ganaran ms si produjeran hijas, en lugar de hijos de mala calidad. Como consecuencia, esperaramos ver una relacin entre el estado de la hembra y el cociente de sexos de los pichones. Examinamos el efecto del estado materno en la condicin y el cociente de sexos de las cras de Troglodytes aedon. En trminos generales, el cociente de sexos de los pichones no estuvo sesgado en la poblacin, pero las hembras en mejor estado produjeron relativamente ms hijos. En trminos generales, la relacin positiva entre el estado de la hembra y la proporcin de hijos macho estuvo dada por la puesta de segundas nidadas, las cuales estuvieron significativamente sesgadas hacia los machos y fueron producidas con mayor probabilidad por hembras en buen estado. Las hembras en buen estado tambin tendieron a aprovisionar a los pichones con mayor frecuencia y produjeron pichones en mejor estado, tanto machos como hembras. La poliginia y el apareamiento extra-pareja son comunes en T. aedon. Si los machos en buena condicin tienen mayores chances de ser adultos reproductivos exitosos, entonces puede ser beneficioso para las madres en buen estado producir ms hijos. 
10.2307/4088811|The systematic relationships of the diurnal birds of prey (Falconiformes) are unresolved. The monophyly of the order has not been established, and the relationships of the families within the order and of genera within the three polytypic families are unclear. To derive a phylogeny for the order and to assess the usefulness of the syrinx for resolving the systematics of nonpasserines, I analyzed variation in syringeal morphology of genera within each of the currently recognized families in the order as well as among four orders of outgroups. The phylogeny derived from these syringeal data supports the monophyly of the Falconiformes. In addition, syringeal data provide strong support for the monophyly of three clades within the Falconiformes: the Cathertidae; the Falconidae; and an Accipitrinae-Sagittariidae-Pandioninae cluster. The Cathartidae are positioned as basal to the other two clades. Overall results indicate that syringeal morphology is conservative, with most of the informative variation occurring at higher systematic levels.
25150395|Studies of source-sink dynamics are often prompted by concerns about negative population trends. Estimates of population trajectories are usually based on assumptions about survival rates and empirical measures of fecundity. Most models ignore the influence of the rates of renesting and multiple brooding. We used the Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapilla) as a model Neotropical migratory songbird species to investigate the relative effects of annual female survival and components of annual fecundity on population growth rates. We applied productivity data from a three-year field study and data from Hann (1937) to several models of annual fecundity to examine the sensitivity of lambda to variations in annual female survival and the likelihood of renesting and double-brooding. Our simulations illustrate the importance of incorporating estimates of annual survival and rates of additional breeding attempts in songbird population models because population growth rates are quite sensitive to variations in these parameters. Lambda is especially sensitive to survival estimates and changes with them at the same order of magnitude. Whenever feasible, female survival and probabilities of additional breeding attempts should be estimated by direct methods. The indirect methods used in our study (annual female survival estimated from the age ratio of breeding females, and rates of renesting and double-brooding determined from the timing of reproduction) probably underestimated these parameters. /// Frecuentemente, los estudios de la dinmica de fuentes y sumideros son motivados por preocupaciones relacionadas con tendencias poblacionales negativas. Las estimaciones de las trayectorias poblacionales usualmente estn basadas en suposiciones acerca de las tasas de supervivencia y en mediciones empricas de la fecundidad. La mayora de los modelos ignoran la influencia de las tasas de renidificacin y de las nidadas mltiples. Utilizamos a Seiurus aurocapilla como un modelo de una especie de ave canora migratoria Neotropical para investigar los efectos relativos de la supervivencia anual de las hembras y de componentes de la fecundidad anual sobre las tasas de crecimiento poblacional. Aplicamos datos de productividad de un estudio de campo de tres aos y datos obtenidos de Hann (1937) a varios modelos de fecundidad anual para examinar la sensibilidad de lambda ante variaciones en la supervivencia anual de las hembras y en la probabilidad de renidificar y de tener nidadas dobles. Nuestras simulaciones ilustran la importancia de incorporar estimados de la supervivencia anual y de las tasas a las que tienen lugar intentos adicionales de reproduccin en los modelos de poblaciones de aves canoras, pues las tasas de crecimiento poblacional son bastante sensibles a variaciones en esos parmetros. Lambda es especialmente sensible a los estimados de supervivencia, y cambia con stos en el mismo orden de magnitud. Siempre que sea posible, la supervivencia de las hembras y las probabilidades de intentos de reproduccin adicionales deben ser estimadas mediante mtodos directos. Los mtodos indirectos empleados en nuestro estudio (la supervivencia anual de las hembras fue estimada a partir del cociente de edades de las hembras reproductivas y las tasas de renidificacin y de nidadas dobles a partir del momento de reproduccin) probablemente subestimaron esos prametros.
4086121|Seabird colony sizes and movements were documented in the DelMarVa coastal region in 1976-1977 and in New Jersey in 1978-1979. Most colonies were found on marsh and dredge deposition islands and on barrier island beaches. For the "traditionally" beach-nesting Herring Gull, Common Tern, and Black Skimmer, larger, more stable colonies were found on barrier beaches than on marsh islands. In marsh habitats, rates of colony-site change of marsh-nesting Forster's Tern and Laughing Gulls were similar to those of the former beach nesters. Several adaptations have evolved in marsh specialists to cope with a high risk of reproductive failure due to flooding, but both Herring Gulls and Common Terns also appear to be very adaptable in nesting under various habitat conditions. New colonies and those abandoned between years may be pioneering attempts by younger or inexperienced birds, because they are often smaller than persistent colonies, although patterns differ among areas and habitats. Colony-site dynamics are complex and result from many selective factors including competition, predation, physical changes in site structure, and flooding. The invasion of Herring Gulls into marshes along the mid-Atlantic coast has had an impact on new colony-site choice by associated seabirds. Calculating colony-site turnover rates allows for comparisons among species, habitats, and regions and may give useful insights into habitat quality and change and alternative nesting strategies.
10.2307/4089329|We describe the song system of the Banded Wren (Thryothorus pleurostictus), with emphasis on within-species variation in repertoire size, song-type sharing, and singing mode, and identify some of the correlates of this variation. Unlike most of its duetting congeners, males are the primary songsters in this species. Songs are discrete, 2 to 5 s in duration, and consist of softer introductory buzzes and rattles followed by several repeated frequency-modulated whistles or note complexes and a loud terminal trill. Song types are highly distinctive. Repertoire size averaged 19.7 song types (range 15 to 24) and did not vary among three populations located within 8 km of each other in northwestern Costa Rica. Song-type sharing between neighboring males averaged 77% (range 48 to 90%) and was significantly higher among males inhabiting a continuous forest habitat area (78%) than among birds in two broken-forest/second-growth areas (62%). Populations separated by 8 km shared few song types (10%). Singing mode encompassed both the immediate variety and eventual variety patterns found in other passerines, as well as a continuous range of intermediate variety between these two extremes. We used switching rate and a modified Shannon-Wiener index of song-type diversity to quantify variation in singing modes. High-switching, high-diversity singing was associated with the dawn chorus and with soft singing in the presence of the male's mate. High-switching, low-diversity singing (alternation between two or three song types) was associated with countersinging from a distance. Low-switching, low-diversity singing (repeat mode) occurred during and after highly escalated boundary encounters. Thus, unlike most discrete-repertoire species described to date, Banded Wrens decreased their switching rate in increasingly agonistic contexts.
4086069|In an indoor aviary containing 60 American elm branches of 6 different diameters (0.5, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 10.0, 20.0 cm), Carolina Chickadees, Tufted Titmice, male and female White-breasted Nuthatches, and male and female Downy Woodpeckers were allowed to forage singly under controlled circumstances. Each species had a particular and unique preference for branch size and branch surface. Variation occurred among the individuals of each species or sex, and differences between the sexes were found in branch sizes used by woodpeckers and branch surfaces selected by woodpeckers and nuthatches. Nuthatches alone seemed partially to select branch size by total available surface area; they also showed the greatest diversity in use of the three branch surfaces (top, sides, bottom). Differences among species in their use of different branch sizes and surfaces and in the extent to which their behavior changed with experience generally supported Morse's (1974) hypothesis that socially subordinate species are behaviorally more plastic in their foraging and occupy a broader fundamental niche.
25488603|In oviparous reptiles, incubation temperature has been shown to have profound effects on embryonic development and hatchling phenotypes. However, these effects are not well studied in birds, because they typically brood their eggs within a narrow range of temperatures. The Australian Brush-turkey (
4085315|Visits to Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) colonies just before or during laying provoked abandonment of newly constructed nests and either predation of eggs or abandonment of eggs followed by predation. Investigator distrubance caused mortality of young in some situations. Frequent disturbance also discouraged the settlement of late-nesting night herons, late clutches being more likely in colonies visited only twice than in colonies visited 10-15 times. Clutch size and fledging success of successful early nests were the same in frequently and infrequently disturbed colonies.
4088057|We used data on the prevalence of blood parasites in approximately 5,000 individuals of 10 warbler (Parulinae) species captured in New Brunswick and Newfoundland to test the prediction that parasitism and plumage brightness should be positively correlated. We used independent subjective assessments of plumage brightness and two subjective and one objective estimate of plumage dimorphism. No significant correlations were found between parasitism and any index of plumage. We found inconsistencies in our estimates of parasite prevalence for the same species sampled at two different sites and between males and females of the same species. These inconsistencies may be due to sampling error or to ecological differences between sites that produced different patterns of exposure of the birds to the parasites' vectors. Inability to quantify parasites accurately and consistently will make the testing of the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis of sexual selection more difficult.
10.2307/4089674|Microbes have the potential to be important selective forces in many aspects of avian biology. Microbes can affect fitness as a result of either their pathogenic or beneficial effects on host health. Little is known about the chronology of microbial colonization of nestlings or the effects of microbes on fledgling condition. We set out to (1) characterize the time course of microbial colonization of the cloacae of nestling Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), (2) examine the relationship between cloacal microbes and fledgling condition, and (3) determine if nest mates had similar assemblages of cloacal microbes. We repeatedly measured nestlings and sampled their cloacal microbes on nestling days 2, 3, 5, 7, 12, 16, and 19. We detected cloacal microbes in nestlings as early as nestling day 2. Colonization of nestlings by microbes began soon after hatching. Nestlings were colonized by more types of microbes and carried heavier loads of most types of microbes as they got older. Cloacal microbes did not affect fledging success. However, plate scores for gram-negative enteric lactose fermentors, which include E. coli, Salmonella spp., and Shigella spp., were positively correlated with a greater degree of wing asymmetry. This relationship suggests that microbes affect fledgling survival because wing asymmetry hinders flying ability, a critical survival skill for these aerial insectivores. Patterns in the assemblages of cloacal microbes within broods suggested host-genetic influences on the colonization of nestlings by microbes, but they also may have reflected the facts that nest mates were fed by the same adults and were raised in the same nests.
10.2307/4089121|We studied Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) during two field seasons in Churchill, Manitoba, to examine the contribution of males and females to parental care during incubation and chick rearing, and to test the hypothesis that birds nesting in habitats with higher visibility and more food (i.e. coastal habitats) tend chicks less closely than birds nesting in habitats with lower visibility and less food (i.e. inland habitats). Males at the coast flew and vocalized more than females during the chick-rearing period, and, in both areas, incubated during the darkest hours (2400 to 0220), whereas females incubated from 0220 to 0530. Incubation shifts were longer at night than during the day but did not differ between sexes or habitats. Incubation by males during the darkest hours may allow females to feed when invertebrates are most active, and may be a mechanism by which females obtain a better energy balance. Coastal habitats contained more food than inland habitats and more potential predators of both chicks and adults. During incubation, parents in coastal habitats exhibited fewer vigilant behaviors than parents in inland habitats, although the overall time budgets for the most common behaviors did not differ between habitats. Parent-chick distances did not differ between coastal and inland habitats, although as chicks became older, they foraged farther from their parents and were brooded less frequently. The apparent response of adults to predators did not differ between the two habitats. The time that parents spent brooding chicks was negatively correlated with ambient temperatures but was not affected by habitat.
10.2307/4088201|We studied a population of Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) in the White Mountains of central New Hampshire to determine the reproductive performance of this Neotropical migrant species in an unfragmented north-temperate forest. Over a four-year period (1986-1989), female Black-throated Blue Warblers laid an average of 6.6 eggs per season of which 5.2 hatched and 4.3 fledged. This high annual production of young was due to a combination of overall high nesting success (63%), low nest depredation rates (22%), no brood parasitism, and, most importantly, frequent multiple brooding (48%). Over the four years, 35% (range = 14-50%) of the individually-marked females in this population successfully fledged two or more broods; one female fledged three successive broods in one season. Multiple brooding accounted for most of the annual variation in numbers of young fledged per female, and its frequency was related to annual differences in food abundance and, potentially, to time constraints imposed by the intensity and timing of nest depredation. Multiple brooding was significantly and positively related to age of the male parent, and possibly the female parent. Older males were also more likely to be polygynous, although such matings were infrequent (4-16% of mated males each year). Higher reproductive output by older individuals implies that demographic structure of Neotropical migrant populations may have important consequences for maintenance of population size. Recruitment of yearling male Black-throated Blue Warblers into the population was positively related to the number of young fledged per female in the preceeding summer. Although not statistically significant, this finding in combination with the above results and other published information suggests that reproductive success and the factors affecting it may be particularly important in influencing the abundance and population dynamics of this Neotropical migrant passerine, and may overide the impact of events occurring in winter or on migration.
4085089|Discusses post-nest-relief tossing behavior and speculates on its adaptive value. Also discusses an apparently successful case of foster parenthood.
10.1525/auk.2013.12179|Although it has long been recognized that many tropical birds do not share the same narrow breeding periods as temperate birds, conventional thinking considers tropical breeding seasons to be discrete periods generally governed by rainfall seasonality. We used a database of >31,000 captures of 104 species collected over 17 years in rainforest near Manaus, Brazil (2.5S), to examine timing of breeding. The proportion of individuals with active incubation patches peaked at 7% in the dry season, from October through December. The peak was about twice as high as the lowest rate, in the late wet season (AprilJune). From 9 to 15 families and 20 species bred in every month. Many taxa did not conform to the general pattern, instead peaking in the wet season (e.g., Galbulidae, Sclerurinae, Grallariidae, and Formicariidae). Most well-sampled species, even those with strong seasonal peaks, bred at almost any time of year, a pattern also shown by some individual birds that were captured multiple times in breeding condition. Among the 10 species with >50 incubation patches, all bred in at least 9 months, and 7 bred in 1112 months. Earlier results from the same data set showed extremely protracted molts that regularly overlapped breeding. Collectively, molt and breeding data suggest that the annual cycle of some equatorial birds, particularly suboscines, differs fundamentally from that of temperate species, with much less fixed timing of breeding.
10.2307/4088938|Based on museum skins of 47 bird species in 17 genera, I evaluated the suppositions for members of various taxonomic groups in New Guinea and Australian rain forest compared to open eucalypt forest/eucalypt woodland that in rain forest birds compared to eucalypt forest/eucalypt woodland counterparts in each group: (1) outer primary 9 tends to be proportionately shorter; (2) secondary 1 is proportionally longer; and (3) the longest primary is more proximally placed relative to the body in its series. The postulations are largely confirmed. The results are presaged by the findings of earlier writers that species operating in confined spaces should have broad wings with rounded tips, with low wing loading conferring high manoeuvrability, and that distance flyers should have wings with long wingspans and pointed tips for economy of effort.
auk.2012.11125|Reproductive success commonly improves with age in birds. However, it is difficult to determine whether this phenomenon is due to breeding experience or other age-related factors because most potential explanatory factors are positively correlated. Using a 17-year database, we investigated how age, breeding experience, location experience, and pair-bond experience influenced Piping Plover (
10.1525/auk.2011.10253|Passerine birds, especially during the breeding season and nestling development, are exposed to an array of hematophagous ectoparasites. Although the direct consequences of mite infestation on host fitness and immunological function have been investigated in the Domestic Chicken (
40406062|Documentation of spatial genetic discordance among breeding populations of Arctic-nesting avian species is important, because anthropogenic change is altering environmental linkages at micro- and macrogeographic scales. We estimated levels of population subdivision within Pacific Common Eiders (
10.2307/4087765|I investigated three mutually exclusive patch-use hypotheses for wintering American Tree Sparrow (Spizella arborea) flocks. An experimental design with five ranked patch types that differed by the mass of supplemental sunflower seed added to each was employed. Daily repetitions were grouped into three "environments," with harshness rankings based on the presence of snow cover and average daily temperatures. Tree sparrows spent equivalent times in all patch types but, because search plus handling times for patches differed, the birds removed different total amounts of seeds. Two models measured the amount of seed removed from each patch and were falsified. Neither the rate of seed consumption nor the total mass consumed were equivalent among patches. Tests of a third model supported the hypothesis that equivalent periods of time were spent in each patch. Foraging patterns did not follow predicted rankings of environmental harshness for temperature, as low seed visibility during repetitions without snow cover greatly reduced total amounts of seeds eaten.
4087801|I studied the reproductive biology of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) and the Eurasian Tree Sparrow (P. montanus) in a 1.3-ha plot in central Spain during 1985 and 1986. The breeding season of both species overlapped to a great extent, although egg laying began and peaked earlier in Tree Sparrows. Clutch size was slightly larger in House Sparrows, but it varied significantly only with the season in Tree Sparrows. Egg mass of House Sparrows was greater than that of Tree Sparrows (body size effects removed) and largely determined hatching size in both species. Egg mass increased with the laying sequence in Tree Sparrows, and egg-size dependent mortality was recorded only in this species. Tree Sparrows had longer incubation periods but shorter hatching interval than House Sparrows. Growth rates were higher in Tree Sparrows (though the difference was significant only for growth of primary feathers). Fledging mass (as a proportion of adult size) and nestling fat stores also were larger in Tree Sparrows. Nestling mortality rates and productivity did not differ between species, and starvation was dependent on hatching order in both. Fledged House Sparrows grew more rapidly than Tree Sparrows, and reached adult size earlier. Crops of young trapped within 4 months after fledging were fuller in House Sparrows than in Tree Sparrows. Young House Sparrows used abundant human feeding sources, whereas Tree Sparrows fed mainly on small indigenous seeds. Patterns of clutch size, egg size, and timing of breeding favor the hypothesis that interspecific differences in these traits are determined by energetic limitations, which constrain Tree Sparrows more than House Sparrows. An increase of egg mass with the laying sequence in the species that invested less in the hatchlings supports a brood-survival hypothesis. In both species, only the last hatched was subjected to differential mortality, even though the entire brood frequently starved. This does not support the brood-reduction hypothesis. The nest-failure hypothesis was also unsupported. Greater relative fledging mass and heavier fat stores in the species that suffered more adverse feeding conditions after fledging suggest that the fat accumulation is related to facing higher risks of starvation.
4085406|I studied the reproductive biology and ecology of the Little Blue Heron (Florida caerulea) from 1975 to 1977 in Mississippi and Alabama. Incubation began after the second egg was laid, producing an asynchronous hatching of later eggs. The primary cause of nestling mortality was starvation of late-hatching chicks because of their failure to compete successfully with older siblings for food. Late-hatching chicks grew as fast as early-hatching chicks when older siblings died. Nestlings from broods manipulated so that young were even-aged grew as fast as older chicks from uneven-aged broods. This suggests that the ability of adults to distribute food equally among nestlings, not the amount of food delivered, limited the growth of late-hatching chicks. The developmental pattern of nestlings was dominated by the rapid growth of the feet and by the development of ambulatory skills by the age of 13 days. When the young were older than 19 days, both adults foraged away from the nesting area, returning to feed young during the day and brood at night. By this time the nestlings had developed thermoregulation, ambulatory abilities, and an escape response. Nestlings were essentially free of parental care after 21 days of age except for feeding, which continued until fledging at approximately 50 days of age. The rapid development of motor skills effectively shortens the nestling period from 56 to 19 days. I attribute the rapid development to an increased rate of food delivery (by releasing both adults to forage away from the nesting area), to increased food consumption (a consequence of sibling competition during feeding), and to decreased predation (by early maturation of the escape response). The pattern of nestling development is viewed as a preadaptation to large body size, as it allows a longer nestling period (= increased time for growth) than would be expected if young were dependent on adults for protection from predators until fledging.
10.2307/4088858|Trailing-edge notches, formed by shortened first secondaries, characterize the wings of most galliforms. I investigated the function of these notches with comparative measurements of notch size taken from extended-wing specimens and with experimental studies of model wings of four representative species. Pheasants, quail, and turkeys, all of which use flight to escape predators, have wide wings and deep notches. Grouse with dark flight muscles have long, narrow wings with small trailing-edge notches and typically fly relatively long distances from one foraging site to another. Grouse with light colored flight muscles have short, broad wings with large trailing-edge notches and mostly fly from ground to canopy or from branch to branch to reach their food. Model wings of two pairs of galliforms with different wing shapes were used in the experiments. White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) and Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) have small notches, high aspect ratios, relatively heavy wing loadings, low maximum lift coefficients, and dark pectoral muscles. In contrast, Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) and California Quail (Callipepla californica) have deep notches, low aspect ratios, relatively light wing loadings, high lift coefficients, and light colored pectoral muscles. Experiments using model wings in a water flow tunnel show that the trailing-edge notch increases the maximum lift-to-drag ratio and stabilizes airflow around the wing, but reduces the maximum lift coefficient. Thus, the trailing-edge notch increases performance in vertical and slow flight but reduces efficiency in level flight. Such a function is consistent with the suite of differences these birds show in muscle color, wing shape, and predominant mode of flight.
10.1525/auk.2011.11138|Egg discrimination underlies the evolution of a host's ability to reject a brood parasite's egg, but some hosts do not reject if it is too costly or if the parasitic egg mimics the host egg. We examined cues used by the Yellow Warbler (
10.2307/4089765|Available estimates of demographic parameters for Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) vary geographically. However, few estimates are based on long-term studies of marked individuals. We conducted a mark-recapture study on the population of cowbirds at Delta Marsh, Manitoba during the 1993-1998 breeding seasons. We estimated annual survival, breeding site fidelity, and sex ratio, and compared those parameter estimates to other populations of Brown-headed Cowbirds. The Delta Marsh population had higher adult survival (male 90.1%; female 69.6%) and breeding site fidelity (males 66.9%, female 59.5%) than reported for other populations, and the sex ratio was significantly different from unity (1.9 males:1 female). We suggest that differences in survival and breeding-site fidelity between the Delta Marsh population and others may be due to differences in methods used to calculate parameter estimates. In contrast, variation in sex ratios is likely real and due to differences in the local ecological conditions. In our population, high survivorship and breeding-site fidelity may lead to low recruitment of new birds into the resident population and intense competition for limited breeding opportunities. The highly male biased sex ratio may result in strong sexual-selection pressure on males competing for the limited breeding opportunities. Those circumstances have implications for the social behavior and mating system of cowbirds.
10.2307/4088985|It has been proposed that the aerodynamically optimal tail shape in birds should be triangular when spread and forked when closed. According to this aerodynamic model, any area distal to the point of maximum width contributes drag, which is proportional to total tail area, but not lift. One assumption of this model seems to be uniformity in structures responsible for tail movements (i.e. tail muscles) among species. We tested for different muscular arrangements in species with different tail shapes. By dissecting tail muscles in three hirundine species (Barn Swallow [Hirundo rustica], Common House-Martin [Delichon urbica], and Bank Swallow [Riparia riparia]), we demonstrate anatomical differences associated with deeply forked tails and speculate that such differences compensate for the increased cost of longer feathers. Therefore, we propose that reliable assessment of the aerodynamic cost of tails should be based on tail shape as well as internal anatomical structures such as muscles.
4085456|The economics of predator avoidance suggest that a prey can act as an apostatic selective agent on its polymorphic predator if it tends to learn an "evil image" of its most common predator more readily than of its rarer predator. Therefore the rare predator morph is expected to catch more prey and it thereby gains a relative advantage over the more common predator morph. Learning among prey that get eaten and the exclusive use of a prey population by one individual predator (territoriality) are problems which are alleviated in the case of the polymorphic klepto-Parasitic Jaegers that hunt on communal grounds. Thus in a locality in southern Iceland where the jaegers rob fish from Common Puffins, light-phased jaegers (the rare morph) were successful in 81% of their attempts whereas the dark-phased ones had a 63% success rate. These observations (based on 3-12 light-phased individuals) accord with the predictions from the apostatic selection hypothesis. To fully test the hypothesis data on the avoidance responses of hosts and the success rate of the two morphs of jaegers are needed from different populations of the Parasitic Jaeger's clinal polymorphism.
4084889|Possible steps in the evolution of the compound nest are considered by comparing three different species of weaverbirds (Ploceidae) of the subfamily Plocepasserinae, the Sociable Weaver (Philetairus socius) of southern Africa, the Grey-capped Social Weaver (Pseudonigrita arnaudi) of East Africa, and the White-browed Sparrow Weaver (Plocepasser mahali) of East Africa. We develop a multiple factor theory of the origin of the compound nest recognizing that the relative importance of the different factors will vary with circumstances and in different places. Gregarious breeding is typical of many weaverbirds, and is favored by security from predation and by social stimulation of nest building and breeding. Security and gregariousness are enhanced by the roofed nests characteristic of all Ploceidae, often by nesting in thorny trees, and sometimes by nesting close to colonies of aggressive insects. Feeding in large flocks often well away from the colony tree is characteristic of socius and arnaudi, both of which often nest in large colonies, whereas mahali, which lives in small colonies, generally keeps close to its colony tree. Year-round residence in one tree is characteristic of the Plocepasserinae, in contrast to the Ploceinae, or true weavers. The former subfamily also more characteristically lives in arid climates, uses dry grasses for nest materials, and builds nests during both breeding and nonbreeding seasons. In the dry climate old nests may persist for many months. Aggregation of nests into masses with two or more nests in physical contact is common in the Plocepasserinae and is favored by the persistence of old nests through the dry season, by building of thick nests at any time of year, and sometimes by nesting in association with aggressive social insects. Some massing of nests in mahali and arnaudi is likely to occur by mere chance, especially in larger trees and colonies. Temperature regulation is related to size of nest mass and to body size in a reciprocal fashion. The Plocepasserinae sleep in their nests the year round; the larger mahali sleeps one bird to a nest while the two smaller species, arnaudi and socius, often sleep in groups of two to five birds to a nest. Group sleeping and consolidation of nests into large masses have been shown to have thermal advantages during the cool nights of the arid tropical and subtropical habitat. Consolidation of nests also helps solve the problem of any shortage of nest sites. A common roof, built on by all, is seen over nest masses of socius. This thick communal roof gives added thermal advantages, and we believe also enhances protection from some predators. The tendency of arnaudi to build new nests directly under and fused to old nests, suggests that such old nests may have been precursors of a communal roof in evolution.
4085698| Monthly rainfall has been registered at eight sites on four of the Galpagos Islands for a variable number of years. The most extensive, continuous records are from a coastal site on San Cristbal for the period 1950-67. Analysis of all these data establish the following characteristics: (1) Although rainfall is seasonal, it is very variable, particularly in the wet-season months of January to May. (2) Annual variation is very large. The amount of rainfall tends to alternate in successive years, and a 4-yr periodicity in rainfall is indicated. (3) There is also variation on a longer time scale; the 1950's were 50% wetter than the 1960's. (4) There is more precipitation per year at high elevations than at low elevations, it is distributed more evenly throughout the year, and it varies less among years. Finch demography, particularly reproductive aspects, is suggested to be influenced by rainfall through the effect of rainfall upon food supply. Several qualitative predictions about reproduction, mortality, and dispersal are made on the basis of the established patterns of variation in rainfall. The meagre data on finch population dynamics are consistent with these predictions, but future research is required to test them adequately. 
10.2307/4087546| Brood sizes of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) were altered experimentally by adding or subtracting 2 nestlings. Unaltered broods served as controls, and experimental brood sizes were within the normal range found under natural conditions. Feeding rates of both parents increased with brood size, and although nestling mass decreased with brood size, most pairs were able to fledge the extra young added to their broods. Males rearing larger broods invested less in nest-site defense and mate-guarding activities, and females rearing larger broods took longer to initiate subsequent broods and produced smaller subsequent clutches. However, the productivity of the subsequent broods did not decrease. Adult survivorship was not affected by the brood manipulations. In males, circulating levels of dihydrotestosterone increased significantly with brood size. Levels of other hormones, including luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone, estradiol-17, and corticosterone (B), were not related to brood size in either sex, although in females LH and B titers tended to increase with brood size. Males feeding larger broods tended to have less body fat, but otherwise there was no relationship between brood size and body condition. These results suggest that adults tending larger broods were not unduly stressed by their extra efforts, at least when feeding nestlings. However, the increased interbrood interval and decreased subsequent clutch size associated with rearing larger broods may have resulted either from the increased energetic and nutrient demand on females after the young fledged or simply from the extra time required to rear the additional fledglings to independence. 
10.2307/4090071| We conducted an experiment to study the effect of gosling density on food abundance and feeding behavior of Black Brant (Branta bernicla) goslings in two habitat types important to Black Brant on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska: (1) Carex subspathacea grazing lawns and (2) slough levees that contain Triglochin palustris. Within each habitat, we manipulated grazing pressure by allowing goslings to graze specific plots every 6, 9, or 12 days. We randomly assigned six goslings to one of six treatment groups (three grazing frequencies  two habitats). Biomass of C. subspathacea was higher in lightly grazed plots (grazed every 12 days) than in the heavily grazed plots (grazed every 6 days). Offtake in C. subspathacea was also greater in the lightly grazed plots. Within C. subspathacea stands, proportion of time spent feeding varied among grazing intensities. Goslings within heavily grazed plots spent more time feeding than goslings in lightly grazed plots. Within slough levee habitat, there were no differences between heavily and lightly grazed plots in either biomass or offtake of T. palustris. Whereas overall percentage of time feeding did not vary between the two habitats, percentage of time feeding declined as gosling mass increased in all treatments and habitats. Although the trend in peck rate over time varied among treatments and between habitats, during trials very early in the season we observed a reduced peck rate in the heavily grazed treatment, but only within the C. subspathacea grazing lawns. There was no variation in peck rate among treatments within slough levee habitat; however, peck rates for goslings fed on C. subspathacea was double the rate of goslings in slough levee. Thus, the varied growth responses of plants between habitats to variation in grazing pressure that we observed during this experiment suggest the importance of density-dependent effects on brood-rearing habitat and the resulting variation in gosling growth. /// Realizamos un experimento para estudiar el efecto de la densidad de pichones sobre la abundancia de alimento y el comportamiento de alimentacin de pichones de gansos Branta bernicla. Trabajamos en dos tipos de hbitat importantes para la especie en el delta del Yukon-Kuskokwim, Alaska: (1) reas de pastoreo de Carex subspathacea y (2) diques pantanosos que contienen Triglochin palustris. Dentro de cada hbitat, manipulamos la presin de pastoreo permitiendo que los pichones se alimentaran en parcelas especficas cada 6, 9  12 das. Aleatoriamente, asignamos seis pichones a uno de seis tratamientos (tres frecuencias de pastoreo x dos hbitats). La biomasa de C. subspathacea fue mayor en las parcelas con poco pastoreo (cada 12 das) que en las parcelas con pastoreo intensivo (cada 6 das). La cantidad de C. subspathacea removida tambin fue mayor en las parcelas con poco pastoreo. Dentro de parches de C. subspathacea, la proporcin del tiempo empleada en alimentarse vari entre las distintas intensidades de pastoreo. Los pichones que estaban en parcelas con pastoreo fuerte pasaron ms tiempo alimentndose que los pichones de las parcelas con poco pastoreo. En los diques pantanosos no hubo diferencias en la biomasa ni en la cantidad removida de T. palustris entre parcelas fuertemente y ligeramente pastoreadas. Mientras que en general el porcentaje de tiempo de alimentacin no vari entre los dos hbitats, ste declin con el incremento de la masa de pichones en todos los tratamientos y hbitats. Aunque la tendencia a travs del tiempo en la tasa de picoteo vari entre tratamientos y entre hbitats, muy temprano en la temporada observamos una tasa de picoteo reducida en el tratamiento de pastoreo intenso, pero slo en los cspedes de pastoreo de C. subspathacea. No hubo variacin en la tasa de picoteo entre tratamientos en el hbitat de diques pantanosos, pero la tasa de picoteo de los pichones que se alimentaron de C. subspathacea fue el doble de la de los que estaban en los diques. Por lo tanto, las diversas respuestas del crecimiento de las plantas a la variacin en la presin de pastoreo que observamos durante este experimento en los distintos hbitats sugieren la importancia de efectos dependientes de la densidad sobre el hbitat de crianza y la variacin resultante en el crecimiento de los pichones. 
4085750|Changes in the appearance of Malvaviscus arboreus flowers are associated with changes in nectar reward. Nectar volumes found in day-1 flowers were generally larger and less variable than volumes found in day-2 flowers. Observations of nonterritorial Ruby-throated and Black-chinned hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris and A. alexandri) showed that they distinguished between flowers and preferentially visited the more profitable day-1 flowers. When sucrose solution was added to all day-2 flowers in one Malvaviscus patch, the birds stopped discriminating between flowers the first morning of floral enrichment. These results indicate that the birds can respond to fairly subtle visual cues when determining the appropriate flowers to visit. The ultimate factor in determining which flowers to continue visiting, however, is the nectar reward. The birds learned to respond differently to the same proximate cue when it was advantageous to do so.
10.2307/4089671| Rates of nesting participation, renesting, and nesting success for Wild Turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) in the Ouachita Mountains, Arkansas, are among the lowest recorded in the eastern United States. I studied spatial attributes of 113 Wild Turkey nests to determine landscape-scale habitat characteristics that were important for nest placement and survival. Hens generally nested close to roads in large pine patches that occurred on southeast-facing slopes. Hens selected shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata; 68.1%) over mixed hardwood (23.9%), hardwood (0.9%), and open areas (7.1%). Most of the hens (57.5%) placed their nests in edge habitat, but placement in these areas did not influence nesting success. Rather, female turkeys appeared to respond to a high risk of predation by placing nests in large patches, away from areas of high edge density favored by nest predators. Mean patch size chosen by nesting females (6,912.6  SE of 634.5 ha) was considerably larger than the mean patch size for the study area (31.4  7.8 ha). Although most hens nested close to roads, this association appeared to be detrimental to nesting success because all nests close to roads were unsuccessful. In general, habitat characteristics examined at the level of patch and stand were good predictors of nest location but poor predictors of nesting success, possibly due to a high abundance of edge habitat in the landscape. This large amount of edge apparently sustained predator populations that made even the largest patches hazardous for nesting by Wild Turkeys. Therefore, the lack of suitable nest sites may limit population size of Wild Turkeys in the Ouachita Mountains. 
25488636|African populations of the Village Weaver (
4085709|The nuclei of antwren flocks, studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal Zone, between October 1977 and March 1978, consisted of pairs or family groups of two species of antwrens, Myrmotherula fulviventris and Microrhopias quixensis. These species defended completely interspecifically overlapping territories and often displayed simultaneously at common boundaries. This type of association, between pairs of different species, has not been reported previously. The study site contained several abutting joint territories. Many insectivorous species of forest birds joined the antwren flocks, but most species occurred only rarely. Individual wintering Dendroica pensylvanica had territories that almost completely overlapped the antwren territories, but other marked attendant species had either small territories overlapping one or two antwren territories or large widely overlapping home ranges that included many antwren territories. The species with small territories, Thamnophilus punctatus, joined the flock only as the antwrens passed through that portion of their territory. Species with large home ranges, in particular three species of dendrocolaptids and Xenops minutus, moved through their home ranges by travelling with antwren flocks and passing between flocks during the territorial border displays of the neighboring antwrens. The most persistent attendant species in the flocks roosted with the antwrens. Myrmotherula fulviventris and Microrhopias quixensis preferentially used areas of their territories that contained dense and continuous vine tangles, but more attendant species joined the flock, and average flock size was larger, in the portions of the antwren territory that were not preferred by the antwrens. Young antwrens probably remain with adults to learn how to forage, to detect predators, and to delay the point at which they must maintain a territory. Myrmotherula fulviventris and Microrhopias quixensis may reduce predation by flocking together.
4087710|We documented flexibility of American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) nest-site selection at marsh habitats in New York, New Jersey, and North Carolina. In New York we examined the relationship of nest-site selection to tidal flooding and found that birds chose nest sites nonrandomly with respect to marshy areas. Three types of habitat patch sites on marsh islands chosen were sand, wrack (tidally washed-up dead organic material), and Spartina patens grass. Nests on sandy sites were less susceptible to tidal flooding than nests on wrack or grass because they were higher in elevation. There was a positive correlation between the number of nests and the length of sand beach. Hatching success was higher for eggs placed on sand than for eggs on grass or wrack. The location of sandy nest sites used by birds changed little between years resulting in low turnover rate. Wrack and grass locations changed between years resulting in a high turnover rate. Birds used different habitats in different geographic areas. In North Carolina, all nests were on sand; none were on wrack or grass. In New York and New Jersey nests were placed on sand, wrack, and grass. Comparisons of nest characteristics showed that sand sites in North Carolina were larger and drier than sand sites in New York and New Jersey. Comparisons between years in New York and New Jersey were different because of the availability of wrack.
10.1525/auk.2013.12214|Many birds that are experiencing population declines require extensive tracts of mature forest habitat for breeding. Recent work suggests that at least some may shift their habitat use to early-successional areas after nesting but before migration. I used constant-effort mist netting in regenerating clearcuts (48 years postcut) and dense mature-forest understories to assess (1) whether most bird species of mature forests show habitat shifts after breeding; and (2), on the basis of several measures of condition, whether birds using early-successional habitats garnered any benefits or penalties, compared with those that remained in forests. I captured 3,845 individual birds of 46 species at four pairs of sites in mature Allegheny hardwood forests in northwestern Pennsylvania during the postbreeding periods of 20052008. Most, but not all, forest birds were captured at higher rates in cuts than in forests, and that pattern persisted through the postbreeding season. Using an information-theoretic approach, I found strong support for a specieshabitat interactive effect on both molt progression and body condition as measured by residuals from species-specific regression of mass on wing chord. Some, but not all, forest birds appeared to be in better condition when captured in cuts than when in forests. I found no support for a habitat effect on presence of fat or ectoparasites. My results reveal that habitat choice in the postbreeding season is correlated with physiological condition for a subset of forest birds, which suggests that the maintenance of such early-successional habitats in mature forest may benefit these species.
10.2307/4088420|To test whether male American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) excluded conspecifics from selected habitats on their wintering grounds, we removed territorial individuals from four replicate sites in two different habitats in Jamaica, West Indies, and recorded territory shifts and new colonizations of the vacated areas. In total, 12 American Redstarts (nine after-hatch-year [AHY] or older males, two yearling [HY] males, and one female) were removed, and their vacated territories were re-occupied by 18 neighboring or newly-appearing redstarts (five AHY males, four HY males and nine females). The re-occupation of the vacated areas supports the hypothesis that territoriality in this species acts to exclude conspecifics from certain winter habitat, and shows that American Redstarts compete with conspecifics for habitat in their winter grounds. Moreover, a statistically significant shift in sex composition following removal indicates that AHY males excluded females from mutually acceptable habitats. Such behavioral dominance, if confirmed, could help account for sexual habitat segregation during winter, and could result in differential winter survival rates between the sexes, thereby influencing population structure and regulation in this long-distance migrant.
10.2307/4089029|The Common Murre (Uria aalge) produces a single-egg clutch, and the female may replace the egg if it is lost. Even at breeding colonies in highly seasonal environments, egg laying may span several weeks. For example, the mean range of egg-laying dates was 41 days in a five-year period at Bluff, a coastal colony in western Alaska. In each of those five years, incubation periods of eggs were negatively related to laying date (i.e. incubation periods of eggs laid later in season were shorter). This is the first documentation of a seasonal decline in the incubation period of this species, and one of the few for birds in general. Analyses of seasonal changes in weather patterns indicated that the seasonal shortening of the incubation period cannot be explained by changes in environmental conditions. The duration of the chick period also declined seasonally in all five years, similar to results reported elsewhere. Overall, duration of the period between egg laying and fledging averaged about six days less for the latest breeding pairs than for the earliest breeding pairs. There is no evidence of a seasonal decline in hatching or fledging success at this colony. Consequently, these results indicate that murres breeding later in the season at Bluff reduce the duration of both the incubation and chick periods well in advance of seasonal deterioration of environmental conditions. Chicks develop more rapidly than embryos in eggs, and chicks at sea likely grow and develop faster than chicks at the colony. As the time remaining for completion of development decreases through the summer, quicker hatching of eggs and sea-going of chicks will be advantageous. Formation of sea ice throughout the region in late fall likely is the primary time constraint selecting for accelerated developmental patterns of eggs and chicks of late-breeding murres at Bluff. In highly seasonal environments, seasonal time constraints may influence most or all phases of avian breeding cycles.
4087335|Cooperative breeding in birds generally is related to a critical resource. A critical limiting factor for the Green Woodhoopoe (Phoeniculus purpureus) is the availability of roost cavities. Although predation at roost holes is the major source of mortality, woodhoopoes invariably roost in cavities or under loose bark. This dependence on cavities appears to be related to the birds' inability to cope physiologically with low nighttime temperatures. This is the first evidence to suggest that a physiological limitation has played a major role in the evolution of philopatry and possibly cooperative breeding in an avian species.
4088319|Evolution of lek behavior has been explained by the female preference hypothesis in which females select large clusters of males for mating. I tested predictions that females should have spring home-range diameters equal to inter-lek distances and that most females should visit only one lek during the breeding season in a population of Greater Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus cupido) in northeastern Colorado. Nest-to-lek distances were used as an indirect measure of home-range size. Contrary to predictions, 66 of 89 females (74%) nested closer to a lek other than where captured, which indicated that most home ranges encompassed >1 lek. In addition, home-range diameters were greater than inter-lek distances. Furthermore, at least 67 of 79 females (85%) visited >1 lek during the breeding season. Bradbury's female preference hypothesis may not be applicable to Greater Prairie-Chickens in northeastern Colorado.
10.2307/4087763|We collected 354 blood samples from territorial and nonterritorial male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) to determine plasma levels of testosterone (T) and corticosterone (B) of a polygynously breeding bird, and to determine the potential influences of steroid hormone levels on obtaining breeding territories. In contrast to monogamous species, we found no peak in average T levels early in the breeding season and a five-week-long high plateau in T levels during the period when most nests were initiated. These endocrinologic characteristics may result from the long breeding season and resource defense polygyny of Red-wings. Territory owners had higher T levels during the breeding season than adult floaters. Subadult floaters had the lowest levels. Also, territory owners generally had the highest circulating levels of corticosterone during most of the breeding season. This implies greater energetic demands and stress on owners than on floaters. During early April the T levels of males for which we had complete breeding and territorial history information correlated significantly with their annual fledging success, and males with more breeding experience tended to have higher peak T levels. There was also a positive correlation between B levels in early April and eventual fledging success. Circulating levels of steroid hormones may affect territory ownership and reproductive success in this species.
4088554|We studied age-related variation in fecundity in six cohorts of European Blackbirds (Turdus merula) in Cambridge, United Kingdom. Clutch-initiation date, breeding-season length and clutch size varied significantly with age. First-year females started breeding the latest, had the shortest breeding seasons, and had the smallest clutches. Fecundity varied with female age in a nonlinear way; on average, clutch-initiation dates were earliest at the age of 3.7 years, and breeding-season length peaked at 3.6 years of age. Clutch size increased gradually in the range of ages considered (one to six years). After controlling for year effects, significant variation in the age-fecundity relationships remained among cohorts. Longitudinal analyses showed that the increase in fecundity was mainly the result of individuals' intrinsic changes. Given females started breeding earlier, had longer breeding seasons, and laid larger clutches as they became older, independently of the age of their mate. After controlling for the age of their mate, given males showed no increase in fecundity with age. Logit analyses failed to detect positive relationships between the fecundity of first-year females and their survival to the next breeding season. Thus, the increase in fecundity with female age was more the result of intrinsic individual causes than of natural selection resulting in an increased proportion of high-fecundity individuals among older birds in the population.
25150304|Many North American prairie bird populations have recently declined, and the causes of these declines remain largely unknown. To determine whether population limitation occurs during breeding, we evaluated the stability of a population of prairie birds using population-specific values for fecundity and postfledging survival. During 2001-2003, we radiomarked 67 female Lark Buntings (Calamospiza melanocorys) to determine annual fecundity and evaluate contributing factors such as nest survival and breeding response (number of breeding attempts and dispersal). Collectively, 67 females built 112 nests (
10.2307/4085501|Female Oldsquaws were collected on Lake Michigan between December and May 1951-55 and 1969-73. Measurements taken on bursae, ovaries, and oviducts were related to age class and scapular color. Bursae were significantly deeper in juveniles than in adults, and the adult females with gray scapulars had significantly deeper bursae than adult females with brown scapulars. Juvenile female ovaries were smaller than adult ovaries throughout the winter and spring and did not enlarge significantly in the spring as did the adult female ovaries. Oviduct weights were significantly different in immature females, gray-scapulared adult females, and brown-scapulared adult females. The data presented support behavioral evidence that Oldsquaws do not reach sexual maturity their first year. We hypothesize that gray scapulars in adults are indicative of a nonbreeding subadult cohort.
25488535|I compared the effects on plasmacorticosterone levels of twomethods of collecting blood samples during standardized capture-and-handling stress protocols. In one method, individual nestling American Kestrels (
10.2307/4090223| The nonbreeding distribution of Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) was documented using 19 data sets from 13 sites along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts of the Americas. Western Sandpipers showed latitudinal segregation with regard to sex and age. Females wintered farther south than males. A "U" shaped pattern was found with respect to age, with juveniles occurring at higher proportions at both the northern and southern ends of the range. Distribution of sexes might be affected by differences in bill length and a latitudinal trend in depth distribution of prey. For age class distribution, two different life-history tactics of juveniles might exist that are related to the higher cost of feather wear for juveniles compared to adults. Most juveniles complete three long-distance migrations on one set of flight feathers whereas adults complete two. Juveniles may winter either far north, thereby reducing feather wear induced by ultraviolet light, migration, or both, or far south and spend the summer on the nonbreeding area. /// Determinamos la distribucin de Calidris mauri durante la poca no reproductiva utilizando 19 bases de datos de 13 sitios localizados en las costas del Pacfico y Atlntico del Continente Americano. Calidris mauri present una distribucin latitudinal diferencial por sexo y edad. Las hembras invernan ms al sur que los machos. Encontramos un patrn en forma de U con respecto a la edad, con una mayor proporcin de juveniles en los extremos norte y sur del intervalo. La distribucin de los sexos puede estar en funcin a la diferencia en la longitud del pico y el patrn latitudinal en la profundidad de las presas. La distribucin de las edades puede estar relacionada a un mayor costo en el desgaste de las plumas en juveniles en relacin a los adultos. Los juveniles que se reproducen ensu primer verano llevan a cabo tres migraciones con un juego de plumas mientras que los adultos solo dos. En juveniles pueden existir dos tcticas de historias de vidas diferentes donde los juveniles invernan ms al norte y se reproducen en el primer verano, reduciendo as el desgaste de las plumas producido por la luz ultravioleta y/o la migracin, o invernan ms al sur y veranear en reas no reproductivas. 
10.2307/4090483| Songbirds (Passeriformes) occur in the fossil record of the Northern Hemisphere around the early Oligocene. It has recently been suggested that the major passeriform lineages diverged in Gondwana in the mid- to late Cretaceous and that the oscines, which include all extant European songbirds, originated on the Australian continental plate. Suboscines are assumed to have originated in western Gondwana. Although there is an abundant fossil record of songbirds in Europe, few attempts have been made to set those remains in a phylogenetic context. Our examination of fossil songbirds from three middle Miocene localities in Germany and France shows that many lack the derived morphology of the hypotarsus that characterizes extant Eupasseres (a taxon that comprises oscines and suboscines). We assume that these fossil taxa are outside the crown-group of Eupasseres, which indicates the presence of an ancient songbird avifauna in the Miocene of Europe, in addition to the few fossil Eupasseres already described in the literature. /// Las aves canoras (Passeriformes) aparecen en el registro fsil del Hemisferio Norte alrededor del Oligoceno temprano. Recientemente se ha sugerido que los linajes principales de Passeriformes se separaron en Gondwana durante el Cretcico medio a tardo y que los oscines, que incluyen todas las aves canoras vivientes europeas, se originaron en la plataforma continental de Australia. Se supone que los suboscines se originaron en el oeste de Gondwana. Aunque para Europa existe un registro fsil abundante, se han hecho pocos intentos de poner estos restos fsiles en un contexto filogentico. Nuestra evaluacin de las aves canoras fsiles de tres localidades del Mioceno medio ubicadas en Alemania y Francia muestra que muchas de estas aves no presentan la morfologa derivada del hipotarso que caracteriza a los Eupasseres vivientes (un taxn que incluye los oscines y suboscines). Suponemos que estos taxa fsiles estn fuera del grupo terminal Eupasseres, lo que indica la existencia de una avifauna de Passeriformes antigua en el Mioceno de Europa, adems de los pocos fsiles de Eupasseres ya descritos en la literatura. 
10.2307/4089800|Autumnal migration was studied with high-resolution radar, ceilometer, and daily census in the area of Franconia Notch, a major pass in the northern Appalachian Mountains. Under synoptic conditions favorable for migration, broadfront movements of migrants toward the south passed over the mountains, often above a temperature inversion. Birds at lower elevations appeared to be influenced by local topography. Birds moving southwest were concentrated along the face of the mountain range. Birds appeared to deviate their flights to follow local topography through the pass. Specific migratory behavior was not associated with species or species groups. Under synoptic conditions unfavorable for southward migration, multimodal movements probably associated with local flights were as dense as the southward migrations described above. Avian migrants reacting to local terrain may result in concentrations of migrants over ridge summits or other topographic features.
10.2307/4087996|In 1982 we studied weight loss, changes in body composition, and energy expenditure in breeding female Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima borealis) in Svalbard, Norway. Feeding ceased during laying and incubation. From prelaying to hatching, total weight declined by 46.4%, lipid by 81.4%, and protein by 36.8%. Daily energy expenditure during laying was 2,528 kJ, 5.2 times greater than during incubation. Rate of lipid expenditure during laying was 3.3 times greater than during incubation, and rate of protein expenditure was 8.8 times greater. Of the birds' total prelaying energy, 33.8% was expended during laying, 34.6% during incubation, and 31.6% remained at hatching. An estimated 31.6% of the energy expended during laying was invested in eggs. Sixteen- and 18-carbon fatty acids dominated in lipid of the fattest and leanest birds. The major nutrient and energy donors during breeding were 16:0 and 18:1 fatty acids. Svalbard eider eggs weighed ca. 17.5% less and were incubated ca. 1.5 days shorter than eggs from the species' most southerly range limit. This apparent adaptation to arctic existence gave an estimated energy savings of 6.5% during breeding.
10.2307/4090140| We assessed a randomization test frequently used in studies that aim to detect bias in primary sex ratio of avian species. Three different treatments were examined that represent simple but ecologically realistic cases of interest to researchers. The randomization test was successful in reducing Type I error when testing for a significant departure from a single binomial distribution. When brood sizes or sample sizes were low, however, the randomization test lacked power to detect departures from a population of broods with multiple binomial distributions of sons and daughters. We recommend analytical techniques available to researchers that do not require a common distribution of the sexes to broods for an entire population. /// Nous avons valu un test de randomisation frquemment utilis dans des tudes ayant pour but de dtecter un biais dans le sexe ratio d'espces aviaines. Trois traitements d'intrt pour les chercheurs, reprsentant des cas simples mais cologiquement ralistes, ont t examins. Le test de randomisation tait efficace pour rduire l'erreur de Type I lorsque un cart significatif par rapport  une distribution binomiale tait test. Nanmoins, quand les tailles de couves ou les tailles d'chantillons taient faibles, le test de randomisation manquait de puissance pour dtecter les carts d'une population de couves avec des distributions binomiales de filles et fils. Nous recommandons des techniques analytiques qui sont disponibles pour les chercheurs et qui ne requirent pas une distribution commune des sexes des couves pour une population entire. 
4086277|Plasma levels of luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone, and corticosterone were measured in relation to periods of inclement versus fair weather during the reproductive season of the Puget Sound White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis). In 1974, cool stormy weather in spring delayed the onset of breeding by one month and also prolonged the period of elevated circulating levels of LH and testosterone, compared with the fair spring of 1975. Inclement weather in 1974 did not appear to be stressful, as indicated by body weights and plasma levels of corticosterone. In late May 1980, however, a storm occurred after nesting activities had begun and all pairs sampled were feeding young. In this case, plasma levels of corticosterone were greatly elevated above those of birds sampled at the same time in the warm spring of 1979 and also above those of birds sampled in spring of both 1974 and 1975. In addition, fat depots were virtually exhausted in birds sampled during the storm of 1980, suggesting that these birds were stressed. Most pairs lost their brood in May 1980, presumably to starvation, and renested after amelioration of environmental conditions in June. These data suggest that although storms may modify the onset and temporal progression of the reproductive cycle, they are stressful to adults only when the nesting phase is in progress. Thus, the underlying mechanisms by which inclement weather delays the onset of breeding or disrupts the nesting once underway are likely to have different endocrine bases.
4086413|Neither the possession of large vocabularies or repertoires nor the ability to learn phonations can be precisely correlated with the structural complexity of a syrinx. Hence, some recent investigators have suggested that avian vocal plasticity arises solely from a neurological shift. A simple syrinx, i.e. one with only extrinsic musculature, is subject to certain constraints, however. Its configuration changes as a unit, and the factors responsible for modulating sounds cannot be independently varied. Thus, the temporal characteristics of sound patterns can be varied easily, but rapid juxtaposition of different modulatory patterns is difficult. Intrinsic musculature permits isolation and independent control of syringeal components and thereby simplifies control of modulations. Syringeal complexity may not be an adaptation (i.e. did not evolve under selection) for plastic vocal behavior, but it is permissive of and probably prerequisite for such behavior.
4088377|Phylogeographic population structures revealed by restriction analyses of mitochondrial (mt) DNA were assessed within each of six avian species with continentwide distributions in North America. The magnitude and geographic pattern of mtDNA variation differed considerably among species. The Downy Woodpecker (Picoides pubescens) and Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) exhibited little mtDNA polymorphism and a shallow phylogeographic structure. The Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) showed somewhat higher nucleotide diversity, but no evidence of long-standing population separations. For each of these four species, evolutionary effective sizes of female populations estimated from mtDNA were substantially smaller than population sizes at the present time, suggesting historical demographic constraints on the numbers of females through which mtDNA lineages successfully have been transmitted. In contrast, the Rufous-sided Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) and Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) showed relatively deep mtDNA separations (mean nucleotide sequence divergence p = 0.008 and p = 0.012, respectively) between populations in Washington versus those in the central and eastern states. In the case of the Rufous-sided Towhee, the mtDNA clades may correspond to morphological and behavioral differences distinguishing the western "Spotted Towhee," which was formerly recognized as a distinct species. Overall, however, most of the taxonomic subspecies currently recognized within the six assayed species were genetically very close, and showed no obvious mtDNA differences. These results raise questions concerning the population-genetic and evolutionary significance of current subspecies designations in ornithology.
25488712|We live-trapped and banded Brown-headed Cowbirds (
10.2307/4090231| Flush-pursuit foragers use exaggerated and animated foraging movements to flush potential prey that are then pursued and captured in flight. The Myioborus redstarts comprise 12 species of flush-pursuit warblers found in montane forests of the American tropics and subtropics. All members of the genus have contrasting black-and-white tail feathers that are exposed by spreading the tail during animated foraging displays. Plumage pattern and tail-spreading behavior were examined to see how they affected flush-pursuit foraging performance of the Slate-throated Redstart (Myioborus miniatus) in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Although flycatching was the most common foraging tactic used by Slate-throated Redstarts, flush-pursuit foraging increased in both frequency and intensity when birds were feeding nestlings. Flush-pursuit prey attacks occurred more frequently following hops in the spread-tail foraging posture than hops in more typical warbler-like posture, suggesting that tail-spreading behavior assists in startling and flushing potential prey. The hypothesis that the white tail feathers enhance flush-pursuit foraging was tested by means of a plumage-dyeing experiment. After locating nests containing young 5-7 days old, I captured the male and female at the nest and assigned one member of each pair to the experimental treatment group; its mate served as a control. For experimental birds, a permanent marker was used to blacken the white tips of the three outer retrices. For sham-darkened controls, the naturally black tips of the three inner retrices were also "blackened". Experimental birds with darkened tail feathers were significantly less successful in flush-pursuit foraging, showed a significantly lower overall rate of prey attack, and fed their nestlings at a significantly lower rate than did their sham-darkened mates. For experimental birds, only 7.6% of hops in the spread-tail posture were followed by an attack on a prey item, compared to 20.9% of hops for controls. These experimental results, similar to those obtained recently by Jaboski (1999) for the congeneric Painted Redstart (Myioborus pictus), indicate that white tail feathers are critically important in startling potential prey and raise questions about interspecific and intraspecific geographic variation in plumage pattern in the genus. /// Las aves que utilizan la tctica de forrajeo de ahuyentar y perseguir utilizan movimientos exagerados y energticos para ahuyentar a sus potenciales presas, que son luego alcanzadas y capturadas al vuelo. El gnero Myioborus, que se encuentra en los bosques montanos de los trpicos y subtrpicos americanos, comprende 12 especies que utilizan esta tctica de forrajeo. Todos los miembros del gnero tienen las plumas de la cola de colores contrastantes blanco y negro, las que exponen al extender la cola durante energticos despliegues de forrajeo. Se examinaron los patrones del plumaje y la conducta de extensin de la cola para determinar cmo stos afectaron al desempeo de la estrategia de ahuyentar y perseguir en Myioborus miniatus en Monteverde, Costa Rica. Aunque para M. miniatus la tctica de forrajeo de cazamoscas fue la ms comn, la estrategia de ahuyentar y perseguir aument en frecuencia e intensidad cuando las aves se encontraban alimentando a sus polluelos. Los ataques de presa mediante la tctica de ahuyentar y perseguir ocurrieron ms frecuentemente despus de brincos durante la postura de forrajeo con la cola extendida que luego de los brincos durante las posturas tpicas de Myioborus, sugiriendo que la conducta de extender la cola ayuda a sorprender y ahuyentar a la presa potencial. La hiptesis de que las plumas blancas de la cola mejoran la tctica de ahuyentar y perseguir fue probada por medio de un experimento de tincin del plumaje. Despus de localizar nidos que contenan polluelos de 5 a 7 das, se captur al macho y a la hembra en cada nido y un miembro de cada pareja fue asignado al grupo del tratamiento experimental y el otro miembro de la pareja sirvi como control. Se utiliz un marcador permanente para teir de negro las puntas blancas de las tres rectrices exteriores de las aves experimentales. En las aves control no genuinamente ennegrecidas, tambin se ennegrecieron las puntas naturalmente negras de las tres retrices internas. Las aves experimentales con las plumas de la cola oscurecidas fueron significativamente menos exitosas durante la tctica de forrajeo de ahuyentar y perseguir, mostraron una menor tasa de ataque de presas, y alimentaron a sus polluelos a una tasa significativamente ms baja que sus compaeros no genuinamente ennegrecidos. Para las aves experimentales, slo un 7.6% de los brincos en la postura de cola extendida fueron seguidos por un ataque a un tem de presa, en comparacin de un 20.9% de los brincos en los controles. Estos resultados experimentales, similares a aqullos obtenidos recientemente por Jaboski (1999) para Myioborus pictus, indican que las plumas blancas de la cola son extremadamente importantes para sorprender a la presa potencial y sugiere cuestionamientos sobre la variacin geogrfica inter- e intraespecfica en el patrn del plumaje en el gnero. 
4086371| We describe the energetics of postnatal growth and development of wild and captive Northern Gannet chicks. For 14 chicks 0-9 weeks old, a 24-week immature, and a breeding female, we determined water, lipid, and nonlipid content. During the 13-week nestling period, mass increased over 40-fold. Accumulation of lipid caused the energy density of chicks to increase steadily through 9 weeks. Lipid eventually accounted for about 60% of energy in tissues. Two captive chicks grew at rates comparable to wild young and consumed, on average, about 24 kg of fish containing 190,000 kJ during the nestling period. The energy density of chick guano was 13.3  0.8 kJ/g. Estimated metabolizable energy (ME) rose rapidly from 952 kJ during week 1 to 19,318 kJ during week 6, after which ME fluctuated between about 9,000 and 16,400 kJ/week. During week 1, the growth increment (GI) was 801 kJ; GI increased sharply to 9,667 kJ during week 4 and peaked at 12,711 kJ in week 7. Net growth efficiency was 49% to 8 weeks of age and 33% to fledging at 13 weeks. The food requirement of the gannet population of Newfoundland is estimated. 
4085153|In 1975 and 1976, studies of the Double-crested Cormorant were conducted in the St. Lawrence Estuary to assess the influence of investigators visiting colonies during the breeding season. Frequent visits caused nest abandonment, gull predation, and discouraged late-nesting birds from settling in disturbed experimental colonies. Late clutch commencement was more prevalent in the relatively undisturbed controls. Birds were less susceptible to disturbance in the second year of study, but for some reason other than habituation.
4085818|The rate of diffusion of water molecules through air is inversely related to atmospheric pressure; diffusivity of water vapor, therefore, is greater at high altitudes than at low elevations. Assuming that conservation of water in avian eggs is essential for normal development and hatching of embryos, we predicted that eggs laid by birds nesting at high altitudes would have lower conductances to water vapor under standard conditions than eggs laid by conspecifics nesting at low elevations, thereby compensating for the increased potential for transpirational water loss from eggs at high altitudes. To test this hypothesis, we collected eggs of Cliff Swallows, (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) along an altitudinal gradient of 1,627 m in north-central Colorado and adjacent Wyoming and determined conductances of the eggs to water vapor under controlled laboratory conditions. Water-vapor conductance of eggs decreases with increasing altitude of nesting sites, as predicted by our hypothesis. Additionally, eggs containing embryos with a well developed chorioallantoic membrane have higher conductances to water vapor than eggs lacking a well developed chorioallantois, indicating that conductance to water vapor increases during the course of development.
10.1525/auk.2011.10287|Interpreting habitat quality requires an understanding of the consequences of habitat use because bird density alone may not reflect habitat quality. Although habitat use can be readily quantified, subsequent effects remain elusive for most species, especially for migrants on the wintering grounds. Wintering Henslow's Sparrow (
4088053|We monitored nesting attempts of New Holland (Phylidonyris novaehollandiae) and White-cheeked (P. nigra) honeyeaters on two sites throughout 1987 and 1988. Two aspects of the birds' reproduction were correlated with changes in availability of nectar. First, breeding periods of both species were centered on the winter peak of nectar availability. Second, all clutches laid in the first two months of the breeding period failed, and this was the portion of the breeding period when nectar was scarcest. We tested whether these seasonal patterns were caused by changes in availability of food energy by supplying birds on one site with continuous access to sugar-water feeders for 9 months starting in January 1988. Seasonal patterns of nesting effort and nest success were similar for birds on the two sites, and were similar to patterns observed in 1987. We therefore conclude that these patterns were not caused by seasonal changes in availability of food energy. Circumstantial evidence indicated that snake predation may have accounted for most early nest failures. We suggest that predation-rather than scarcity of nectar-may prevent breeding over the warmer months of the year.
4088056|To evaluate the influence of diet composition on seabird postnatal development, I examined the relationships between feeding rate, energy intake, energy partitioning, and chick growth in three species of high latitude, plankton-feeding seabirds: Least Auklet (Aethia pusilla), South Georgia Diving Petrel (Pelecanoides georgicus), and Common Diving Petrel (P. urinatrix). Average dietary lipid content varied from 22 to 46% of dry mass among the three species. Least Auklet chicks were fed meals rich in wax esters; on average 63% of total energy intake was in the form of wax. Interspecific comparisons of chick dietary composition and energy budgets indicated that calanoid copepods, a wax ester-rich food, was a balanced source of protein and lipids. However, the lipid content of Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba) was insufficient to meet maintenance energy requirements of Common Diving Petrels. Lipid-rich diets were associated with shorter brooding periods, higher rates of nestling fat deposition, and larger lipid reserves at fledging. Accumulation rates of lipid-free dry matter were similar in the three species despite differences in energy intake related to diet. The energy cost of growth was a relatively minor component of nestling energy budgets; most assimilated energy was allocated toward maintenance and fat deposition. Selection apparently favors high latitude seabirds that meet the high energy requirements of their chicks by providing a lipid-rich diet. Differences in diet composition explained much of the variation in postnatal development among the three species, but there was no evidence that energy limited growth per se.
10.2307/4089806| The Suiriri Flycatcher (Suiriri suiriri) of South America is represented by three distinct forms occurring in parapatry: (1) S. s. suiriri to the southwest in the Chaco/Pampas; (2) S. s. affinis located centrally in the Cerrado/southern Amazonia; and (3) S. s. bahiae to the northeast in the Caatinga. On the basis of an analysis of 366 specimens of S. suiriri, I found meager evidence for long-distance migration, little support for Bergmann's rule, and more support for Gloger's rule. I postulate that an ancestral population of S. suiriri split into three isolated populations, with the central population differentiating most rapidly into affinis, thus explaining the leapfrog pattern of greater similarity between peripheral suiriri and bahiae. After secondary contact, affinis freely hybridized with nominate suiriri in a hybrid zone to the southwest, where specimens demonstrate morphometric intermediacy and increased plumage variability; the rarity of parental phenotypes within the hybrid zone suggests that the two forms are conspecific according to the biological species concept. In the northeast, affinis may have hybridized with a remnant population of suiriri, possibly represented by poorly known bahiae. The intermediate size and increased plumage variability of bahiae resemble that of suiriri  affinis hybrids, supporting a hypothesis of hybrid origin for bahiae, but alternative hypotheses cannot be ruled out. This hypothesis of differentiation is supported by the concordant patterns of disjunction among several pairs of sister taxa of bird species that occur in the Chaco and Caatinga, with no intervening populations in the Cerrado, implying a shared historical process of vicariance. Genetic and behavioral studies are needed to elucidate further the status and history of differentiation within S. suiriri. 
4085213|In this paper I propose that for each species in an area the number of birds detected along a transect trail can be translated into an estimate of absolute density (birds per unit of area) by counting all the detectable (cue-producing) birds in a trailside strip narrow enough to permit detection of all cues produced (the specific census strip), and adjusting this count for the undetectable (silent) birds in the strip by applying a locally and concurrently derived index of the frequency of cue production for the species. Cue frequency is apparently impossible to measure in nonbreeding birds, but if all cues (sightings, calls, etc.) are used, most of the birds in the strip presumably will be detected when the observer advances slowly enough to allow each bird a good chance to make its presence known. In the nonbreeding season the strip width is set for each species at the distance from the trail at which total cue detection starts to decline. In the breeding season cue frequency may be determined for song cues, and strip widths for each species set at a convenient distance within the relatively great distance at which song detection starts to decline. Values obtained by these transect procedures reflect the density of each species at the time the traverse is run; a series of traverses may be made to provide mean values for selected periods through the season. The method is similar to that described in an earlier paper. New or modified procedures are described for recording detections, establishing specific strip widths, bypassing the calculation of "coefficients of detectability," estimating distances in the field, determining an optimum rate of progress, and measuring the frequency of singing in a representative sample of the population. Problems of converting adjusted transect counts of singing males to total population density and of applying a combination of all-cue and song-cue procedures to mixed populations of breeding and nonbreeding species are discussed. A comparison of transect and plot map census methods is presented. In the transect method density estimates are of birds present at a particular time rather than of birds wholly or partially resident at one time or another during a season. The sampling quadrats of transect censuses are elongate rectangles spanning extensive tracts of habitat rather than truncated blocks of representative habitat. The transect method is applicable at any season while the plot map method can be used only during the breeding season when birds are singing on territories. Problems of reliability in the plot map method stemming from individual movements during a survey period and from questions on how to interpret clusters of observation points on territory maps and how to evaluate boundary line territories are replaced in the transect method by problems of accuracy in assuming complete coverage in the all-cue operations and in assigning birds as inside or outside the lateral boundary lines of the census strips. More area can be covered per unit of time in the transect than in the mapping method.
10.2307/4089595|Fruit preference by birds is a complex process based upon the morphology and spatial arrangement of fruits and on the physiological needs and capabilities of birds. In North America, most fruits can be divided into two groups based on nutritional content: those rich in sugars relative to lipids, and those rich in lipids relative to sugars. To investigate how fruit preference may change seasonally and to determine if it is correlated with physiological state, we designed a simple laboratory experiment using American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and artificial fruits. During summer and autumn, we offered eight robins a choice between synthetic sugar-rich and lipid-rich fruits of equal caloric value and then measured food intake and assimilation efficiency for each fruit type. Overall, robins preferred sugar-rich to lipid-rich fruits during both seasons. Robins had a higher assimilation efficiency for sugars than for lipids during both seasons, although assimilation efficiency of lipids increased significantly from summer to autumn. During experiments, robins consumed significantly more sugar-rich than lipid-rich fruits in summer but not in autumn. Coupling fruit intake with assimilation efficiency indicates that in summer, robins had a higher rate of energy gain from sugars than from lipids, but by autumn the rate of energy gain from lipids increased to nearly the same level as that from sugars. Our results suggest that robins prefer sugar-rich fruits because of their simple and fast rate of digestion, enabling higher rates of energy gain, but that lipid-rich fruits become important with the onset of autumn.
10.2307/4089382|In long-lived birds, monogamy is thought to enable breeders to retain the same mate from year to year, but exceptions occur. For example, King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) and Emperor Penguins (A. forsteri) have much lower mate fidelity than do smaller species of penguins, despite their high rates of survival. Recently, Olsson (1998) suggested that divorce in King Penguins could be adaptive. Although Olsson was the first to propose an adaptive function for divorce in this species, he was unable to assess the relationships among individual quality, date of arrival, mate choice, and breeding success. Accordingly, we studied King Penguins and Emperor Penguins to further examine the determinants and consequences of divorce. Mate retention was not affected by breeding performance in the previous year or by experience, and neither mate retention nor divorce had significant consequences on chick production the following year. King Penguins were more likely to divorce as arrival asynchrony of previous partners increased. In Emperor Penguins, this tendency to divorce occurred only when females returned earlier than their previous mates. Most Emperor Penguin pairs formed within 24 hours after the arrival of males, which were outnumbered by females. King Penguins that had nested successfully in their next to last attempt were favored as mates for ones that had been unsuccessful, and individuals of both species probably chose the best mates available. Most of our results for King Penguins and Emperor Penguins supported Olsson's (1998) conclusions in that divorce appears to be adaptive. Mate retention in the absence of a true nesting site (neither species builds a nest) would be maladaptive for these species, which face strong time constraints for breeding. Therefore, divorce occurs because costs of mate retention are high. Aptenodytes penguins appear to have adopted an optimal divorce strategy in order to adapt to their long breeding cycle in a demanding environment.
4086220| The objectives of this study were to investigate the influence of nectar resources on: (1) territory establishment, (2) breeding success, and (3) postbreeding dispersal in Hemignathus virens on Mauna Kea, Hawaii. I observed color-banded individuals from 1971 to 1981 and manipulated food during the 1975 breeding season by placing supplementary nectar resources in an area where breeding had not occurred in the previous 4 yr. The results of this study demonstrated that H. virens is intrinsically tied to the nectar resources available within its breeding territory and that a minimum of 2,000 l/day (1,400 cal) of nectar must be present before territory establishment will occur. This finding was further supported by the fact that no breeding occurred in the experimental area during the 6 yr after removal of the supplementary nectar. Breeding success of Hemignathus virens was influenced by different levels of nectar availability. The most successful breeding occurred at nectar levels of 20,000-40,000 l/day (14,000-28,000 cal). More than 35,000 l/day (24,500 cal) of nectar within a territory generally inhibited successful breeding, presumably because too much time was spent in the defense of the nectar sources. Birds with larger amounts of nectar within their territories had concomitantly larger clutch sizes. Postbreeding dispersal, an annual phenomenon in the H. virens population on Mauna Kea, did not occur if adequate food supplies remained available during the nonbreeding period. 
10.1525/auk.2010.09088|To understand the effects of foraging behavior on the amount of food provided to chicks (meal mass and frequency), we monitored nest attendance and diving behavior of 20 Adlie Penguin (
25488521|Stable-isotope analysis of feathers has become a useful tool for examining migration patterns and annual connectivity of migratory songbird populations. We used this approach, combined with molecular sex-identification, to examine expected breeding destinations and migration ecology of Swainson's Thrush (
10.2307/4090247| Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) exhibit large fluctuations in annual number of individuals migrating in eastern United States. Underlying large differences in the magnitude of the migration may be important density-dependent effects on body condition and stopover patterns. We investigated such effects using data from saw-whet owls that were trapped and banded during autumn migration at the southern tip of the Delmarva Peninsula (near Cape Charles, Virginia) from 1994 to 2000. Irruptive migration events occurred in 1995 and 1999 when 1,002 and 700 owls were captured, respectively. Capture totals ranged from 22 to 105 owls during five nonirruptive years. Irruptive migration years were dominated by immature owls (82% of captures) and were characterized by low recapture rates (13%) and shorter minimum stopover lengths (median = 5 nights) for all owls. Body masses and body-condition index scores were significantly lower for both immature and adult age classes during years when owl density was very high. During such years, a smaller percentage of owls elected to stopover and, among those that did, individuals in good condition departed sooner than individuals in poor condition. Conversely, during nonirruptive years, adults constituted 67% of captures, recapture rates were nearly 3 higher (35%), and stopover lengths were twice as long (median = 10 nights). Recapture rates were significantly higher for adults (43%) than for immature owls (23%) and initial body condition of adults was positively correlated with their length of stopover. During light migration years, conditions may be conducive for extended residency, particularly for adult owls in good condition. Our results suggest that density-dependence is an important mechanism driving migration and stopover patterns of saw-whet owls. /// Aegolius acadicus presenta grandes fluctuaciones en el nmero anual de individuos que migran en el este de Estados Unidos. Subyacentes a las grandes diferencias en la magnitud de la migracin pueden estar los importantes efectos de la denso-dependencia sobre la condicin corporal y los patrones de paradas durante la migracin. Investigamos estos efectos usando datos de captura y marcaje de Aegolius acadicus durante la migracin de otoo desde 1994 al 2000, en la punta sur de la Pennsula de Delmarva (cerca de Cape Charles, Virginia). Los eventos de migracin masiva ocurrieron en 1995 y 1999 cuando se capturaron 1,002 y 700 bhos, respectivamente. Los totales de captura variaron entre 22 a 105 bhos durante los cinco aos no masivos. Los aos de migracin masiva fueron dominados por bhos inmaduros (82% de las capturas) y se caracterizaron por bajas tasas de recaptura (13%) y por tiempos mnimos de parada ms cortos (mediana = 5 noches) para todos los bhos. El peso corporal y el ndice de condicin corporal para las clases de edad inmadura y adulta fueron significativamente ms bajos durante los aos en que la densidad de bhos fue muy alta. Durante aquellos aos, un menor porcentaje de bhos hizo escalas durante la migracin, y entre aqullos que pararon, los individuos en mejor condicin partieron antes que los individuos en condicin ms pobre. Por el contrario, durante los aos no masivos, los adultos constituyeron un 67% de las capturas, las tasas de recaptura fueron casi 3 veces superiores (35%), y el tiempo de la parada fue dos veces ms largo (mediana = 10 noches). Las tasas de recaptura fueron significativamente ms altas para los adultos (43%) que para los bhos inmaduros (23%) y la condicin corporal inicial de los adultos se correlacion positivamente con el timepo de parada. Durante los aos de migracin menos masiva, las condiciones locales pueden favorecer la extensin de la residencia, particularmente para los bhos adultos en buena condicin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la denso-dependencia es un mecanismo importante que influencia los patrones de migracin y paradas de los bhos. 
4085401|Bird eggs begin to lose weight as soon as they are laid but their volume and linear dimensions do not change during incubation. The volume of an egg can be estimated within 2% from the relationship: Volume =
10.2307/4088987|In species that raise several broods within a breeding season, mate replacement may be costly to males if breeding success is low for newly formed pairs. Alternatively, males could benefit from mate replacement if the new female is in better physical condition than the previous mate. Female House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) experimentally handicapped during their first breeding attempt were replaced more frequently than control females. Among females that changed mates, handicapped females remated less successfully than did control females. Relative to control males, males that mated with handicapped females took longer to produce a second clutch. Males that changed mates had shorter relaying intervals but raised fewer fledglings in the following breeding attempt than males that retained mates. These results suggests that mate replacement is costly to males. Courtship rate was positively correlated with male badge size, an indicator of male quality and status, but it was not correlated with any indicator of female quality or female reproductive investment. Increased levels of courtship between two breeding attempts correlated with more rapid laying by replacement females but did not affect the probability of mate replacement or the relaying interval of the original mates. These results suggest that male courtship between clutches may function as a time-saving mechanism when mate replacement occurs.
10.2307/4086781|We examined the relationship between function, water content, and growth rate of skeletal muscles in the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). Function was measured as the ability of nestlings to increase their rate of oxygen consumption in response to cold stress. Water content and growth rate of pectoral and leg muscles were determined for tissues dissected from a series of known-age nestlings. The maximum metabolic response to cold stress increased from 0 at 4 days of age to 4.5-5.5
10.2307/4090191| Birds have few reliable indicators of aging. Pentosidine is a product of nonenzymatic glycation that accumulates in tissues of an animal over its lifespan. The intent of this study was to determine if accumulation of skin pentosidine in birds of known ages changed as a function of time. Skin samples were obtained from the breast of 45 birds of various species obtained from the national aviary. In addition, foot webbing samples were obtained from 17 California Gulls (Larus callifornicus) of known ages. Collagen was measured by a hydroxyproline spectrophotometric method and pentosidine was quantified using reverse phase high-performance liquid-chromatography. Pentosidine concentration in the skin and foot webbing increased linearly with age (P < 0.001). Hydroxyproline concentrations from the foot webbing were comparable to that measured in the skin; however, pentosidine concentrations were approximately one-fourth of that in skin. Knowledge regarding longevity of birds could provide information for species survival programs and insight into variations in longevity of an entire population. /// Existen pocos indicadores confiables de la senescencia en las aves. La pentosidina es un producto de la glicacin no enzimtica que se acumula en los tejidos de un animal a lo largo de su vida. El objetivo de este estudio fue determinar si la acumulacin de pentosidina en la piel de aves de edad conocida cambiaba en funcin del tiempo. Se obtuvieron muestras de piel del pecho de 45 aves de varias especies presentes en el aviario nacional. Adicionalmente, se obtuvieron muestras de las membranas de las patas de 17 gaviotas de California de edades conocidas. Se midi el colgeno mediante un mtodo espectrofotomtrico de hidroxiprolina y se cuantific la pentosidina usando cromatografia lquida de alto rendimiento en fase reversa. La concentracin de pentosidina en la piel y en las membranas de las patas aument linealmente con la edad (P < 0.001). Las concentraciones de hidroxiprolina en las membranas de las patas fueron comparables a las medidas en la piel, pero las concentraciones de pentosidina fueron aproximadamente un 75% menores que las de la piel. El conocimiento de la longevidad de las aves podra proveer informacin para programas de sobrevivencia de especies y para entender las variaciones en longevidad dentro de una poblacin completa. 
4088364|We studied the autumn morning flight of Neotropical migrants for two years at Cape May, New Jersey. A majority (86%) of the 24,378 identified Neotropical migrants were warblers, while thrushes (0.01%) rarely made morning flights. A disproportionately large number of migrants was seen on the day of and the day following cold fronts. Only 23% of all Neotropical migrants flew on days not associated with cold fronts, and nearly 12% flew in rain. Morning flights of Neotropical migrants commenced in late July, and 72% passed before 15 September. All migrants flew north. At Cape May, 87% of visible morning flight occurred within 2 h after sunrise. We examine several hypotheses advanced to explain morning flight and reverse migration, and conclude that the morning flight of Neotropical landbird migrants at Cape May probably consists of a combination of birds returning to land from the ocean, birds compensating for lateral drift incurred during the previous night's migration, and birds seeking habitat in which to rest and forage. Topography may dictate the direction of morning flight. We suggest that researchers in North America commence studies of autumn passerine migration in late July and that researchers studying habitat selection by migrant passerines wait 2 to 3 h after sunrise before conducting surveys to avoid sampling birds undertaking morning flight.
10.2307/4088603|Even though they originated from phenetically and genetically heterogeneous domestic stocks, feral pigeons (Columba livia) today show significant interlocality variation in size of skeletal elements. About 30% of the size variation in European feral pigeons is owing to interlocality effects, compared to about 20% for American ferals. Additionally, size varies positively with latitude. Owing to the independent origin and long-term geographic isolation of American and European feral pigeons, the organization of size variation necessarily was developed independently in the two stocks. This instance of replicate size clines is probably a result of natural selection by environmental variables on common heritable variation in size.
4086125|Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) departure synchrony was greatest within 2 h of low tide, and the largest average colony synchrony was then 23% of the breeding herons/h. The average time between arrivals per heron at a 36-39-nest and an 8-nest colony was 6.7 h, which indicates that herons infrequently returned to a colony. Most herons (64% at the larger colony, 95% at the smaller colony) departed the colony alone. The clumping of the remaining departures probably resulted, at least in part, from coincidence. Arrivals and departures were more clumped at the larger colony.
10.2307/4089930|We collected eggs, neonates, and adults of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis interior) and Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) from Akimiski Island, Nunavut, during the 1996 breeding season. This was done to assess interspecific differences in egg composition, egg-nutrient catabolism, developmental maturity, tissue maturity, and body reserves, and do relate observed differences in those variables to ecological conditions historically experienced by Canada Geese and Lesser Snow Geese. Eggs of both species had identical proportional compositions, but Canada Goose embryos catabolized 13% more of their egg protein, whereas Lesser Snow Goose embryos catabolized 9% more of their egg lipid. Neonate Canada Geese and Lesser Snow Geese had similar protein reserves, relative to body size, but Lesser Snow Geese had relatively smaller lipid reserves than did Canada Geese. Relative to conspecific adults, Lesser Snow Goose goslings generally were structurally larger at hatch than were Canada Goose goslings. Neonate Lesser Snow Geese had more developmentally mature keels, wings, and breast muscles, and larger gizzards and caeca for their body size, than did neonate Canada Geese. Despite hatching from smaller eggs and having a shorter period of embryonic growth, skeletal muscles and gizzard tissues of Lesser Snow Geese were more functionally mature than those of Canada Geese. Increased lipid use during embryonic development could account for how Lesser Snow Geese hatched in a more developmentally and functionally mature state. In turn, differences in developmental and functional maturity of Lesser Snow Geese, as compared to Canada Geese, likely are adaptations that offset metabolic costs associated with their small body size, or to selection pressures associated with high arctic environmental conditions and colonial nesting and brood rearing.
4085657|Time-activity budgets of breeding male and female American Coots (Fulica americana) revealed that females spent more time than males feeding during prelaying. Both sexes contributed to territory establishment and maintenance, though males spent slightly more time at defensive activities than females. Swimming about the territory seems to be a form of territorial advertisement, and the high levels of territorial aggression seemingly are a function of the highly variable nature of food resources in marshes. Time spent by both sexes in intraspecific aggression and locomotion declined steadily throughout the reproductive period. Interspecific aggression peaked after the young hatched. Brood-platforms were built almost exclusively by males. Females spent more time foraging for and feeding young and fed young more frequently than did males. Both sexes reduced loafing to very low levels during brood-rearing. The large investment of time necessary for coots to care for their young successfully offers support for the hypothesis that clutch size has evolved in relation to adequacy of parental care.
4087661|I investigated the relationship among breeding experience, timing of reproduction, and reproductive performance in female Buffleheads (Bucephala albeola) over a 5-yr period. There were significant yearly fluctuations in date of nest initiation and in clutch size. On average, first-time breeders began nesting later, had a lower nesting success, fledged less young, and tended to have smaller clutches (although not significantly so) than experienced breeders. Birds that used nest boxes also began to lay later, had lower nesting success, and fledged fewer young than those that used natural cavities. This could not be explained solely by the higher use of nest boxes by first-time breeders. Repeatability was moderate for date of nest initiation and clutch size, but low for the number of young fledged. There was a seasonal decline in clutch size for both first-time and experienced breeders, although the relationship was much stronger for the latter group. Nesting success also decreased throughout the season, but the number of young fledged did not decrease. More early-hatched than late-hatched females were recruited into the breeding population. Early nesting was advantageous for experienced breeders.
10.2307/4089882| We present a robust, fully resolved phylogeny for the oropendolas that will serve as a basis for comparative studies in this group. We sequenced 2,011 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b and ND2 genes from 22 individuals to reconstruct relationships between recognized species and subspecies and to assess variation within polytypic taxa. A single phylogenetic tree was produced despite the use of a wide range of weighting schemes and phylogenetic reconstruction methods. Our data provide strong evidence that oropendolas are polyphyletic, with two distinct groups within a larger clade of oropendolas and caciques. We confirm the monophyly of recognized species, but indicate that some with-in-species relationships do not conform to recognized subspecies limits. Our findings thus demonstrate the importance of including multiple exemplars from each taxon of interest. The two genes provided complimentary and equally effective phylogenetic information for comparisons within the oropendolas, but exhibited lower resolution in comparisons above the species level. /// Presentamos una filogenia robusta y completamente resuelta para las oropndolas que servir como base para estudios comparativos en este grupo. Secuenciamos 2,011 pares de bases de los genes mitocondriales citocromo-b y ND2 de 22 individuos para reconstruir las relaciones entre las especies y subespecies reconocidas y para evaluar la variacin al interior de taxa politpicos. Se obtuvo un nico rbol filogentico a pesar de haber utilizado una amplia variedad de esquemas de pesaje y mtodos de reconstruccin filogentica. Nuestros datos proveen evidencia fuerte que indica que las oropndolas son polifilticas, con dos grupos distintivos dentro de un clado ms grande de oropndolas y caciques. Confirmamos la monofilia de las especies reconocidas, pero indicamos que algunas relaciones al interior de especies no concuerdan con los lmites subespecficos reconocidos. Por lo tanto, nuestros hallazgos demuestran la importancia de incluir mltiples ejemplares de cada taxon de inters. Los dos genes suministraron informacin filogentica complementaria e igualmente efectiva para comparaciones dentro de las oropndolas, pero mostraron menor resolucin en comparaciones por encima del nivel de especie. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10198|Climate change is predicted to increase the frequency and severity of extreme climate events, and it is important that we understand how this might affect natural systems. We examined the effects of extreme climate events on adult survival rates in three species of auks breeding on Triangle Island, British Columbia: Cassin's Auklet (
10.2307/4089680|Breeding-season productivity (the per capita number of offspring surviving to the end of the breeding season) is seldom estimated for multibrooded songbirds because of cost and logistical constraints. However, this parameter is critical for predictions of population growth rates and comparisons of seasonal productivity across geographic or temporal scales. We constructed a dynamic, stochastic, individual-based model of breeding-season productivity using demographic data from Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) in central Georgia from 1993 to 1996. The model predicts breeding-season productivity as a function of adult survival, juvenile survival, nesting success, season length, renesting interval, and juvenile-care intervals. The model predicted that seasonal fecundity (number of fledglings produced) was 3.04, but only 2.04 juveniles per female survived to the end of the breeding season. Sensitivity analyses showed that differences in renesting interval, nesting success, fledglings per successful nest, and adult and juvenile survival caused variation in breeding-season productivity. Contrary to commonly held notions, season length and fledgling-care interval length did not cause variation in breeding-season productivity. This modeling exercise emphasizes the need for demographic data for songbird species, and we encourage biologists to use similar models to evaluate productivity in songbird populations.
10.2307/4088276|Recent studies have reported lifetime reproductive success (LRS) as empirical counts of fledglings, yearlings, or breeders produced by individuals during their lifetimes. In this paper, I show how the mean LRS of the breeding individuals of a population can be calculated from age-specific probabilities of survival and fecundity. An analysis of a simulated population shows that the LRS of males and females from the same population can be different, even though the rates of change in numbers of males and females are identical. Thus, although LRS may be a measure of individual fitness, differences in LRS, even among individuals with different phenotypes and genotypes, cannot be construed to have evolutionary significance. The proper measure of fitness is the Malthusian parameter (m
4085399|Pair formation of Calidris pusilla near Barrow, Alaska occurs 3-6 days after the territory is established. The pair is then engaged in nest scraping displays during 2-3 days, in which 10-12 scrapes are made by the male and examined by the female. Eventually 2-3 scrapes are lined by the female, and in one of these the first egg is laid 4-6 days after pairing. During the egg-laying period further lining is performed by the female and partial incubation takes place by both sexes. Continuous incubation commences 8 h prior to laying of the 4th egg. Male and female alternate in incubation: in the first 2 days a turn lasts 3-5 h, and the duration gradually increases up to 13-14 h during the 2nd week. Long incubation turns reduce the number of approaches to the nest and may therefore reduce the chances of it being discovered by predators. The incubating bird is intermittently engaged in egg-rolling and in camouflaging the nest by bending adjacent grass blades over its back, and is constantly alert. The off-duty bird may feed 2-3 km away from the nest. The eggs hatch after 20 days of incubation, all within 1 day. Females desert the family 2-8 days after hatching: they desert late if hatching is early, and early if hatching is late in the season. After female departure the family moves from the nesting territory, typically in a high-centered polygonal area, to establish a home range as far as 2-3 km away, often in a low-centered polygonal area. During the first 6-8 days after hatching, the male prepares each evening a scrape for night brooding. After fledging, the male and young join wandering flocks.
auk.2012.11215|We tested one of the foundational hypotheses of the field of ecological immunology: that it is difficult for animals to simultaneously carry out two or more especially demanding physiological processes at optimal levels because of energy needs or other factors that cause tradeoffs among competing components of life history. We investigated possible effects of molt (a costly life-history stage that all birds share) on three physiological parameters in 32 male and female Brown-headed Cowbirds (
10.2307/4088107| White-fronted Bee-eaters (Merops bullockoides) at Nakuru, Kenya, reproduce in an environment where food supply for provisioning nestlings is unpredictable and generally scarce. With data from 8 yr of study on three populations of bee-eaters, we examined how these environmental conditions have influenced the timing of breeding and patterns of nesting success. Breeding coincided with the general pattern of rainfall in the Rift Valley. Kenya experiences two rainy seasons per year, and individual bee-eaters bred with either the long or the short rains, but not both. Members of a given population bred colonially and quite synchronously, but members of adjacent populations were often out of phase with one another. As a result, the distribution of long- and short-rains breeding populations formed a spatial mosaic. Reproductive success was highly variable but typically low. Mean (SD) fledging success was 0.57  0.83 young, and only one nest in four produced an independent offspring (6 months of age). Most prefledging mortality (88%) was due to egg losses and the starvation of young. Very little (7%) was attributable to predation. Social factors, primarily intraspecific nest parasitism, were responsible for nearly half of all egg losses, and represent an important cost of group living. Starvation, the single most important source of prefledging mortality, claimed the lives of 48% of all hatchlings. Starvation was greatest at times of low food availability, in nests with large broods, and in nests tended by pairs without helpers. Hatching was asynchronous. This enhanced the ability of older nestlings to monopolize limited food supplies, and resulted in the selective death of the smallest nestling first. Such brood reduction, coupled with the ability of nestlings to slow their development rate in response to food stress, is considered an adaptation for coping with the unpredictable variation in food supply commonly faced by these birds. 
4085403|Rohwer (1975, 1977) has proposed that members of certain variably-plumaged avian species may use plumage traits to signal potential dominance status to flockmates. Further, he suggests that plumage variability is maintained because cheaters on the system are detected and persecuted. Data reported herein imply that certain external and noticeable traits of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) are fairly accurate indicators of sex and age class and thus, indirectly, of dominance status. Convergence on signals associated with high status may be prevented by a social system in which dominants are more likely to direct aggressive behavior toward other dominants than toward subordinates. Under such a system, birds whose other traits would lead to subordinate status would suffer a disadvantage if they wore the plumage of dominants. Accurate projection of potential status, whatever that status may be, should prove selectively advantageous.
10.2307/4088506|Short-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus tenuirostris) are a numerous, colonially nesting seabird that is strongly philopatric. We applied restriction-enzyme analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to 335 individuals from 11 colonies across southeastern Australia to assess population-genetic structure and the amount of genetic variability in this species. Eleven 6/5.33-base and four 4-base restriction enzymes revealed 25 and 48 mtDNA haplotypes in two overlapping surveys of 215 individuals from seven colonies and 231 individuals from eight colonies, respectively. A low mean sequence diversity among individuals (0.247%) and lack of spatial structuring of mtDNA haplotypes suggest a lack of population-genetic structure and a reduced ancestral population size during glaciation, followed by a population and range expansion. Intracolony mtDNA diversities in three recently established colonies and in one colony that has experienced a recent bottleneck were comparable to mtDNA diversities within larger and older colonies. This suggests that, despite strict philopatry in those colonies, colony founding and recovery from population reduction occurs via immigration of a large number of individuals.
4087269|Blood, heart, liver, and breast muscle samples from wild Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) hens and their ducklings were analyzed using starch-gel electrophoresis. We found that 17.4% of the total broods sampled (n = 46) involved observable multiple mating events, that 25.8% of the sample broods involved multiple mating events when broods that were unlikely to yield information on multiple paternity were excluded (n = 31), and that a pooled maximum-likelihood estimate indicated a 60% chance that a particular duckling came from a brood that was multiply fathered, or at least 48% of broods involved multiple mating events.
25488711|We used museum specimens to describe the timing and location of the postbreeding molt in Western Kingbird (
10.2307/4089821|The degree of sexual size dimorphism in a number of different morphological characters was examined in a social corvid, the Alpine Chough, using measurements taken on 178 males and 144 females. A small amount of size dimorphism appeared in all morphological characters, and weight was the most dimorphic character. To identify if Alpine Choughs mate assortatively, measurements of mates were compared in 76 pairs. A positive assortative mating was found on tarsus length, and a small positive trend is suggested between body condition of partners, but that needs to be confirmed with a larger sample size.
4085819|Between November 1973 and January 1974 we collected 702 pellets of White-tailed Kites (Elanus lecurus) in two areas of central Chile differing in their vegetation physiognomy (disturbed versus undisturbed). We compared the diversity, age structure, and mean prey size of items found in pellets from both sites. There were noticeable differences in the diversity of prey consumed by kites in the two areas. The smallest prey taken was the house mouse (17 g), the largest, juvenile norway rats (160 g); these figures represent 5.6-52.9% of Chilean kites' weight (302.2 g). Mean size of prey taken in the disturbed site was about 25% smaller than in the undisturbed area. White-tailed Kites were much more abundant in disturbed areas, in spite of the relatively smaller prey-size distribution available. We propose that disturbed habitats generated by human activities are more profitable to the kites in terms of greater prey abundance, higher prey vulnerability, or both.
4088318|To assess the idea that daily growth increments of experimentally induced replacement feathers can be used to measure net nutritional status of free-ranging birds (ptilochronology), we compared tail feather regrowth in female European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) that reared manipulated broods of 2, 4, or 6 nestlings. Broods of 6 nestlings taxed females based on feeding observations, patterns of brood reduction, and fledgling mass. Females that reared broods of 6 had significantly narrower daily growth bars on their replacement rectrices than did females that reared broods of small (n = 2 nestlings) or normal (n = 4) size. Mass of replacement feathers also decreased as brood size increased. Replacement feather length was an unreliable index of stress because added days of growth tended to compensate for slow daily growth. In females that laid and incubated replacement clutches but did not rear broods, replacement feather growth bars were intermediate in width to those of females that reared normal and enlarged broods. Ptilochronology was corroborated by the relationship between female reproductive effort and growth bars in induced rectrices. Nevertheless, field studies using this technique entail several risks, including low bird recapture rates, absences of and delays in feather regrowth, indistinct feather barring, and unexplained variance in bar width.
4085976|Habitat selection in the Dickcissel (Spiza americana) was evaluated by a comparison of over 500 nest histories from the preferred oldfield and the less preferred prairie communities in Kansas. Females are equally successful in either habitat, and their productivity is not adversely affected by their being mated to polygynous males. Thus, these two habitats are similarly suitable for females, and females are distributed simply according to the availability of adequate nesting environments and not in any density-dependent manner or in response to density cues. No differences exist in survival rates of nests associated with individual males or in the males' individual productivities between prairies and oldfields when monogamous and bigamous males are compared. The oldfield habitat is more suitable for males, however, because the potential for sequestering more nesting sites is greater in this more heterogeneous habitat. This permits higher levels of polygyny, which increases the productivity of individual males, even though densities of birds in oldfields are greater.
10.2307/4087617|Among 19 pairs of individually marked Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) ca. 3 in 10 successful copulations were extrapair. Extrapair copulations potentially increased the reproductive success of five of the males by 18.6% on average. An anticuckoldry strategy was evident in the male's constant attendance at or near his nest when his female was fertile. The imperative to guard may have encouraged males to choose nest sites with nest materials and drinking water nearby. Males preferred extrapair copulations with fertile females and those on nests close to their own. Males successful in extrapair copulations generally nested higher and earlier than their neighbors. This behavior would serve a conditional promiscuous strategy well, but may have a different primary function. More certain evidence for such a strategy came from the timing of extrapair copulatory attempts, which peaked when females were laying and less closely guarded.
4086364|In this paper I report the first instance of a pair of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) raising young in successive clutches during one breeding season and discuss this phenomenon in relation to male and female incubation and feeding rates and to predation. Five other pairs are noted in which the female and sometimes the male incubated a second clutch while still feeding one young from their first nest.
10.2307/4090016| We monitored adult and juvenile breeding-season movements and habitat use of radio-tagged Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) at the Piedmont National Wildlife Refuge, central Georgia, USA. We investigated the effects that management for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Piciodes borealis), thinning and burning >30 year old loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) habitat, had on Wood Thrushes, a ground-foraging and midstory-nesting species. Adult Wood Thrush pairs regularly moved long distances between nesting attempts (range 1 to 17,388 m). The only experimental effect we found on adult movements was a decrease in weekly emigration rates () from thinned and burned compartments after silvicultural management. Adult males preferred riparian hardwoods with sparse to moderate cover and those preferences increased following management. Juveniles remained near their nest site (x = 177 m, SE = 113) for an average 24 days (SE = 6.3), and then dispersed a mean 2,189 m (SE = 342). Before dispersal, juveniles preferred upland hardwood-pine mixed habitat (P < 0.05) with moderate overstory cover (P < 0.05). We found no management effects on dispersal distances or predispersal habitat use. However, juveniles from thinned and burned compartments dispersed to hardwood habitats with dense cover, whereas birds from control compartments dispersed to pine-dominated habitats with sparse cover. All juveniles dispersed to areas with habitat similar to what they used before dispersal. Small-scale thinning and burning for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers may have had little effect on Wood Thrush habitat use and movements because typical movements were often larger than the scale (stand or compartment) targeted for management. /// Monitoreamos con radio-telemetra los movimientos y el uso de hbitat durante la poca reproductiva de adultos y juveniles de Hylocichla mustelina en el Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Piedmont, en Georgia central, EEUU. Investigamos los efectos que tiene el manejo del bosque (entresaca y quema de hbitat de Pinus taeda con ms de 30 aos de edad) orientado a la conservacin de Picoides borealis sobre H. mustelina, una especie que se alimenta en el suelo y que nidifica a media altura del bosque. Las parejas adultas de H. mustelina por lo general se movieron largas distancias entre los intentos de nidificacin (rango 1 a 17,388 m). El nico efecto experimental que encontramos en los movimientos de adultos fue una disminucin en las tasas semanales de emigracin () desde los sectores entresacados y quemados luego del manejo silvicultural. Los machos adultos prefirieron los bosques ribereos con poca a moderada cobertura, y estas preferencias incrementaron luego del manejo. Los juveniles permanecieron cercanos al sitio de nidificacin (x = 177 m, ES = 113) por un promedio de 24 das (ES = 6.3) y luego se dispersaron una media de 2,189 m (ES = 342). Antes de la dispersin los juveniles prefirieron hbitat no-ribereo mixto de bosque y pino (P < 0.05) con moderada cobertura del dosel (P < 0.05). No encontramos efectos del manejo sobre las distancias de dispersin o sobre el uso del hbitat previo a la dispersin. Sin embargo, los juveniles de sectores entresacados y quemados se dispersaron a hbitats de bosque con cobertura densa, mientras que las aves de los sectores de control se dispersaron a hbitats con escasa cobertura dominados por pinos. Todos los juveniles se dispersaron hacia reas con hbitat similar al que usaron antes de dispersarse. Las accione de entresaca y quema de pequea escala orientadas al manejo de P. borealis pueden haber tenido poco efecto sobre el uso de hbitat y los movimientos de H. mustelina porque sus movimientos tpicos fueron generalmente mayores que la escala (rodal y sector) elegida para manejo. 
4087803|In the literature on avian contests and energetics, a single external measure is frequently used to represent overall body size. In an attempt to assess the quality of information available in such external measurements of birds, we measured internal and external elements from museum skeletal plus flat-skin specimens for both sexes of three passerine species. We estimated the "true" overall size of each individual as a factor score computed from the first principal component extracted from a large matrix of skeletal measurements. Bivariate correlations and stepwise regressions indicate that mass or tarsus length, or a principal component factor which combines mass and tarsus length, is the best predictor of overall body size as estimated from bone measurements. Multiple regressions, however, suggest that several external measurements combined often explain only 40-60% of the total variance in overall body size. We suggest that fieldworkers be cautious in their use of single external metrics to represent overall size in small birds. When a single metric for the body size of small passerines is required, fieldworkers should prefer tarsus length or mass to represent overall size.
10.2307/4087535|The average size of Harris' Hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus) social units in New Mexico was 2.7 individuals, and pairs were most common (49%; n = 61). Groups of more than two hawks included both adult- (74%) and immature-plumaged (26%) members (n = 76). Immatures rarely provided food to nestlings, but adult supernumeraries did. Electrophoretic analyses of two groups containing two adult-plumaged males did not suggest polyandry. At least in southeastern New Mexico, Harris' Hawk groups consist primarily of a monogamous pair with "helpers." Pairs and groups showed no differences in clutch size, number of young produced per successful nest, or number of offspring fledged per year. Pair nests failed less often (16%) than group nests (46%) during the incubation period. Groups reared larger offspring and tended to initiate second nests more frequently than pairs. The overall lack of correlation between reproductive output and group size suggests that kin selection has not been a major influence in the evolution of the Harris' Hawk breeding system.
10.2307/4089196|We studied foraging Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in central Missouri to determine the influence of habitat type and invertebrate biomass on cowbird abundance and behavior. We measured flock size, density, peck rate, foraging time, vigilance, aggression, and invertebrate abundance in five habitats. Seven sites contained short-grazed grass, short-ungrazed grass, tall-grazed grass, tall-ungrazed grass, and feedlot habitat treatments. Cowbird flock sizes were largest in short-grazed grass, but densities were highest in feedlots. Foraging time and aggression did not differ among habitats, but peck rates were highest in feedlots, and vigilance at foraging sites was highest in short-grass habitats. Females spent more time foraging than males, but peck rates did not vary significantly with sex. Males spent more time in vigilant and aggressive behaviors than did females. Invertebrate biomass and density were lowest in feedlots. Large flock sizes and high peck rates coincided with high invertebrate densities in short-grazed grass. Cowbird flock size was positively related to invertebrate density, but foraging time and peck rate were not related to invertebrate density. We conclude that cattle were an important component of the habitat that influenced cowbird foraging behavior. Cowbirds selected feedlots because of readily available grain and selected short-grazed grass because of the availability of invertebrate foods. Compared with grazing, grass height was of secondary importance to foraging cowbirds.
10.2307/4089636|We determined patterns of nutrient-reserve use by female Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata) nesting at Minto Flats, Alaska, and compared them with those of female shovelers nesting in the Prairie Pothole Region of Manitoba, Canada. Individual variation in somatic lipid was best explained by nest initiation date; females that initiated nests early had larger lipid reserves than females that delayed nest initiation. These results contrast with those from Manitoba, which showed that females used lipid reserves and stored protein during egg production. Incubating females from Alaska did not use protein or mineral reserves, but lipid reserves decreased significantly throughout incubation. Females in Alaska and Manitoba used lipid reserves similarly during incubation. We conclude that endogenous nutrient availability does not proximately limit clutch size during laying for this population of shovelers, possibly due to the high productivity of wetlands in interior Alaska and/or the long photoperiod that allow females to forage extensively. Successful completion of incubation or brood rearing may be an ultimate factor that controls clutch size for this population of shovelers.
25150270|Established parks and nature reserves may be inadequate to preserve long-term biotic diversity, especially in tropical regions of Latin America where anthropogenic disturbance and land-conversion is an ongoing problem. Demand for economically productive land uses, such as cattle pastures or monoculture plantations, is one of the greatest threats to habitat and wildlife preservation. As a result, conservation biologists have turned to examining attributes of nonprotected lands to determine which land uses both support wildlife and make economic sense. I examined bird use of a plantation of Gmelina arborea ("white teak" or "melina" trees; hereafter "plantation") in Guatemala to assess its suitability as bird habitat. Gmelina arborea is grown mainly for wood and paper pulp. Several compositionally different habitats were identified, based on the amount of natural vegetation grown within and among the plantation trees, forming a heterogeneous landscape. I detected 195 bird species from 45 families within this plantation-dominated landscape, and 144 species in plantation habitats combined. I observed a positive association between increased vegetative complexity and bird species richness; moreover, bird species richness attained levels statistically indistinguishable from those found in nearby forest fragments. Mixed plantation habitat containing 19-31% natural vegetative coverage supported bird communities that equaled or surpassed levels of species richness found by other researchers in shaded coffee (Coffea spp.) plantations. However, pure stands of G. arborea supported richness levels equal to those of grazed pasture; diversity levels associated with both these land uses were close to those reported for sun coffee plantations. Clearly, native vegetation played a significant role in enhancing bird species richness in the plantation habitat, and amounts of relative cover similar to or exceeding those in the plantation I studied should be considered in any management plan for G. arborea in Central America. /// Los parques establecidos y las reservas naturales podran ser inadecuadas para preservar a largo plazo la diversidad biolgica, especialmente en las regiones tropicales de Amrica Latina donde los disturbios antropognicos y la conservacin de la naturaleza son un problema frecuente. La demanda de tierras econmicamente productivas, como los pastizales para ganado o las plantaciones de monocultivos, es una de las mayores amenazas para la preservacin del hbitat y de la vida silvestre. Como resultado de esto, los bilogos de la conservacin han vuelto a revisar los atributos de las reas no protegidas para determinar cules usos de la tierra mantienen la vida silvestre y son viables econmicamente. Examin el uso por parte de las aves de plantaciones de rboles de Gmelina arborea ("teca blanca" o "melina") en Guatemala para evaluar su calidad como hbitat para las aves. Las plantaciones de Gmelina arborea estn destinadas principalmente a la produccin de madera y pulpa para papel. Se identificaron varios ambientes que variaron en la composicin segn la cantidad de vegetacin natural presente al interior y entre las plantaciones de rboles, formando un paisaje heterogneo. Detect 195 especies de aves pertenecientes a 45 familias en este paisaje dominado por las plantaciones, y 144 especies en la combinacin de ambientes de G. arborea. Observ una asociacin positiva entre un incremento en la complejidad de la vegetacin y la riqueza de especies de aves; ms an, la riqueza de especies de aves alcanz niveles estadsticamente indistinguibles de aquella encontrada en fragmentos de bosque vecinos. El ambiente combinado de G. arborea con una cobertura de vegetacin natural de entre 19% y 31% sustent comunidades de aves que igualaron o sobrepasaron los niveles de riqueza de especies encontrados por otros autores en plantaciones de caf (Coffea spp.) a la sombra. Sin embargo, los rodales puros de G. arborea sustentaron niveles de riqueza iguales a los de los campos de pastoreo; los niveles de diversidad asociados con estos dos usos de la tierra fueron cercanos a aquellos presentados para las plantaciones de caf al sol. Claramente, la vegetacin nativa jug un rol significativo en incrementar la riqueza de especies de aves en las plantaciones de G. arborea. Por ende, la cantidad de cobertura relativa similar o mayor que la de la plantacin que estudi debe ser considerada en cualquier plan de manejo para esta especie de rbol en Amrica Central.
10.2307/4090409| In alcids, growth rate and hatching date of chicks appear to affect fledging age and mass. Underlying mechanisms are hypothesized to be (1) critical wing length at fledging for postfledging survival, (2) synchronization of fledging to dilute predation risk, and (3) variable parental provisioning according to timing of breeding. To elucidate the effects of growth rate and hatching date on fledging age and mass, and to test those mechanistic hypotheses, we measured chick growth and fledging periods in Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) at Teuri Island from 1995 to 2000. The multiple-linear regression analysis showed that intrayear variations of fledging age and mass were explained by growth rate or hatching date in five out of six years. Faster-growing chicks fledged younger and heavier, and earlier-hatched chicks fledged older and heavier. Consequently, no apparent correlation between fledging age and mass was observed in five out of six years. Analysis of interyear variation showed a negative correlation between fledging age and mass, which indicates that growth rates rather than hatching dates had a major effect. Wing length at fledging was independent of growth in mass. More than 80% of chicks fledged when they attained a narrow range of wing length (130-150 mm), presumably because they remained in their nests until they attained the critical wing length. In five out of six years, the chicks did not synchronize timing of fledging relative to timing of hatching. Later-hatched chicks attained lighter peak masses and at younger ages, which may indicate that their parents decreased provisioning rates when the chicks were still young. We suggest that (1) critical wing length at fledging and (2) variable parental provisioning according to timing of breeding could be underlying mechanisms determining these relationships between fledging age and mass. /// En los lcidos, la tasa de crecimiento y la fecha de eclosin de los pichones parecen afectar la edad y la masa de stos al momento de emplumar. Se hipotetiza que los mecanismos responsables son: (1) existencia de una longitud del ala crtica para la supervivencia de los volantones, (2) sincronizacin del emplumamiento para diluir el riesgo de depredacin y (3) aprovisionamiento parental variable de acuerdo al momento del apareamiento. Para elucidar los efectos de la tasa de crecimiento y la fecha de eclosin sobre la edad y masa de los volantones y para poner a prueba estas hiptesis mecansticas, medimos el crecimiento de los pichones y los perodos de emplumamiento en la especie Cerorhinca monocerata en la isla Teuri entre 1995 y 2000. Un anlisis de regresin lineal mltiple mostr que las variaciones intra-anuales de la edad y masa de los volantones se podan explicar por la tasa de crecimiento o la fecha de eclosin en cinco de los seis aos. Los pichones que crecieron ms rpido emplumaron a menor edad y con mayor peso y los que eclosionaron ms rpido emplumaron a menor edad y con mayor peso y los que eclosionaron ms temprano emplumaron a mayor edad y con mayor peso. En consecuencia, no se observ una correlacin aparente entre la edad de emplumamiento y la masa en cinco de los seis aos. Anlisis de la variacin interanual mostraron una correlacin negativa entre la edad de emplumamiento y el peso, lo que indica que las tasas de crecimiento (y no las fechas de eclosin) tuvieron un efecto importante. La longitud del ala al momento de abandonar el nido fue independiente del crecimiento en trminos de peso. Ms del 80% de los pichones emplumaron cuando alcanzaron un estrecho rango de longitud del ala (130-150 mm), presumiblemente porque permanecieron en sus nidos hasta que alcanzaron la longitud crtica del ala. En cinco de los seis aos los pichones no sicronizaron el momento de emplumamiento con relacin al momento de eclosin. Los pichones que eclosionaron ms tarde alcanzaron pesos pico menores y a menor edad, lo que podra indicar que sus padres disminuyeron las tasas de aprovisionamiento cuando los pichones todava eran jvenes. Sugerimos que la existencia de una longitud del ala crtica para la supervivencia de los volantones y de aprovisionamiento parental variable de acuerdo al momento del apareamiento podran ser mecanismos determinantes de las relaciones entre la edad y el peso de los volantones al momento de emplumar. 
4085542|The songs of 102 male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) were sampled in southern California. Additionally, songs were induced with testosterone in 10 captive females. Females sang only 1 or 2 themes, whereas males averaged 4 themes; males in each recording location shared a repertoire of similar phrases and songs. Song types sung by neighboring males were more similar to each other than to songs of more distant birds. Some females sang themes identical to male songs; others sang simpler songs with fewer syllable types. In a 5-km transect from Occidental to Montecito, four populations (identifiable by population-specific phrases in their songs) were described in a continuum, one replacing the other over a distance of 5 km. Clumped distribution of theme types suggests song development by male-male interaction, as has been reported for other passerines. California House Finches exhibited greater syllable diversity, more themes per locality, and more themes per individual than eastern birds. California House Finches did not exhibit distinct song dialects as did eastern populations; possible reasons for this difference are that eastern House Finches have fewer themes to mimic and thus learn whole songs. California House Finches are older populations with large repertoire sizes and tend to improvise by building new themes with syllables from several songs. It is also possible that California House Finches vary geographically in their tendency to share songs. Song learning in House Finches may promote individual recognition due to improvisation and theme matching by mated pairs.
10.2307/4089867|Many birds exhibit seasonal switches in diet and thus alter nutrients predominating their food intake. We tested for dietary modulation of pancreatic enzymes in Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata), a species for which such dietary changes are documented. Birds were fed three diets formulated from either fruit, insect, or seed. We predicted that pancreatic carbohydrase amylase, and the proteases trypsin and chymotrypsin, would be modulated in direct correlation with relative levels of dietary carbohydrate and protein, respectively. In contrast to the prediction, there was no significant dietary effect on activities of amylase and chymotrypsin, and a significant change in trypsin activity (highest on seed diet) occurred in the wrong direction with regard to the prediction. Considering the statistical power of our tests, we conclude that Yellow-rumped Warblers represent a case of only modest ability, at best, to modulate pancreatic enzymes. For some diets, especially high-starch diets that they digest relatively poorly and on which they tend to lose body mass, they may lack sufficient enzyme and hence are constrained in their dietary niche.
25150297|Recent studies have demonstrated that many birds of mature forests heavily use early-successional habitat during the postbreeding period. Two frequently invoked hypotheses to explain these shifts are that postbreeding birds select (1) dense cover to reduce risk of predation and (2) abundant fruit resources to facilitate foraging. Using mist nets between 15 June and 16 August in 2002 and 2003, we captured mature-forest birds during the postbreeding period in 12 regenerating hardwood clearcuts (three to seven years old) in southeast Ohio. Vegetation structure and fruit resources were measured at nine net locations within each clearcut. We applied an information-theoretic approach, where we used vegetative and fruit variables as predictors in seven a priori models to evaluate how habitat factors might explain capture rates. In two seasons, we captured 1,089 hatch-year (HY) and 445 after-hatch-year (AHY) postbreeding birds of 32 mature-forest species. In general, models reflecting habitat structure (density of low vegetation, canopy height) best explained variation in capture rates, which were negatively related to the density of low vegetation (<1.5 m) and positively related to canopy height. Extremely dense low vegetation may be disadvantageous if it inhibits movements and provides cryptic locations for ground predators. Instead, habitats with greater vertical structure (e.g., taller vegetation) and relatively less dense low vegetation below may provide better protection from aerial and ground predators. Overall, results suggest that vegetation structure may explain high use of early-successional forests by many birds during the postbreeding period, though fruit may be the most important factor for seasonal frugivores. /// Varios estudios han demostrado que muchas aves de bosque maduro utilizan hbitats en estados sucesionales tempranos intensamente despus del perodo reproductivo. Las dos hiptesis que pueden explicar estos cambios son: (1) que las aves post-reproductivas seleccionan reas con una cobertura densa para disminuir el riesgo de depredacin y (2) que las aves post-reproductivas seleccionan reas con abundancia de frutos para facilitar el forrajeo. Utilizando redes de niebla entre el 15 de junio y el 16 de agosto de 2002 y 2003, capturamos aves de bosque maduro durante el periodo post-reproductivo en 12 bosques en regeneracin posterior a tala rasa (de tres a siete aos de edad) en el sudeste de Ohio. Medimos la estructura de la vegetacin y la abundancia de frutos en nueve localidades de captura de aves en cada bosque secundario. Aplicamos un enfoque de teora de la informacin en el cual utilizamos variables vegetativas y de frutos como variables de prediccin en siete modelos definidos a priori para determinar cmo los factores de hbitat podran explicar las tasas de captura. Durante dos estaciones, capturamos 1,089 individuos nacidos en el ao de muestreo y 445 individuos post-reproductivos nacidos en aos anteriores pertenecientes a 32 especies de bosque maduro. En general, los modelos que incluyeron variables de estructura del hbitat (densidad de la vegetacin baja, altura del dosel) fueron los mejores para explicar la variacin en las tasas de captura, las cuales estuvieron relacionadas negativamente con la densidad de la vegetacin baja (<1.5 m) y positivamente con la altura del dosel. Una vegetacin baja extremadamente densa puede ser desventajosa si inhibe el movimiento y si provee lugares crpticos para depredadores terrestres. Contrariamente, los hbitats con una mayor estructura vertical (e.g., vegetacin ms alta) y con una vegetacin baja relativamente menos densa pueden proveer de una mejor proteccin ante depredadores areos y terrestres. En general, estos resultados sugieren que la estructura de la vegetacin puede explicar el uso intenso de bosques en estados sucesionales tempranos durante el perodo post-reproductivo, a pesar de que la presencia de frutos puede ser el factor ms importante para los frugvoros estacionales.
4086715|Disturbed and undisturbed Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) nests were compared for differences in daily survival probabilities and discrepancies in the relationships between nest-site features and nesting outcome. At 3-day intervals, attending adults were flushed from disturbed nests (n = 51), whereas undisturbed nests (n = 50) were checked from a distance so that adults did not flush. Disturbed nests had significantly (P < 0.1) lower daily survival probabilities; this trend was evident during both the incubation and nestling stages, but was significant only during the former. For disturbed nests, two nest-site features (nest-bowl depth and nest support) were related to success (P < 0.1). In contrast, success of undisturbed nests was related to four variables (substrate height above nest level, relative light intensity above the nest, nest concealment, and nest width). These results indicate that standard nest-checking procedures influence nesting success and confound interpretation of relationships between nest-site features and nesting outcome.
10.2307/4088604|We studied bird phenology and abundance patterns relative to rainfall, ground inundation, and food abundance in three mangrove sites of northeastern Venezuela over two complete annual cycles. Bird abundance, breeding and molting activities were assessed through mist-netting sessions scheduled twice monthly. At the same frequency, food abundance was evaluated through the percentage of trees bearing flowers, and by sweep-netting arthropods. The birds' breeding season occurred from the mid-dry to the mid-wet seasons and was linked to the abundance of some arthropod taxa including caterpillars. The higher abundance of arthropods and the presence of breeding activities during the dry season suggest that environmental factors are less limiting in mangroves than in adjacent arid habitats. The abundance of most birds, grouped according to their diet and frequency of mangrove use, varied significantly over time. Many species from other habitats exploited the mangroves in the late-wet and dry seasons to take advantage of a higher food abundance and to join mixed-species flocks. Abundance of Nearctic migrants was correlated with the abundance of several arthropod taxa, and diet analyses suggest that these birds feed opportunistically on seasonal abundant arthropods during their stay in mangroves.
4087804|We compared nutrients in reproductive and nonreproductive tissues of breeding Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) to assess the relative importance of endogenous reserves and exogenous foods. Fat reserves of females increased during rapid follicle growth and varied more widely in size during the early phase of this period. Females began laying with ca. 205 g of fat in reserve and lost 1.8 g of carcass fat for every 1 g of fat contained in their ovary and eggs. Females lost body mass (primarily fat) at a declining rate as incubation advanced. Protein reserves increased directly with dry oviduct mass during rapid follicle growth. This direct relationship was highly dependent upon data from 2 birds and likely biased by structural size. During laying, protein reserves did not vary with the combined mass of dry oviduct and dry egg protein. Between laying and incubation, mean protein reserves decreased by an amount equal to the protein found in 2.1 Canvasback eggs. Calcium reserves did not vary with the cumulative total of calcium deposited in eggs. Mean calcium reserve declined by the equivalent content of 1.2 eggs between laying and incubation. We believe that protein and calcium were stored in small amounts during laying, and that they were supplemented continually by exogenous sources. In contrast, fat was stored in large amounts and contributed significantly to egg production and body maintenance. Male Canvasbacks lost fat steadily-but not protein or calcium-as the breeding season progressed.
90008573|The average number of eggs in a clutch and the size of those eggs play a role in individual fitness. We explored sources of variation in egg allocations of female Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/4088266|We studied roosting behavior of Dunlins (Calidris alpina) during late summer along the coast of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, in relation to tidal cycle, time of day, time of season, and occurrence of predators. Within Angyoyaravak Bay, peak populations of 70,000-100,000 Dunlins occur each year. The major diurnal roost sites were adjacent to intertidal feeding areas, provided an unobstructed view of predators, and were close to shallow waters used for bathing. At one site studied intensively, roosting flocks formed at high water consistently during the day but rarely at night. On about 75% of the days, Dunlins also came to the roost at dawn and dusk when the tide was low. The size of the roosting flock, the length of time birds spent at the roost site, and behavior at the roost site were highly variable throughout the season and significantly affected by both tide level and time of day. Roosting behavior changed significantly between early and late August, as Dunlins underwent heavy wing and body molt, and began premigratory fattening. The reaction of Dunlins to potential predators, the formation of roosting flocks in response to light cues, and seasonal changes in social behavior at the roost site suggested that communal roosting behavior may be related not only to the risk of predation but also to behavior during migration.
10.2307/4088856|I identified acoustical features that distinguish the two song categories, A and B, of the Adelaide's Warbler (Dendroica adelaidae). Like many other wood-warbler species, male Adelaide's Warblers have functionally structured song repertoires such that A and B song categories are distinguished by common usage among males. The particular song types used in a given category, however, vary greatly among individual males. Therefore, I focused my analysis on acoustical features other than song types. Song categories were distinguished by three major features: (1) the sound energy within a given B song was concentrated into a narrower frequency band, which was shifted about 600 Hz lower than for A songs; (2) the structure of B songs tended to be more complex, as they contained more note types and greater contrast between successive types than did A songs (discriminant function analysis using structural and frequency data correctly classified 85% of songs to category); and (3) the singing behavior associated with B-song sequences was more complex, due to inclusion of a larger number of song types, more frequent switching or alternating between them, and a more rapid rate of song delivery. Overall, the B category appears to represent a more complex and lower frequency signal than the A category. Differences between the two song categories, which parallel data available for other paruline species, should reduce signal ambiguity and are consistent with several nonmutually exclusive functional interpretations: The B-song category, used in intrasexual interactions, might represent a more aggressive signal or might be specialized for carrying motivational information. Females might find the higher-frequency A-song category more appeasing or stimulating. Song categories A and B also might be specialized for traveling different distances, at different times of day, or through different microhabitats.
4084831| El lmite noreste de las avifaunas tropicales en el Nuevo Mundo se encuentra en la cuenca del Ro Soto la Marina, Tamaulipas, Mxico. Nos referimos especficamente a las aves se reproducen en el bosque (selva veranera siempreverde) a lo largo del Ro Corona. Un bosque similar en el valle del Ro Bravo en Texas mantiene una avifauna ecolgicamente templada, a pesar de que la mayora de las especies han sido derivadas de los trpicos. Criterios ecolgicos, y no zoogeogrficos, determinan la naturaleza ya sea tropical o templada de las avifaunas en reproduccin. Una avifauna tropical se distingue de una templada en (1) estar localizada bajo 1600 m, (2) en tener una variacin estacional del ndice Shannon-Weiner de menos del 20%, y (3) un ndice Shannon-Weiner mayor de 4.5 de las especies en anidacin, basado en el nmero de machos. Un monzn veraniego y posiblemente un prolongado perido de anidacin de las aves caracterizan el area de estudio del Ro Corona. El monzn teoricamente aumenta la productividad de la comunidad, y el rgimen de reproduccin reduce la competencia entre las aves. Estos factores promueven la diversidad y estabilidad de las avifaunas tpicas de los tropicos. 
90008171|To maximize fitness, breeding adults may respond to environmental processes by adjusting their progenys sex ratios. R. A. Fisher in 1930 hypothesized that frequency-dependent selection would result in equal investment in sons and daughters over the long term, yielding a balanced sex ratio if the costs of raising a son and daughter are equal. Diverse hypotheses have tried to explain population and brood-by-brood deviations from this mean as well as annual variation by focusing on adult sex ratios, resources, abiotic conditions, and female and male quality. We collected data in 20022010 to explore population-level variation in nestling sex ratios in 2 migratory grassland songbird species: the Bobolink (
10.2307/4085496|Prairie and aspen parkland Yellow Warblers are brighter in color and larger in bill length than those from the boreal forest. Yellow Warblers from the MacKenzie River Delta near the arctic coast terminate clines of birds with smaller bill length to the north and darker plumage in forested or coastal habitats. Statistically significant differences in color and bill and wing length among Yellow Warblers killed at a TV tower in western Minnesota conform to patterns of geographic variation and demonstrate that individuals of this species originating from perhaps as far apart as 3,220 km (2,000 mi) were migrating southward together.
10.2307/4088641|I compared the reproductive anatomy of the polygynandrous Smith's Longspur (Calcarius pictus) with two other polygynandrous passerines (Dunnock [Prunella modularis] and Alpine Accentor [P. collaris]) and with a wide range of socially monogamous species. All three polygynandrous species were found to have enlarged testes and cloacal protuberances (i.e. the site of sperm storage) compared to species with other mating systems. Testes lengths in polygynandrous species averaged 44% longer and cloacal protuberances 213% greater in volume than expected for the body sizes of these species. Testes mass in Smith's Longspurs comprised 4.2% of adult body mass or more than twice (2.0%) that found in the congeneric and monogamous Lapland Longspur (C. lapponicus). Smith's Longspurs also had larger cloacal protuberances, larger seminal glomera and higher sperm stores, suggesting a greater overall rate of sperm production than in Lapland Longspurs. In contrast, females of polygynandrous species did not show any consistent differences in the pattern of sperm storage due to increased sperm production by males, although this needs to be evaluated more thoroughly. The enlarged male reproductive organs of Smith's Longspurs and other polygynandrous species appear to have evolved as a consequence of sperm competition, whereby large sperm reserves function to insure paternity through diluting or displacing the ejaculates of rival males.
25488687|Rearing of young has long been considered the energetically most demanding phase of the avian breeding cycle. Arctic-breeding shorebirds expend large amounts of energy during breeding. Because they are too small to carry sufficient stores to sit out the incubation period, they regularly interrupt incubation to feed and still can run short of energy, particularly in species in which one adult takes care of the eggs and chicks alone (uniparental). We measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) and time budgets during incubation and chick rearing in the smallest uniparental Arctic shorebird, the Little Stint (
10.2307/4089164|The tissue allocation hypothesis states that functional maturity and rapid embryonic growth are incompatible at the tissue level. This could explain why precocial birds, which have more mature tissues at hatching, grow more slowly than altricial birds. We evaluated this hypothesis in Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica), which nest in the high arctic where the growing season is very short. We examined growth patterns and dry-matter content (an index of tissue maturation) of various tissues, and the accumulation of fat in 176 goslings collected from hatch on Bylot Island, Northwest Territories, to their staging area at Cap-Tourmente, Quebec (1 to 110 days). The mass-specific growth constant (K = 0.093) of goslings was among the highest of all precocial birds, including ducks. Goslings fledged at only 68% of adult mass, a low value compared with other species. The timing and rate of growth differed among tissues, indicating major shifts in the allocation of protein during growth. Growth rates for body mass, body ash, and total body protein were moderate. Leg muscles and digestive organs had an early and rapid growth rate. Breast muscles had one of the highest growth rates but started to grow very late. Fat accumulation began after fledging, forcing goslings to start southward migration with very little fat reserves. In early-growing tissues (digestive organs and leg muscles), water content was low at hatch, peaked before fledging, and decreased thereafter. This contrasts with the typical pattern in birds of peak values at hatch followed by a monotonic decline during growth. The high dry-matter content of tissues at hatch could be an adaptation to increase thermogenesis of goslings in cold water. A strong inverse relationship between exponential growth rate and functional maturity was found in breast muscles but was absent in early-maturing tissues. Ecological factors seem more important than embryonic constraints in explaining fast growth rates in geese.
10.2307/4089594|We estimated survival rates of adult Southern Buller's Albatrosses (Thalassarche bulleri bulleri) from 1948 to 1997 based on a long-term banding and recapture program at The Snares, New Zealand. Annual survival exceeded 0.95 from 1961 to 1968 and from 1992 to 1997 but declined to between 0.913 and 0.928 from 1969 to 1991. Reduced survival may have resulted from incidental mortality associated with longline and trawl fisheries in the foraging areas of these birds, but it must have been counterbalanced by changes in other population parameters because the population increased greatly in number from 1969 to 1997. Increased trawling activity in areas where albatrosses forage may have benefited the population by providing additional food, which may have enhanced the survival rate of recently fledged birds. We found no indication that survival rates differed between males and females, but an age effect occurred in which survival of birds with at least 25 years of breeding experience was lower than that of less-experienced and presumably younger birds.
4085814|We have employed phenetic and cladistic approaches to analyze frequencies of electromorphs encoded by 25-27 loci in several species of North American thrushes (family Muscicapidae) and their relatives. In broad perspective both methods of data analysis yield similar summaries of probable relationships among these species. All four examined species of Catharus are nearly identical electromorph composition. Hylocichla mustelina is phenetically and cladistically allied to members of Catharus. Both Turdus migratorius and Sialia sialis lie outside the Hylocichla-Catharus clade and are phenetically quite distinct from it and from each other. Despite its current placement in a distinct family, Mimidae, Dumetella carolinensis is cladistically and phenetically more closely allied to the Turdinae than is Regulus calendula, in some classifications a current member of Muscicapidae, subfamily Sylviinae. A major point of ambiguity in our data concerns the relative affinities of Turdus migratorius and Sialia sialis to the Hylocichla-Catharus clade. Phenetically, both are roughly equidistant to that clade, and cladistically our data can yield alternative interpretations. The levels of genetic similarity between muscicapid species at various stages of taxonomic divergence are comparable to previous estimates for other Passeriformes but are far higher than typical estimates for other vertebrate and invertebrate taxa of equal rank.
4086113|In a between-species comparison of icterids, male survival decreases relative to female survival as the degree of sexual size dimorphism increases. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that male size is limited by survival selection in icterids; the degree of size dimorphism is known to correlate with the degree of polygyny in icterids, however, so the decreased relative survival of males in dimorphic species may be caused by some correlate of polygyny other than large size. Survival estimates based on records of recovery of dead birds show positive correlations between male size and male survival and between female size and female survival, but survival estimates based on recaptures of live birds fail to show such relationships.
10.2307/4088734|The phylogeny of jays in the genus Aphelocoma describes the evolutionary appearance or disappearance of helping and other social behaviors that have been much studied in this genus. Using published allozyme data and new behavioral characters we reexamine the phylogeny of Aphelocoma. The best-fitting hypothesis is that the complex social system of the Mexican Jay (Aphelocoma ultramarina), including delayed maturation, helping, plural breeding, and loss of the rattle call, arose from a simpler state in a jay ancestor, perhaps one that already had occasional nonbreeding associates. The interpretation of phylogeny in eastern populations of the Mexican Jay may be complicated by hybridization with the Scrub Jay (A. coerulescens), suggesting the possibility of reticulate evolution in the genus. The Florida Scrub Jay (A. c. coerulescens) appears to be closely related to the population of Scrub Jays in southern Mexico, and together the two constitute a distinct clade within the Scrub Jay superspecies.
90008166|The Common Yellowthroat (
10.2307/4090073| The New World tribe Arini includes 30 genera and represents 148 known species of parrots. A previous phylogenetic study examined nine of those genera and suggested the existence of two groups. Our objective was to better understand the relationships among 14 species from 9 genera belonging to one of those groups. We partially sequenced the 12S and 16S ribosomal DNAs, cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase I, and control region. We improved our understanding of the phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical parrots by adding both taxa and sequences, but the relationships among the deeper lineages were not well resolved. Our results agree with present classifications that place some species formerly in the genus Ara into three additional genera (Primolius, Orthopsittaca, and Diopsittaca). Additionally, we suggest that (1) D. nobilis and Guarouba guarouba are closely related and the genus Aratinga is not monophyletic; (2) diversification of genera may have occurred during the Miocene, and of species within genera during the Pliocene and Pleistocene; and (3) geologic, climatic, and environmental changes in South America may have been related to that diversification. /// A tribo Arini, que ocorre exclusivamente no Novo Mundo, agrega 140 espcies de psitacdeos organizadas em 30 gneros. Em um estudo filogentico prvio foram analisados nove desses gneros e foi sugerida a existncia de dois grupos. Nosso objetivo foi estudar melhor as relaes entre 14 espcies de nove gneros pertencentes a um desses grupos. Ns sequeciamos parcialmente os rDNAs 12S e 16S, o citocromo b, o citocromo oxidase I e a regio controle. Nossos resultados indicam que a adio de txons e de seqncias melhorou a compreenso das relaes filogenticas entre psitacdeos Neotropicais, mas as relaes entre as linhagens mais antigas continuaram mal resolvidas. Nossos resultados so concordantes com a classificao atual que considera que algumas das espcies que pertenciam ao gnero Ara devem estar organizadas em trs gneros adicionais (Primolius, Orthopsittaca e Diopsittaca). Alm disso, sugerimos que Diopsittaca nobilis e Guarouba guarouba so proximamente relacionadas e que o gnero Aratinga no  monofiltico. A diversificao entre gneros deve ter ocorrido durante o Mioceno e a divergncia dentro dos gneros, durante o Plioceno e Pleistoceno. Mudanas geolgicas, climticas e ambientais na Amrica do Sul podem estar relacionadas com tal diversificao. 
4088309|We observed 195 multispecies feeding flocks of birds near Bird Island, South Georgia, between 4 February and 5 March in 1986. Up to 19 seabird species plus Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella) were involved. Black-browed Albatross (Diomedea melanophris), Macaroni Penguins (Eudyptes chrysolophus), and prions (Pachyptila spp.) were the most abundant species. Most flocks were in the vicinity of a large inshore patch of Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba), and most observed feeding was by Black-browed Albatross, which appeared to initiate and dominate the flocks. Short feeding bouts by surface-feeding species appeared to be coupled with the surfacing of penguins and seals. We conclude that foraging penguins and seals caused prey to approach the surface where near-surface foraging species could feed.
10.2307/4090325| The Rufous-crowned Sparrow (Aimophila ruficeps) is a nonmigratory passerine that displays an area-sensitive distribution pattern of abundance in fragmented coastal sagescrub habitat of southern California. To determine if habitat fragmentation negatively affected adult survival, we used Cormack-Jolly-Seber models to compare annual survival probabilities of adult sparrows breeding in habitat adjacent to urban-developed edges to those of birds breeding in the interior of large habitat expanses in San Diego County, 1997-2000. During that period, an El Nio event brought heavy rainfall to the study area, and a La Nia event brought drought. Annual survival probabilities were relatively high for a small passerine (females: 0.69  0.05 SE; males: 0.74  0.04 SE) but, given our data, did not differ between habitat types or with rainfall. Annual resighting probabilities for the birds were strongly associated with variation in rainfall, being high in the wet year and low in the dry year. Mate- and site-fidelity were apparently high, and surveys during the nonbreeding season documented that the sparrows stayed paired and on territories year-round. We hypothesize that the high apparent survivorship of this species is related to its nonmigratory habit and its tendency to curtail reproductive effort during periods of food scarcity. Although our survivorship analysis suggests that the urban-wildland interface does not adversely affect survival of territorial Rufous-crowned Sparrows, our power to detect an effect of habitat edge on survival was low. Thus, we urge caution in concluding that edge effects do not have an ecologically important influence on survival rates in this species. /// Aimophila ruficeps es un ave paseriforme no migratoria que presenta un patrn de distribucin de abundancia afectado por la fragmentacin del matorral costero en el sur de California. Para determinar si la fragmentacin de hbitat afecta la supervivencia de los adultos, utilizamos modelos de Cormack-Jolly-Seber para comparar la probabilidad de supervivencia anual de los adultos que nidifican en hbitats adyacentes a los bordes urbanos con adultos que nidifican en el interior de grandes extensiones de hbitat en el condado de San Diego, entre 1997 y 2000. Durante este perodo un evento El Nio produjo fuertes lluvias en el rea de estudio y un evento La Nia produjo sequa. Las probabilidades de supervivencia anual fueron relativamente altas para este paserino de pequeo tamao (hembras: 0.69  0.05 EE; machos: 0.74  0.04 EE) pero, de acuerdo a nuestros datos, no difirieron entre los tipos de hbitat o con las precipitaciones. Las probabilidades anuales de re-avistamiento de estas aves estuvieron fuertemente asociadas con las variaciones en las precipitaciones, siendo alta en el ao hmedo y baja en el ao seco. Las fidelidades de sitio y de pareja fueron aparentemente altas, y los censos realizados durante la poca no reproductiva mostraron que estas aves permanecieron apareadas y en sus territorios durante todo el ao. Proponemos la hiptesis de que la alta supervivencia aparente de esta especie se relaciona con su hbito no migratorio y con la tendencia a restringir su esfuerzo reproductivo durante los perodos de escasez de alimento. A pesar de que los anlisis de supervivencia sugieren que la interfase de hbitat urbano-silvestre no afecta negativamente la supervivencia de A. ruficeps, el poder de nuestros anlisis para detectar un efecto de borde de hbitat sobre la supervivencia fue bajo. Por esto, recomendamos suma precaucin al concluir que los efectos de borde no tienen una influencia ecolgica importante sobre las tasas de supervivencia en esta especie. 
10.2307/4090473| We describe a new species of Thamnophilus antshrike-T. divisorius (Acre Antshrike)-from the Serra do Divisor of Acre, Brazil. The new species is known from a single small ridge (though we expect that it is present on other, unexplored ridges in the Acre Arch uplands), and is common in the interior of shrubby woodlands on poor soil physiognomically similar to white-sand habitats in the Guianas and Amazonia. Thamnophilus divisorius is sister to T. insignis (Streak-backed Antshrike), a narrow endemic of pantepui, and forms a well-supported clade with that species and T. amazonicus (Amazonian Antshrike). Thamnophilus divisorius occurs in a remote region within a national park in Brazil; despite its limited range, we are optimistic about its future survival. /// Descrevemos uma nova espcie de tamnofildeo (Thamnophilus divisorius, Chocado-Acre) oriunda da serra do Divisor, Acre, Brasil. A nova espcie  conhecida de apenas um nico cume de serra (embora  esperada existir em outras reas similares ainda no pesquisadas nos arredores), e  comm no interior de bosques de vegetao baixa crescendo em solos pobres que lembram habitats de campina de areia branca e vegetaes afins nos Guianas e na Amaznia.  filogeneticamente mais prximo de Thamnophilus insignis (Choca-de-Roraima), espcie de distribuio restrita  regio de pantepui, e forma um clade com Thamnophilus amazonicus (Choca-canela). Thamnophilus divisorius ocorre numa regio remota dentro de um parque nacional e, apesar de ter uma distribuio extremamente restrita, estamos otimistas sobre a sua sobrevivncia no futuro. 
4086073|I studied the responses of territorial male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) to playback of only the introductory notes of a conspecific advertisement song and to playback of the full song. The strength of response to these playbacks differed depending upon the sequence of presentation. When playback of only introductory notes preceded playback of a full song, the introductory components elicited little or no response. When playback of introductory components followed playback of full song, however, the strength of response to the introductories did not differ significantly from that to the full song. A similar effect of playback order was seen when the introductory notes of a Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) song were presented in sequence with a full redwing song in a similar manner. These results suggest that, after arousal by an effective control signal, birds will respond to what was initially a signal of low stimulus value.
10.2307/4088511|A technique was developed to measure oxygen consumption during singing in captive male Carolina Wrens (Thryothorus ludovicianus). Oxygen consumption during singing varied between individuals, which may have been a result of variation in singing rates. The average basal rate of metabolism was estimated to be 3.31
10.1525/auk.2010.10132|Beak abnormalities are rare among adult birds and, typically, are not widespread in a given population, within a region, or across multiple species. A high concentration of beak deformities was recently documented in Black-capped Chickadees (
10.2307/4088601|Sibley and Ahlquist's phylogeny of the birds ("The Tapestry") has drawn both praise and criticism. Two major criticisms are that trees were based on incomplete distance matrices and that their tree-building algorithm (UPGMA) was inappropriate. Their 1990 book answered critics by including several complete matrices analyzed by the Fitch-Margoliash algorithm. Matrices were constructed by combining species into composite taxa, which requires additional (possibly defensible) assumptions and introduces additional (probably random) error. Three problems remain: (1) The algorithm used does not always find the best-fit topology, depending on taxon order. (2) The error variance of the data does not fit the assumptions of the Fitch-Margoliash algorithm. The assumptions of the algorithms of Fitch and Margoliash and of Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards are limiting cases that bracket the truth. (3) Even a matrix with no phylogenetic content has a best-fit topology; some test of the strength of support for branches on a tree is required. To address these problems, I analyzed: (1) each matrix several times with different orderings of taxa and with user-defined trees; (2) each matrix with both algorithms; (3) upper-right and lower-left halves of each matrix separately, performed a complete set of single-taxon jackknifings, and created a jackknife strict consensus of all best-fit trees using both algorithms. Based on these analyses, 97 of 173 interior branches (56%) on the FITCH trees published by Sibley and Ahlquist (1990) were still present in my consensus trees. Many trees remained nearly intact; others collapsed into polytomies. I found that 11 of 97 remaining branches (11%) contradict the Tapestry. I conclude that the data in Sibley and Ahlquist (1990), properly analyzed, have a strong phylogenetic signal.
10.2307/4089277|I studied 357 nesting attempts by a minimum of 473 Barn Owls (Tyto alba) in northern Utah from 1977 to 1995, and documented lifetime reproductive success for 262 owls. Mean age of first breeding was 1.06 years (range <1 to 3), mean number of years breeding was 1.30 (range 1 to 7), and mean number of years breeding successfully was 1.03 (range 0 to 6). Eleven percent of the pairs produced two broods in one year. Mean number of eggs produced in a lifetime was 9.76 (range 1 to 66), and mean number of young fledged was 5.58 (range 0 to 50). Eight percent of the females laid 25% of the population's eggs, and 55% laid 75%. Of the females that laid eggs, 22% produced no fledglings. Twelve percent of the females left breeding descendants in the population with up to four generations traced; the number of direct descendants from these females ranged from 3 to 69. Longer-lived owls produced more eggs and fledglings in their lifetimes, but age that breeding began did not strongly affect lifetime reproductive success. Breeding age had a weak but nonsignificant effect on clutch size and the number of fledglings produced in a breeding season. Habitat variability did not affect LRS, but sites with higher usage were correlated with higher nesting success. Variability in the severity of winter weather had a strong influence on LRS through mortality of adults, reduction in clutch size, and in the likelihood of producing two broods in one season. Severe winters, though, had little effect on the number of fledglings in a brood in the following breeding season. Age and sex of Barn Owls had very little influence on individual LRS.
4087127|Spring migration patterns of 18 species of paruline warbler at Prince Edward Point, Ontario showed that males arrived earlier than females in all species. Adult males arrived significantly earlier than second-year males in American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla), and there was evidence for a similar trend in other species. The difference in mean arrival dates between the sexes was greatest in species that arrived earliest. Similarly, within species, the difference between sexes was greatest in years when the males arrived earliest. For individuals within a species there was a significant negative correlation between arrival date and wing length; however, males of a particular size generally arrived earlier than females of the same size. Thus, larger size may be an advantage to early arrival, but is not sufficient to explain the difference in arrival between sexes. Species that winter furthest north arrived earliest, but sexual differences in wintering grounds have not been reported. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that males are selected to arrive as early as food resources or climatic conditions are adequate, whereas females arrive later, closer to the time when they can successfully begin nesting.
25488563|Abundance estimation is central to avian ecology. For replicated counts,
90008063|Colorful plumage traits in birds may convey multiple, redundant, or unreliable messages about an individual. Plumage may reliably convey information about disparate qualities such as age, condition, and parental ability because discrete tracts of feathers may cause individuals to incur different intrinsic or extrinsic costs. Few studies have examined the information content of plumage in a species that inhabits forest canopies, a habitat with unique light environments and selective pressures. We investigated the information content of four plumage patches (blue-green crown and rump, tail white, and black breast band) in a canopy-dwelling species, the Cerulean Warbler (
4086457|Samples of secondary remiges collected from nestling Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) in Alaska and western Greenland were analyzed for trace-element content using instrumental neutron-activation analysis. Concentrations of 14 trace elements were subjected to a series of multivariate discriminant function analyses to ascertain whether or not these concentrations could be used to identify the geographic origins of the birds sampled. Individual falcons from the three areas studied can be placed in their proper natal locale with 100% predictability. Mercury (Hg) was the best individual discriminator for separating sample groupings. Aluminum (A1) and Vanadium (V), in conjunction with Hg, provided the most discriminant trio of elements when various groupings of element concentrations were considered as predictors.
10.1525/auk.2009.09080|Using a Canadian weather surveillance radar (CWSR), we assessed the relationship between aural passerine counts and radar reflectivity during autumn migration on 16 nights. Reflectivity was positively correlated on all but 1 night with the number of birds detected aurally, but the correlation strength varied between 0.58 and 0.93 among nights (mean  SD = 0.69  0.42). Using linear mixed-effects models with aural counts nested within nights, we found that the number of birds detected by observers increased with reflectivity. The slope of this relationship did not vary between observers, nor was it affected by time since sunset, but the number of birds detected aurally tended to be lower when ambient noise levels were high. We know that the radar was relatively sensitive to low bird densities, because the intercept was slightly positive and its 95% confidence interval marginally included zero. However, the relationship between the number of birds detected aurally and reflectivity varied significantly among nights. Such variation was likely caused by a combination of (interacting) factors, including bird species and behavior (e.g., calling rate, flight altitude), influencing bird detectability by the observers and the radar. The weather radar network of the United States (NEXRAD) is already used for bird migration studies, and we conclude that the use of CWSR can extend NEXRAD's coverage farther north by hundreds of kilometers, thereby increasing our understanding of how birds use the North American landscapes during migration.
10.2307/4088981|Studies of how avian helpers influence reproduction have concentrated on mean effects. We examined the effects helpers have on variance in reproductive success and breeder survival in the Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis). Variance in reproduction and survival are components of fitness, and increased variance results in decreased fitness. We found that helpers did not affect variance in breeder survival, but variance in reproductive success was affected by helpers at nests that produced young. When we exclude groups in which breeding failed or was not attempted, reproductive success is more variable among groups with one helper than among groups with no helpers or groups with two helpers, regardless of the age of the female breeder. A survey of the literature showed no clear pattern in other cooperative breeders, although the presence of helpers often was associated with higher variances. Like helper effects on mean reproductive success, helper effects on variance in reproductive success might be confounded by effects of habitat quality.
10.1525/auk.2011.11091|Understanding the connectivity between breeding and nonbreeding populations of migratory birds is fundamental to our knowledge of biological phenomena such as population dynamics and dispersal. Moreover, our ability to quantify migratory connectivity has inevitable consequences for both conservation and management of species that utilize distinct geographic locations. Technology is rapidly advancing our ability to track birds throughout the annual cycle and to collect data on the degree of connectivity among breeding and nonbreeding populations. We combined two direct methods, markrecapture (
10.1525/auk.2012.12071|We describe a new species of storm-petrel,
4087954|From 1985 to 1989, we examined 120 nesting attempts by urban-breeding Merlins (Falco columbarius) in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. Males showed significantly higher levels of site fidelity from year to year than females. Males returned to the same nesting area 61% of the time (n = 28), while females returned to the same nesting area a second year only 28% of the time (n = 39). Mate fidelity was low among Merlins in this population (only 20% of 60 pairings contained the same birds for two successive years), and it appeared largely related to the degree of site fidelity. The rate of interyear mate switching in this population (change of mate when both members of a pair were known to be alive the second year) was >68% (n = 19). Among males, mate and site fidelity were statistically independent. Thus, when males maintained the same nesting area between years, the probability of retaining the same mate was no better than by chance (58% of 12 males found retaining the same nesting area were paired with a different mate the second year, compared with 85% of 7 males who moved to a different nesting area and acquired a different mate). In contrast, among females, mate and site fidelity were not independent. Females who changed nesting area were unlikely to have the same mate (91% of 11 females), but those that remained on the same site were more likely to have the same mate (71% of 7 females). There was no apparent benefit of site or mate fidelity to Merlin productivity, measured as the number of young produced per nesting attempt. Birds that had been paired for two or more years did not have significantly higher productivity than those pairs that remained together for only one year. Likewise, previous experience on a site did not significantly improve an individuals' productivity when both birds were the same or only one of the pair was the same, compared with that of pairs where both birds were new to the site. Low site and mate fidelity within this population may reflect the absence of selective pressure favoring fidelity.
10.2307/4090150| Previous studies suggest that Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) are area sensitive and apparently avoid forest edges. In 1999 and 2000, we used radiotelemetry to investigate how breeding male Ovenbirds respond to forest edges. Twenty-one males with home ranges abutting edges of seven forest fragments surrounded by agriculture were tracked for an average of two weeks. We found that sightings of males were situated 8  10 m closer to edges than random locations within each home range. However, the mean time of day for edge sightings (1139 hours, 95% CI = 1052-1227 hours) occurred significantly later than the mean for sightings in the interior of forest fragments (0936 hours, 95% CI = 0856-1016 hours). That indicates that previous studies focusing on morning singing locations to delineate home-range use have likely underestimated use of edges by birds. Habitat characteristics also varied in relation to edges. Forest canopy was lower, shrubs were denser, leaf-litter thicker, and soils dryer near edges than in the portion of home ranges facing the interior of forest fragments. Arthropod biomass varied little in relation to edges, except biomass of larvae, which was greatest at edges. Boreal forest edges abutting agricultural fields do not appear to reduce habitat use or quality for breeding male Ovenbirds, and so we suggest that the generalized association between area sensitivity and edge avoidance for Ovenbirds in forest fragments be reassessed. /// Il a t suggr par des tudes prcdentes que les Parulines Couronnes (Seiurus aurocapillus) sont sensibles  leur environnement physique et semblent viter les lisires. En 1999 et 2000, nous avons utilis la tlmtrie pour comprendre comment les mles reproducteurs de Paruline Couronne ragissent par rapport aux lisires. Vingt et un mles prsentant des domaines vitaux contigus  des lisires ont t suivis pendant deux semaines en moyenne dans sept fragments de fort retrouvs en milieu agricole. Nous avons remarqu que les observations de mles taient situes plus proches de 8  10 m des lisires que des localisations alatoires  l'intrieur de chaque domaine vital. Nanmoins, l'heure moyenne des observations ralises au niveau des lisires pendant le jour (1139 heures, IC 95% = 1052-1227 heures) tait significativement plus tardive que l'heure moyenne des observations effectues  l'intrieur des fragments (0936 heures, IC 95% = 0856-1016 heures). Ceci indique que les tudes prcdentes, qui se sont bases sur la localisation des chants en matine pour dfinir l'utilisation du domaine vital, ont probablement sous-estim l'utilisation des lisires par les oiseaux.  proximit des lisires, la canope tait plus basse, les arbustes plus denses, la litire plus paisse, et les sols plus secs compars aux secteurs des domaines vitaux retrouvs  l'intrieur des fragments. La biomasse d'arthropodes variait peu en fonction de la lisire, excepte la biomasse de larves, qui tait plus importante au niveau des lisires. En fort borale, les lisires contigus aux champs agricoles ne semblent pas rduire l'utilisation ou la qualit de l'habitat pour les mles reproducteurs de Paruline Couronne. Nous suggrons donc que l'association gnralise entre la sensibilit  l'environnement physique et le fait d'viter les lisires en fort fragmente chez la Paruline Couronne soit rexamine. 
10.1525/auk.2011.10101|Clark's Nutcracker (
10.1525/auk.2010.09213|Sexual size dimorphism occurs throughout the animal kingdom, and its ecological and evolutionary causes and implications have been intensively studied. Sex-specific differences in bill curvature are known in several species of birds, including some tropical hummingbirds. Despite the importance of bill shape for foraging, comparative studies of sexual dimorphism of bill shape are few. We quantified bill shape in two temperate hummingbird species, Black-chinned Hummingbird (
4086967|Of 605 Boat-tailed Grackle (Quiscalus major) nests with complete clutches, 60.5% fledged young. Survival of nests to the hatching stage averaged 78.7%, and survival from hatching to fledging averaged 76.9%. Nesting success between localities varied from none to almost all nests fledging some young. Fledging success for 3-egg clutches averaged 64.8% and was significantly higher than the 50.8% success rate that 2-egg clutches averaged. Individual survival of eggs from laying through hatching was lower in 2-egg clutches than in 3-egg clutches, but from hatching to fledging nestling survival was higher. Thus, in contrast to nest survival, equal proportions of eggs in 2- and 3-egg clutches produced fledglings. Predation was the greatest source of mortality, with predators taking 14.8% of the 1,605 eggs and 13.1% of the 1,145 nestlings. Of eggs that survived to the hatching stage, 9.2% failed to hatch. Starvation (13.4%) was the most common source of nestling mortality. Nest abandonment accounted for the death of 5.7% of the eggs and 2.9% of the young. The sources of mortality varied spatially and temporally in an unpredictable way. This uncertainty has resulted in the flexible nesting biology of grackles.
10.2307/4088640|The Rufous-sided Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) is a forest-generalist species that migrates short distances, with most of its range confined to the contiguous United States. Using migration count data from the northeastern United States, national Breeding Bird Survey data, and regional Christmas Bird Count data, I show that the towhee is making one of the most dramatic declines of a non-endangered species yet reported in the United States. Breeding Bird Survey data from New England states show that the towhee has been declining monotonically at about 8 to 10% per year. Populations in the Northeast are now at levels only about 13% of what they were when the Breeding Bird Survey began in 1966. Christmas Bird Count data from the southeastern United States also showed a decline in towhees, whereas Breeding Bird Survey data from the same region showed smaller declines, or no declines. This suggests that declines in wintering migratory towhees from the Northeast might explain most of the declines found in the Southeast using Christmas Bird Count data. The most likely explanation for this long-term, chronic decline in New England towhees is a gradual reversion of southern New England from a landscape with much early-successional habitat to a more forested landscape. Natural forest succession, following human-induced forest changes earlier in this century, may explain the current declines in towhees.
10.2307/4090100|The Rufous Vanga (Schetba rufa) is a cooperative breeder. Although young males typically remain in natal territories, yearling females do not remain, but disperse to breed for themselves. The male-biased sex ratio likely restricts independent reproduction by young males. We analyzed demographic data from a seven-year study of the Rufous Vanga in Madagascar to estimate the mortality for each sex. We also examined the sex ratio at fledging and at hatching, sexing nestlings with DNA analysis on sex chromosomes. Analyses indicated that the biased sex ratio was due to differential mortality of fledglings rather than the bias at birth. We suggest that the delayed dispersal improved survival of auxiliary males. /// La especie Schetba rufa presenta cra cooperativa. Mientras que los machos juveniles tpicamente permanecen en sus territorios natales, las hembras aales se dispersan para criar por s mismas. La proporcin de sexos est sesgada hacia los machos, lo que probablemente restringe la posibilidad de reproducirse independientemente para los machos jvenes. Para estimar la mortalidad de cada sexo, analizamos datos demogrficos de un estudio de siete aos sobre S. rufa en Madagascar. Tambin examinamos la proporcin de sexos al momento del abandono del nido y de la eclosin, determinando el sexo de los pichones por medio de anlisis de ADN de cromosomas sexuales. Los anlisis indicaron que el sesgo en la proporcin de sexos refleja mortalidad diferencial de los volantones y no un sesgo presente desde el nacimiento. Sugerimos que retrasar la dispersin incrementa la supervivencia de los machos ayudantes.
25150309|Females may maximize their lifetime reproductive output by adjusting their investment in each breeding event to the perceived likelihood of success. The Blue-footed Booby (Sula nebouxii) is a long-lived seabird with facultative siblicide. We examined whether there is differential resource allocation to eggs with laying order and whether greater egg mass increases hatching probability, chick survival, hatching interval, and mass and size at hatching. We found that the relative investment in first and second eggs decreased as the season advanced: second eggs were slightly (1.5%) heavier than first eggs in early clutches; by contrast, first eggs were 2% heavier than second eggs in late clutches. Accordingly, hatching probability increased with laying date for first eggs and decreased for second eggs. The mass of the egg increased hatching probability, and no effect on chick survival was detected. Laying interval increased after a heavier egg was laid, and heavier eggs produced heavier hatchlings. Hatching intervals were positively related to laying intervals, but egg mass was unrelated to the length of the incubation period and the hatching interval. Our results suggest that egg mass influences embryo survival and that Blue-footed Booby females may adaptively allocate resources to eggs of different laying order according to breeding conditions. /// Las hembras podran maximizar su xito reproductivo de por vida ajustando su inversin en cada evento reproductivo en funcin de la probabilidad de xito esperada. Sula nebouxii es un ave marina de vida larga que presenta fratricidio facultativo. En este trabajo examinamos si hay asignacin de recursos diferencial a huevos con diferente orden de puesta, y si los huevos de mayor peso tienen una mayor probabilidad de eclosin, supervivencia de cras, e intervalo de eclosin, y si producen cras mas grandes y pesadas al momento de eclosionar. Encontramos que la inversin relativa en el primer y segundo huevo disminuye al avanzar la temporada: los huevos puestos en segundo lugar fueron ligeramente (1.5%) ms pesados que los huevos puestos primero en puestas tempranas. De modo contrastante, los huevos puestos primero fueron un 2% ms pesados que los huevos puestos en segundo lugar en puestas tardas. De modo concordante con lo anterior, la probabilidad de eclosin aument con la fecha de puesta para los huevos puestos en primer lugar y disminuy para los huevos puestos en segundo lugar. El peso del huevo aument la probabilidad de eclosin, pero no se detect ningn efecto en la supervivencia de la cra. El intervalo de puesta aument despus de la puesta de huevos de mayor peso, y los huevos ms pesados produjeron cras ms pesadas. Los intervalos de eclosin se relacionaron positivamente con los intervalos de puesta, pero el peso del huevo no se relacion con la duracin del periodo de incubacin ni con el intervalo de eclosin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el peso del huevo influye en la supervivencia del embrin, y que las hembras S. nebouxii podran estar asignando recursos adaptativamente a los huevos de diferente puestos en distintos momentos de la puesta de acuerdo a las condiciones reproductivas.
4087960|I compared spacing of Field Sparrow (Spizella pusilla) and White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) groups feeding on three different-sized food patches with random spacing generated by a computer simulation. I used mean nearest-neighbor distance to measure spacing in groups of 2-4 birds. Both species fed farther apart than random on the smallest patch. Field Sparrows fed closer than randomly positioned birds on the largest patch and similar to random on the medium-sized patch. White-throated Sparrows, with larger individual distances, spaced themselves farther apart on the medium patch, and closer than or similar to random on the large patch. Both species preferred to feed close to cover, provided by a brush pile. Maintenance of individual distances tended to increase nearest-neighbor distance, relative to random spacing, on small patches. The birds' affinity for cover tended to concentrate individuals near a brush pile on large patches. Sparrows faced a trade-off of feeding close to cover or maintaining individual distances that reduce the probability of social aggression.
10.2307/4089236|We examined how variation in parental quality influences the reproductive success of a long-lived seabird, the Antarctic Petrel (Thalassoica antarctica). In particular, we focused on how quality of parents can interact with and influence the effects of stochastic variation in the environment due to varying climatic conditions. Large annual variation was found in reproductive success. However, body mass of individual chicks at the end and beginning of the nestling period was strongly correlated in two of the study years, suggesting consistent variation among parents in their ability to feed offspring. Furthermore, chick mass was related both to overall body size and to body mass of their parents. Short brooding-shift intervals also were important for growth and survival of chicks. The probability of chick survival to the age of 30 days (ca. two weeks before fledging) was strongly correlated with chick mass when the chick was left unattended. However, the relative importance of different parental characteristics differed between years. These results show that reproductive success of the Antarctic Petrel is influenced by stochastic variation in the environment, probably related to climatic conditions. Effects of this stochastic variation may depend on body mass and/or body condition of the parents.
10.1525/auk.2013.12216|Millions of migratory and resident passerines molt in southwestern North America each summer, when ecological productivity spikes in response to the North American Monsoon. Although a monsoon-region molt is a critical event in the annual cycle of many species, the benefits of molting in the monsoon region are unclear. I used museum specimens to compare molt dynamics of the Vermilion Flycatcher (
10.2307/4088503|We tested the hypothesis that wintering populations of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) segregate into different habitats by sex in response to ecological conditions associated with an extensive dry season, which typically develops after migrants arrive in northern Neotropical sites. Sex-specific distribution and overwinter persistence of redstarts were quantified at a Jamaican mangrove-scrub ecotone. We also contrasted vegetation structure and food availability in winter territories of the two sexes and in both habitats within and between seasons. Male and female redstarts were significantly segregated by habitat, with males holding territories in mangroves and females predominantly in contiguous scrub habitat. However, we found no significant sex-based difference in overwinter persistence on territories. The average mangrove territory had a higher canopy and more-open understory, higher relative humidity, and greater insect biomass within a season for several insect orders important in redstart diets. Canopy (leaf) cover and abundances of several insect taxa remained more constant over the dry season in mangrove than in scrub habitat. We argue that these between-habitat differences, especially seasonal stability of vegetation features and food abundances in mangrove habitats, affect winter habitat quality for nonbreeding redstarts.
10.2307/4089465|Males of the Old World quail genus Coturnix are unique among birds in possessing a well-developed proctodeal gland. The gland and associated cloacal musculature are sexually dimorphic, androgen dependent, and produce a foamy substance that is introduced into the female along with semen during copulation, suggesting that the foam plays some role in increasing male reproductive success. I experimentally tested three hypotheses about the function of this foam in Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica): (1) foam functions in sperm competition, (2) foam reduces the female's receptivity to a second male, and (3) foam increases the probability of fertilization when a hard-shelled egg is present in the uterus (hypothesis 3 was originally proposed by Cheng et al. 1989a). Insemination shortly before oviposition fertilized fewer eggs than inseminations earlier in the day, but only if males had a reduced foam complement, supporting the third hypothesis. The other two hypotheses were not supported. Copulation reduced female receptivity, but this effect was not due to the male's foam.
25150257|Male and female birds can exhibit striking differences in morphology (dimorphism), including exaggerated plumage structures, size differences, and feather color differences, yet most species are considered to have identical sexes. Classification of a species as sexually monochromatic (identical coloration between the sexes) has traditionally been based on human visual perception. Research over the past two decades has shown that birds see each other and the world differently than their human investigators; these visual differences, combined with objective color measurements, suggest that traditional assessments of plumage coloration may be questionable from an avian visual perspective (Cuthill et al. 1999). I tested the avian reality of human categorization of sexually monochromatic plumages for North American passerines. I found, on the basis of plumage-reflectance data and modeled avian color-discrimination thresholds, that 91.6% of the presumed sexually monochromatic species I sampled are sexually dichromatic to birds, which confirms the rarity of sexually monochromatic bird species. This study informs future work as to potential sources of plumage signals hidden from human observers and generates testable predictions regarding avian sex-recognition via plumage signals. /// Los machos y las hembras de algunas especies de aves pueden exhibir marcadas diferencias morfolgicas (dimorfismo), incluyendo estructuras exageradas en el plumaje, diferencias de tamao y diferencias en la coloracin del plumaje. Sin embargo, en la mayora de las especies los sexos son considerados idnticos. La clasificacin de una especie como sexualmente monocromtica (coloracin idntica entre los sexos) se ha basado tradicionalmente en la percepcin visual humana. Investigaciones realizadas durante las ltimas dos dcadas han mostrado que las aves se ven entre ellas y al mundo de una manera diferente a la de sus investigadores humanos. Estas diferencias visuales, en combinacin con medidas objetivas del color, sugieren que las evaluaciones tradicionales de la coloracin del plumaje pueden ser cuestionadas desde la perspectiva visual de las aves (Cuthill et al. 1999). Evalu la realidad para las aves de las categorizaciones humanas de los plumajes sexualmente monocromticos de aves paserinas de Norte Amrica. Basndome en datos de reflexin del plumaje y umbrales de discriminacin de colores modelados para aves, encontr que el 91.6% de las especies que muestre y que se presuman sexualmente monocromticas, son en realidad sexualmente dicromticas para las aves, lo cual confirma la rareza de especies sexualmente monocromticas. Este estudio indica las potenciales fuentes de sealizacin del plumaje que no son visibles para los observadores humanos y genera predicciones que pueden ser probadas acerca del reconocimiento de los sexos en las aves a travs de sealizaciones del plumaje.
10.2307/4087757| In paired preference tests Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) preferred glucose, fructose, and a mixture of glucose and fructose over sucrose. Preferences for simple sugars were ranked as: glucose = glucose + fructose > fructose > sucrose. To be absorbed by the brush border membrane, sucrose is hydrolyzed into its monosaccharide components, glucose and fructose. Because Cedar Waxwings preferred glucose and fructose over sucrose, we predicted that they would be sucrase deficient. We tested this by measuring the efficiency with which Cedar Waxwings absorbed glucose, fructose, and sucrose in vivo, and by directly assaying for sucrase in preparations of intestinal mucosa. Absorption efficiencies measured using a double isotope method falsified our prediction. Cedar Waxwings were able to absorb sucrose (absorption efficiency = 61%  1.2), but absorbed glucose and fructose more efficiently (absorption efficiencies = 92%  1.5 and 88%3.5, respectively). The presence of sucrase activity in Cedar Waxwings was confirmed in preparations of intestinal mucosa. Using a radioactively labeled inert marker, we found very short mean residence times of food particles in the gut of Cedar Waxwings (ca. 41 min). Because sucrose has to be hydrolyzed before it can be absorbed, the efficiency with which it is utilized may be hindered by the extremely fast passage rates in Cedar Waxwings. We suggest that the preference of Cedar Waxwings for monosaccharides over sucrose is due to the relative inefficiency of sucrose absorption. However, absorption efficiencies cannot explain the strong preference of glucose over fructose. In consequence, neither the caloric value of the sugars nor the absorption efficiency was adequate to explain the sugar preferences exhibited by Cedar Waxwings. We conclude that the preferences for simple sugars appear to be determined by the complex interaction between digestive constraints, postingestional effects, and taste. 
10.2307/4086772|Egg sex, size, and laying sequence were determined for 44 three-egg and 129 four-egg Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) clutches collected in 1982 and 1983. The proportion of males decreased with laying sequence in three-egg clutches and increased with laying sequence in four-egg clutches. In both three- and four-egg clutches, egg size increased with laying sequence. However, egg sex was independent of egg size for both clutch sizes, indicating that the sex-sequence and size-sequence patterns are independent of each other. No support was found for the hypothesis that these patterns represent adaptive strategies associated with hatching asynchrony and clutch reduction or with the predictability of egg infertility. Therefore it remains undetermined whether these patterns represent adaptive strategies or real but nonadaptive artifacts.
25488518|Extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) are an important component of many socially monogamous mating systems. However, information about the reproductive tactics used by male and female birds in extrapair mating systems is still rare. We used radiotelemetry to measure territory use, forays, and mate association in Wood Thrush (
10.2307/4087615| Dark-rumped Petrels (Pterodroma phaeopygia phaeopygia) in the Galpagos archipelago breed on several islands. Life-history characteristics such as mate and site fidelity, large egg size, long incubation periods, long incubation bouts, and chick growth patterns are similar to those of other procellarids. Adults nest annually, but the timing of breeding is out-of-phase among the islands of Floreana, Santa Cruz, and Santiago. Banding data for 1,500 adults and juveniles indicated that little or no interbreeding occurs among islands. From adult morphological characteristics measured during five years on Floreana and one year on both Santiago and Santa Cruz, we found that on Floreana, adults were sexually monomorphic in all measured characteristics except bill height, and the adults from Floreana tended to be larger in both size and mass than adults from the other two islands. The possibility that each island's population is distinct should be considered when formulating management plans concerning this species. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09135|Avian breeding success generally declines with later laying because of seasonal reductions in food supply, late laying by less capable pairs, or both. To understand the direct fitness consequences of breeding time requires distinguishing between these two possibilities. We used egg removal and re-laying experiments to evaluate how date and parental quality affect breeding success in a zooplanktivorous seabird, Cassin's Auklet (
10.2307/4088501|In March of 1982-1984 and 1986-1990 we counted carcasses of Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) along the Chubut coast of Argentina. The number of carcasses found per kilometer of beach on the shoreline ranged from 49 in 1982 to 9 in 1990. In 1984, 22% of the dead penguins were oiled as compared to 66% in 1987. Oiled penguins were found along all parts of the Chubut coast showing that chronic oil pollution is not a local problem. Oiled carcasses were more common near oil ports, where oil pollution is probably worse, and they were more common on headlands than away from the ports or in bays. More fledglings than adults were found dead along the coast. Approximately 65% of dead adults and 31% of dead fledglings were oiled. In years when the natural mortality rate was low for adults (1986 and 1987), a higher percent of the carcasses had petroleum, suggesting oil was an important cause of adult mortality. Starvation appeared to be the most common cause of death for fledglings, whereas petroleum pollution was the main cause of death for adults. We estimate that at least 1.1% of the adult population and 6.0% of the fledglings are oiled in February and March of each year. Since penguins migrate twice a year, more than 20,000 adults and 22,000 juveniles may be killed along 3,000 km of Argentine coast (Chubut and Santa Cruz) each year due to oil pollution. These data suggest that chronic petroleum pollution is a significant mortality factor for adult Magellanic Penguins along the coast of Argentina and may be depressing population numbers.
10.2307/4089160|I studied variation in the duration of the incubation period of Black Kites (Milvus migrans) with respect to laying order, egg size, clutch size, and timing of the start of incubation. I estimated the duration of the incubation period and the effect of the onset of incubation by experimentally advancing or delaying the start of incubation. Egg mass and clutch size had no clear effect on incubation duration. First-laid eggs in clutches where I delayed the start of incubation had the longest incubation periods. Hatching in these experimental clutches occurred in reverse order to that of laying. High environmental temperatures during the period that eggs were maintained unincubated prolonged the duration of incubation. Third-laid eggs in clutches where I advanced the start of incubation had the shortest incubation periods. This result was consistent with correlations found between total and partial hatching spreads of control clutches. Recent studies have provided evidence of shortened incubation periods of last-laid eggs in several groups of birds. Shortened incubation periods of last-laid eggs could be due to advanced hatching through vocal communication among embryos, which could counteract the negative influence of long hatching spreads on survival of last-hatched chicks. Aside from benefits to chicks of last-laid eggs, shortened incubation periods in the Black Kite also may serve parental interests, because there is evidence of a parent-offspring conflict over brood reduction. Final hatching spread (time between end of hatching of first and last eggs) mirrored initial hatching spread (time between start of hatching of first and last eggs) but was slightly longer. An additional (or alternative) function of vocalizations by unhatched chicks could be to enhance parental incubation of later-laid eggs after earlier-laid eggs have hatched.
10.2307/4089167|The narrow woodlands and wooded barrier islands along the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico provide the first available landfall for Neotropical landbird migrants after their spring trans-Gulf flight. We studied the timing, volume, fat stores, length of stay, and fat deposition of thrushes (n = 1,903) during stopover at a coastal Louisiana woodland in 1987, 1988, and 1990. Peak migration occurred around mid-April in Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) and was one to two weeks later for Catharus thrushes. More than one-third of the thrushes carried no observable subcutaneous fat stores upon initial capture, and only 5% of the birds had estimated fat stores that exceeded 20% of lean body mass. Body mass and condition index (mass/wing length) were negatively related to time of capture, suggesting that birds captured later in the day arrived with lower fat stores. Wing size varied negatively with capture date, suggesting differential migration between sexes and among age classes and/or populations. Recapture probability was related to the amount of fat stores upon initial capture, and length of stay was predictable from estimated fat stores, rate and amount of fat replenishment, and capture date. Flight range estimates suggest that most thrushes captured in spring along the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico are unable to reach breeding destinations in a single flight. A series of short flights may represent a better migratory strategy than attempting to cover the same distance in one long flight.
10.2307/4090141| Bright-rumped Attilas (Attila spadiceus) have two song forms, one sung primarily at dawn, the other primarily during the rest of the day. Both songs consist of a main phrase and an optional terminal phrase. Our recordings of dawn and day songs in Costa Rica were very similar to those made elsewhere in Central America. However, Central American dawn songs were significantly different than dawn songs from South America, both in terms of quantitative features (temporal and frequency variables) and qualitative characteristics (note shape). Day songs from Central and South America were similar. Song differences suggest that the Bright-rumped Attila may be two species, one in Central America, the other in South America. /// Attila spadiceus tiene dos tipos de canto, uno emitido principalmente al amanecer y otro emitido durante el resto del da. Ambos cantos consisten de una frase principal y una frase terminal opcional. Nuestras grabaciones de cantos del amanecer y el da fueron muy similares a otros hechos en otros lugares de Centro Amrica. Sin embargo, los cantos del amanecer centroamericanos fueron significativamente diferentes de los suramericanos, en trminos de caracteres tanto cuantitativos (variables de tiempo y frecuencia) como cualitativos (forma de las notas). Los cantos del da de Centro y Sur Amrica fueron similares. Las diferencias en el canto sugieren que A. spadiceus podra comprender dos especies, una centroamericana y una suramericana. 
4085968|The Hook-billed Kite (Chondrohierax uncinatus), a neotropical, snail-eating raptor, exhibits extraordinary intraspecific variation in bill size, which is unrelated to sex and age and is largely independent of geographic origin. Bill size varies much more than overall body size and is bimodally distributed in many parts of the kite's range. Plumage is also highly variable; sex and age differences, individual variation, and a distinct melanistic phase exist. Variations in bill size and plumage are unrelated. Variation in bill size is best interpreted as a polymorphism evolved and maintained by disruptive selection, although the possibility that there might be two species of Hook-billed Kites cannot be completely ruled out. Kites of different bill size feed differentially on snails of different sizes by using a unique snail-extraction procedure not previously described. The distribution of bill sizes within regional populations of kites is correlated strongly with the sizes of terrestrial snails found in the region. Except for cases of sexual dimorphism, there are few, if any, other examples of a morphometric triat being polymorphic in birds. The ecological, evolutionary, and taxonomic implications of bill polymorphism are discussed.
10.2307/4090198| We examined nestling paternity, fate of nests, and prior experimental manipulations in Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) to test the hypothesis that those factors influenced the warblers' fidelity to their previous breeding site (general breeding area), territory (specific nesting and feeding area within general breeding area), and mate the following year. Field research was conducted at Hemlock Hill Biological Research Area in northwestern Pennsylvania from 1991 to 1998. Hooded Warblers returned to Hemlock Hill at an average annual rate of 47% over seven years. Significantly more males than females returned in 1992 and 1995, but overall difference between male and female return rates was not significant. Frequency of males returning to their former territory (58%) was greater than frequency of females returning to their former territory (29%). When mates from the previous year returned, remated pairs (n = 13) occupied their former territory more often than they occupied a new territory. Average number of young fledged per nest tended (P = 0.06) to be greater for females that returned to Hemlock Hill than for females that did not return. There was also a tendency (P = 0.09) for females that returned to the breeding site to have more nests with extrapair young than those that did not return. Territory fidelity and mate fidelity for both males and females were not related to prior nest fate or paternity of young. During those years, we conducted two relatively long-lasting experimental manipulations: vegetation removal from nest sites and radiotagging. Those experimental manipulations did not significantly affect future selection of breeding site, territory, or mate. Thus, whereas male Hooded Warblers demonstrated greater territory fidelity than females, only females were possibly affected by factors that we examined from the previous year, specifically extrapair fertilization and prior reproductive success or failure. /// Examinamos la paternidad de pichones, el destino de nidos y manipulaciones experimentales previas en Wilsonia citrina para evaluar la hiptesis de que esos factores influencian la fidelidad de W. citrina a su sitio de cra anterior (rea de cra general), a su territorio (reas especficas de nidificacin y forrajeo dentro del rea de cra general) y a su pareja en el ao siguiente. La investigacin de campo se llevo a cabo en Hemlock Hill Biological Research Area en el noroeste de Pennsylvania entre 1991 y 1998. Wilsonia citrina volvi a Hemlock Hill con una tasa anual de 47% en un perodo de siete aos. En 1992 y 1995 retornaron significativamente ms machos que hembras, pero en general la diferencia entre las tasas de retorno de machos y hembras no fue significativa. La frecuencia de machos que retornaron a sus territor-ios anteriores (58%) fue mayor que la frecuencia de hembras que retornaron a sus territorios anteriores (29%). Cuando las parejas del ao anterior retornaron, las parejas que volvieron a aparearse (n = 13) ocuparon su territorio anterior con mayor frecuencia que uno nuevo. El nmero promedio de pichones por nido que llegaron a la etapa de volantones tendi a ser ma-yor (P = 0.06) en hembras que retornaron a Hemlock Hill que en hembras que no retornaron. Las hembras que retornaron al sitio de cra tambin tuvieron una tendencia (P = 0.09) de tener ms nidos con pichones de origen extra-pareja que aquellas que no retornaron. La fidelidad de territorio y de pareja tanto para las hembras como para los machos no se relacion con el destino anterior del nido ni con la paternidad de los pichones. Durante estos aos, realizamos dos manipulaciones experimentales de relativa larga duracin: remocin de la vegetacin en los sitios de nidificacin y marcaje con radiotransmisores. Estas manipulaciones experimentales no afectaron en forma significativa la eleccin subsecuente del sitio de nidificacin, del territorio ni de la pareja. Por lo tanto, mientras que los machos mostraron una mayor fidelidad de territorio que las hembras, slo las hembras fueron afectadas, posiblemente por factores que observamos el ao anterior, especficamente por la fecundacin extra-pareja y el xito o fracaso reproductivo. 
4085662|Body size varies considerably among species of Dendroica. Larger species are nearly restricted to breeding in coniferous forests and woodlands. Among the largest warblers are species breeding in taiga and species specializing, at least in eastern North America, on spruce budworm outbreaks. On the wintering grounds large coniferous breeders may often display features of opportunistic exploitation systems: intraspecific gregariousness and labile foraging behavior. A detailed comparative study of Dendroica pensylvanica and D. castanea supports this general conclusion. Small body size is probably an adaptation to specialized foliage insectivory. If conifer foliage is easily exploited, if insect abundance cannot support specialization on foliage insects, or if food often occurs in abundant, easily used patches, then larger body size may evolve in response to counterselective factors. These factors might include resistance to starvation or cold stress. I propose that current coniferous-restricted species are members of species groups that evolved in association with coniferous forest, first as residents and later as migrants. Migration evolved in response to late Tertiary and Quaternary climate cooling. Perhaps generalist coniferous-breeding Dendroica were preadapted for roles as opportunists on their wintering ranges.
4085748|Thirty-one nestling and 2 adult Leach's Storm-Petrels were collected on Kent Island, New Bruswick. The ages of the nestlings were estimated by comparing weights and wing lengths to those of chicks of known age obtained by other investigators on Kent Island. The specimens were dissected into 10 components for each of which we determined the water, lipid, ash, and nonlipid ash-free dry contents. The body proportions of the petrel neonate are similar to those of the neonates of starlings, terns, and quail. Water levels in the tissues are consistent with precocial development. The size of the neonate relative to that of the adult is large (16%) compared to other species, and the postnatal growth increments of body components (ratio of adult to neonate) are correspondingly small, ranging from ratios of between 3 and 4 for the viscera, head, and legs, to 8 for the integument, 14 for the wings, and 59 for the pectoral muscles. The pectoral muscles increase to 5% of body weight within 10 days, after which they apparently play a major role in heat production. Correlated with their early maturation, as indicated by decrease in water content, the pectoral muscles grow slowly throughout the latter part of the postnatal development period. Their growth rate at that time may constrain the overall rate of growth of the chick. Our results suggest, first, that with respect to many aspects of development petrels resemble semi-precocial species more closely than semi-altricial species (as defined by Nice). Second, the slow growth of petrels is consistent with their precocious mode of development; explanations based upon reduced energy requirements of slowly growing chicks (cf. Lack) are not required.
4086289|During surveys of 19 different rivers in central and southwestern Alaska, north of the Alaska Peninsula, all Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) seen were either B. j. harlani or harlani intergrades, demonstrating that harlani does have a breeding range exclusive of other Red-tailed Hawk subspecies and is, therefore, a legitimate subspecies. The range of harlani intergrades was widespread and overlapped the harlani breeding range entirely. The findings presented suggest that the breeding range for harlani and its intergrade forms, exclusive of other Red-tailed Hawk subspecies, is: west to Norton Sound, east to the Alaska Range west slope, north to the tree line, and south to the Alaska Peninsula. Harlani may have diverged morphologically from other Red-tailed Hawks by isolation in a Pleistocene epoch glacial refugium, as has been suggested for other northern bird groups. The possibility of paripatric speciation, however, must also be considered. The characteristics of red in the tail (even small amounts) and white body plumage are discussed as likely intergrade traits.
10.1525/auk.2009.09028|Renesting is an important strategy for coping with nest loss in many species of birds. We investigated renesting behavior of radiomarked Mallards (
10.1525/auk.2012.11204|A single fossil tarsometatarsus from the Etadunna Formation, of Late OligoceneEarly Miocene age, at the Snake Dam Locality in South Australia reveals the first pre-Pliocene record of anhingids in Australia.
10.1525/auk.2012.11093|Reliable estimates of population parameters derived from survey methods are essential for decision making in management of endangered species. We evaluated whether point-count surveys used in conjunction with occupancy and binomial mixture models (BMMs) constituted a reliable approach for monitoring the federally endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (
4086287|Four hypotheses for the function of the head-down display performed by Brown-headed Cowbirds were tested with observational data from free-ranging and captive cowbirds. Free-ranging cowbirds performed 284 interspecific and four intraspecific displays during 59.2 daylight hours while roosting in mixed-species flocks adjacent to feeding areas. The most common recipients of displays, female Red-winged Blackbirds and House Sparrows, preened cowbirds during 25 displays. Cowbirds that had just been preened displayed more often than those that had not recently been preened. Captive cowbirds displayed intraspecifically 475 times during 13.3 h, and dominant captive birds displayed more often than their subordinates. The following hypothesis was proposed to explain the display's function: the head-down display of Brown-headed Cowbirds is an appeasing agonistic behavior, the displayor is most often dominant to the recipient, and subsequent displaying is stimulated by interspecific preening. The display may function in: (a) obtaining food, (b) minimizing roosting energetics, and/or (c) establishing flock order.
90008546|Nestling birds use a conspicuous begging display, which includes loud begging calls, to solicit food from their parents. Although these calls are important in communicating offspring need, predators can use begging calls to locate nests. Parents may, however, counteract nestling vulnerability by giving alarm calls to silence calling nestlings when predators are nearby. This defense has been observed in grass- and reed-nesting species, whose nestlings beg to vibrational cues of a parents arrival, even in the absence of the parents. It is considered less likely to occur, however, in cavity-nesting species, because the rigid substrate of the nest does not provide vibrational cues, and nestlings instead wait for a parental food call before begging. Cavity-nesting Tree Swallows (
4085611| Feeding assemblages of birds were observed at a Panamanian population of Virola sebifera (Myristicaceae) in order to test the hypothesis that plants producing especially nutritious fruits in limited supply should be efficiently dispersed by a small set of obligate frugivores. Virola sebifera produces an encapsulated arillate seed that is swallowed by birds shortly after dehiscence. The aril (54% lipid, 7% protein, 8% usable carbohydrate) is retained; the seed is regurgitated intact within 10-30 min. The plant produces 1-96 (x = 24) ripe arillate seeds each day, of which 40-89% (x = 76%) are taken within a few hours of dawn. The visitor assemblage consists of six resident frugivores. Three [Chestnut-mandibled Toucan (Ramphastos swainsonii), Keel-billed Toucans (R. sulfuratus), and Masked Tityra (Tityra semifasciata)] are "regulars," likely to visit all trees; three [Slaty-tailed Trogon (Trogon massena), Rufous Motmot (Baryphthengus martii), and Collared Aracari (Pteroglossus torquatus) are common throughout the Barro Colorado Forest but do not consistently use Virola sebifera. The Chestnut-mandibled Toucan is responsible for 43% of the seeds removed by birds, although it is also responsible for more seed waste (regurgitation under the tree crown) than other visitors. Rapid depletion of available fruits each morning and active defense of the crowns by toucans suggest a limited and preferred food resource for "regulars" in the assemblage. A review of recent work indicates that the assemblage visiting Virola sebifera is similar to that frequenting its larger congener (V. surinamensis) but is far smaller and more specialized than those visiting other fruiting trees in the same forest. 
4087094|Many tropical species of passerine birds have potentially long reproductive lives in both nature and aviaries, but rate of breeding by old individuals may eventually decline. A group of individually color-banded African Village Weavers (Ploceus cucullatus), a polygynous species, was kept in aviaries at Los Angeles for 22 years. At 14-18 years of age, old males built significantly fewer nests per year, displayed to females less often, had fewer mates, and generally fathered fewer clutches than did the same males when 9-13 years old. One male reached 24 years of age, when he rarely sang and no longer wove when provided with nest materials. The females, after reaching "middle age" (9-13 yr), laid significantly fewer eggs per year, and still fewer during "old age" (14-18 yr). When 14 or more years old, weavers of both sexes rested much more than did young adults 4-6 years old in the same aviary. Individuals differed greatly in the decline of breeding behavior with age. Some individual Village Weavers bred at a surprisingly great age for passerine birds, e.g. fertile copulations by one 19-year-old male and by one 18-year-old female. These seem to be the oldest breeding ages yet recorded for any small passerine bird. Long reproductive life of a small number of individuals that contribute disproportionately to the next generation would give a selection pressure for longevity, and also could help explain the evolution of small clutch size (2-3 eggs) in the Village Weaver and in many other tropical birds.
10.2307/4090147| We examined seasonal prevalence of a haematozoan parasite (Haemoproteus velans) of the Red-bellied Woodpecker (Melanerpes carolinus) in the Apalachicola National Forest, northern Florida. We also investigated how infection with H. velans was associated with host mass, body condition, and overwinter survival. Analysis of blood smears taken from individual woodpeckers between May 2000 and July 2001 indicated that prevalence of H. velans peaked in July 2000, at 80% of individuals sampled, decreased to 0% in January and February 2001, and peaked again in July 2001, at 50% of individuals. Infection with H. velans was associated with low mass and poor body condition in males. Infection showed no association with female mass. In addition, infection with H. velans showed no relationship with overwinter survival. Our data reemphasize the importance of considering seasonal variation in parasite prevalence during testing for haematozoa. In addition, our data suggest that, although infection with H. velans is associated with poorer host condition, it does not negatively affect host survival. /// Evaluamos la prevalencia estacional de un parsito hematozoo (Haemoproteus velans) del pjaro carpintero Melanerpes carolinus en Apalachicola National Forest, norte de Florida. Tambin investigamos cmo se asociaba la infeccin con H. velans con el peso, condicin corporal y supervivencia a travs del invierno del hospedero. Anlisis de muestras de sangre tomadas de carpinteros individuales entre mayo de 2000 y julio de 2001 indicaron un pico en la prevalencia de H. velans en julio de 2000, cuando se present en 80% de los individuos muestreados. Luego hubo una disminucin a 0% en enero y febrero de 2001 y se present un nuevo pico en julio de 2001, con 50% de los individuos. La infeccin con H. velans estuvo asociada con bajo peso corporal y condicin fsica pobre en los machos, pero no mostr asociacin con el peso de las hembras. Adicionalmente, la infeccin con H. velans no present relacin alguna con la supervivencia a travs del invierno. Nuestros datos enfatizan nuevamente la importancia de considerar la variacin estacional en la prevalencia parasitaria al realizar pruebas para hematozoos. Nuestros datos tambin sugieren que aunque la infeccin con H. velans est asociada con una peor condicin corporal, no afecta negativamente la supervivencia del hospedero. 
10.2307/4087234|To survey singing behaviors among populations of Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris), we tape-recorded and analyzed songs of 18 individuals from 5 states. Median repertoires of song types were 33 for Illinois (n = 2 birds), 40 for North Carolina (2), 53 for New York (7), 141 for central Washington (1), and 162 for California (6) birds. North Carolina males ranked the lowest or second lowest in most measures of singing complexity, including recurrence numbers, rates, three measures of singing versatility, repertoire size, and percentage performance time. Western birds, in contrast, sang with the greatest complexity in these measures. Among the 5 populations, repertoire size correlated positively with the percentage performance time, the predictability of the next song type in a sequence, and the variability (as measured by coefficient of variation) of the syllable period in the trill of repeated song units. By comparing syllable periods within songs, we found that successive songs in frequently used transitions were more different from one another than expected by chance.
4086169|During 1976, 1977, and 1978, 26, 29, and 19 nests, respectively, of the ground-nesting, "Pink-sided" Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis mearnsi) were monitored in a sprucefir ecosystem in northern Utah. In 1976 and 1977, 4-egg clutches, found mainly in June through mid-July, produced more young than did 3-egg clutches, found after mid-July. In these two years, nestlings from 4-egg clutches in which all eggs hatched gained significantly more weight than did nestlings from 3-egg clutches. In 1978, only 5- and 4-egg clutches were found, and these nestlings were intermediate in weight between nestlings from the 4- and 3-egg clutches of the previous years but not significantly different from nestlings of either clutch size. Growth rates (K) of body weight were not significantly different among nestlings from all clutch sizes, so that the rate of weight gain seems independent of clutch size in the Pink-sided Junco. Final tarsal length upon leaving the nest also did not differ significantly among clutch sizes, but the rate of tarsal growth did. The length of tarsi was independent of clutch size, and the length upon leaving the nest was equal to that of adult juncos. We interpret this as support for the adaptive-growth hypothesis, as tarsal length should have high functional importance in passerines that run rather than fly from the nest. Populations of major food items and potential nest predators were monitored. Although climatic conditions varied dramatically during the three seasons we studied these juncos, the dry biomass of food items in junco diets peaked 1 week after the mean hatching date of 4-egg clutches in all three years. We suspect that nestlings from late 3-egg clutches experienced reduced food availability, which explains the difference in weight between nestlings from 3- and 4-egg clutches. Total rodent predation pressure remained at or above 10 individuals/ha, although populations of the species involved fluctuated between years. Increased predation was noted in 1977, when weasel populations were unusually high. Late-spring snowstorms and late-summer thunderstorms also probably influence nesting success. We hypothesize that predation pressure and short periods of both food abundance and favorable weather influence the initiation of breeding, clutch size, and nestling-growth patterns and lead to a decline in clutch size as the breeding season progresses.
4089541|Whether or not migrants gain mass at a stopover site is an index of site quality. Previous studies have examined mass gain of recaptured birds, and of short-term stopovers by regressing mass at first capture on hour of day. I developed an extension of the latter method using multiple regression to examine the effects on mass gain of hour of day, date, and year. I then used the method to compare the quality of three stopover sites at Long Point, Ontario, for Magnolia Warblers (Dendroica magnolia). At the peak of fall migration, warblers at all three sites gained sufficient mass for a net gain over 24 h, but they gained mass at only two of three sites during spring. Mass gain varied significantly over the course of the day, by date in the season, and among years. The earliest spring migrants lost mass at all sites, but rate of mass gain increased as the season progressed. Similar information for many more species and stopover sites might aid in habitat conservation for migrants.
4088461|The nocturnal foraging behavior of breeding Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) was studied in New Jersey using a focal-animal approach in 1989 and 1990. More than 30% of the variation in the number of plovers foraging at night was explained by stage of the breeding cycle, tidal stage, and year. The greatest numbers of adult plovers fed in the intertidal zone during the prenesting and fledgling stages of the breeding cycle. Piping Plovers were more likely to be observed feeding during late ebb and early flood tides, than other times. Time devoted to feeding per 2-min sample was similar at each study site but differed significantly during the tidal stages. Pecking rate was higher during late ebb and early flood tides than late flood and early ebb tides. Time devoted to being alert varied depending on stage of the breeding cycle. Presenting plovers and individuals with fledglings fed longer and were alert less per 2-min sample than plovers engaged in incubation or brood rearing. The nocturnal peck rate of Piping Plovers was considerably lower than daytime levels. Plovers foraging at night had significantly lower peck rates when disturbed. Abundance of intertidal polychaetes varied according to tidal stage and, where present, they constituted the main food of the plovers. We suggest that nocturnal foraging is a natural behavior pattern in Piping Plovers although it may vary in intensity. Future management should include the assessment of nighttime recreational use of beaches where Piping Plovers breed.
25488513|Conservation challenges enhance the need for quantitative information on dispersed bird populations in extensive landscapes, for techniques to monitor populations and assess environmental effects, and for conservation strategies at appropriate temporal and spatial scales. By estimating population sizes of shorebirds in the U.S. portion of the prairie pothole landscape in central North America, where most migrating shorebirds exhibit a highly dispersed spatial pattern, we determined that the region may play a vital role in the conservation of shorebirds. During northward and southward migration, 7.3 million shorebirds (95% CI: 4.310.3 million) and 3.9 million shorebirds (95% CI: 1.76.0 million) stopped to rest and refuel in the study area; inclusion of locally breeding species increases the estimates by 0.1 million and 0.07 million shorebirds, respectively. Seven species of calidridine sandpipers, including Semipalmated Sandpipers (
10.1525/auk.2010.10094|Birds can, to a limited extent, delay hatching after laying the first egg to synchronize hatching date to peak food availability by increasing the laying interval between eggs or postponing the start of incubation. However, hatching delays can be the result of energy costs of early reproduction. We report the phenomenon of hatching delays in a Blue Tit (
10.2307/4089713|We examine the validity of Phalacrocorax [Stictocarbo] kenyoni, which was described by Siegel-Causey (1991) from the Aleutian Islands using midden remains and existing skeletal specimens. We emphasize a morphometric evaluation of the taxon using 224 skeletal specimens of North Pacific cormorants, but we also evaluate the qualitative characters originally used to characterize P. kenyoni. Principal components and discriminant function analyses of 14 skeletal characters failed to support the validity of the species. Similarly, all seven of the character states that Seigel-Causey described as unique to P. kenyoni also were found in P. pelagicus and P. urile. Thus, the three type specimens of P. kenyoni appear to be P. pelagicus. Although we could not confirm the validity of P. kenyoni, our morphometric analyses revealed that P. pelagicus individuals from the central Aleutians are smaller than those from surrounding populations.
10.2307/4090196| We characterized several equivocal aspects of the breeding biology of the brood parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) at a study site in northeastern Illinois. A total of 175 offspring and a partial sample of parents were sampled and genotyped at six microsatellite loci. A combination of sibling-group and parentage assignment enabled us to characterize mating behavior and area used for reproduction by breeding adults, even for those not sampled. We assigned a mean of 4.7 (range 1-13) and 4.4 (range 1-16) offspring to 33 female and 32 male parents, respectively. Adults typically reproduced with a "primary partner" but up to three partners were common. Offspring females and males were spread over 9 and 12 ha, respectively. Half of the polygynous males produced offspring with an additional mate that parasitized nests near to or within areas overlapping those of their primary partner. That suggests that mate choice takes place at females' egg-laying areas as opposed to more remote social areas. Multiple females frequently parasitized a single host nest and areas used for reproduction overlapped extensively for individuals of either sex. High frequencies of parasitism and superparasitism indicate a high cowbird density relative to that of hosts. Frequent promiscuity by cowbirds at our site contrasts with other studies reporting monogamy and may be due to higher densities of breeding cowbirds at our site. /// En este estudio caracterizamos varios aspectos equvocos sobre la biologa reproductiva del parsito de nidos Molothrus ater en el noreste de Illinois. Se muestrearon un total de 175 cras y una muestra parcial de los padres para determinar sus genotipos con base en seis loci de microsatlites. Usando grupos de hermanos y asignacin de parentela, caracterizamos la conducta de apareamiento y el rea utilizada para la reproduccin por los adultos, incluso para aquellos no muestreados. Asignamos un promedio de 4.7 (rango 1-13) y 4.4 (rango 1-16) cras a 33 hembras y 32 machos, respectivamente. Los adultos generalmente se aparearon con una "pareja principal", pero comnmente tuvieron hasta tres parejas. La progenie de hembras y machos se extendi sobre un rea de 9 y 12 ha, respectivamente. La mitad de los machos polignicos produjeron progenie con una pareja adicional que parasit nidos ubicados cerca o dentro de reas que se sobreponan a las reas de la pareja principal. Esto sugiere que la eleccin de pareja se lleva a cabo en las reas en donde las hembras ponen los huevos y no en reas sociales ms remotas. Frecuentemente, varias hembras parasitaron un mismo nido y las reas utilizadas para la reproduccin se sobrepusieron extensamente para individuos de ambos sexos. La alta frecuencia de parasitismo y sper-parasitismo indican una alta densidad de M. ater con relacin a la de sus hospederos. La frecuente promiscuidad de M. ater en nuestro sitio de estudio contrasta con otros estudios que reportaron monogamia, lo que podra deberse a las altas densidades de individuos reproductivos en nuestro sitio de estudio. 
4087709|We used restriction-fragment-length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis to establish the parentage of a clutch of eight eggs being incubated by two female Lesser Snow Geese to determine if both females had contributed to the clutch, and whether a single male had fertilized both females. Genotypes at 30 polymorphic restriction enzyme sites were surveyed with 14 cloned DNA probes. Sexing of all individuals was done both by dissection and by use of a DNA probe that detected the presence of the W chromosome in females. Paternal genotypes were reconstructed from haplotypes of the offspring. We determined that both females had contributed to the clutch, and that each was fertilized by a different male.
10.2307/4090420| The distributions of southern African (Tockus erythrorhynchus rufirostris) and Damaraland (T. e. damarensis) Red-billed Hornbills overlap in northern Namibia. Allopatric populations of the taxa have diagnosable differences in habitat, morphology, vocalizations, and displays. We investigated the structure of the hybrid zone using data from morphology, behavior, and breeding biology. The morphological characteristics-eye color and facial plumage color-were summarized as hybrid index scores, which showed a significant positive regression against distance from southwest to northeast across the hybrid zone. Vocalizations also showed a positive relationship between the first principal component (extracted from 12 call variables) and distance across the hybrid zone. However, there appears to be introgression of a T. e. damarensis call into T. e. rufirostris, but not vice versa. In addition, female T. e. damarensis-male T. e. rufirostris breeding pairs occur more frequently than male T. e. damarensis-female T. e. rufirostris pairs. The asymmetrical call introgression may result either from asymmetry in mating or from genetic control of call inheritance. Finally, heterospecific pairs show lower fitness, in the form of reduced hatching success, even when female fitness attributes are included as covariates. Although we are uncertain whether the Red-billed Hornbill hybrid zone is stable, the apparent biological processes operating within it conform to predictions of both the "mosaic" and the "tension zone" models, because both habitat characteristics and a balance of dispersal and selection appear to determine its structure. /// Los bucertidos Tockus erythrorhynchus rufirostris y T. e. damarensis tienen distribuciones que se superponen en el norte de Namibia. Las poblaciones aloptricas de estos taxa presentan diferencias diagnsticas en cuanto a hbitat, morfologa, vocalizaciones y despliegues. En este estudio investigamos la estructura de su zona de hibridacin usando datos de morfologa, comportamiento y biologa reproductiva. Las caractersticas morfolgicas (color del ojo y del plumaje facial) se resumieron como valores de un ndice de hibridacin, los cuales mostraron una regresin positiva significativa con la distancia del suroeste al noreste a travs de la zona de hibridacin. Las vocalizaciones tambin exhibieron una relacin positiva entre su primer componente principal (extraido de 12 variables medidas en los llamados) y la distancia a travs de la zona de hibridacin. Sin embargo, parece existir introgresin de un llamado de T. e. damarensis a T. e. rufirostris, pero no en la direccin contraria. Adems, las parejas hbridas conformadas por T. e. damarensis hembras y T. e. rufirostris machos se presentaron con mayor frecuencia que las parejas con la combinacin alternativa. Dicha introgresin asimtrica del llamado podra ser el resultado de la asimetra en el apareamiento o de un control gentico de la herencia del llamado. Finalmente, las parejas heteroespecficas presentan una adecuacin menor en la forma de un menor xito de eclosin de los huevos, an cuando se incluyen atributos de la adecuacin de las hembras como covariables. Aunque no estamos seguros si la zona de hibridacin es estable, los procesos biolgicos que parecen operar all concuerdan con las predicciones de los modelos de mosaico y zona de tensin propuestos para zonas de hibridacin, pues tanto las caractersticas del ambiente como un balance entre dispersin y seleccin parecen determinar su estructura. 
10.2307/4089584|We introduce a phenotypic method to test for excess mortality in hybrids of the heterogametic sex, as expected from Haldane's rule, and apply this method to the unusually narrow hybrid zones between Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis) and Townsend's Warblers (D. townsendi) in the Pacific Northwest. Our test requires establishing comparable hybrid indices for male and female warblers. The hybrid index that we developed for females produced age-corrected distributions for phenotypically pure reference samples that closely matched those used by Rohwer and Wood (1998) for males. The similarity in these distributions enabled us to compare the relative frequency of males and females in hybrids and parentals. We detected no deficiency of hybrid females and thus no inviability in the heterogametic sex. Our failure to find evidence of the inviability component of Haldane's rule is not unexpected given the close relationship between these taxa; nonetheless, our methods should be generally useful for studies of hybrid zones.
10.2307/4087767|Recent studies on avian parentage have used both biochemical techniques and field observations to detect intraspecific brood parasitism and extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs). In long-term parentage studies of the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) using electrophoresis and field observations, we have encountered several methodological problems. Based on our findings and the existing literature, we describe these pitfalls and suggest improvements in techniques. The pitfalls include difficulty in obtaining large sample sizes, manipulation of natural populations, inaccurate allelic frequencies based on electrophoretic screening of too few individuals, catching the wrong putative parents, improper storage and handling of tissue samples, confounding effects of developmental changes in allelic expression, and misinterpretation of electrophoretic results. To improve parentage studies, we suggest censusing nest boxes around the peak times of laying to detect more than one egg per day, matching nestlings with eggs, establishing strict criteria for identifying putative parents at a nest, collecting pectoral muscle using an incision that goes in the direction of the superficial pectoral muscle fibers, and assessing the relative efficiency of laboratory and field methods to decide which would yield maximum results.
4088672| We amplified and sequenced a 711 base-pair (bp) fragment of mtDNA at the cytochrome-b locus to reexamine relationships within and among species of Sphyrapicus and representatives of two other woodpecker genera (Melanerpes, Colaptes). Sequences were obtained from 10 individuals of 5 taxa: Red-breasted Sapsucker (S. ruber daggetti), n = 2; Rednaped Sapsucker (S. nuchalis), n = 2; hybrid of S. ruber daggetti  S. nuchalis, n = 1; Yellow-bellied Sapsucker (S. varius varius), n = 2; Williamson's Sapsucker (S. thyroideus thyroideus), n = 2; and Red-bellied Woodpecker (M. carolinus), n = 1. The Melanerpes sequence and a comparable published sequence of Andean Flicker (C. rupicola) were used as outgroups. Levels of mtDNA sequence divergence ranged from 0.0 to 0.6% within species and 0.1 to 10.2% among species of Sphyrapicus, and from 12.5 to 14.5% between members of Sphyrapicus and the two outgroup species. One region of sequence (78 bp) was identified as being especially conserved. Branching topologies based on this study corroborated results from a previous analysis of relationships in Sphyrapicus using allozymes: the phenotypically dissimilar species ruber and nuchalis are most closely related; varius, which is very similar in appearance to nuchalis, branches off next; and thyroideus, the most divergent member of the quarter from the standpoint of plumage pattern and degree of sexual dimorphism, is strongly differentiated genetically. Pairwise mtDNA distances within Sphyrapicus showed a strong curvilinear relationship with allozyme distances (r = 0.996). The monophyly of Sphyrapicus is reaffirmed, with S. thyroideus closer to the ancestral species. Members of Sphyrapicus are more similar to Melanerpes than to Colaptes based on their mtDNA. Prior hypotheses regarding the evolutionary history of sapsuckers in North America are discussed. Despite the near genetic identity of ruber and nuchalis based on both allozymes and mtDNA sequences, and their tendency for limited hybridization in sympatry, an earlier study of mating preference supports the biologic-species status of these taxa. 
10.2307/4089860| Seabird mortality from large oil spills and chronic oil pollution is often significant. Total mortality estimates are derived from counts of dead birds that wash ashore and are corrected for numbers lost at sea. Past attempts to estimate proportion of birds that die at sea and wash ashore have included several experiments using carcasses and different types of wooden drift blocks. Results varied greatly depending on environmental conditions and distance from shore where blocks or carcasses were released. Wind seemed to be the predominant factor determining movement over large distances, whereas tidal currents influenced deposition on specific beaches. Determining timing and location of arrival of dead birds on beaches are crucial for accurate mortality estimates. Drift experiments using beached birds that have already drifted at sea for an undetermined length of time are inaccurate due to natural buoyancy loss and decomposition. To determine accuracy of drift block designs used in the past, we compared drift characteristics and patterns between four drift block designs and fresh murre (Uria spp.) carcasses. Our experiments showed that drift blocks used in the past have none of the drift characteristics of dead seabirds, because they have much larger areas exposed to wind and hence drift much faster and farther than murre carcasses. Past mortality estimates using those blocks are therefore doubtful. The drift block design that most accurately mimicked murre carcass drift during our experiments was a 9  9  14.5 cm wooden block with a 450 gram steel weight that adjusts buoyancy and area exposed to the wind. We propose that in areas where murres are predominant victims of oil spills, that block design be used for all future estimates of oiled seabird mortality. 
10.2307/4089639|Fledging (i.e. leaving the nest) in altricial birds is a major step toward independence. The timing of this important event may be influenced by nestling development, parental behavior, and sibling interactions. In this study, we examine the effect of these factors on fledging in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). Wing length explained a significant proportion of the variance in fledging age across broods. Similarly, within broods, longer-winged nestlings fledged before shorter-winged nestlings. Feeding rate per nestling did not decrease in the period leading up to fledging, as might be expected if parents stimulated fledging by decreasing their feeding rate. Parental activity near the nest varied in that the frequency of parental passes and hovers within 1 m of the nest opening increased in the period before fledging. Brood size also explained a significant proportion of the variance in fledging age independent of wing length, although the direction of the relationship was not consistent across years. Finally, longer-winged nestlings spent more time in the nest opening and initiated fledging of the brood more often than did shorter-winged nestlings. Overall, our study suggests that nestling development is the most important determinant of fledging age in this species. Once a critical wing length has been reached, sibling interactions, and possibly parental behavior, may influence the timing of fledging.
4086415| We report the results of an electrophoretic analysis at 39 presumptive genetic loci of 88 specimens in the picid genus Sphyrapicus, here treated as comprising the following species: Williamson's Sapsucker (S. thyroideus), Yellow-bellied Sapsucker (S. varius), Red-naped Sapsucker (S. nuchalis), and Red-breasted Sapsucker (S. ruber). Seventeen loci (43.5%) were polymorphic. Values for observed heterozygosity in S. ruber ruber, S. ruber daggetti, and in three populations of S. nuchalis were uniform and averaged 0.043, the mean value reported for other birds. However, S. varius, at 0.022, and S. thyroideus, at 0.016, have low values of H. Values for percentage of polymorphic loci ranged from 12.8 to 20.5 in S. ruber and S. nuchalis, 12.8 in S. varius, and 7.7 in S. thyroideus. In contrast, all four species exhibited a similar mean number of alleles per locus (1.12-1.21). Genetic distances between populations of the same species are either very low or zero. Genetic distances are also very low between the phenotypically dissimilar ruber and nuchalis (D = 0.004), two forms we consider to be biological species based on their assortative mating in sympatry. This is the lowest avian interspecific D-value ever reported and is similar to that found between avian subspecies. Phenotypically, varius and nuchalis are very similar, yet the average genetic distance between samples of these forms, 0.029, is comparable to interspecific values reported for other avian congeners and is our chief basis for treating the two forms as separate species. S. thyroideus is strongly differentiated genetically from varius (D = 0.142), from nuchalis (D = 0.197), and from ruber (D = 0.186). F
4088560|We constructed an energy budget for Dovekie (Alle alle) chicks in West Spitsbergen by measuring energy metabolism, rate of accumulation of energy in growing tissues, and body water turnover rate, the last serving as the basis for energy-consumption calculations. The energy budget of a "typical chick" was calculated for chicks measured in 1986 and 1987. Mass-specific resting metabolic rate in Dovekie chicks peaked at days 7 to 10 and then declined considerably. Thermal conductance decreased by 60% between hatching and fledging. Energy deposition in growing tissues, resting metabolic rate, and energy consumption reached maximum values midway through the fledging period. Chicks examined in 1984 had 11% lower growth rate than 1986 and 1987 chicks, and their energy deposited in tissues between hatching and the age of peak body mass before fledging was 17% lower. Energy requirements of Dovekie chicks were much higher than those of other seabird chicks of similar body mass. We attribute this to the arctic nesting of Dovekies. We compared energy demands of Dovekie chicks with those of adults reported in another study. Despite high chick energy demands, energy delivered to the chick by one parent was only 15% of the total energy gathered by the parent (to meet both its own and the chick's needs). We suggest that this reflects a high cost of foraging in adult Dovekies. Additionally, high energy demands of chicks may contribute to the high energy expenditures of adults. This may be a major contribution to the restriction of a Dovekie brood to one chick and to the low chick body mass at fledging.
90008552|Howell et al. (2003) published an innovative augmentation to terminology proposed by Humphrey and Parkes (1959) that classified bird molt on the basis of perceived evolutionary relationships. Despite apparent universal applicability, Howell et al.s (2003) proposed terminological changes were met with criticism that cited a failure to verify the evolutionary relationships of molt and an inability to recognize homologous molts even within closely related taxa. Eleven years after Howell et al. (2003), we revisit arguments against a terminological system of molt based on evolutionary relationships, suggest an analytical framework to satisfactorily respond to critics, clarify terminology, and consider how to study molt variation within an evolutionary framework.
10.2307/4090283| Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) often parasitize larger hosts. It has been proposed that larger hosts are preferred by that parasite because they provide higher reproductive success, but available data are quite variable. We studied the reproductive success of Shiny Cowbirds in nests of Brown-and-yellow Marshbirds (Pseudoleistes virescens), a larger and often multiply parasitized host. To estimate the extent of interspecific competition, we compared the hatching success of parasite eggs in nests with and without reduction of the clutch size of the host as a result of egg punctures inflicted by the parasite, and the survival and growth of parasite chicks reared with and without host chicks. To estimate the extent of intraspecific competition, we compared Shiny Cowbird egg losses, hatching success, and chick survival in singly versus multiply parasitized nests. Reproductive success of Shiny Cowbirds was 8% with depredation causing 80% of losses. Clutch reduction due to egg punctures were higher in multiply than in singly parasitized nests, but it did not improve hatching success of parasite eggs. Neither survival nor growth of parasite chicks was affected by the presence of host chicks. Shiny Cowbird hatching success and chick survival did not differ between singly and multiply parasitized nests. Parasite chicks were smaller than same-age Brown-and-yellow Marshbird chicks. However, because parasite chicks hatched one or two days before host chicks and had a higher growth rate, they were the larger chicks in the nest. Overall Shiny Cowbird reproductive success in Brown-and-yellow Marshbird nests was apparently higher than that reported in other smaller or similar-sized hosts. We think that host life-history traits like large clutch size, a longer incubation period, and slower growth rate of chicks are responsible for the high reproductive success of Shiny Cowbirds with Brown-and-yellow Marshbirds. /// Molothrus bonariensis frecuentemente parasita hospedadores de mayor tamao. Se ha propuesto que este parsito de cra preferira hospedadores ms grandes porque con ellos obtiene un mayor xito reproductivo, pero los datos existentes son variables. Estudiamos el xito reproductivo de Molothrus bonariensis en nidos de Pseudoleistes virescens, un hospedador de mayor tamao con alto parasitismo mltiple. Para estimar la intensidad de la competencia interespecfica, determinamos el xito de eclosin de huevos parsitos en nidos donde hubo remocin de huevos del hospedador debido a picaduras realizadas por el parsito, y la supervivencia y crecimiento de pichones parsitos en nidos con o sin pichones del hospedador. Para estimar la intensidad de la competencia intraespecfica, comparamos las prdidas y el xito de eclosin de huevos y la supervivencia de pichones entre nidos con parasitismo simple y mltiple. El xito reproductivo de Molothrus bonariensis fue del 8% siendo la depredacin responsable del 80% de las prdidas. La prdida de huevos del hospedador por picaduras fue mayor en nidos con parasitismo mltiple que simple pero esta prdida no aument el xito de eclosin de los huevos parsitos. La supervivencia y el crecimiento de los pichones parsitos no fueron afectados por la presencia de pichones del hospedador. El xito de eclosin de Molothrus bonariensis y la supervivencia de sus pichones no difirieron entre nidos con parasitismo simple o mltiple. Los pichones parsitos fueron ms pequeos que los del hospedador. Sin embargo, debido a que los pichones parsitos eclosionaron uno o dos das antes que los del hospedador, fueron casi siempre los pichones de mayor tamao dentro del nido. El xito reproductivo de Molothrus bonariensis en nidos de Pseudoleistes virescens fue aparentemente mayor que el descripto para otros hospedadores de tamao similar o ms pequeos. Pensamos que caractersticas de historia de vida de Pseudoleistes virescens tales como el tamao de puesta grande, el mayor perodo de incubacin de sus huevos y la tasa de crecimiento menor de sus pichones, son responsables del alto xito reproductivo de Molothrus bonariensis en nidos de Pseudoleistes virescens. 
4085972| This study of migratory Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco h. hyemalis) investigates differences in winter population structure and dynamics associated with north-south variation in wintering site and considers the relationships between these winter differences and population dynamics at other seasons. Banded juncos were captured and recaptured in several winters at four latitudes (42-33.5), and results were integrated with long-term United States Fish and Wildlife Service records of recoveries throughout the winter range. The data suggest: (1) Populations wintering in the north experience higher winter mortality than populations wintering in the south. (2) Sex and age do not affect the probability of overwinter survival; therefore, dominance may not affect that probability. (3) Some individuals do and others do not return to the same wintering site year after year. Individuals that do not return tend to be those that have spent the first winter of life in the north, and these shift southward. (4) Annual mortality of northern and southern winter populations probably is the same. This conclusion is based in part on a comparison of north-south annual return rates and on logic arising out of the geographical distribution of the sexes during winter. In juncos, because males tend to winter north of females, greater annual mortality of northern winter populations would be expected to skew the primary and secondary sex ratios in favor of males. No evidence of such skews has been detected. (5) If annual mortality is the same, it is likely that southern populations suffer heavier mortality during their longer migrations and that these migration losses offset the advantage described in (1), above. In north temperate-zone breeding species that migrate southward into an extensive winter range, distance traveled probably is correlated closely and positively with both mortality rate during migration and survival rate during winter. If these rates offset each other, annual survivorship among winter migratory populations (and among sedentary and migratory populations of partially migrant species) can be equal. Therefore, it is unnecessary to postulate for different winter populations either unequal reproductive success (von Haartman's hypothesis) or unequal year-to-year survival rates that balance out over the long term (Lack's hypothesis). Migration can cause breeding populations to be redistributed in various ways in winter; e.g. they may mix randomly, or northern breeders may leapfrog southern breeders. Each variation in migration pattern would produce winter populations with predictable characteristics. We consider the extent to which winter junco populations have these characteristics. 
10.2307/4090025| Parasites may affect host behavior in a number of ways, including their locomotory performance. We investigated whether the number of holes produced by the feather louse (Myrsidea rustica) affected flight behavior in adult male Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) by video-taping flight performance of individuals during escape and level flight. Percentage of time spent flapping during foraging flight was positively related to number of holes, but not to other flight parameters such as wingbeat frequency. These results suggest indirect effects of feather lice on host performance that must be considered together with effects of thermoregulation and feather breakage. This is the first report of an effect of parasite load on flight behavior. /// Los parsitos pueden afectar el comportamiento de sus hospederos de diferentes maneras entre las que se incluye la locomocin. Investigamos si el nmero de agujeros en el plumaje producidos por el piojo de pluma Myrsidea rustica afecta el comportamiento de vuelo de machos adultos de Hirundo rustica durante el escape y la alimentacin. El nmero de agujeros producidos por los piojos estuvo relacionado positivamente con el porcentaje de tiempo empleado en vuelo batido, pero no se encontr ninguna relacin con otros parmentros de vuelo tales como la frecuencia de batido de las alas. Estos resultados sugieren la existencia de efectos indirectos de los piojos de pluma sobre sus hospederos que deben considerarse junto con sus efectos sobre la termorregulacin y el plumage. Esta es la primera vez que se encuentra un efecto de un parsito sobre el comportamiento de vuelo. 
4085654|Intact and castrated male Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus lagopus) were kept on spring-like increasing daylengths or permanent short days (6L:18D) from December to July. During this period, plumage changes were recorded and comb height was measured. Both intact and castrated males exposed to increasing daylengths began to molt from white to pigmented plumage in late February. The intact males first molted into the rich brown breeding plumage, and then, in late May, they began to develop the mottled brown summer plumage. The castrated males omitted the breeding plumage and slowly developed a summer plumage. At the end of June, the heads and backs of the intact birds were fully pigmented, but were still 60% white in the castrated birds. The intact and castrated males exposed to permanent short days had identical plumage changes. In early April, scattered, dark brown and black feathers, lacking the barred pattern of normal plumages, began to grow on the head, and by the end of June both pigmented and white feathers were growing on both the head and back. The height of the combs in intact birds on increasing daylengths had a well defined maximum at the peak of the breeding period. This was not observed in the intact birds on short days, where only a slight increase could be detected. Castrated males always had low and unchanging comb height, irrespective of the daylength.
10.2307/4087498|We examined extrinsic and intrinsic factors that might influence the timing of clutch initiation and determined the relationship between timing and reproductive success in two populations of Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) in northern Canada. The mean date of clutch initiation varied up to 16 days over 8 yr and appeared to be related to the timing of snow melt. In one population females laid more synchronously when the onset of breeding was late, but in the other they did not. Laying was not correlated with population density or with proportion of yearling hens in the population. Older hens paired with adult males initiated nesting earlier than yearlings or adult hens paired with yearling males. Females that switched mates from one year to the next laid at the same time as those paired with their previous mates. The timing of clutch initiation or hatch was consistent for individual females from one year to the next in one population, but not in the other. Body size, estimated by wing length, was not correlated with time of laying, but hens with larger body mass laid earlier. Females that nested early laid larger clutches than those laying late. In only 1 yr of 6, a year with very high nest predation, late-nesting hens lost a lower proportion of their clutches. Early-nesting hens hatched more eggs from successful nests than late-nesting hens, but the number of young that fledged and subsequently returned to the population was similar for hens nesting in early, middle, and late reproductive periods. We suggest that hens capable of laying early do so to renest if their clutches are destroyed by predators.
10.1525/auk.2013.12163|Grassland birds are often affected negatively by habitat fragmentation. Outcomes include greater nest predation and brood parasitism, decreased colonization rates of small, isolated patches, and greater nest density in remnant core habitats. These effects have been well documented in the Midwest, but little is known about fragmentation and edge effects on grassland birds in the fragmented agricultural fields within the forested landscapes of the northeastern United States. From 2002 to 2010, we assessed how edges and edge types affected nest-site location and daily nest survival (DNS) of Savannah Sparrows (
10.2307/4086904|During 1979-1983, I documented the natal and breeding dispersal of the Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica) in the Cranberry Lake, New York, region of the Adirondacks by following the lifetime movements and breeding histories of individually marked birds. During the study, 847 birds were marked, and the movements of most were followed during the season they were marked. About 40% of the adults and 2% of the nestlings and juveniles were resighted or recaptured in two or more years. All recovered nestlings had dispersed from their natal colonies (median distance = 6.37 km). Most breeding adults remained faithful to previously used colonies, as well as to clusters within colonies, nests, and mates, when the latter were alive and available. Some individuals, however, did disperse. More females than males dispersed and usually moved farther both within and between breeding seasons. Males and, especially, females that had nested unsuccessfully with a particular mate in a particular location had a higher probability of deserting and dispersing than did successful breeders, both within and between breeding seasons. Old nests were reused at high frequencies for consecutive breeding attempts across breeding seasons. After successful first nests, breeders tended to move to secondary nests within 25 m of their first nests.
10.2307/4090251| Precise quantification of the oval of a bird egg can provide a powerful tool for the analysis of egg shape for various biological problems. A new approach to the geometry of a bird egg oval is presented here using a simple algebraic equation to fit all normal bird egg shapes. Only two parameters are needed in the equation for complete shape description of an egg oval to quantify the equation's capacity for curve fitting all species and shapes of bird egg ovals. The equation was fitted to egg silhouettes from a sample of 250 different bird egg species containing one egg per species. Standard regression analysis was used to fit the equation to each egg profile. The 99% CI for the curve fit acceptance rate was calculated to determine the equation's statistical significance for all species of bird eggs. Compared to the power series multiequation models (Preston 1968, Todd and Smart 1984), the equation used here is the simplest analytic description of a bird egg oval. /// La cuantificacin exacta del valo de un huevo de ave puede proporcionar una herramienta poderosa para el anlisis de la forma del huevo para varios problemas biolgicos. Se presenta aqu un nuevo acercamiento a la geometra del valo del huevo de un ave, el cual usa una ecuacin algebraica simple que se ajusta a todas las formas normales de huevos de aves. En la ecuacin slo dos parmetros son necesarios para la descripcin de la forma completa del valo del huevo, y para cuantificar la capacidad de la ecuacin de ajustar las curvas a todas las especies y formas de valo de huevos de ave. La ecuacin fue ajustada a siluetas de una muestra de 250 huevos de diferentes especies, con un huevo por especie. Se utiliz un anlisis de regresin estndar para ajustar la ecuacin a cada perfil de huevo. Se calcul el intervalo de confianza del 99% para la aceptacin del ajuste de la curva, para determinar la significancia estadstica de la ecuacin para todas las especies de huevos de ave. Comparada con los modelos de mltiples ecuaciones de series de potencia (Preston 1968, Todd y Escoce 1984), la ecuacin usada aqu es la descripcin analtica ms simple de un valo de huevo de ave. Esta ecuacin podra ser til para la aplicacin del anlisis de la forma del huevo en varios problemas biolgicos. 
4085458|The call-notes of the Greater Rhea chick were classified according to their acoustical structure and behavioral context. Both rate of vocalization and tonal quality of call-notes were found to deteriorate as a function function of maturation. Call-note production was completely eliminated by 7 weeks of age. Greater Rhea adults are silent except for such relatively infrequent vocalizations as "hissing" that sometimes accompanies agonistic behavior and a disyllabic "grunt" that only the male produces as part of a courtship display. Tracheal growth and a marked reduction in the intrusion of the internal tympanic membranes into the bronchial passages could contribute to the deterioration of vocalization. The use of vocalization as the primary channel of communication is replaced by visual display in the adults. These modalities are best suited to the ecological contingencies facing the chick and adult, respectively.
4087854|Analyses of the capture-recapture data on 910 individual Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) trapped from 1978-1987 as breeding adults on nests on Falkner Island, Connecticut, estimate the average annual minimum adult survival rate to be 0.74-0.75. There was weak evidence of year-to-year variation in annual survival rates during the study period. The Jolly-Seber models used to estimate survival rates also generated estimates of population size and capture probabilities. To determine the relative importance of adult mortality and permanent emigration in contributing to the estimated annual loss of one-fourth of the breeding population will require further study of intercolony movement between all the major colony sites. Assuming that the loss of birds from the Falkner Island colony site is due mostly to mortality rather than permanent emigration, and that the survival rate of this breeding population is typical of the entire North Atlantic breeding population, then the survival rate of this endangered species is low in comparison to the survival rates of several other marine bird species in the orders Procellariiformes, Pelecaniformes, and Charadriiformes.
4087664|Reassociation kinetic analysis of nuclear DNAs from Balearica pavonina (Black-crowned Crane) and Grus leucogeranus (Siberian Crane) shows that the nuclear genome of each contains at least 75% single-copy sequences. The kinetic data show the haploid genome of each species to be 1.0-1.5 pg. Neither DNA-DNA hybridization of single-copy nuclear sequences under conditions of reduced stringency nor albumin micro-complement fixation (MC'F) separated the three crane genera Grus, Anthropoides, or Bugeranus in our experiments. These three genera were separable from Balearica by both techniques. The DNA and MC'F results compare favorably with a parallel electrophoretic study. We conclude that Balearica and Grus separated between 10.0 and 6.2 MYBP (million years before present), as determined from MC'F and electrophoretic data, which is consistent with fossil evidence for cranes.
4085926|A comparison of the interyear variation in attendance patterns of Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) with the variation in egg size and chick growth rates suggests that the number of birds in attendance at a murre colony at any time during the breeding season is determined principally by the availability of food in surrounding waters. This effect operates mainly through the behavior of a large floating population of prospectors. When food is abundant, numbers on the cliffs will be high because birds have plenty of time to spare. Conversely, when food is scarce, numbers will be low because birds must devote most of their time to feeding. Implicit in the hypothesis is the assumption that birds strive to maximize the amount of time that they spend at the breeding colony in order to improve their chances of acquiring and retaining a breeding site.
4087797|Crowned Plovers (Vanellus coronatus), Black-winged Plovers (V. melanopterus), and Lesser Black-winged Plovers (V. lugubris) incubate their eggs during early spring in short unshaded grasslands and open woodlands. I studied incubation behavior in hot environments and the ability to control brood-patch temperatures. Crowned and Black-winged plovers kept brood-patch temperatures almost constant, while the temperature of Lesser Black-winged Plovers was more poorly controlled, probably as a result of a large body surface area-to-volume ratio. At high ambient temperatures, Crowned and Black-winged plovers shaded their eggs more than did Lesser Black-winged Plovers. Lesser Black-winged Plovers controlled nest-air temperatures at high ambient temperatures by frequent shifts in nest attendance by male and female, which allowed the nonsitting bird to cool in the shade.
10.1525/auk.2011.11069|Although food resources are thought to limit many populations, the extent to which the population dynamics of predators and prey are coupled is rarely known. We examined a sedentary population of Red Crossbills (
10.2307/4088189|Two distinctly different Type A songs characterize eastern and western populations within the breeding range of the Northern Parula (Parula americana). These two song variants differ mainly in the last note, but also have other significantly different frequency and temporal characters. The eastern-style singers terminate their song with two glissando-figures forming an inverted "V" on a sonagram. The western Type A song ends with a less intense buzzy note or vibrato-figure with an up slur. The song length of eastern birds averages 0.12 s shorter than western singers. Other significant differences include trill duration, trill rate, period between the first two syllables and the maximum frequencies of the first and last syllables. The two song populations are nearly allopatric, overlapping in southwestern Alabama and eastern Kentucky, where the two song forms can be heard in adjacent areas but where no intermediate songs are found. Morphological differences coupled with the differences in the Type A song suggest that the two populations are recognizable and may be in the early stages of allopatric divergence. I suggest that the eastern populations be recognized as P. americana americana and the western populations as P. americana ludoviciana.
10.2307/4089419|We sought to clarify relationships among morphometrics, behavior, and ecological variables for 21 species of raptors in the Philippines. Morphological space was defined by 42 external characters analyzed as shape variables with respect to body length (without tail). Seventeen variables were used to characterize habitat and five to characterize foraging behavior. Three PCA components accounted for 68% of the total variance in the habitat data and separated species living in dense forests from those using degraded habitats or coastal areas. Two PCA components explained 81% of the variance in hunting mode, with transitions from sit-and-wait to flap-gliding, and with contrasts between soaring and flapgliding. Three PCA components accounted for 70.5% of the variance in morphological shape. The first component separated species with narrow wings and less-pronounced notches from species with broad, deeply notched wings. The second and third components were associated with the contrast between pointed and rounded wings and prey-capture apparatus (feet, bill). Five morphological characters were highly correlated (R = 0.934) with the first principal component of the habitat data, indicating that species inhabiting forested habitats have square tails, rounded wings, and strong claws. Hunting mode and habitat also were closely related (R = 0.900). Soaring correlated well with the number of notched primaries, tail shape, and measures of the trophic apparatus, but poorly with wing loading and aspect ratio. Behavior, ecology, and morphology of this subset of raptors were closely interrelated. Among the Philippine raptors, species that inhabit rain forests are the most endangered, and we suggest that morphological constraints limit their use of secondary habitats.
10.2307/4090494| Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) winter in Mexico and often arrive in the vicinity of their breeding grounds in the Sierra Nevada well before nesting is possible. Arrival at Tioga Pass, California (elevation 3,030 m), usually occurs in early May, but residual winter snow and adverse weather can delay nesting for weeks. We used radiotelemetry to determine whether prebreeding Mountain White-crowned Sparrows engaged in weather-related altitudinal movements during the waiting period between the end of spring migration and onset of breeding during 1995-2001, with a range of residual winter snowpacks. Interannual variation in arrival date and onset of egg laying was 18 and 41 days, respectively. We tracked females for two years and males for all seven years. During spring snowstorms (which occurred in four years), radiomarked individuals moved to lower elevation sites, where they often remained for several days. Departing birds left Tioga Pass by early afternoon and returned early in the morning after storms. More frequent storms during tracking increased the likelihood of facultative altitudinal movements, but heavier residual winter snowpack did not. Warm days increased the likelihood of birds returning to Tioga Pass from low elevation. This study demonstrates that facultative altitudinal movement behavior can be a common feature of spring arrival biology in montane-breeding birds. /// Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha pasa el invierno en Mxico y usualmente llega a las cercanas de sus sitios reproductivos en la Sierra Nevada bastante antes de que sea posible anidar. La llegada a Tioga Pass, California (elevacin 3030 m) ocurre usualmente a principios de mayo, pero la presencia de nieve residual del invierno y las condiciones adversas del clima pueden demorar el anidamiento por semanas. Usamos radio-telemetra para determinar si los individuos pre-reproductivos de Z. l. oriantha realizaron movimientos altitudinales inducidos por el clima durante el perodo de espera entre el final de la migracin de primavera y el comienzo de la reproduccin durante 1995-2001, considerando un rango de niveles de acumulacin de nieve residual del invierno. La variacin interanual en la fecha de llegada y en el comienzo de la puesta de huevos fue de 18 y 41 das, respectivamente. Seguimos a las hembras durante dos aos y a los machos durante los siete aos del estudio. Durante las tormentas de nieve de la primavera (que tuvieron lugar en cuatro aos), los individuos marcados con radios se desplazaron a sitios a elevaciones ms bajas, donde permanecieron por lo general por varios das. Las aves se marcharon de Tioga Pass a comienzos de la tarde y regresaron temprano en la maana luego de las tormentas. Una mayor frecuencia de tormentas durante el perodo de seguimiento de las aves increment la probabilidad de que los individuos realizaran movimientos facultativos, pero mayores acumulaciones de nieve residual no tuvieron el mismo efecto. Los das clidos incrementaron la probabilidad de que las aves regresaran a Tioga Pass desde elevaciones bajas, lo cual demuestra que el comportamiento de movimientos facultativos de los individuos puede ser un rasgo caracterstico de la biologa de la llegada de primavera en aves que se reproducen en las montaas. 
10.1525/auk.2012.12008|Recent evidence suggests that avian population growth rates may be constrained by low postfledging survival. Therefore, quantifying postfledging mortality and understanding the ecological factors that influence it are fundamental for assessing the relative importance of this life-history stage for population growth and identifying the ecological drivers of population dynamics. We radiotracked 110 juvenile Ring Ouzels (
10.1525/auk.2013.13037|Migratory connectivity for small migratory passerines has been quantified primarily with stable hydrogen isotopes in feathers (
10.1525/auk.2010.09152|Recent research has confirmed the efficacy of migration monitoring to estimate trends in the populations of raptors sampled at traditional watch-sites. We used autumn satellite tracks of 57 adult Ospreys (
10.2307/4089980| A new species from Brazil-Pionopsitta aurantiocephala-is described, which is easily distinguished from the other species of that genus by its completely bare, intensely orange colored head. Specimens of this species have been historically identified as immatures of P. vulturina, which occur in simpatry with P. aurantiocephala on the Middle Tapajs River and possibly on the Lower Madeira River. The description of a new species of Psittacidae stresses the importance of new studies in the regions of the Madeira and Tapajs rivers. ///  descrita uma nova especie do Brasil, Pionopsitta aurantiocephala, que pode ser, facilmente, diagnosticada das demais espcies do gnero pela cabea nua corada de laranja intenso. Indivduos desta nova espcie tm sido, historicamente, identificados como imaturos de P. vulturina, que ocorre em simpatria com P. aurantiocephala no mdio Rio Tapajs e, possivelmente, no baixo Rio Madeira. A descrio desta nova espcie de Psittacidae refora a importncia de novos estudos na regio dos rios Tapajs e Madeira. 
10.2307/4090199| The Puerto Rican Plain Pigeon (Columba inornata wetmorei) was listed as endangered in 1970. Transect-survey and nest-monitoring data were collected to estimate reproductive parameters and to assess effects of weather, food, predation, and habitat. We monitored 377 of 423 nests found in east-central Puerto Rico during February-September 1986-2000. The largest sampling effort was conducted in May-June 1998, and 131 nests were found along 8,460 m, resulting in a nest density (D) of 5.26 per hectare or 356 nesting pairs (N) in the surveyed area (a = 67.7 ha). Nest spatial distribution was highly clumped (b = 3.2) and transect surveys were highly variable (CV = 40%). Thus, 34,000 m needed to be surveyed for a desired coefficient of variation (CV[D]) of 20%. Nest density varied widely during May-June 1986-2000. With a CV about the trend line of 121%, from 18 to 28 years of data would be needed to detect an increase or a decrease (r) of 5-10% in log-transformed nest density estimates through linear regression analysis (alpha = 0.15 and power = 0.80). Whereas food abundance had positive and significant relationships with nest density and number of fledglings produced, predator density had negative and significant relationships with nesting success and the number of fledglings produced. Predation accounted for 79% of nest losses (n = 183). Mayfield's estimates of nesting success averaged 40% and an average of 0.5 fledglings were produced per nesting pair. Because Plain Pigeons are able to produce fledglings from three or more broods per year and have extended nesting seasons (with a nest density peak usually occurring in May-June), we hypothesized that hatch-year and after-hatch-year survival rates of 50-65% and a yearly productivity of 1.4-2.0 fledglings per nesting pair were enough to offset mortality. Our optimism is tempered by the fact that Plain Pigeons have not been reported nesting outside east-central Puerto Rico, where rapid destruction and fragmentation of second-growth forests, catastrophic weather, food availability, nest predation, illegal hunting and poaching of nestlings may interact and cause an irreversible population decline. Managers should focus on conserving and restoring second-growth forest fragments to provide food and cover throughout the year. Additional recommendations are given based on the results of our study, which was part of a larger study of factors affecting the reproduction of columbids on Puerto Rico and its territories. /// La paloma sabanera de Puerto Rico (Columba inornata wetmorei) fue incluida en la lista de especies en peligro de extincin en 1970. Se colectaron datos en transectos y se monitorearon nidos para estimar parmetros reproductivos y evaluar los efectos del clima, la comida, la depredacin, y el hbitat. Monitoreamos 377 de 423 nidos encontrados en el este-central de Puerto Rico durante febrero-septiembre de 1986-2000. El mayor esfuerzo de muestreo se efectu en mayo-junio de 1998, cuando se encontraron 131 nidos a lo largo de 8460 m, resultando en una densidad (D) de 5.26 por hectrea 356 parejas anidando (N) en el rea de la muestra (a = 67.7 ha). La distribucin espacial de los nidos fue altamente aglomerada (b = 3.2) y los muestreos en los transectos fueron muy variables (CV = 40%). Como resultado, se necesit hacer un muestreo de 34,000 m en los transectos para obtener un coeficiente de variacin deseado (CV[D]) de 20%. La densidad de los nidos vari ampliamente durante mayo-junio de 1986-2000. Con un CV de 121% en la tendencia lineal, se necesit de 18 a 28 aos para detectar un incremento o un decrecimiento (r) de 5-10% en los estimados de densidad de nidos logtransformados mediante un anlisis de regresin lineal (alfa = 0.15, poder = 0.80). Mientras que la comida tuvo relaciones positivas y significativas con la densidad de nidos y el nmero de pichones producidos, la depredacin tuvo relaciones negativas y significativas con el xito de anidamiento y el nmero de pichones producidos. La depredacin caus un 79% de las prdidas de los nidos (n = 183). Los estimados Mayfield de xito de anidamiento promediaron un 40% y se produjo un promedio de 0.5 pichones por pareja reproductora. Dado que las palomas sabaneras son capaces de producir pichones de tres o ms camadas por ao y que las mismas tienen una temporada de reproduccin extendida (con un pico en la densidad de nidos que usualmente ocurre en mayo-junio), planteamos la hiptesis que una supervivencia de individuos de un ao o ms de 50-65% y una productividad de 1.4-2.0 pichones por pareja reproductora son suficientes para compensar la mortandad anual. Nuestro optimismo es atemperado por el hecho que las palomas sabaneras no han sido reportadas anidando fuera del este-central de Puerto Rico, en donde existe una rpida destruccin y fragmentacin de los bosques secundarios que puede interaccionar con un clima catastrfico, la disponibilidad de alimento, la depredacin de nidos, la cacera ilegal y el hurto de pichones, causando una merma poblacional irreversible. Los manejadores deben concentrarse en conservar y restaurar los fragmentos de bosques secundarios para proveer comida y cobertura a travs del ao. Damos recomendaciones adicionales sobre la base de los resultados de este estudio, el cual form parte de uno ms extenso sobre los factores que afectan la reproduccin de los colmbidos en Puerto Rico y sus territorios. 
4085354|Little Blue Herons feed in association with White Ibis by using the ibis's movements to increase foraging effectiveness. When feeding near a White Ibis, a heron increased the number of prey caught without increasing its energetic costs of foraging. The strike rate of a bird was higher when feeding commensally than when feeding alone, but its success per strike did not increase because of the commensal association. This increased energy return when feeding commensally resulted from greater opportunity for commensal herons to observe and attempt to catch prey rather than from an increased probability of their catching a prey item after it had been observed. The results of this study of a non-obvious commensal relationship suggest that many previously reported associations among water birds are also commensal. It also supports the hypothesis that multispecies aggregations of ciconiiforms may be characterized by cryptic forms of commensalism.
4086711|We investigated whether birds of deciduous forests avoid temporal overlap in their songs. Singing patterns of four common species were analyzed. All species showed a strong tendency to avoid singing during the song of another species. One tactic used to avoid song overlap was to sing immediately after another species had stopped. Individuals sang more often and more regularly (less variance in the interval between songs) when they sang alone than when they sang with other species. The hypothesis that short-term adjustments in temporal patterning of songs minimize interspecific acoustic interference is supported.
4087444|We studied the natal and breeding dispersal of yearling and adult House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) for 7 yr in central Illinois. The forested study areas contained 910 identical nest boxes placed in a grid pattern. On average 38.1% (n = 643) of the adult males and 23.3% (n = 1,468) of the adult females present in one year returned the next; 2.8% (n = 6,299) of the nestlings that survived to leave the nest returned each year. Adult male (median distance = 67 m) and adult female (median = 134 m) breeding dispersal was less than yearling male (median = 607.5 m) and yearling female (median = 674 m) natal dispersal. Females that returned had produced more offspring the previous season than had nonreturning females, and females that successfully produced at least one chick in their last nesting attempt of the previous season moved shorter distances than did unsuccessful females. There were, however, no consistent differences between returning and nonreturning females in two other measures of reproductive success. Females that were unsuccessful in their last breeding attempt of the previous year were more likely to be successful in their next attempt if they moved two or more territories than if they did not move. Reproductive success did not affect the likelihood that a male would return nor the distance that he moved. The success of subsequent nesting attempts by males was also not related to the distance moved. Inbreeding avoidance may explain differences between breeding and natal dispersal, but it does not explain the lack of difference in dispersal of yearling females and males. Differences between adult and yearling dispersal are best explained by advantages accruing to adults that remain near former breeding sites and by the necessity for yearlings to move farther because of their late return from the wintering grounds. The advantages for adults to reoccupy previous breeding sites are counterbalanced, especially in females, by advantages associated with moving after breeding failure.
10.2307/4089066|The shells of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs are unusually strong from the outside, presumably to reduce chances of puncture ejection by small hosts. To evaluate the potential effects of "outside" eggshell strength on inside strength, I measured the force required to puncture the inside of eggshells. When the confounding effects of variation among species in egg size were controlled, cowbird eggshells tolerated 1.7 times greater pressure than eggs of nine control species from several families. Within-species analyses of cowbirds and two nonparasitic blackbirds indicated that most of the variation in the inside strength of eggshells is related to their thickness. Analyses among species demonstrated that the greater inside strength of cowbird eggs could be explained mostly by their unusually thick eggshells. However, because cowbird eggshells were stronger than expected for their thickness, other eggshell characteristics also must play a role in inside strength. These results suggest that hatching from cowbird eggs is more difficult than would be expected for eggs of their size.
4087967|The largest remaining population of the endangered Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) occurs in the Apalachicola National Forest in northern Florida, where the U.S. Forest Service has recorded nearly 700 clusters of cavity trees with signs of recent activity by birds (active colony sites). Between January and July 1990 a random sample of 50 of the 186 sites listed by the Forest Service as active in the eastern district of the forest were visited. Thirteen (26%) had been abandoned. Of the 37 sites where birds were present, 14 (>37%) were occupied by single birds. Three of these single birds were members of adjacent clans, and single birds occupied 11 (32%) of the 34 sites that were being defended by their occupants. These percentages might have been different in the western district of the forest. However, the results for the eastern district imply that a population crash may be imminent and that there is an urgent need for management that will provide the mature pine habitat that healthy populations require.
10.2307/4089810|Measures of repeatability have long been used to assess patterns of variation in egg size within and among females. We compared different analytical approaches for estimating repeatability of egg size of Black Brant. Separate estimates of repeatability for eggs of each clutch size and laying sequence number varied from 0.49 to 0.64. We suggest that using the averaging egg size within clutches results in underestimation of variation within females and thereby overestimates repeatability. We recommend a nested design that partitions egg-size variation within clutches, among clutches within females, and among females. We demonstrate little variation in estimates of repeatability resulting from a nested model controlling for egg laying sequence and a nested model in which we assumed laying sequence was unknown.
10.2307/4086909|The effect of gull and cormorant feces applied to naturally incubated Glaucous-winged Gull eggs upon hatching success was studied on Mandarte Island, British Columbia. Gull feces, but not cormorant feces, significantly reduced the hatching success of treated eggs below that of control eggs. Eggs treated with gull feces lost significantly less water during incubation than either control eggs or eggs treated with cormorant feces. Eggs that were covered with gull feces but that nevertheless hatched had a significantly longer incubation period than did control eggs. The removal of the fat from the feces with ether before application to the eggs did not significantly improve hatching success.
4087380|By removing young from the nests of competent females, I tested whether male Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) could assess the parental competence of mates and adjust their parental investment accordingly. The purpose of this experimental reduction was to equalize the number of young in nests of parentally competent and incompetent females in order to control for the effect of offspring number on parental investment by males. Males had a greater probability of feeding at nests of competent-reduced females and they fed at a higher rate than they did at nests of incompetent females. The latter broods were fed only when nests belonging to competent females were unavailable. Males adjust their parental investment with mate quality independent of the number of young in nests. To explain this preference, I constructed functions to relate the amount of paternal investment (i.e. male feeding rate) to the number of young fledged from nests and the fledging mass of young. The latter are two components of male reproductive success and, therefore, estimates of the "return" on a male's parental investment. Male feeding had no effect on the number of young fledged from starvation-reduced or experimental nests. However, the fledging mass of young increased more when males helped competent females than when incompetent females were helped. Thus male preference for helping competent females may result because the return per unit of their investment is greater at these nests.
10.1525/auk.2012.12036|Wild birds play a key role in the amplification and transmission of many of the arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses). Determining the extent to which birds are affected by these viruses is critical in predicting the pathogens' spread or maintenance in vertebrate host populations. Little is known about how arboviruses affect amplifying hosts' fitness, especially in cases where these viruses infect nestling birds. Buggy Creek virus (BCRV; Togaviridae:
25150250|In spite of their putative importance in the evolution of certain traits (e.g., nocturnality, coloniality, cliff nesting), the effects of aerial predators on behavior of adult seabirds at colonies have been poorly investigated. We hypothesized that Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) respond to danger posed by aerial predators by modifying their behavior to mitigate danger. We observed Tufted Puffins making repeated colony fly-ins and departures and characterized (1) the timing of this behavior, (2) the activity rate (number of birds arriving or departing), and (3) the risk-level of activity, with respect to predation danger posed by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus). As we predicted, we found that Tufted Puffins (1) dilute danger by synchronizing their fly-in and departure activities, (2) reduce fly-in and departure activity rates when predators are present, and (3) switch to lower-risk fly-in activities (e.g., staying over water where they have an escape route from an aerial attack) when predators are present. /// Malgr leur importance putative dans l'volution de certains caractres (e.g. nocturnalit, colonialit, nidification sur une falaise), les effets des prdateurs ariens sur le comportement des oiseaux de mer adultes dans les colonies ont peu t tudis. Nous avons pos l'hypothse que les Macareux hupps (Fratercula cirrhata) ragissent au danger que reprsentent les prdateurs ariens en modifiant leur comportement pour attnuer le danger. Nous avons observ des Macareux hupps effectuant des arrives et des dparts rpts et nous avons caractris (1) la synchronisation de ce comportement, (2) le taux d'activit (nombre d'oiseaux arrivant ou quittant la colonie) et (3) le niveau de risque de l'activit en relation avec le danger de prdation reprsent par les Pygargues  tte blanche (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) et les Faucons plerins (Falco peregrinus). Comme nous l'avions prdit, nous avons trouv que les Macareux hupps (1) diluent le danger en synchronisant leurs activits d'arrive et de dpart, (2) rduisent le taux d'activit lorsque les prdateurs sont prsents et (3) reviennent  des activits d'arrive  risque plus faible (e.g. restent sur l'eau o ils peuvent avoir une voie pour s'chapper en cas d'une attaque arienne) lorsque les prdateurs sont prsents.
10.2307/4089886| Most obligate cavity-nesting birds are considered to be nest-site limited, either by time or energy to excavate or to acquire suitable holes for nesting. We examined rates of nest-cavity reuse for a rich community of cavity-nesting birds in mixed forests in interior British Columbia. Using a sample of 402 cavity-reuse cases over five years, we measured cavity reuse for 20 cavity-nesting bird and mammal species (three guilds), and examined the relationship between nest-cavity reuse and features of cavities, nest trees, and forest stands. Eight percent of used cavities were destroyed between years. Reuse rates were 17% for the cavities of weak excavators such as nuthatches and chickadees, 28% for formerly active woodpecker nests, and 48% for cavities previously used by secondary cavity nesting birds, but there was considerable species variation within all guilds. Nest cavities in aspen that were deep with large entrances had the highest reuse. At the forest stand level, cavities in trees close to edges and in sites with more edge habitat had greater reuse. Reused cavities tended to be occupied in sequential years rather than being inactive for a year. With increasing amounts of managed landscapes, availability of suitable cavities for forest nesting vertebrates is decreasing. Reuse of existing cavities might help mitigate the problem of nest-site limitation. /// La plupart des oiseaux nichant obligatoirement en cavit sont considrs comme tant limits quant  leur site de nidification, soit pour une question de temps ou d'nergie qui sont ncessaires pour creuser ou acqurir des trous adapts  leur nidification. Nous avons examin les taux de rutilisation de cavits de nidification pour une communaut riche en oiseaux nichant dans des cavits et dans des forts mixtes de l'intrieur de la Colombie Britannique. En utilisant un chantillon de 402 cas de cavits rutilises, nous avons mesur la rutilisation de cavits pour 20 espces d'oiseaux et de mammifres nichant dans des cavits (trois guildes), et examin la relation entre la rutilisation de cavit de nidification et les caractristiques des cavits, des arbres utiliss pour la nidification, et des peuplements forestiers. 8% des cavits utilises ont t dtruites au cours des annes. Les taux de rutilisation taient de 17% pour les cavits des espces  faible capacit de creusage telles que les sittelles et les msanges, 28% pour les nids de pics anciennement utiliss, et 48% pour les cavits prcdemment utilises par des oiseaux nichant dans des cavits de manire secondaire, mais il y avait une variation considrable entre les espces a l'intrieur de toutes les guildes. Les cavits de nidification profondes, avec de larges entres dans les trembles avaient le plus haut taux de rutilisation. Au niveau du peuplement forestier, les cavits des arbres proches des lisires et dans les sites riches en habitats de lisire ont connu une plus grande rutilisation. Les cavits rutilises tendaient  tre occupes durant des annes conscutives au lieu d'tre inactives pour une anne. Avec une quantit croissante de paysages amnags, la disponibilit de cavits adaptes  la nidification forestire des vertbrs diminue. Le rutilisation de cavits existantes pourrait aider  attnuer les problmes de limitation des sites de nidification. 
25488653|The health state of nestlings can be a useful bioindicator of the quality of the environment in which they are reared, but, to enable detection of responses to environmental change, the variation of health parameters under natural conditions should be evaluated. We describe the variation of morphological, biochemical, and hematological variables in relation to time of sampling, hatching date, brood size and type, and year in nestlings of two populations of Great Tits (
4090519| Information on population connectivity throughout the annual cycle has become more crucial, because populations of many migratory birds are in decline. One such species is the American Woodcock (Scolopax minor), which inhabits early-successional forests in eastern North America. Although band recoveries have proved useful for dividing populations of this game bird species into an Eastern Region and Central Region for management purposes, these data do not provide enough detail to determine the breeding population of origin of birds recovered on stopover and wintering areas. To obtain more fine-scale data, we undertook a phylogeographic study of American Woodcock populations throughout their primary breeding range in the eastern United States and Canada using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences from the hypervariable control region I (CRI) and ND6 gene. Despite high haplotype diversity, nucleotide diversity was low and there was no phylogeographic structure among American Woodcock populations across the species range, with birds from many states and provinces in both management regions sharing identical haplotypes. Results suggest recent or ongoing gene flow among populations, with asymmetric movement of birds between migration flyways. As has been demonstrated for several other avian species in North America, American Woodcock appear to have undergone a rapid population expansion following the late Pleistocene glacial retreat. Thus, a combination of historical demographic factors and recent or ongoing gene flow mask any population structure based on mtDNA that might accrue from philopatry to breeding areas observed in studies of marked birds. /// Les informations sur la connectivit des populations au cours de leur cycle annuel sont devenues essentielles puisque les populations de nombreuses espces d'oiseaux migrateurs sont en dclin. Une de ces espces est Scolopax minor, qui occupent des forts de dbut de succession dans l'est de l'Amrique du Nord. Dans un but de gestion, les retours de bague se sont avrs utiles pour diviser les diffrentes populations de cette espce selon une rgion est et une rgion centrale. Nanmoins, ces donnes ne fournissent pas assez de dtail pour dterminer les populations reproductrices qui sont  l'origine de ces oiseaux retrouves sur les aires de halte et d'hivernage. Afin d'obtenir des donnes  une chelle plus fine, nous avons entrepris une tude phylogographique sur des populations de Scolopax minor, et ce  la grandeur des aires principales de reproduction dans l'est des tats-Unis et du Canada en utilisant des squences d'ADN mitochondrial (ADNmt) de la rgion de contrle I hyper variable (RCI) et du gne ND6. Malgr une diversit d'halotypes leve, la diversit de nuclotides tait faible et il n'y avait pas de structure phylogographique parmi les populations de Scolopax minor au sein de l'aire de distribution de l'espce, tant donn l'existence d'individus qui proviennent de plusieurs tats et provinces, appartiennent aux deux rgions de gestion et partagent des halotypes identiques. Les rsultats suggrent la prsence d'un flux gnique rcent ou continu parmi les populations, avec des mouvements asymtriques d'individus entre les voies migratoires. Comme ce fut dmontr pour plusieurs autres espces aviennes en Amrique du Nord, Scolopax minor semble avoir subi une rapide expansion de population faisant suite au retrait glaciaire de la fin du Plistocne. Par consquent, une combinaison de facteurs dmographiques d'origine historique et le flux gnique rcent ou continu masquent toute la structure de population issue de l'ADNmt. Ceci pourrait dcouler de la philopatrie sur les aires de reproduction, tout comme cela fut observ dans d'autres tudes avec des oiseaux marqus. 
25488617|Survival from fledging to maturity is an important life-history parameter in long-lived species such as seabirds. However, because of the long period of unobservability following fledging, few studies have reported reliable estimates of survival rates for immatures. We estimated survival to maturity of two cohorts of Atlantic Puffin (
25488522|We modeled daily nest-survival rates (DSR) of a reintroduced population of Northern Aplomado Falcons (
10.2307/4090269| We address the problem of microsatellite genotyping errors associated with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification from degraded and dilute template DNA and provide suggestions for improving the accuracy of genotype data in studies using older museum specimens as a source of DNA. In the course of a population genetics study of African indigobirds (Vidua spp.), we used replicate PCR to evaluate genotyping reliability for nine microsatellite loci in relation to PCR fragment length and DNA template concentration (DNA extracted from the calamus of one vs. two wing feathers). Complete amplification failure and the dropout of one allele from heterozygous genotypes were the predominant problems encountered. For samples with heterozygous genotypes, allele dropout occurred in 19.2 and 12.1% of PCR using extracts derived from one and two feathers, respectively. The amplification of artifact bands was less frequent (affecting 4.9 and 1% of positive PCR reactions with one- and two-feather extracts, respectively). Those results indicate that multiple replicates per sample and locus are required to obtain accurate genotype data from museum feather samples. Although higher DNA concentration improved success, PCR fragment size had a much stronger influence on the success and repeatability of microsatellite amplification, which suggests that the accuracy and efficiency of genotyping can be improved most easily by designing primers that amplify smaller DNA fragments. /// En este estudio abordamos el problema de los errores en el establecimiento de genotipos de microsatlites asociados con la amplificacin por medio de la reaccin en cadena de la polimerasa (PCR) utilizando ADN degradado y diluido como templete. Tambin presentamos sugerencias para mejorar la exactitud de los datos genotpicos en estudios que utilizan especmenes de museo antiguos como fuente de ADN. En el transcurso de un estudio de gentica de poblaciones de las especies africanas del gnero Vidua, utilizamos rplicas de PCR para determinar la confiabilidad en el establecimiento de genotipos para nueve loci microsatelitales con relacin a la longitud del fragmento de PCR y la concentracin del ADN templete (extrado del clamo de una vs. dos plumas de las alas). Los problemas predominantes encontrados fueron el fracaso de amplificacin y la prdida de un alelo de genotipos heterocigotos. Para muestras con genotipos heterocigotos, la prdida de alelos sucedi en 19.2 y 12.1% de las PCR usando extractos derivados de una y dos plumas, respectivamente. La amplificacin de bandas artificiales fue menos frecuente, afectando el 4.9 y 1% de las reacciones de PCR con extractos de una y dos plumas, respectivamente. Estos resultados indican que para obtener datos exactos de genotipos a partir de plumas de museo es necesario utilizar mltiples rplicas por muestra y por locus. Aunque una mayor concentracin de ADN mejor el xito, el tamao del fragmento de PCR tuvo una influencia mucho ms fuerte sobre el xito y la repetibilidad de la amplificacin de los microsatlites, lo que sugiere que la exactitud y eficiencia del establecimiento de genotipos pueden mejorarse ms fcilmente diseando iniciadores que amplifiquen fragmentos de ADN ms pequeos. 
25488527|Birds are known to modify their foraging behavior in relation to food availability. Once understood, these relationships can be used to draw inferences about relative food availability and habitat quality. We measured foraging behavior of Surf Scoters (
10.2307/4090152| Over a 14 year period, we determined offspring sex ratios in a population of Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) breeding on Kent Island, an isolated 80 ha island in the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick, Canada, based on morphological measurements of 318 independent juveniles and 361 returning adults of known parentage. The mean annual offspring sex ratio was exactly 1.00 (0.23, range= 0.61-1.41, n = 14). In no year did offspring sex ratio deviate significantly from 50:50, regardless of the sex ratio of breeding adults. Offspring sex ratio did not vary as a function of the timing of breeding, maternal or paternal age, or parental mating status (monogamy vs. polygamy). Overall, our data provide strong support for 50:50 offspring sex ratios at the population level (Fisher 1930), but no support for the notion of adaptive modification of offspring sex ratios by individuals (Trivers and Willard 1973). /// Durante 14 aos se determinaron las proporciones de los dos sexos en las cras en una poblacin de Gorriones de Savannah (Passerculus sandwichensis) que se reproduce en Kent Island, una isla aislada de 80 hectreas en la Baha de Fundy, New Brunswick, Canad. Las calculaciones se basaron en medidas morfolgicas de 318 juveniles independientes y de 361 adultos que haban regresado y cuyos padres eran conocidos. La proporcin media anual de los sexos en las cras fue exactamente 1,00 (0,23, variacin = 0,61-1,41, n = 14). En ningn ao se desvi significativamente de 50:50 la proporcin de los sexos en las cras, independientemente de la proporcin de los sexos de los adultos reproductivos. La proporcin de los sexos en las cras no vari como funcin de la fecha de reproduccin, ni de la edad maternal o paternal, ni de la situacin reproductiva de los padres (mongama o polgama). En total, nuestros datos apoyan slidamente las proporciones de los sexos en las cras de 50:50 al nivel de poblacin (Fisher 1930) pero no ofrecen ningn apoyo para la nocin de modificaciones adaptativas de proporciones de los sexos de las cras por individuos (Trivers y Willard 1973). 
10.2307/4088624|Eggs collected from an aviary colony of Village Weavers (Ploceus cucullatus cucullatus) over a 14-year period varied in color among different females from white to emerald or turquoise, and from many spots to few or none. Color and amount of spotting of the eggs of a given female were constant throughout her life (based on 815 eggs from 37 females). Color was judged from the Villalobos Color Atlas. Mendelian analysis of five different hypotheses showed that inheritance of background color of eggs in 20 different crosses was consistent only with a hypothesis of two independent pairs of autosomal alleles for hue.
10.2307/4089932|Patterns of abundance of the seabird tick Amblyomma loculosum and their effects on Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) nestling growth, fledging age, and survival are described on Aride Island, Seychelles, in 1997-1999. Female ticks attached to nestlings from 4 to 14 days (to engorge) whereas male ticks attached for 1-3 days. The linear growth rate of birds carrying female ticks (0.24 g/day) was significantly different from that of nonparasitized nestlings of the same age and similar (or even lower) hatching weight (4.07 g/day). Parasitized nestlings that fledged did so 5.2 days later than nonparasitized nestlings of similar age. Only 37.5% of the nestlings infested with female ticks fledged compared with 83.3% of the noninfested nestlings. During the successful 1998 breeding season, around 100 nestlings died from tick infestation (24.3% of the nestling deaths). Ticks appeared to accelerate nestling mortality during periods of food shortage. Despite and annual difference of two weeks in the timing of breeding of the Roseate Terns between 1997 and 1998, adult ticks parasitized nestlings in July, with an infestation peak occurring between 8-12 July in both years. However, in 1997, nestlings were parasitized at a younger age, suggesting that ticks (nymph stage) must attach to Roseate Tern adults as soon as they make a nest scrape (usually in May). Ironically, the frequent breeding failures of the Roseate Terns will result in lower infestation levels in subsequent years, which will benefit the birds.
10.2307/25150219|The effects of seasonal migration on evolutionary change within lineages is poorly understood, in terms of both differentiation (cladogenesis) and specialization (anagenesis). Regarding differentiation, two contradictory hypotheses exist: Seasonal migration counters differentiation; or it can stimulate differentiation by exposing lineages to new environments. Regarding specialization, the morphological consequences of a migratory life history have not been well explored. We examined these issues by reconstructing morphological and molecular phylogenies of the genus Catharus (Turdidae), a group of forest-dwelling, New World thrushes traditionally considered to include a small "species flock" of Nearctic-Neotropic migrants. DNA sequence data (2,920-3,027 base pairs) do not support traditional taxonomy, and morphological characters conflicted with these data. Results suggest that long-distance seasonal migration arose independently four times in Catharus sensu lato (including Hylocichla mustelina). Correlated morphological evolution occurred among several characters in these lineages, and these shared traits may stem from ecological conditions in Nearctic forests. /// Los efectos de la migracin estacional sobre el cambio evolutivo de los linajes son poco conocidos en trminos tanto de la diferenciacin (cladognesis) como de la especializacin (anagnesis). Con respecto a la diferenciacin, existen dos hiptesis contradictorias: que la migracin estacional imposibilita la diferenciacin, o que sta puede estimular la diferenciacin al exponer a los linajes a ambientes nuevos. Con respecto a la especializacin, las consecuencias morflogicas de la historia de vida migratoria no han sido bien exploradas. Examinamos estos aspectos reconstruyendo filogenias morfolgicas y moleculares del gnero Catharus (Turdidae), un grupo de zorzales del nuevo mundo que tradicionalmente se ha considerado que contiene una pequea "bandada de especies" de migrantes nertico-neotropicales. Los datos de secuencias de ADN (2,920-3,027 pares de bases) no apoyan la taxonoma tradicional, y los caracteres morfolgicos se encuentran en conflicto con estos datos. Los resultados sugieren que la migracin estacional que involucra grandes distancias surgi independientemente cuatro veces en Catharus sensu lato (incluyendo a Hylocichla mustelina). En estos linajes, sucedi evolucin correlacionada entre varios caracteres morfolgicos. Estos rasgos compartidos podran aparecer como consecuencia de las condiciones ecolgicas de los bosques del Nertico.
10.2307/4087999|In Cassin's Auklet (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) on Southeast Farallon Island, California, 1979-1984, we found significant annual and seasonal variation in timing and rate of primary molt in adult males, adult females, and subadults (1-2 years old). Except in 1979, adult males began to molt at least 10 days before adult females, and males molted at a slower rate. Subadult birds initiated molt later and molted faster, but showed less annual variation than adults. Timing of breeding and breeding success varied annually but were not correlated directly with molt. In years of extended breeding, molt rates were slower apparently in response to the energetic demands caused by the overlap of breeding and molt.
25488531|Studies on the effects of forest fragmentation on the reproductive ecology of forest songbirds have focused almost exclusively on the egg and nestling stages. Little is known about survival or habitat use of fledglings in their first weeks out of the nest. We radiotracked adult Hooded Warblers (
auk.2012.11212|Bird species vary greatly in the duration of their annual complete feather molt. However, such variation is not well documented in birds from many biogeographic areas, which restricts our understanding of the diversification of molt strategies. Recent research has revealed that molt duration can be estimated in passerines from ptilochronology-based measurements of the growth rate of their tail feathers. We used this approach to explore how molt duration varied in 98 Nearctic species that have different migratory strategies and molt patterns. As previously documented for Palearctic species, migration was associated with a shortening of molt duration among species that molted during summer on their breeding range. However, molts of winter-molting migratory species were as long as those of summer-molting sedentary species, which suggests that winter molt also allows Nearctic migrants to avoid the temporal constraints experienced during summer. Our results also suggest that migratory species that undergo a stopover molt within the Mexican monsoon region have the shortest molt duration among all Nearctic passerines. Interestingly, and contrary to expectations from a potential tradeoff between molt duration and feather quality, observed variation in feather growth rate was positively correlated with differences in tail feather mass, which may be caused by differences among groups in the availability of resources for molting. We encourage the use of similar approaches to study the variation in molt duration in other geographic areas where knowledge of the evolution of molt is limited.
10.1525/auk.2011.10182|Understanding the role of green space in urbansuburban landscapes is becoming critical for bird conservation because of rampant habitat loss and conversion. Although not natural habitat, golf courses could play a role in bird conservation if they support breeding populations of some native species, yet scientists remain skeptical. In 20032009, we measured reproduction of Eastern Bluebirds (
4087948|In a comparative survey of the food selected by the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) in coastal waters of the Skagerrak and the northern Baltic proper, waters of high and low salinity, we showed that Mytilus edulis was the most heavily utilized food type. In waters of high salinity, ducks did not select large mussels, though they were available, and apparently ducks preferred food items with a low seawater content, like crustaceans and gastropods. Large birds, however, consumed larger mussels than did smaller birds. These results support previously proposed hypotheses that mussel-feeding ducks can minimize salt intake by feeding on smaller mussels, by consuming other types of food, and by increasing the allowable intake by being larger. There were indications that the size and number of grit fragments swallowed were related to the type of food consumed. However, we were unable to determine whether grit fragments were consumed involuntarily during mussel gathering or swallowed intentionally to help in grinding food items. A decline in body size over a 1,000-year period in eiders from the Baltic compared with birds from the Swedish west coast implies an evolutionary adaptation to lower salinity. We also describe a method of mussel size reconstruction from shell remnants.
4088238|We analyzed mitochondrial-DNA (mtDNA) restriction-site variation in populations (subspecies) of the Streaked Saltator (Saltator albicollis) in Panama, Peru, and the Lesser Antilles. Genetic differentiation between populations (Panama vs. Peru, 0.035; Lesser Antilles vs. Panama/Peru, 0.063) greatly exceeded values reported for populations or subspecies within North American bird species (0.0028-0.0086), and was near the high end of the range reported for congeneric species of passerine birds (0.016-0.073). Nucleotide diversity within populations was similar to that reported for other species of passerines and did not differ markedly between mainland and island populations. Thus, founder effects and population bottlenecks associated with island colonization appear to have caused little, if any, loss of mtDNA nucleotide diversity. No significant mtDNA differentiation was observed between populations of named subspecies on mainland Panama (S. a. isthmicus) and the Pearl Islands (speratus), or between two subspecies in the Lesser Antilles (albicollis and guadelupensis). Saltator albicollis exhibits marked geographical genetic differentiation, as assayed by mtDNA polymorphism, but this bears little relationship to subspecies distinctions. Finally, the genetic data suggest that Antillean populations of Streaked Saltators should be distinguished at specific rank (S. albicollis), with continental forms referred to S. striatipectus.
10.2307/4089237| Birds of the open, humid lowland tropics encounter challenging thermal conditions-high temperatures, high humidity, and intense solar radiation. I examined how one such species, the Variable Seedeater (Sporophila aurita, Emberizidae), responds to temperature by measuring its body temperature (T
10.2307/25150218| Satellite imagery was used to model the distribution and abundance of Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Image-derived data for live softwood shrub density, standing dead-tree basal area, distance to nearest fir-shrub cover type, along with a digital elevation model and point-count data, were used to supply regressor estimates in a multivariate logistic habitat model that was constructed from field vegetation sampling and point-count data. Spatially explicit predictions of probability of Bicknell's Thrush presence were made for each 28.5  28.5 m-pixel covering 70,000 ha. A model validation procedure using observations independent from model calibration revealed no difference (P > 0.05) between modeled and observed estimates of Bicknell's Thrush presence within probability deciles 0 to <0.1, 0.1 to <0.2, 0.2 to <0.3, 0.3 to <0.4, 0.5 to <0.6, and 0.6 to <0.7 with respective densities
10.2307/4088421|I studied molt of Bristle-thighed Curlews (Numenius tahitiensis) on Laysan Island in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands from 1988-1991. Adult curlews underwent a complete prebasic molt between August and December. Duration of primary molt was about 92 days, which is rapid compared with other shorebirds that molt in tropical and southern latitudes. Adults replaced large numbers of primaries and secondaries simultaneously, and about 50% of the birds became flightless during molt. The prealternate molt began in winter and ended in early spring; it involved the body feathers and variable numbers of rectrices but no remiges. Juveniles molted body feathers and some rectrices during their first autumn and winter but did not replace their juvenal primaries until the spring and summer of their second calendar year. Second-year curlews began replacing their new first basic primaries in late summer, in some cases before the outer juvenal primaries had been dropped. The delayed first prebasic primary molt is probably an adaptation allowing inexperienced birds to devote energy expenditure in their first winter to obtaining food rather than to molting remiges. Because second-year birds remain on the wintering grounds throughout the year and do not prepare for migration, there is no selection against replacing new primaries. Unlike most shorebirds, adult Bristle-thighed Curlews gained mass steadily throughout the autumn and winter. Their rapid prebasic molt in autumn may be an adaptation to allow the birds ample time to build up fat reserves during winter. I suggest that the absence of rich intertidal feeding areas and the frequency of winter storms make it difficult for curlews to take on large fat stores in short time periods as do species that winter on continental coasts. The lack of predators and the small size of remote oceanic islands obviate the need for curlews to maintain peak flight efficiency, allowing birds to become flightless during molt in autumn and to carry increasingly large fat stores throughout the winter.
90008542|Carotenoid coloration has been repeatedly shown to serve as a sexually selected signal of individual quality. Across different species, individuals showing brighter carotenoid-based signals have been found to have superior foraging abilities, to recover faster from diseases and, in general, to enjoy a better body condition. Experiments with birds have also shown that carotenoid supplementation can enhance flight performance, allowing birds to take off faster from the ground. Healthy, agile individuals should be better prepared to avoid predators, so it could be expected that individuals displaying brighter carotenoid-based coloration would show a higher escape ability from predator attacks. To test this prediction, we measured the escape ability of male House Finches (
10.2307/4089116|Although many aspects of hummingbird biology have been studied, few recent analyses of higher-level systematic relationships exist. Based on morphology, it has been hypothesized that the Trochilidae includes six major clades. We used starch-gel electrophoresis to construct and test phylogenetic hypotheses for representatives of the six clades, using two species of swifts (Apodidae) as outgroups. Of 45 loci scored, 38 were polymorphic. The average Nei's genetic distance (D) among 14 hummingbird taxa was 0.625; D averaged 1.61 between the swifts and hummingbirds. These distances are large, and are consistent with other nonpasserine groups, suggesting that hummingbird taxa are relatively old. Phylogenetic analyses generally were consistent with the hypothesis that hermits are a sister group to all other trochilines. Within the Trochilinae, two broad groups are recognized, here called trochiline-A and B, which correspond to the morphologically determined "primitive" and "advanced" trochiline groups of Zusi and Bentz (1982). Androdon aequatorialis is genetically distinct but generally aligns with the trochiline-A group. Within the trochiline-B group, four radiations hypothesized by Zusi (pers. comm.), here called Bee, Amazilia ("Emeralds"), Andean, and High Andean, were corroborated by our analyses. Our distance analysis suggests a phylogenetic pattern consistent with that derived from Sibley and Ahlquists' (1990) and Bleiweiss et al.'s (1997) DNA-DNA hybridization studies.
10.1525/auk.2010.09202|Spontaneous oscillator synchrony has been documented in a wide variety of electrical, mechanical, chemical, and biological systems, including the menstrual cycles of women and estrous cycles of Norway Rats (
10.2307/4089905| Accurate measurements of food consumption by young birds are of great value in a variety of ecological studies, but traditional measurement methods are problematic and prone to high error. In animals that obtain their water primarily through food, it is possible to estimate food consumption from measurements of water influx rate, using radioactively labeled water (
10.2307/4089839|Evolutionary history of the dove genus Streptopelia has not been examined with rigorous phylogenetic methods. We present a study of phylogenetic relationships of Streptopelia based on over 3,600 base pairs of nuclear and mitochondrial gene sequences. To test for monophyly of Streptopelia, we used several other columbiform taxa, including Columba (Old and New World), Macropygia, Reinwardtoena, and the enigmatic Pink Pigeon (Nesoenas mayeri). On the basis of our analyses, Streptopelia (as currently defined) is not monophyletic; Nesoenas mayeri is the sister species to S. picturata, resulting in paraphyly of Streptopelia. Three main clades of Streptopelia are identified: (1) S. chinensis plus S. senegalensis, (2) S. picturata plus Nesoenas mayeri, and (3) all other species of Streptopelia. It is unclear whether those clades form a monophyletic group to the exclusion of Old World Columba, but several analyses produce that result. Species of Old World Columba are closely related to Streptopelia, with species of New World Columba clustering outside that group. Taxonomic changes suggested by our results include merging Nesoenas with Streptopelia and changing the generic name for New World Columba species to Patagioenas. Vocal similarities between S. picturata and N. mayeri are striking, given the general diversity of vocalizations in other species.
4090522| The method of collecting and analyzing boluses to characterize the cephalopod diet of albatrosses has been used in many diet studies. However, no study has validated this method. We compared boluses and stomach samples from Gray-headed Albatrosses (Thalassarche chrysostoma) and Black-browed Albatrosses (T. melanophris) to (1) study the consumption and diversity of cephalopods in these species, (2) investigate biases associated with each sampling method, and (3) estimate the number of samples needed to characterize these albatross's cephalopod diet. We found that collection and analysis of boluses is a simple, efficient, and noninvasive method for assessing the cephalopod diet of these albatross species, but it is inadequate for characterizing the more easily digestible dietary components, such as fish and crustaceans. Both boluses and stomach samples showed that the two albatross species fed on cephalopods of similar sizes and from the same families (Ommastrephidae, Onychoteuthidae, and Cranchiidae). Furthermore, the main prey species (Martialia hyadesi, Kondakovia longimana, and Galiteuthis glacialis) and the total number of cephalopod species consumed (18-24 species) were the same for both albatrosses. To include all cephalopod species, using a sample-randomization technique, a minimum of 61 and 43 boluses were needed for Gray-headed and Black-browed albatrosses, respectively; but to adequately describe the diversity and size frequency of the main prey species, 82 and 371 boluses would be needed. /// La mthode de collecte et d'analyse des pelotes de rjection qui consiste  caractriser le contenu en cphalopodes du rgime alimentaire de l'albatros a t utilise dans de nombreuses tudes portant sur le rgime alimentaire. Nanmoins, aucune tude n'a valid cette mthode. Nous avons compar des chantillons de pelotes et de contenus stomacaux provenant de Thalassarche chrysostoma et T. melanophris afin (1) d'tudier la consommation et la diversit des cphalopodes chez ces espces, (2) d'examiner les biais associs avec chaque mthode d'chantillonnage et (3) d'estimer le nombre d'chantillons ncessaires afin de caractriser les rgimes alimentaires en cphalopodes de ces albatros. Nous avons trouv que la collecte et l'analyse des pelotes est une mthode simple, efficace et non invasive pour valuer le contenu en cphalopodes du rgime alimentaire de ces espces d'albatros. Par contre, elle est inadquate pour caractriser les composantes plus facilement digrable du rgime alimentaire, comme les poissons et les crustacs. Les chantillons de pelotes de rjection et stomacaux ont montr que les deux espces se sont nourries de cphalopodes de tailles similaires et de mmes familles (Ommastrephidae, Onychoteuthidae et Cranchiidae). De plus, les principales espces de proie (Martialia hyadesi, Kondakovia longimana et Galiteuthis glacialis) et le nombre total d'espces de cphalopodes consommes (18-24 espces) taient les mmes pour les deux espces d'albatros. Afin d'inclure toutes les espces de cphalopodes et en utilisant une technique d'chantillonnage altoire, un minimum de 61 et 43 pelotes taient ncessaires pour Thalassarche chrysostoma et T. melanophris, respectivement. Mais, pour dcrire adquatement la diversit et les frquences de taille de toutes les espces principales de proies, 82 et 371 pelotes seraient ncessaires. 
10.2307/4088413|Discriminant analysis can use morphometric differences between known male and female birds to predict the sex of unknown individuals in field studies. Geographic variation in size and shape often limits the predictive value of a discriminant function to the population from which it was derived. Specific discriminant functions for populations of five species of fulmarine petrels (Northern Fulmar, Fulmarus glacialis; Southern Fulmar, F. glacialoides; Antarctic Petrel, Thalassoica antarctica; Cape Petrel, Daption capense; and Snow Petrel, Pagodroma nivea) assigned 81 to 98% of birds in the samples to the correct sex, but the validity of each discriminant applied to alternative populations remained questionable. Our approach to overcome this limitation is to combine data from the different species into a single discriminant. Adequate performance of this generalized discriminant in samples of different species shows its validity for use in other populations of any of these species. The generalized function calculates the discriminant scores for individual fulmarine petrels as: Y = HL + 2.38BD + 0.41TL - 0.21CL, where HL is head length, BD is bill depth, TL is tarsus length and CL is bill length (measurements in millimeters). The cut point to split sexes is different in each sample and may be calculated directly from discriminant scores, without reference to sexed birds, by using a maximum-likelihood method. Depending on species, the generalized method results in 84 to 97% correct classifications and can be applied to other populations of fulmarine petrels without requiring samples of birds of known sex.
10.2307/4087485|I examined temporal variation in diet with respect to fish dynamics in a resident population of Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) in Florida for 18 months. Bass (Micropterus salmoides, Morone saxtilis) were captured in proportion to their abundance. Ospreys exhibited preference for sunfish (Lepomis spp.) from May to August 1985 and from March to July 1986. Shad (Dorosoma spp.) were preferred from September to February. These shifts were closely related to concurrent shifts in sunfish abundance; preference for sunfish was exhibited when they were most abundant. When sunfish abundance declined, Ospreys switched back to shad. Shifts from shad to sunfish also were associated with a switch in foraging habitat. Ospreys hunted preferentially in the littoral zone of the lake during peak abundances of sunfish and foraged in the limnetic zone when concentrating on shad. Changes in preference for sunfish lagged 1.2 months behind changes in sunfish abundance, but lagged less than 0.3 months for shad. Variation in sunfish abundance was greater than that for shad, suggesting that the ability of Ospreys to exhibit strict concordance between abundance and preference may depend on the amplitude of the change in abundance.
10.2307/4088510|Studies of avian brood reduction characteristically focus on the short-term consequences of hatching asynchrony for offspring (e.g. number and sizes of fledglings), but a truly comprehensive brood-reduction theory needs to incorporate long-term fitness effects for parents if trimming family size leads to lessened parental effort thereafter. A simple model shows that a brood-reduction strategy is more likely to be favored by natural selection when early losses of one or more brood members in poor years (expedited by parental manipulation of hatching asynchrony) lead to significantly diminished parental work levels. Field workers should design experiments to assess the effects of brood reduction on parental work levels, parental survivorship, and/or future fecundity; they could do so simply by borrowing the experimental field techniques already employed in studies of avian reproductive costs.
4088311|I studied geographical variation in mensural characters and plumage pattern over the breeding range of the Blue Tit (Parus caeruleus). In Eurasia body size decreases clinally from north-northeast to south-southwest, and bill thinness and relative tarsal length increase clinally from the northeast to the southwest. This variation is consistent with changes in environmental factors known to affect these characters. Geographical isolates in North Africa vary in size and in bill and tarsus morphology in a way consistent with habitat variation among isolates. Similarities in mensural characters among samples are more consistent with similarities in ecological conditions than with taxonomy. Geographical variation in plumage pattern essentially is clinal in Eurasia but discontinuous in North Africa. On a broad scale, plumage pattern variation is consistent with the population groups defined by taxonomists (Eurasian and North African population groups). Within each population group consistency between variation in plumage pattern and the probable population phylogeny is poor. My results substantiate the importance of the unifying effect of gene flow in adjacent samples even over a large geographical area and the necessity of geographical isolation to foster the appearance of gaps in clinal variation or of markedly different population characteristics.
10.2307/4090421| We used microprocessor data loggers to document patterns of nest attendance during the laying stage and to quantify temperatures of dummy eggs during laying for Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Blue-winged Teal (A. discors), Northern Shoveler (A. clypeata), Northern Pintail (A. acuta), Gadwall (A. strepera), Green-winged Teal (A. crecca), American Wigeon (A. americana), and Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) nesting in southern Manitoba in 1994 and in northeastern North Dakota in 1995-1997 and 2000-2002. Females of all species increased the time they spent on the nest as laying progressed, but species differed in their pattern of increased attendance. Female Blue-winged Teal and Northern Shoveler that laid smaller clutches increased the time they spent on the nest more rapidly than conspecifics that laid larger clutches, but large- and small-clutch conspecifics had similar attendance at the end of the laying period. Attendance during laying was not influenced by low ambient temperature, precipitation, or nest initiation date. For all species combined, maximum egg temperatures increased as laying progressed. Eggs were heated to temperatures sufficient for embryonic development as early as the day that the second egg was laid. Our findings contradict the prevailing paradigm that incubation in waterfowl begins after clutch completion and raise questions about how hatching synchrony is achieved. We relate our findings to two hypotheses (nutrient limitation and viability-predation) that have been proposed to explain the limits to clutch size in ducks. /// Empleamos microprocesadores de almacenamiento de datos para documentar los patrones de tiempo de permanencia en el nido y para cuantificar las temperaturas de huevos falsos durante la poca de postura en las especies de patos nidificantes Anas platyrhynchos, A. discors, A. clypeata, A. acuta, A. strepera, A. crecca, A. americana y Aythya affinis, en el sur de Manitoba en 1994 y en el noreste de Dakota del Norte en 1995-1997 y 2000-2002. Las hembras de todas las especies incrementaron la cantidad de tiempo que pasaron en el nido conforme progres la puesta, pero las especies variaron en su patrn de incremento del tiempo en el nido. Las hembras de A. discors y A. clypeata que pusieron nidadas ms pequeas incrementaron el tiempo de permanencia en el nido ms rpidamente que las hembras de su misma especie que pusieron nidadas ms grandes, pero al final del perodo de postura las hembras de nidadas grandes y pequeas presentaron perodos de permanencia en el nido similares. La permanencia en el nido durante el perodo de postura no fue influenciada por bajas temperaturas ambientales, precipitacin, ni la fecha de iniciacin del nido. Para todas las especies combinadas, las temperaturas mximas de los huevos se incrementaron a medida que progres la postura. La fecha ms temprana en la que los huevos se calentaron hasta alcanzar temperaturas suficientes para el desarrollo embrional fue aquella en la que el segundo huevo fue puesto. Nuestros hallazgos contradicen el paradigma prevaleciente entre los ornitlogos de que la incubacin en las aves acuticas comienza luego de que se han puesto todos los huevos de la nidada, y llevan a plantear preguntas sobre cmo se alcanza la sincrona al momento de la eclosin. Relacionamos nuestros hallazgos con las dos hiptesis (limitacin nutricional y viabilidad-depredacin) que se han propuesto para explicar los factores que limitan el tamao de la nidada en los patos. 
4090635| Between 1986 and 1993, we studied a breeding colony of Purple Martins (Progne subis) in Maryland that were chronically infected with two blood parasites: Haemoproteus prognei, a haematozoan, and an unidentified filarial nematode. We assessed whether cross-infections are more severe than single infections by comparing the return rates of birds infected with either or both parasites and the return rates of uninfected controls. Birds were captured every year and banded, and blood smears were taken for parasite screening. Average prevalence of filaria among the 400 birds screened during this period was 22%. Birds usually became infected by their second year (SY), and infected SY birds had significantly lower return rates than older birds. Cross-infections were rare (8%) and were fatal in 90% of cases. With one exception, birds infected with H. prognei acquired filaria as a second infection, which suggests that although both blood parasites are relatively benign for older Purple Martins, co-infection with a second parasite (in this case, H. prognei) almost always results in death. /// Entre 1986 et 1993, nous avons tudi une colonie reproductrice de Progne subis du Maryland qui a t infecte de manire chronique par deux parasites du sang: Haemoproteus prognei, un hmatozoaire, et un nmatode filaire non identifi. Nous avons valu si les infections multiples sont plus svres que les infections simples en comparant le taux de retour des oiseaux infects avec chacun des parasites ou les deux et le taux de retour de tmoins non infects. Les oiseaux taient capturs chaque anne et bagus, et des frottis sanguins ont t prlevs pour un dpistage parasitaire. La prvalence moyenne des filaires parmi les 400 oiseaux dpists au cours de cette priode tait de 22%. Les oiseaux devenaient habituellement infects au cours de leur seconde anne (SA), et les oiseaux SA infects ont eu un taux de retour significativement plus faible que les plus vieux oiseaux. Les infections multiples taient plutt rares (8%) et taient fatales dans 90% des cas. Avec une exception, les oiseaux infects avec H. prognei ont t infects une seconde fois par un filaire, ce qui suggre que malgr le fait que les deux parasites soient relativement bnins chez les plus vieux Progne subis, la co-infection par un second parasite (dans ce cas, H. prognei) conduit presque toujours dans la mort. 
10.2307/4089201|We assessed differences in breeding bird assemblages and vegetation structure between a natural forest edge and the adjacent forest interior in an old-growth Chaco forest of Argentina. The edge had a dense cover of thin stems at low heights and high species richness of woody plants, whereas the interior had high canopy cover, high tree density, high density of thick stems, and a more heterogeneous vertical profile. We used mist-net and point-count surveys to sample bird assemblages, capturing 374 birds during 3,553 net hours and detecting 826 individuals during point counts. Overall, we recorded a total of 74 bird species. Bird species richness and bird abundance appeared to be higher in the edge, although differences between habitats were not entirely consistent for mist-net and point-count data. Several early successional bird species were closely associated with edge, and other species occurred exclusively in the interior of the forest. At the guild level, frugivores, terrestrial granivores, arboreal granivores, terrestrial insectivores, and long-flight insect-hunters were more abundant at the edge than in the interior, whereas the reverse was true for bark insectivores and short-flight insectovores. Our results indicate that edge and interior bird assemblages are different. The distribution of birds between these habitats appeared to reflect constraints on habitat use imposed by vegetation structure, and also could be related to differential distribution of food resources, especially fruit.
10.2307/4090245| Long considered to utter only simple calls, hummingbirds are now known to produce songs distinct from calls. Some species have complex songs, but their acoustic characteristics, structure and organization, function, and the evolution of vocal repertoires are not completely known. Here, we describe the aerial display and most common vocalizations of Amethyst-throated Hummingbird (Lampornis amethystinus) under different behavioral contexts, during its breeding season in western Mexico. We identified four types of vocalizations: (1) a territorial call, produced mainly by males often in response to another neighbor's chattering, when leaving his territory, and during chases; (2) feeding call, given mostly while foraging; (3) display call, a series of descendent frequency whistle notes, given while performing aerial displays; and (4) song, composed of an introductory phrase and a mixture of notes arranged into four to nine complex phrases, covering a wide frequency range. Our observations of horizontal aerial displays are the first for Amethyst-throated Hummingbirds. Comparisons with L. amethystinus congeners indicated similarities in song complexity. Our results supported the hypothesis that the evolution of diverse acoustic signals may be favored, independently of habitat characteristics, by the complex foraging interactions that hummingbirds experience every day as they need to communicate intra- and interspecifically. /// Los colibres haban sido considerados como aves que emiten llamados simples. Sin embargo, hoy en da se sabe que producen cantos que difieren de los llamados. Algunas especies tienen cantos complejos, pero sus caractersticas acsticas, estructura, organizacin, funcin y evolucin de repertorios vocales son poco conocidos. En este trabajo describimos el despliegue areo y las vocalizaciones ms comunes del colibr garganta amatista (Lampornis amethystinus) bajo diferentes contextos de comportamiento, durante la poca reproductiva en el oeste de Mxico. Identificamos cuatro tipos de vocalizaciones: (1) llamado territorial, producido principalmente por machos en respuesta al llamado de algn vecino, cuando abandona su territorio y durante enfrentamientos agresivos, (2) llamado de alimentacin, el cual ocurre la mayora de las veces mientras forrajean, (3) llamado de despliegue, que incluye una serie de silbidos de frecuencia descendente, emitidos durante los despliegues areos, y (4) canto, compuesto por una frase introductoria y una mezcla de notas arregladas en 4-9 frases complejas de amplio rango de frecuencia. Nuestras observaciones de despliegues areos horizontales son las primeras para el colibr garganta amatista. Las comparaciones entre congneres indicaron similitud en la complejidad del canto. Nuestros resultados sustentan la hiptesis de que la evolucin de seales acsticas diversas estn ms favorecidas, independientemente de las caractersticas del hbitat, por las complejas interacciones de forrajeo que los colibres experimentan cada da ya que necesitan comunicarse intra e interespecficamente. 
10.2307/4089283| Although South Polar Skuas (Catharacta maccormicki) are important predators of Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae) eggs and chicks, skuas experience both reproductive costs and benefits when nesting near Adlie Penguins. We present a conceptual model to show that skua nest placement is based on two mechanisms: nest safety and access to penguins. Skua nests close to subcolonies of breeding penguins are likely to suffer greater egg loss due to egg trampling by penguins and predation by other skuas. However, skuas nesting near penguins potentially benefit from direct access to penguin eggs and chicks. Given these reproductive tradeoffs, skuas should exhibit an optimal nesting distance relative to penguin subcolonies. Skua pairs located at the optimal distance minimize egg loss while maximizing access to penguin eggs and chicks. During four breeding seasons we monitored skua nest placement relative to breeding penguins and recorded the fate of all skua eggs and chicks. The results supported the safety and access mechanisms of our model. Skua nests close to penguin subcolonies were unsafe and lost eggs more frequently than those farther away. Once hatched, chicks were more likely to fledge in nests closer to penguin subcolonies. Furthermore, skua pairs may assess the quality of their nest site and adjust nesting locations between years. During 1991, skuas whose eggs had failed to hatch in 1990 nested significantly farther from their 1990 nest location and chose safer nest sites than did skuas that had nested successfully in 1990. 
4086529|I studied the nesting colony of Ross' Geese (Chen rossii) and Lesser Snow Geese (C. caerulescens caerulescens) at Karrak Lake in the central Arctic of Canada in the summer of 1976. Related studies indicated that this colony had grown from 18,000 birds in 1966-1968 to 54,500 birds in 1976. In 1976, geese nested on islands that were used in the late 1960's and on an island and mainland sites that were previously unoccupied. Average nest density in 1976 was three-fold greater than in the late 1960's. Consequently, the average distance to nearest neighbors of Ross' Geese in 1976 was half the average distance determined 10 yr earlier. The mean clutch size of Ross' Geese was greater in island habitats where nest densities were high than in less populated island or mainland habitats. The average size of Snow Goose clutches did not differ significantly among island habitats but was larger at island than at mainland sites. Large clutches were most likely attributable to older and/or earlier nesting females. Habitat preferences apparently differed between species. Small clutches presumably indicated that young geese nested in areas where nest densities were low. The establishment of mainland nesting at Karrak Lake probably began with young Snow Geese using peripheral areas of the colony. Young Ross' Geese nested in sparsely populated habitats on islands to a greater extent than did Snow Geese. Ross' Geese also nested on the mainland but in lower densities than Ross' Geese nesting in similar island habitats. Successful nests with the larger clutches had closer conspecific neighbors than did successful nests with smaller clutches. The species composition of nearest neighbors changed significantly with distance from Snow Goose nests but not Ross' Goose nests. Nesting success was not affected by the species of nearest neighbor, however. Because they have complementary antipredator adaptations, Ross' and Snow geese may benefit by nesting together.
4090634| We determined whether nests that did not receive eggs was attributable to cryptic nest predation (i.e. predation of eggs laid between nest checks) or nest abandonment in Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula). Nest predation was extremely low (2%), whereas more than 44% of 427 nests found during nest building never received an egg; this indicates that nest abandonment accounted for most nests without eggs. Nest construction was completed for 32% of nests that were abandoned. Few nests known to have received eggs were abandoned. As the breeding season progressed, both nest abandonment and time from nest completion to first egg decreased. It has been proposed that the delay in egg laying early in the season allows females to optimize timing of egg laying. Nest abandonment may also serve this purpose, but seems an unnecessarily expensive mechanism. Alternatively, nest abandonment could be involved with mate switching. Understanding why nests are abandoned requires data on the associated ecological circumstances, in addition to accurate identification of instances of abandonment. The latter requires distinguishing abandonment from cryptic predation. Rates of nest abandonment can be estimated for populations by using rates of known nest predation during egg laying. For individual nests, however, distinguishing abandonment from cryptic predation requires detailed observation (e.g. video cameras), except in circumstances such as ours, where predation is extremely low. /// Determinamos si la observacin de que algunos nidos no reciben huevos en Quiscalus quiscula es atribuible a depredacin crptica de los nidos (i.e. depredacin de los huevos puestos durante los intervalos entre una revisin y otra) o al abandono de stos. La depredacin de los nidos fue extremadamente baja (2%), mientras que el 44% de los 427 nidos encontrados durante la etapa de construccin nunca recibieron huevos. Esto indica que el abandono de los nidos fue la causa responsable de la mayora de los nidos sin huevos. La construccin de los nidos fue finalizada para el 32% de los nidos que fueron abandonados. Pocos de los nidos para los que se conoca que recibieron huevos fueron abandonados. Conforme la temporada reproductiva avanz, el abandono de los nidos y el tiempo entre la finalizacin del nido y la puesta del primer heuvo disminuy. Se ha propuesto que el retraso en la puesta de los huevos al principio de la temporada permite a las hembras optimizar el tiempo de la puesta. El abandono de los nidos tambin podra contribuir a dicho propsito, pero sera un mecanismo innecesariamente costoso. Alternativamente, el abandono de los nidos podra estar relacionado con los cambios de pareja. Adems de la identificacin precisa de los casos de abandono, el entendimiento de por qu los nidos son abandonados requiere informacin sobre las circunstancias ecolgicas asociadas con este fenmeno. Identificar las causas del abandono de los nidos requiere que los casos de abandono sean distinguidos de casos de depredacin crptica. La tasa de abandono de nidos puede ser estimada a nivel poblacional utilizando la tasa de depredacin ya conocida para la etapa de puesta de huevos. Sin embargo, distinguir el abandono de la depredacin crptica para cada nido requiere de observaciones detalladas (e.g. camaras de video), excepto bajo circunstancias como las de este estudio, en donde la depredacin es extremadamente baja. 
4090529| The avifauna of Madagascar presents a complicated taxonomic and biogeographic problem. Although Madagascar was once connected to Africa, the birds of the island are not all of African origin. The Madagascar Pygmy Kingfisher (Ispidina madagascariensis) is sometimes placed in the African genus Ispidina and sometimes in the Southeast Asian genus Ceyx. We sequenced 755 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA from a fragment of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit II (ND2) and from the complete NADH dehydrogenase subunit III (ND3). We used these data to construct phylogenetic hypotheses for the Alcedinidae. Using these phylogenies, we evaluate previous hypotheses of relationships of I. madagascariensis. Although we cannot reject the hypothesis that I. madagascariensis is indeed a member of Ispidina, tree-building analyses support a relationship not with Ispidina or Ceyx, but instead with members of the African genus Corythornis. These data suggest that certain behaviors and plumage types have evolved several times in the Alcedinidae. /// L'avifaune malgache prsente un problme taxonomique et biogographique assez compliqu. Bien qu'il soit reconnu que Madagascar tait jadis connect au reste du continent africain, il est aussi clair que tous les oiseaux de l'le n'ont pas une origine africaine. Ispidina madagascariensis est tantt plac dans le genre africain Ispidina, tantt dans le genre asiatique Ceyx. Nous avons ralis le squenage de 755 paires de bases d'ADN mitochondrial provenant d'un fragment de la sous-unit II de la dshydrognase NADH (ND2) et la totalit de la sous-unit III de la dshydrognase NADH (ND3). Ces donnes ont t utilises pour reconstruire les hypothses phylogntiques des Alcedinidae. Nous avons valu les hypothses prcdentes  propos des affinits du martin-pcheur Ispidina madagascariensis en utilisant ces phylognies. Bien que nous ne soyons pas en mesure de rejeter l'hypothse selon laquelle Ispidina madagascariensis est en ralit membre du genre Ispidina, l'analyse des arbres phylogntiques appuie l'existence d'une affinit non pas avec Ispidina ou Ceyx, mais plutt avec des membres d'un autre genre africain Corythornis. Ces donnes suggrent que certains comportements et types de plumage ont volu plusieurs fois chez les Alcedinidae. 
4087436|We tested the status-signaling hypothesis in two groups of same-age and same-sex Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula). Unlike flocks of mixed age and sex composition, badge size did not correlate with social status in these groups; thus, status signaling does not appear to occur within age-and-sex classes of Harris' Sparrows. Other predictions of the status-signaling hypothesis we tested were that (1) fighting ability and social status should be correlated, and (2) fighting ability and badge size should be correlated. We used a multivariate assessment of body size as an indicator of fighting ability and found no support for either prediction in the flock of adult females. In the flock of adult males, large birds were more dominant (Prediction 1) but fighting ability and badge size were not correlated (contra Prediction 2).
25488579|Seed availability in the
4085893|The molt of both wild and captive Spotted Owls was studied in Oregon between 1970 and 1980. Spotted Owls developed three plumages in their first year. The white natal down was replaced by the fluffy juvenal plumage before owlets left the nest. Replacement of the juvenal feathers by the basic I plumage began when owlets were 47-56 days old and was complete by late September or October. The only juvenal feathers not replaced during the latter molt were the remiges, rectrices, and greater primary coverts. Adults underwent a prolonged prebasic molt each year between April and mid-October. The molt of the body feathers was complete annually, but 2 yr (rarely 3) were required to molt all of the remiges, rectrices, alulars, and greater wing coverts. The most common pattern of tail molt was a rapid or "simultaneous" molt, but irregular and partial molts also occurred.
4090583| Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina Chickadees (P. carolinensis) hybridize in an east-west band from New Jersey to Kansas. Within the past century, the Ohio portion of this hybrid zone and the Carolina Chickadee range to the south have been moving northward, whereas the Black-capped Chickadee range has retracted. In Ohio, we characterized the genetic composition of the hybrid zone using five diagnostic molecular loci. Although there was no evidence of assortative mating in the center of the hybrid zone, we found a relative paucity of genetically intermediate breeding females as compared with breeding males. That suggests viability selection against female hybrids, in line with Haldane's rule. On the basis of reproductive variables (number of nestlings, reproductive success), we found a decrease in productivity of breeding pairs in the hybrid zone that is significantly and positively related to their probability of producing homozygous offspring at each autosomal or sex-linked locus. We also found that the decrease in productivity was significantly and positively related to the genetic composition of the male of the pair (i.e. pure male chickadees more productive). These data strongly suggest that hybrids are at a selective disadvantage. Because the zone of reduced reproductive success was considerably narrower than the zone of introgression, our results demonstrate that genetic introgression is occurring in the face of substantial selection against hybrids. /// Las especies Poecile atricapillus y P. carolinensis hibridan en una franja orientada de este a oeste desde New Jersey hasta Kansas. Durante el ltimo siglo, la seccin de Ohio de esta zona de hibridacin y el rango de P. carolinensis al sur de sta se han desplazado hacia el norte, mientras que el rango de P. atricapillus se ha contraido. En este estudio, caracterizamos la composicin gentica de la zona de hibridacin en Ohio usando cinco loci moleculares diagnsticos. Aunque no existi evidencia de apareamiento asociativo en el centro de la zona de hibridacin, encontramos una relativa carencia de hembras reproductivas genticamente intermedias en comparacin con los machos reproductivos. Esto sugiere la existencia de seleccin por viabilidad en contra de las hembras hbridas, lo que concuerda con la regla de Haldane. Con base en variables reproductivas (nmero de pichones, xito reproductivo), encontramos una disminucin en la productividad de las parejas en la zona de hibridacin que est significativa y positivamente relacionada con su probabilidad de producir cras homocigtics en cada locus autosmico o ligado al sexo. Tambin encontramos que la disminucin en la productividad estuvo significativa y positivamente relacionada con la composicin gentica del macho de la pareja (i.e. los machos puros fueron ms productivos). Estos datos sugieren fuertemente que los hbridos se encuentran en desventaja selectiva. Debido a que la zona de xito reproductivo reducido fue considerablemente ms estrecha que la zona de introgresin, nuestros resultados demuestran que a pesar de que existe seleccin en contra de los hbridos, est sucediendo introgresin gentica. 
4086597| We studied relationships between female size, date of egg laying, clutch size, egg size, and breeding success in Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) in a marginal area in northwestern Finnish Lapland (69N). Average June temperatures in 1975-1981 were used to classify years into "good" (warm) and "bad" (cold) breeding seasons. In general, early and warm springs were followed by "good" breeding seasons: females were heavier, laying was earlier, clutches were larger and contained larger eggs, and hatching and fledging success were better than in late and cold springs. Mainly due to low nesting success in "bad" breeding seasons, the local population could not maintain itself; immigration from the south was needed. We suggest that spring weather may provide information concerning the character of the coming breeding season, which may help birds to maximize their lifetime production of young. 
10.2307/4086910|Female Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) were collected at specific stages of reproduction to investigate the role of endogenous nutrients in breeding. Pectoral muscle weight decreased between prelaying and laying, suggesting the transfer of labile protein to the developing reproductive organs. Liver weights peaked during laying, reflecting increased metabolic activity associated with hyperphagia. Body weights increased 123 g (21%) between arrival and prelaying, primarily as a result of the deposition of stored lipids. Between laying and early incubation, body weights declined 145 g (20%), primarily as a result of the regression of the oviduct and lipid loss associated with egg formation. Body weights declined approximately 111 g (18%) during incubation, reflecting the catabolism of lipid reserves to supplement energy requirements not met by foraging during incubation recesses. Dietary intake provides the majority of the energy necessary for incubation, because lipid catabolism supplies only one-fifth of the basal metabolic requirements. Female Ruddy Ducks, therefore, depend almost exclusively upon dietary intake to meet the energy and nutrient requirements of reproduction. This pattern of energy acquisition for and allocation to reproduction differs markedly from that of other small-bodied anatids studied thus far.
4090587| Extensive past research has attempted to determine whether song dialects represent reproductively isolated social systems, with individuals tending to spend their entire lives in a single dialect. We addressed that issue by analyzing banding data for Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada of California. For 14 years, 1,393 juveniles and 2,568 mature individuals were banded along a 40-km span encompassing three dialects. Of those juvenile and mature birds, 7.9% and 12.1%, respectively, were recaptured in a later year. All classes of mature birds (second-year males, older males, and females) had significantly higher recapture rates than birds banded as juveniles, but there were no differences among the mature classes. Overall, 22.7% of 110 juveniles recaptured in a subsequent year were trapped in a dialect region other than the one in which they were banded, as compared with 8.1% of 310 mature birds. Neither juvenile nor mature birds showed sex-related differences in proportions recaptured in subsequent years in different dialect regions. Birds in all sex-age classes were more likely to have moved to a new dialect region when recaptured in a subsequent year than when recaptured within the year, which suggests that apparent movements between years were cases of dispersal, rather than short-term foraging trips. Although our banding data cannot confirm gene flow, the high levels of movement they show agree with genetic and morphometric studies indicating high levels of gene flow among these cowbird dialects. /// Investigaciones exhaustivas previas han intentado determinar si los dialectos de los cantos representan sistemas sociales aislados reproductivamente, de modo que los individuos tienden a tener un nico dialecto durante toda su vida. Estudiamos este tema analizando datos de anillado de Molothrus ater provenientes de la ladera este de la Sierra Nevada de California. Durante 14 aos, 1393 juveniles y 2568 individuos maduros fueron anillados a lo largo de una transecta de 40 km que incluy tres dialectos. De estas aves juveniles y maduras, el 7.9% y el 12.1%, respectivamente, fueron recapturadas en un ao subsecuente. Todas las clases de aves maduras (machos del segundo ao, machos ms viejos y hembras) presentaron tasas de recaptura significativamente mayores que las aves anilladas como juveniles, pero no hubo diferencias entre las clases de aves maduras. En total, el 22.7% de los 110 juveniles recapturados en un ao subsecuente fue atrapado en una regin con un dialecto distinto al de la regin en la que fue anillado, en comparacin con el 8.1% de los 310 individuos maduros. Ni las aves juveniles ni las adultas mostraron diferencias relacionadas con el sexo en la proporcin de individuos recapturados en los aos subsiguientes en regiones con diferentes dialectos. Las aves en todas las clases de sexo y edad presentaron mayores probabilidad de haberse desplazado a un nueva regin cuando fueron recapturadas en un ao subsecuente que cuando fueron recapturadas en el mismo ao, lo que sugiere que los movimientos aparentes entre aos fueron casos de dispersin, no viajes de forrajeo de corta duracin. Aunque nuestros datos de anillado no pueden confirmar el flujo de genes, los altos niveles de movimiento que evidenciaron concuerdan con estudios genticos y morfomtricos que indican altos niveles de flujo gnico entre estos dialectos de M. ater. 
25150255|Assigning conservation priorities to areas used by birds during migration requires information on the relative quality of areas and habitats. The rate at which migratory birds replenish energy reserves during stopover may be used as an indicator of stopover-site quality. We estimated the rate of mass gain of 34 landbird species during stopover at a near-shore terrestrial site on the south shore of Lake Ontario in New York during 12 migration seasons from 1999 to 2004. The average rate of mass gain was estimated by relating a measure of condition to time of capture (hour after sunrise) with linear regression. Data from 25,385 captures were analyzed. Significantly positive rates of mass change were detected for 20 of 30 species during spring migration and 19 of 21 species during autumn migration. No significantly negative trends were detected in either season. Daily rates of mass gain across all species averaged 9.84% of average lean body weight during spring migration and 9.77% during autumn migration. Our regression estimates were significantly greater than estimates from traditional analyses that examine mass changes in recaptured birds. Analyses of mass changes in recaptured birds revealed a mean daily change of -0.68% of average lean mass in spring and 0.13% in autumn. Because of sampling biases inherent in recapture analyses, the regression approach is likely more accurate when the assumptions of the method are met. Similar studies in various habitats, landscapes, and regions are required to prioritize conservation efforts targeting migratory stages of the annual cycle. /// Asignar prioridades de conservacin a reas que son utilizadas por aves durante la migracin requiere de informacin sobre la calidad relativa de estas reas y hbitats. La tasa a la cual las aves se reaprovisionan de reservas energticas durante las paradas migratorias puede ser utilizada como un indicador de la calidad de los sitios de parada. Estimamos la tasa de incremento de peso de 34 especies de aves terrestres durante paradas migratorias en un sitio cercano a la costa en la ribera sur del Lago Ontario en Nueva York durante 12 estaciones migratorias desde 1999 hasta 2004. La tasa promedio de incremento de peso se estim relacionando una medida de condicin al momento de captura (una hora despus del amanecer) mediante regresin lineal. Se analizaron datos de un total de 25,385 capturas. Se detectaron cambios significativos en el peso para 20 de 30 especies durante las migraciones de primavera y para 19 de 21 especies durante las migraciones de otoo. No se detectaron tendencias negativas en ninguna de las dos estaciones. Las tasas diarias de incremento de peso para todas las especies representaron en promedio un incremento de un 9.84% del peso corporal magro promedio durante la migracin de primavera y de un 9.77% durante la migracin de otoo. Nuestras estimaciones, basadas en anlisis de regresin, fueron significativamente mayores que las estimaciones basadas en anlisis tradicionales que examinan los cambios en el peso de aves recapturadas. Los anlisis de cambio de peso en las aves recapturadas revelaron un cambio diario promedio de -0.68% del peso promedio magro en primavera y de 0.13% en otoo. Debido al sesgo de muestreo inherente al anlisis de recaptura, el mtodo de regresin es ms exacto si se cumplen de manera adecuada los supuestos de este mtodo. Se requieren estudios similares en diferentes hbitats, paisajes y regiones para dar prioridad a los esfuerzos en conservacin que apunten a las distintas etapas migratorias durante el ciclo anual.
4085316|Nesting of Harriers (Circus cyaneus) in central Wisconsin was strongly linked to vole (Microtus pennsylvanicus) abundance during 3 of 4 peak yr within a 16-yr period. Heavy application of DDT on the study area was believed to be the cause of the damped response to one vole high.
10.1525/auk.2009.09055|We studied mating patterns in Saltmarsh Sparrows (
10.2307/4090022| In a captive-feeding study using Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus), plasma amino-acid concentrations increased in response to an increase in dietary protein. Plasma amino-acid concentrations were also measured in wild Herring Gulls captured during incubation at eight Laurentian Great Lakes colonies. Those concentrations were used as an indicator of protein availability at those locations. Significant differences in amino acid concentrations were observed among colonies. Lower amino acid levels, particularly of the essential amino acids, were measured in gulls nesting on Lake Superior, whereas values in gulls captured on Lake Ontario and Lake Erie were greater. Those geographic differences in protein availability likely reflected spatial differences in availability of high quality prey (e.g. fish). Geographic differences in prey availability probably affected diet composition. Comparison of amino-acid levels in wild birds to reference values obtained through the captive feeding study indicated that gulls nesting on Lake Superior may have been protein limited. Colony-wide estimates of adult female body condition, intraclutch variation in egg size, and productivity were correlated with an index of plasma amino-acid concentrations. /// En un estudio en cautiverio de Larus argentatus, las concentraciones plasmticas de aminocidos incrementaron en respuesta a un incremento de protenas en la dieta. Las concentraciones plasmticas de aminocidos tambin fueron medidas en individuos silvestres de L. argentatus capturados durante perodos de incubacin en ocho colonias de los Grandes Lagos. Estas concentraciones fueron usadas como indicador de la disponibilidad de protenas en estas localidades. Se observaron diferencias significativas en las concentraciones de aminocidos entre colonias. Los niveles de aminocidos, particularmente de aminocidos escenciales, fueron menores en las gaviotas nidificando en el Lago Superior y mayores en las gaviotas capturadas en el Lago Ontario y en el Lago Erie. Estas diferencias geogrficas en la disponibilidad de proteinas probablemente reflejaron diferencias espaciales en la disponibilidad de presas de alta calidad (e.g. peces). Las diferencias geogrficas en la disponibilidad de presas probablemente afectaron la composicin de la dieta. Comparaciones de los niveles de aminocidos de aves silvestres con valores de referencia obtenidos durante el estudio de alimentacin en cautiverio indicaron que las gaviotas que nidifican en el Lago Superior pueden haber estado limitadas por la disponibilidad de protenas. Estimaciones para colonias enteras de la condicin corporal de las hembras adultas, de la variacin en el tamao de los huevos de una misma nidada y de la productividad estuvieron correlacionadas con un ndice que mide la concentracin plasmtica de aminocidos. 
4087330|Lack's (1954, 1968) hypothesis that asynchronous hatching of altricial birds is an adaptive response to unpredictable food shortages during the breeding season was examined in the highly granivorous Zebra Finch (Poephila guttata). I compared growth and survival of nestlings in asynchronous and artificially created synchronous broods reared under food-limited and food-abundant conditions in an aviary. I also examined the role of parental experience on survival and growth of nestlings. There was no differential mortality of Zebra Finch nestlings due to either asynchrony or food abundance. Young in abundant food treatments grew more rapidly, however, than those in food-restricted treatments. Heaviest Zebra Finch nestlings in a brood grew more quickly than their lightest siblings when food was limited, supporting Lack's hypothesis. Further, differential survival of light and heavy siblings occurred when food was abundant, suggesting that asynchronous hatching can be maladaptive under some ecological conditions. Nestlings reared by inexperienced parents suffered greater mortality and slower growth when food was abundant than nestlings raised by experienced parents. Prefledging mass was correlated with size at adulthood.
10.2307/4090396| We present a phylogenetic analysis of relationships among members of the Amazona ochrocephala species complex of parrots, a broadly distributed group in Middle and South America that has been a "taxonomic headache." Mitochondrial DNA sequence data are used to infer phylogenetic relationships among most of the named subspecies in the complex. Sequence-based phylogenies show that Middle American subspecies included in the analysis are reciprocally monophyletic, but subspecies described for South America do not reflect patterns of genetic variation. Samples from the lower Amazon cluster with samples collected in western Amazonia-not with samples from Colombia and Venezuela, as was predicted by subspecies classification. All subspecies of the complex are more closely related to one another than to other Amazona species, and division of the complex into three species (A. ochrocephala, A. auropalliata, and A. oratrix) is not supported by our data. Divergence-date estimates suggest that these parrots arrived in Middle America after the Panama land-bridge formed, and then expanded and diversified rapidly. As in Middle America, diversification of the group in South America occurred during the Pleistocene, possibly driven by changes in distribution of forest habitat. /// Presentamos un anlisis de las relaciones filogenticas entre miembros del complejo de loros Amazona ochrocephala, un grupo ampliamente distribuido en Mesoamrica y Suramrica, y que ha sido un "dolor de cabeza taxonmico." Utilizamos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial para reconstruir la relaciones filogenticas entre la mayora de las subespecies nombradas del complejo. Las filogenias basadas en estas secuencias muestran que las subespecies mesoamericanas incluidas en el anlisis son recprocamente monofilticas, pero las subespecies descritas para Suramrica no reflejan patrones de variacin gentica. Muestras de la baja Amazona se agrupan con muestras de la Amazona occidental, en vez de agruparse con las muestras de Colombia y Venezuela, como se esperaba con base en la clasificacin actual de subespecies. Todas las subespecies del complejo estn estrechamente relacionadas entre s, separadas por distancias menores que las distancias entre miembros del complejo y otras especies de Amazona, y la divisin del complejo en tres especies (A. ochrocephala, A. auropalliata, y A. oratrix) no es apoyada por nuestros datos. Las fechas de divergencia estimadas con los datos moleculares sugieren que estos loros llegaron a Mesoamrica despus de la formacin del istmo de Panam y luego expandieron su distribucin y se diversificaron rpidamente. Como en Mesoamrica, la diversificacin del grupo en Suramrica occuri durante el Pleistoceno, posiblemente como resultado de cambios en la distribucin de hbitats forestales. 
10.2307/4089640|We sequenced mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from cytochrome b (cyt b) and the control region (CR) for all five extant species in the genus Tragopan. We incorporated information on comparative patterns and rates of molecular evolution into phylogenetic analyses, using both a single-gene and a combined data approach. Sequence variability was distributed heterogeneously among the three domains of CR and the three codon positions of cyt b, but the two genes evolved at comparable rates, on average, and produced concordant topologies independent of the method used for phylogenetic reconstructions. Phylogenetic trees suggest that Tragopan includes two main evolutionary lineages grouping caboti-temminckii (clade A), and blythii-satyra (clade B). A shorter CR sequence from one museum sample could not consistently resolve the position of T. melanocephalus. The mtDNA phylogeny is better supported than alternative topologies inferred from morphological and behavioral traits and is compatible with a mechanism of allopatric speciation of Tragopan in two different episodes about 4 and 2 million years ago. In those periods, the vicariant events that might have fostered allopatric speciation of Tragopan are represented by landscape changes that affected the Indohimalayan region after the sudden rising of the Himalayas less then 8 million years ago, and by climatic fluctuations during the Pleistocene less than 2 million years ago.
4086178| Although the "dwarf" race of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater obscurus) is sympatric with the Crissal Thrasher (Toxostoma dorsale) in the lower Colorado River valley, I observed no parasitism in 15 thrasher nests. To determine whether or not the absence of cowbird eggs was caused by egg rejection, I experimentally parasitized nine thrasher nests. Cowbird eggs were ejected by thrashers at all experimental nests. To test the prediction that ejection or absence of cowbird eggs reduces nesting mortality, I compared thrasher nesting success to that of a sympatric accepter, the Abert's Towhee (Pipilo aberti). Daily nesting success () of the Crissal Thrasher was 0.985 during the incubation period, which was significantly higher than clutch  of either nonparasitized ( = 0.955) or parasitized ( = 0.911) Abert's Towhees. A higher predation rate accounted for the difference (P < 0.05) between clutch  of nonparasitized towhees and thrashers, but harassment and ejection of towhee eggs by cowbirds explained the much greater difference (P  0.001) between clutch  of parasitized towhees and thrashers. Ejection behavior by the Crissal Thrasher may either be a preadaptation or an evolved response to repeated cowbird parasitism. 
10.1525/auk.2012.11166|Cooper's Hawk (
4086074|We measured the energy budgets of chicks of the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) on Great Gull Island, New York and of the Sooty Tern (S. fuscata) on the Dry Tortugas, Florida. The respiratory energy requirement was determined by measuring oxygen consumption in a closed system. We calculated the growth energy requirement from the lipid and protein contents of a series of chicks spanning the range between hatching and fledging. Young Common Terns grow about twice as rapidly as young Sooty Terns. In most respects, their development follows a similar course, but energy budgets calculated for the two species differed in several ways. (1) Maintenance metabolism was lower in the Sooty Tern owing to its warm environment. (2) Sooty Terns allocated more of their energy intake to lipid accumulation from an earlier age. (3) In the Sooty Tern, the allocation of energy to growth initially was high, but its absolute amount decreased steadily throughout the growth period. In the Common Tern, both growth and maintenance energy allocations increased rapidly during the first half of the development period. (4) In Sooty Tern chicks energy metabolism approached its maximum rate (135 kJ/day) by the end of the first third of the development period, after which it leveled off. In the Common Tern, energy metabolism increased from about one-quarter of its maximum during the first 5 days after hatching to its maximum of 200 kJ/day during the third week of the postnatal development period. Although these observations support the hypothesis that slow growth in pelagic seabirds is selected to reduce the energy requirement of the chick, our energy budgets also suggest that a doubling of the growth rate by the Sooty Tern would increase the maximum energy requirement of the chick by only 20% and the total feeding requirement of the adult by only 5%. Moreover, the levels of water in muscles suggest that the Sooty Tern develops mature function earlier than does the Common Tern, which in itself might be sufficient to account for the slower growth of the first species.
10.2307/4090106|Eyespots (color patterns resembling eyes) are present in many taxa and often have important ecological functions. In some taxa, potential functions of eyespots have not been extensively examined, as is the case with pygmy-owls (Glaucidium spp.), many of which bear a conspicuous eye-like pattern on their nape. Using wooden replicas of Northern Pygmy-Owls (G. gnoma), with and without eyespots, we tested one potential function: whether eyespots affect mobbing behaviors of small forest birds. We measured the orientation of mobbing behaviors (where birds perched and flew at the model) and intensity of mobbing bouts (duration of bouts and number of mobbing individuals). Eyespots affected the most proximal behavior, close passing (flights directly at the model, resulting in an approach within 0.5 m). When eyespots were present, mobbers shifted away from eyespots, providing the first empirical evidence for a link between eyespots and avian mobbing. /// Las manchas en forma de ojos son comunes en muchos taxa y frecuentemente tienen funciones ecolgicas importantes. En algunos casos, sus funciones potenciales no han sido examinadas extensivamente, como en el caso del gnero Glaucidium, en que varias especies cuentan con un patrn ocular en sus nucas. Utilizando modelos de madera de Glaucidium gnoma, con y sin patrones oculares, pusimos a prueba una de las funciones potenciales de las manchas oculares: la posible influencia en el vuelo de acoso de las aves de bosque pequeas. Medimos la orientacin de los vuelos de acoso (donde las aves perchaban y volaban hacia el modelo) y la intensidad de cada sesin de acoso (su duracin y el nmero de individuos participantes). Los patrones oculares afectaron el comportamiento ms proximal, el paso cercano (vuelos dirigidos al modelo con un acercamiento a 0.5 m o menos). Cuando los patrones oculares estuvieron presentes, los acosadores se alejaron de las manchas, proveyendo as la primera evidencia emprica de la relacin entre el vuelo de acoso de algunas aves y los patrones oculares.
4085805|The Hawaiian honeycreepers Himatione sanguinea and Vestiaria coccinea regularly make evening flights in mixed flocks above Metrosideros forest canopy during the summer. These flights originate throughout the forest and converge on a common roosting area on the eastern flank of Mauna Loa, Hawaii. An estimated 42,000 birds (with Himatione far outnumbering Vestiaria) comprised the 1.5-h flight on the evening of 26 July 1974 between observation stations located at elevations of 1,350 and 1,850 m (linear distance of 7.6 km). The magnitudes of the evening flights are directly related to the quality of the forest (both structural and floral) from which the flights originate, with the nectar-producing tree Metrosideros collina being the primary determinant and food source. Although these flights are energetically costly, we believe they result in an overall overnight energy savings as a result of the thermal protection afforded by the mature forest comprising the common roosting area and escape from a lower elevation nightly fog belt. The formation of loose, mixed-species flocks during the evening roosting flights may provide greater awareness of and protection from aerial predation. The presence of rather widely separated foraging and roosting areas in Himatione and Vestiaria indicates the need for better understanding of their movements and spatial requirements, which are important factors to the continued survival of these presently common honeycreeper species.
10.1525/auk.2012.12096|We show how the duration of primary replacement can be calculated from a knowledge of primary loss intervals, primary lengths, and primary growth rates. With this new method, we can now independently evaluate the reliability of regression or maximum likelihood estimators of molt duration in situations where recaptures are not available. Before, molting birds had to be recaptured and scored for molt at least twice in the same episode of molt to check the reliability of duration estimates based on samples of birds scored for molt a single time. This new method assumes only that feathers are lost in sequence. Unlike regression and likelihood estimators of molt duration, it requires neither that the same number of feathers are always replaced nor that molt is confined to a single season and reasonably synchronized across the population. Thus, it can be used to (1) estimate the duration of primary molts in species that molt and breed throughout the year, (2) estimate the time required to replace variable numbers of primaries, and (3) calculate start dates for molts that are initiated at various points in the primaries. We also show how to set confidence limits for these calculated estimates of molt duration. Finally, a variation of the method can be used to calculate where to sample feather material for measuring stable isotopes at evenly spaced time intervals through the primary replacement.
10.2307/4089505| We measured the aerobic capacity for exercise in House Wren (Troglodytes aedon) nestlings from 3 to 10 days of age. Exercise data were compared with previous measurements of the energy cost of begging
10.2307/4090062| Estimation of daily survival probabilities of nests is common in studies of avian populations. Since the introduction of Mayfield's (1961, 1975) estimator, numerous models have been developed to relax Mayfield's assumptions and account for biologically important sources of variation. Stanley (2000) presented a model for estimating stage-specific (e.g. incubation stage, nestling stage) daily survival probabilities of nests that conditions on "nest type" and requires that nests be aged when they are found. Because aging nests typically requires handling the eggs, there may be situations where nests can not or should not be aged and the Stanley (2000) model will be inapplicable. Here, I present a model for estimating stage-specific daily survival probabilities that conditions on nest stage for active nests, thereby obviating the need to age nests when they are found. Specifically, I derive the maximum-likelihood function for the model, evaluate the model's performance using Monte Carlo simulations, and provide software for estimating parameters (along with an example). For sample sizes as low as 50 nests, bias was small and confidence interval coverage was close to the nominal rate, especially when a reduced-parameter model was used for estimation. /// La estimacin de las probabilidades diarias de supervivencia de los nidos es comn en estudios de poblaciones de aves. Desde que se introdujo el estimador de Mayfield (1961, 1975), se han desarrollado numerosos modelos que relajan sus supuestos y permiten tener en cuenta fuentes de variacin biolgicamente importantes. Stanley (2000) present un modelo para estimar la probabilidad diaria de supervivencia estado-especfica (e.g. para el estado de incubacin o el estado de los pichones) de los nidos. Debido a que para establecer la edad de los nidos tpicamente es necesario manipular los huevos, es posible que haya situaciones en las que no se pueda o no se deba establecer la edad de stos. En esos casos, el modelo de Stanley (2000) no podra ser aplicado. Aqu presento un modelo para estimar la probabilidad diaria de supervivencia estado-especfica de los nidos basado slo en el estado de nidos activos, lo que elimina la necesidad de establecer la edad de los nidos al ser encontrados. Especficamente, derivo la funcin de mxima verosimilitud para el modelo, evalo su desempeo mediante simulaciones de Monte Carlo y proveo un programa de computador para estimar los parmetros, junto con un ejemplo. Para tamaos de muestra tan bajos como 50 nidos, el sesgo fue pequeo y la cobertura de los intervalos de confianza estuvo cerca de la tasa nominal, especialmente cuando se us un modelo con pocos parmetros para la estimacin. 
10.1525/auk.2013.13059|North American wood-warbler species (Parulidae) studied to date have song systems of one or two categories. Those with two categories use them in different temporal and behavioral contexts, which suggests similar functions across species. We conducted the first detailed analysis of the vocal behavior of a species in the genus
10.2307/4088861|In long-lived seabirds that lay a single-egg clutch, allocation of growth to certain body parts may be advantageous for the chick if food is limited. To investigate this, 40 Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) hatchlings were distributed in seven groups that were raised on different amounts of food to 38 days of age. When food intake was reduced, growth rates were depressed for all characters measured (i.e. body mass and length of the wing, 2nd primary, forearm, head + bill, culmen, skull, tarsus, and middle toe). Head and wing parts grew preferentially relative to the other characters, and onset of growth was delayed in the primaries. All chicks accumulated significant amounts of subcutaneous fat, whereas internal fat deposits were present only in the chicks that received the most food.
4086979|Male Satin Bowerbirds (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) court females at specialized structures called bowers. Courtship includes a complex pattern of vocalizations in which a broad-band, mechanical-sounding song is followed by interspecific mimicry. We studied the effect of male courtship displays on male mating success in Satin Bowerbirds. Data from 2 years of field research showed low between-male differences in mechanical components of courtship song and high variability between males in mimetic singing. Older males sang longer and higher-quality bouts of mimicry than did younger males. In one year, courtship song features were correlated with male mating success. The results suggest that female Satin Bowerbirds use male courtship vocalizations in their mate-choice decisions. We discuss hypotheses about assessment of male age and dominance from courtship vocalizations and suggest that these songs have evolved as a result of selection for male display characteristics that provide females with information about the relative quality of prospective mates.
10.2307/4085268|Energy budgets were constructed for the Cliff Swallow during the nest building, incubation, and nestling periods using time budgets and aerodynamic theory. Mean daily energy expenditures during these periods were 1.55, 1.23, and 1.28 watts respectively, with required food harvest rates of at least 3.95, 4.42, and 4.07 watts. The cost of constructing an average size nest (600 g) was approximately 122 kilojoules expended over about 7 days, but the multiple use of the nest makes the cost per brood considerably less than this. The ecological advantages accruing from the nest apparently are related primarily to physical protection from predators and reduction of intraspecific aggression, rather than microclimatic conditions established within the nest.
10.2307/4089985| Maternal condition can affect reproductive investment in one or more ways. Captive female Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus) that were heavier, controlling for tarsus length, produced larger eggs and initiated laying earlier, but did not produce more eggs per clutch. Maternal mass was also a positive predictor of offspring mass. That appears to result from the strong positive relationships between egg size and offspring mass. When the relationship between egg size and offspring mass was statistically controlled, maternal mass no longer predicted offspring mass. Mothers in better condition produced male-biased broods, as predicted when offspring condition depends on maternal condition and when male reproductive success is more dependent than female reproductive success on condition. /// La condicin materna puede afectar la inversin reproductiva de una o ms maneras. Las hembras cautivas de Gallus gallus que fueron ms pesadas, controlando por el largo del tarso, produjeron huevos ms grandes y comenzaron a ponerlos antes, pero no produjeron ms huevos por nidada. La masa materna tambin predijo positivamente la masa de la cra. Esto parece ser consecuencia de la fuerte asociacin positiva entre el tamao del huevo y la masa de la cra. Cuando la asociacin entre el tamao del huevo y la masa de la cra fue controlada estadsticamente, la masa materna dej de predecir la masa de la cra. Las madres en mejor condicin produjeron nidadas sesgadas hacia los machos, como se predice cuando la condicin de la cra depende de la condicin materna y cuando el xito reproductivo del macho depende ms que el xito reproductivo de la hembra de la condicin. 
4085664|Nests of Harris' Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) in the Sonoran Desert of southern Arizona are commonly attended by three adults. In all four confirmed cases the trios have been composed of two males with a single female. Nesting behavior of one trio was intensively studied in 1977. Both males incubated eggs and brooded young and both provided food for the female and young. Copulations were approximately equally frequent for both males. The primary roles of the female were incubation of eggs and, later, feeding, shading, and brooding of the single chick. All three adults exchanged prey and commonly fed from the same prey item. The female was largest and dominated both males, while the larger male dominated the smaller. Female Harris' Hawks may derive clear benefits from such simultaneous polyandry, but the benefit for males is less apparent. Factors that may have been important in the evolution of frequent polyandry in this species include: (1) variations in habitat quality that force males to choose between already pair-bonded females in good habitat and lone or pair-bonded females in poor habitat, (2) unbalanced adult sex ratio with more males, and/or (3) possibly close kinship of males in trios. These possibilities have not been tested rigorously. Present evidence suggests that trios may have higher nest success than pairs because the extra males assist in nest attendance, food procurement, and nest defense. Also, an extra male insures against total nest failure if one adult should die during the breeding season.
10.2307/4089583| In 1996, an expedition of personnel from the Louisiana State University Museum of Natural Science and the Museo de Historia Natural de la Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos made a trail from the east bank of the upper Ro Cushabatay, departamento Ucayali, Peru, northeast to the top of a 1,538-m peak at 705S, 7539W. The peak supports cloud forest from 1,200 m to the summit, and this "island" of habitat may be among the most isolated areas of cloud forest in South America. Among the depauperate cloud-forest avifauna we discovered a striking new species of Capito barbet, which apparently is the only member of the genus restricted to this habitat. 
4086643|A female Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) usually is fed exclusively by its mate between pair formation and egg-laying. Laying dates and courtship periods-but not clutch size, egg size, breeding success, or female weight reserves-were correlated (negatively) with the prelaying feeding rates of 12 females breeding in a coastal Massachusetts colony. However, the age of a pair and of its bond influenced laying dates and courtship periods more than food intake. Older and more experienced pairs arrived earlier and laid eggs more quickly than younger pairs. As an independent test of food limitation in Ospreys producing eggs, supplemental food was provided to 4 nests during courtship. Supplemental food did not influence a female's reproductive output or timing, but males at nests receiving extra food showed reduced rates of foraging. Egg production boosted the daily energy expenditure of female Ospreys by only about 20% and females gained little weight during courtship, suggesting that egg-laying is not a demanding process in this species. Because age and mate retention had a greater effect on the reproductive output and timing of female Ospreys than rates of food consumption during courtship, and because there was evidence that poorly fed females were less willing to copulate and less faithful to their mates than well-fed females, it is argued that Osprey courtship feeding may function primarily to ensure mate fidelity.
10.2307/4090321| A molecular phylogeny based on 917 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial (mt) DNA cytochrome-b gene was used to test and reassess the systematics and conflicting taxonomic treatments of the small, black-and-white Puffinus shearwaters, including the P. assimilis-lherminieri species complex. Three geographically discrete clades were identified in the North Atlantic, Southern (Australasia) and tropical Pacific and Indian oceans that contain most of the P. assimilis-lherminieri taxa. Together with four other lineages (P. puffinus, P. opisthomelas, P. mauretanicus-P. yelkouan, P. newelli-P. myrtae), they form an unresolved polytomy. Puffinus huttoni-P. gavia, P. nativitatis, and P. subalaris are basal to this. The phylogenetic positions of P. myrtae and P. subalaris are unexpected and warrant further investigation. None of the competing taxonomic treatments of the P. assimilis-lherminieri complex are supported. Instead, our phylogeny suggests that 14 taxa should be recognized, whereas five others (loyemilleri, colstoni, nicolae, polynesiae, and atrodorsalis) are phylogenetically undifferentiated from more widespread species (lherminieri, dichrous, and bailloni) and are probably not valid. Similarities in plumage and external morphological characters between unrelated species and differences between closely related species suggest that those traditional taxonomic characters are poor indicators of phylogenetic relatedness. /// Utilizamos una filogenia molecular basada en 917 pares de bases (pb) del gen de ADN mitocondrial citocromo-b para analizar y reconsiderar la sistemtica y taxonoma conflictiva de las fardelas del genero Puffinus, incluyendo el complejo de especies P. assimilis-lherminieri. Se identificaron tres clados geogrficamente discretos en el Atlntico Norte, sur de Oceana-Australasia, y en los mares tropicales del Pacfico y Ocano ndico, los cuales contuvieron la mayora de los taxa P. assimilis-lherminieri. Junto con otros cuatro linajes (P. puffinus, P. opisthomelas, P. mauretanicus-P. yelkouan, P. newelli-P. myrtae), stos forman una politoma no resuelta. Puffinus huttoni-P. gavia, P. nativitatis y P. subalaris son basales a sta. Las posiciones filogenticas de P. myrtae y P. subalaris son inesperadas y requieren de ms investigacin. Ninguno de los tratamientos taxonmicos del complejo P. assimilis-lherminieri es robusto. En cambio, nuestra filogenia sugiere que se deberan reconocer 14 taxa, mientras que otros cinco (loyemilleri, colstoni, nicolae, polynesiae, y atrodorsalis) no se diferenciaron filogenticamente de otras especies de distribucin amplia (lherminieri, dichrous, y bailloni) y probablemente no son vlidos. Las similitudes en el plumaje y en los caracteres morfolgicos externos entre especies no relacionadas y las diferencias entre especies cercanamente relacionadas sugieren que estos caracteres taxonmicos tradicionalmente usados son malos indicadores de las relaciones filogenticas. 
4088369|I quantified parental effort in biparentally caring Razorbills (Alca torda) to test whether variation in male effort was related to variation in their mates' receptivity to extra-pair copulations. On average, males contributed approximately equally to their mates in chick feedings and overnight nest attendance. There was, however, marked variation in relative male effort, with the proportion of male feeding relative to their mates' feeding ranging from 16 to 72%. No significant portion of this variation was explained by direct and indirect measures of males' confidence of paternity. Support was equivocal for an alternative hypothesis, that variation in male effort is caused by differential male ability. Male care increased significantly with fighting ability and mating arena attendance, but not with five other measures of male "vigor." I propose a second alternative hypothesis-that Razorbills and other long-lived, breeding-site-faithful species may reduce their social status over the long term by provisioning poorly, and that lowered status may decrease fitness. Thus, circumstances may exist under which it is beneficial for males to provide care for offspring that may not be their own.
4087029|We compared pairing success of male Kirtland's Warblers (Dendroica kirtlandii) in different habitats to test the hypothesis that a lower proportion of males in marginal habitat are mated. Fewer than 60% of the males in marginal habitat were paired, but 95% of the males in suitable habitat were paired. We estimated the overall pairing success of the known breeding population at 85%. We could not estimate the number of females because the adult sex ratio is unknown, and an unknown proportion of Kirtland's Warblers are polygynous. The Kirtland's Warbler population was fairly constant from 1971 to 1983, despite markedly improved nest success resulting from cowbird control measures. If there are more males than females, or if many females fail to breed or must accept mated males or marginal habitat, population growth could be impeded. We combined reduced pairing success with an estimate of fledgling mortality, and revised the estimated number of fall immatures to between 369 and 471 birds-about 36% lower than the uncorrected estimate. Lower annual productivity of a static population implies higher annual survivorship of adults, yearlings, or both.
auk.2012.11157|We present a systematic revision of the polytypic Spotted Antpitta (Grallariidae:
4086654|The Western Foundation of Vertebrate Zoology expedition to Sabah, East Malaysia (North Borneo) collected specimens and field data on Brown-backed Flowerpeckers (Dicaeum everetti) and Thick-billed Flowerpeckers (D. agile) in 1982 and 1983. Dicaeum agile had not been known from Borneo previously, and its presence there changes the biogeographic assumptions Salomonsen (1960) used to classify the "thick-billed" flowerpeckers. Salomonsen's D. everetti was found to be a valid species, but his splitting of the Philippine Striped Flowerpecker (D. aeruginosum) from D. agile was not justified. Dicaeum agile of Borneo is here placed in the race remotum with the Malayan form of the species. The Bornean and Malayan races of D. everetti are grouped in the subspecies everetti.
10.2307/4089060|We describe a new species of sunbird, Aethopyga linaraborae, known from Mt. Mayo, Mt. Puting Bato, and Mt. Pasian, all part of an isolated range of mountains in eastern Mindanao, Philippines. It occurs commonly in mossy forest from about 1,200 m and above. We also describe a new subspecies of Apo Sunbird, Aethopyga boltoni tibolii, known from Mt. Busa and Mt. Matutum of southern Mindanao, where it is found in mossy forest above 1,000 m.
10.2307/4088911|We investigated how European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were influenced during song learning by acoustic patterns lacking certain syntactical and temporal features of the species-specific song. Hand-reared males were exposed to a sequence of heterospecific song patterns (song types of Common Nightingales, Luscinia megarhynchos) which, in contrast to normal starling song, were not reiterated, were evenly separated by breaks throughout the entire tutor sequence, and did not show an increase in maximum frequency from the beginning to the end of the sequence. The experimental males acquired none or only a few of the song patterns from the training tape and developed songs with aspects of normal syntax (sequential order of low- and high-frequency motif types) and temporal organization (more breaks between motifs at beginning than at end of song). These features are missing in the songs of males reared in complete acoustic isolation (Chaiken et al. 1993). Therefore, we conclude that European Starlings have a predetermined knowledge of some syntactical and temporal song features, but need an acoustic input from the environment to convert such information into a corresponding vocal output. The results show that acoustic patterns effective in stimulating such a development do not need to contain specific features of starling song.
10.2307/4088813|Nests are an important component of parental effort in birds. From 1988 to 1990, I compared the architecture of nests built by subadult and adult female Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in boxes in southeastern Michigan in order to determine if there were age-related differences in nest architecture and if these differences were associated with age-related differences in reproductive performance. Nests built by Tree Swallows were composed of a mat of dry grasses and a nest cup lined with feathers. On average, nest material filled approximately 30% of a nest box. I observed few age-related differences in nest architecture. However, nests built by subadult females were significantly less well feathered than nests built by adult females, but feather score was not correlated with the production of nestlings or fledglings. There were age-related and within-season variations in reproductive performance associated with variations in nest architecture, especially later in the season. Among subadult females that bred later in the season (i.e. after the population median date of clutch initiation), those females that built larger nests (as indicated by total nest volume, depth of material beneath the nest cup, and percentage of nest box filled with material) hatched more eggs per clutch. In 1990, subadult females that bred later in the season and built larger nests (as indicated by depth of material beneath nest cup and percentage of nest box filled with material) produced significantly more hatchlings but significantly fewer fledglings. Among adult females that bred later in the season, those females that built nests that filled a larger percentage of the nest box hatched fewer eggs. Adult females with nests having larger cups produced significantly more fledglings, but those with cups crowded with nestlings (as indicated by a cup index [total egg volume/nest cup volume]) produced significantly fewer fledglings. In 1990, adult females that bred later in the season and built larger nests (as indicated by depth of nest material, total nest volume, percentage of nest box filled with material) and had more-crowded nest cups produced fewer hatchlings and fledged a significantly smaller proportion of hatchlings. These results suggest that nestling hyperthermia in well-insulated nests may affect the reproductive performance of Tree Swallows that breed late in the season.
10.2307/4089974| The Carrion Crow (Corvus corone) is almost invariably reported as a species breeding as unassisted pairs, but a population of Carrion Crows (Corvus c. corone) from northern Spain that we have been studying since 1995 regularly exhibits cooperative breeding. The Spanish population thus demonstrates that cooperative breeding can vary greatly across populations. Most of the breeding territories (73.3%) in Spain were held by cohesive groups, which consisted of up to nine birds (mode = 3 birds). The proportion of fledglings that delayed dispersal for one year varied between 12.2 and 47.5% for different cohorts. The corresponding values for juveniles postponing dispersal for two years were 4.9 and 19.2%. Philopatry was skewed toward males. Some social groups contained immigrants. Therefore, delayed juvenile dispersal was not the only route towards sociality. Up to three helpers provided food to the nestling and at least one helper was found in all the groups surveyed. However, some group members refrained from visiting nests and thus the contribution to nestling care was highly variable among individuals. /// Corvus corone es casi siempre descrita como una especie que nidifica en pareja sin la asistencia de ayudantes, pero una poblacin de Corvus c. corone del norte de Espaa que hemos estado estudiando desde 1995, exhibe regularmente cra cooperativa. De este modo, la poblacin espaola demuestra que la estrategia de cra cooperativa puede variar enormemente entre poblaciones. En Espaa, la mayora de los territorios de cra (73.3%) fueron ocupados por grupos cohesivos formados por hasta 9 aves (moda = 3 aves). La proporcin de volantones que postergaron por un ao la dispersin vari entre 12.2 y 47.5% para cohortes diferentes. Los valores correspondientes para los juveniles que postergaron por dos aos la dispersin fueron 4.9 y 19.2%. La filopatra estuvo sesgada hacia los machos. Algunos grupos sociales incluyeron inmigrantes, por lo que la postergacin de la dispersin de juveniles no fue la nica va hacia el comportamiento social cooperativo. Hasta tres ayudantes suministraron alimentos a los pichones y al menos un ayudante fue encontrado en todos los grupos inspeccionados. Sin embargo, algunos miembros de los grupos se abstuvieron de visitar los nidos, por lo que la contribucin al cuidado de los pichones fue muy variable entre individuos. 
4085612|A study of the relationship of nest spacing, reproductive success, and behavior of the Great Black-backed Gull (Larus marinus) was conducted during the 1979 breeding season. Egg production and hatching success were similar on territories in high and low density areas, but gulls in high density areas fledged significantly fewer chicks than those in low density areas. Adults breeding in high density areas engaged in significantly more bouts of agonistic interactions and chick-oriented vocalizations than pairs in low density areas, although there were no significant differences between the two groups in the frequency of long calls, choking bouts, or chick feedings. The results of this investigation are related to a model proposed by Hunt and Hunt (1976) that predicts that, in the absence of interspecific predation, larger territories may confer a reproductive advantage on some larids due to a decrease in conspecific interference.
4090347| Decreased nest success and elevated levels of nest predation have been linked to changes in landscape configuration and increased edge. However, our current understanding of the mechanics of nest predation is limited. Using radiotelemetry and artifical nest experiments, we studied the ranging and nest-predation behavior of the Steller's Jay (Cyanocitta stelleri) in the managed forests of western Washington. Steller's Jays used a variety of forest seral stages, 95% of foraging observations occurred within 50 m of edges, and home range did not appear to be influenced by breeding success. Predation on artificial nests was elevated in high-use areas of home ranges, which suggests that Steller's Jays find nests incidentally while foraging for primary prey (insects). Steller's Jays did not appear to use a specialized search strategy to find nests, though they had a search image for nests and were capable of performing area-restricted searching for other food items (peanuts). To assess the risk of nest predation by Steller's Jays, it may be useful for managers to survey areas of concern for Steller's Jays and their foods. By equating relative abundance of Steller's Jays with nest predation risk, managers can then map predation risk onto the landscape of concern at the scale of the management unit. /// Los niveles reducidos de xito de nidificacin y los niveles altos de depredacin de nidos han sido relacionados con cambios en la configuracin del paisaje e incrementos en el rea de bordes. Sin embargo, nuestro entendimiento actual de la mecnica de la depredacin de nidos es limitado. Usando radiotelemetra y experimentos con nidos artificiales, estudiamos los movimientos y el comportamiento de depredacin de nidos por parte del crvido Cyanocitta stelleri en los bosques manejados del oeste de Washington. Esta especie se encontr en una variedad de estados sucesionales del bosque, el 95% de las observaciones de forrajeo tuvieron lugar a menos de 50 m de bordes y el rea de hogar no pareci estar influenciada por el xito reproductivo. La depredacin de nidos artificiales fue elevada en los sectores del rea de hogar con alta frecuencia de uso, lo que sugiere que los crvidos encuentran los nidos incidentalmente mientras forrajean en busca de sus presas principales (insectos). Estas aves no parecieron emplear una estrategia de bsqueda especializada para encontrar nidos, aunque tuvieron una imagen de bsqueda para nidos y fueron capaces de realizar bsquedas de otros tems alimenticios (man) en un rea restringida. Para establecer el riesgo de depredacin de nidos por parte de C. stelleri, podra ser til realizar censos de esta especie y sus alimentos. Considerando como equivalentes la abundancia relativa de C. stelleri y el riesgo de depredacin de nidos, es posible mapear este riesgo sobre el paisaje de inters a la escala de la unidad de manejo. 
4088366|DNA fingerprinting was used to study paternity and genetic variability within a captive flock of Whooping Cranes (Grus americana). Fingerprint patterns for 42 individuals were obtained by digesting genomic crane DNAs with HaeIII followed by electrophoresis, blotting, and hybridization to the M13 minisatellite probe. Despite finding reduced levels of genetic variation in the Whooping Crane due to a population "bottleneck," these polymorphisms were successfully used to determine paternity in six of seven cases of captive propagation where the maternal-offspring relationship was known, but where the sire was unknown. These determinations of paternity are required for effective genetic management of the crane flock. These results also revealed a number of heterozygous minisatellite loci that will be valuable in future assessments of genetic variability in this endangered species.
10.2307/4089378|Models concerning the evolution of avian begging behavior predict that nestlings of brood parasites should beg more loudly or frequently than nonparasitic nestlings and that the exaggeration of begging calls in general may be limited by the risk of nest predation. This study is the first to test experimentally for a link between brood parasitism, nestling vocalizations, and the risk of nest predation. Begging calls at Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea) nests parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were louder and more frequent than those at nonparasitized nests. Predation rates at Indigo Bunting nests were significantly higher at parasitized nests than at nonparasitized nests during the incubation period and over the entire nesting cycle, and there was a trend for such a difference during the nestling period as well. I performed an artificial nest experiment to test for an effect of nestling vocalizations on the risk of nest predation. Nests broadcasting cowbird begging calls (300 calls/h at 80 dB) experienced the highest predation rates, followed by nests broadcasting bunting begging calls (60 calls/h at 74 dB), followed by silent nests. The overall difference among predation rates for the three treatments was significant, but follow-up pairwise comparisons detected a difference in predation rates only between nests broadcasting cowbird begging calls and silent nests. Thus, nestling vocalizations may be partly responsible for the observed difference in predation risk during the nestling period at parasitized and nonparasitized natural nests, but other factors such as nest site or parental behavior are likely to influence the risk of both parasitism and nest predation.
10.2307/4089794|Conjunctivitis, an infectious disease caused by Mycoplasma gallisepticum (MG), has produced a significant decline in eastern House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) of North America. In this paper, we present findings from two complementary studies designed to clarify annual and seasonal trends of MG infections in House Finches from the northeastern United States. The first was a field study of House Finches common to urban and residential habitat from Mercer County, New Jersey. We documented conjunctivitis in 11% (188/1,651) of the birds examined. Conjunctivitis prevalence in House Finches ranged from 0 to 43% per month, and exhibited marked seasonal fluctuation (elevations during fall and winter months and lower disease prevalence during the breeding season). There was excellent intermethod agreement on disease prevalence when measured by either presence of physical signs (conjunctivitis) or MG infection (kappa = 0.75). During the peak of the breeding season (April through June), conjunctivitis was present in a greater proportion of males lacking a cloacal protuberance than males with a cloacal protuberance (P < 0.01), but was similar between breeding and nonbreeding females. The second study, a volunteer survey, revealed the proportion of northeastern U.S. monitoring sites with at least one diseased House Finch each month ranged from a peak of 59% (August 1995) to a minimum of 12% (July 1999). Subsequent to the epidemic peak of disease in 1995, a series of recurring cycles occurred, with elevations in those proportions noted in late fall and winter and minima during the breeding season. Mycoplasmal conjunctivitis now appears endemic among House Finches of that region and demonstrates dynamics consistent with annual variation in host density.
10.2307/4088160|After producing food morsels resembling seeds of different shapes and sizes, we determined the effect of these variables on food morsel selection by Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula) and American Tree Sparrows (Spizella arborea). Harris' Sparrows have larger bodies and bills than American Tree Sparrows. During pariwise feeding trials, where consumption (mass) was the measure of selection, both species of sparrows selected food items that required the least handling time, not those that maximized energy gain per unit of time. Extruder-processed food morsels may provide a new means to distinguish predictions of various foraging theories and hypotheses.
4086542|We examined three aspects of food location by Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) wintering along the Nooksack River, Washington. First, eagles used intra- and interspecific local enhancement to locate food. Second, the time that eagles spent aerially searching for food, as indicated by the percentage of eagles flying or soaring, was negatively correlated with relative food availability. Third, eagles often followed others when departing from or arriving at communal night roosts. Following was most frequent when all food was eliminated by flood waters, suggesting a possible food-location function of this behavior. During the flood period, adult eagles were followed more often than immatures.
10.2307/4089068|Because of the need to manage hunted populations of waterfowl (Anatidae), biologists have studied many demographic traits of waterfowl by analyzing band recoveries. These analyses have produced the most extensive and best estimates of survival available for any group of birds. Using these data, we examined several factors that might explain variation among annual survival rates to explore large-scale patterns that might be useful in understanding waterfowl population dynamics. We found that geography, body mass, and tribe (i.e. phylogeny) were important in explaining variation in average waterfowl survival rates.
4088230|Allozymic variation at 20 gene loci was estimated for populations of the Laysan Duck (Anas laysanensis) and the Hawaiian Duck (A. wyvilliana) from the Hawaiian archipelago, as well as for Mallard populations (A. platyrhynchos) from Hawaii and North America. The Laysan Duck and Hawaiian Duck are endemic, have experienced severe bottlenecks, and are listed as endangered species. Alternative alleles are fixed at six loci for Mallards versus Hawaiian anatids (Hawaiian and Laysan ducks). In contrast, every allelic variant found in the Laysan Duck was present in the Hawaiian Duck (but not vice versa), suggesting the former is an offshoot of the latter. The genetic distance (Nei's D) between Laysan and Hawaiian ducks is less than 0.01, while that between both Hawaiian and Laysan ducks and Mallards is greater than 0.45. The allozymic evidence also suggests that there has been extensive hybridization between Mallards and Hawaiian Ducks on Oahu, with the near disappearance of Hawaiian Duck alleles. However, there is only slight evidence of Mallard genic introgression into the Hawaiian Duck population on Kauai. Finally, the allozymic data suggest that the Hawaiian Duck is a distinct species from the Mallard, but that little genetic divergence has occurred between Hawaiian and Laysan ducks.
10.1525/auk.2012.11234|We explored the consequences of male and female explorative and risk-taking behaviors that are components of a behavioral syndrome, as well as basic demographic and physical characteristics of three measures of reproductive performance in Steller's Jays (
10.2307/4085270|Histological criteria indicate that thyroid glands are organized into follicles at about the same time of incubation in Japanese Quail (precocial) and Ringed Turtle Dove (altricial) embryos, but dove thyroids develop more slowly, are much smaller and are much less active than quail thyroids by the time of hatching. These results indicate thyroid readiness for participation in early endothermic responses of precocial hatchlings, and relative thyroid inactivity in young ectothermic altrical nestlings.
4088373|When confronted with clutch or brood reduction, multiple-brooded birds may continue to invest time in rearing the present brood and delay the next one. Alternatively, they may abandon the present brood and subsequently start a larger one. We used a formal model to show how the optimal solution to this problem can be calculated when variables of time expenditure and brood size are known. These variables were measured in captive Ringed Turtle-Doves (Streptopelia risoria) and allow us to calculate whether continued care or abandoning followed by renesting leads to the highest number of offspring. We calculate that, under the existing conditions, Ringed Turtle-Doves should continue to rear a reduced clutch or brood to maximize reproductive success. This conclusion agrees with the actual behavior of the birds in response to clutch or brood reduction.
10.2307/4090014| Reversing decades of fire exclusion by hardwood midstory reduction is now used to recover populations of the federally endangered Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis) in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forest ecosystems. The effects of Red-cockaded Woodpecker managment on winter birds in longleaf pine sandhill forests are largely unknown. Examining habitat use of winter migrants, some of which are declining, may influence the selection of habitat management techniques used for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers to benefit overwintering migrants. During the winters (December-February) of 1997-1998 and 1998-1999, we tested experimentally the effects of hardwood reduction treatments applied in 1995 on winter birds at Eglin Air Force Base in fire-excluded northwest Florida longleaf pine sandhills. Treatments were (1) prescribed spring burning, (2) herbicide application, (3) mechanical felling and girdling, and (4) a control where decades of fire exclusion was maintained. We also sampled winter bird flocks in frequently burned, nonexperimental reference plots to measure management success. Hardwood reduction techniques had no effect on flock species richness, which averaged 7.9 and 7.2, respectively, during 1997-1998 and 1998-1999. Larger flocks in felling and girdling and in herbicide plots were primarily due to significantly higher numbers of overwintering Chipping Sparrows (Spizella passerina), as well as resident Red-cockaded Woodpeckers and an influx of temperate migrant Pine Warblers (Dendroica pinus). In contrast, flocks in control plots were smaller (flock size and species composition in spring burn plots were intermediate) and composed of hardwood-associated species, such as Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) and Carolina Chickadee (Poecile carolinensis). The relative used of longleaf pines and hardwoods by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, Pine Warblers, and Brown-headed Nuthatches (Sitta pusilla) during both winters best explained that winter birds present in herbicide, felling and girdling, and reference plots were more likely to forage on the same tree species and substrates than birds in spring-burned plots, and least likely to forage on the same species and substrates as birds in the control plots. Those differences corresponded to the following increasing order of hardwood stem mortality among treatments: control, spring burn (41%), felling and girdling (62%), and herbicide (92%). Repeated burning is recommended to restore the reference foraging condition because it was eight times less expensive than other techniques, which favored mostly Chipping Sparrows. /// En la actualidad se intenta recuperar las poblaciones de Picoides borealis, una especie federalmente amenazada, contrarrestando los efectos de dcadas de supresin de fuegos mediante la reduccin de la vegetacin leosa dura del estrato medio de los bosques de Pinus palustris. Los efectos del manejo de P. borealis sobre las aves que pasan en el invierno en estos bosques son prcticamente desconocidos. Una evaluacin del uso de hbitat por parte de las migrantes invernales, algunas de las cuales estn en disminucin, podra influenciar la seleccin de tcnicas de manejo del hbitat aplicadas para P. borealis de manera que tambin beneficien a estas otras aves. Durante los inviernos (diciembre-febrero) de 1997-1998 y 1998-1999, evaluamos experimentalmente los efectos sobre las aves migratorias de los tratamientos de reduccin selectiva de plantas leosas que se aplicaron en 1995 en bosques de P. palustris excluidos del fuego en la base area de Eglin, Noroeste de Florida. Los tratamientos fueron: (1) realizacin de quemas controladas en la primavera, (2) aplicacin de herbicidas, (3) tumba y corte mecnico y (4), un control en el que se mantuvo la exclusin del fuego que se haba realizado por dcadas. Tambin muestreamos bandadas invernales de aves en parcelas no experimentales frecuentemente quemadas para medir el xito de manejo. Las tcnicas de reduccin no tuvieron ningn efecto sobre la riqueza de especies de las bandadas, que en promedio fue de 7.9 y 7.2 durante 1997-1998 y 1998-1999, respectivamente. La presencia de bandadas ms grandes en parcelas donde se practic tumba y corte y en donde se aplicaron herbicidas se debi principalmente a nmeros significativamente altos del visitante invernal Spizella passerina como tambin a individuos residentes de P. borealis y a un influjo del migrante templado Dendroica pinus. En contraste, las bandadas en las parcelas control fueron ms pequeas y estuvieron compuestas de especies asociadas con la vegetacin leosa (e.g., Baeolophus bicolor y Poecile carolinensis). El tamao y la composicin de especies de las bandadas fueron intermedios en parcelas quemadas en la primavera. El uso relativo de P. palustris y de la vegetacin leosa por parte de P. borealis, D. pinus y Sitta pusilla durante ambos inviernos mostr que las aves migratorias invernales presentes en las parcelas tratadas con herbicidas, en las de tumba y corte y en las de referencia forrajaeron con mayor probabilidad en las mismas especies de rboles y sustratos que las aves presentes en las parcelas quemadas en la primavera. A su vez, presentaron una menor probabilidad de forrajear en las mismas especies y sustratos que las aves de las parcelas control. Esas diferencias correspondieron al siguiente orden de incremento en la mortalidad de tallos deleosas entre tratamientos: control, quemas de primavera (41%), tumba y corte (62%) y herbicidas (92%). Las quemas repetidas son recomendables para restaurar las condiciones de forrajeo de referencia ya que son ocho veces menos costosas que otras tcnicas, las cuales favorecieron principalmente a Spizella passerina. 
10.2307/4087226|We tested for associations between allozyme variation and behavioral rank in a dominance hierarchy in White-crowned (Zonotrichia leucophrys) and Harris' (Z. querula) sparrows and Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis). Individuals were ranked in species-specific dominance hierarchies by scoring aggressive encounters in an aviary as win/loss interactions. Starch-gel electrophoresis of 42 protein-coding loci established each individual's genotype at each locus; heterozygosity estimates were calculated from the observed genotypes. To test the hypothesis that protein polymorphisms are predictive of an individual's behavioral rank, we compared behavioral rank and measures of heterozygosity and particular genotypes. Neither heterozygosity nor an individual bird's (single or multilocus) genotype was predictive of its rank in the behavioral hierarchy. An individual's sex and age were predictive of dominance rank, with males and adults generally dominant to females and young, respectively. Our data seem to conflict with those of Baker and Fox (1978), who reported that individual Dark-eyed Juncos that were heterozygous at a peptidase locus (also surveyed by us) were relatively more dominant than homozygous individuals. As a null hypothesis, we suggest that genetic variation at allozyme loci does not influence behavior.
10.2307/4086016|We studied two banded populations of sedentary White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) over a 6-yr period. Most territory holders were identified (326 males and 286 females), all nestlings (1,052) were banded, and any unbanded birds that appeared were banded. Detailed analyses were based on only those territories that were occupied for at least 4 of the 6 yr. Of the males, 0.50 repeated as territory holders on any given year and of the females 0.35. Of those that stayed on the same territory, about one-quarter of the males had the same mate as compared to about one-half of the females. If there was a shift to a new territory on the succeeding year, both males and females had new mates. Females remained on a territory significantly fewer years (1.41) than did males (1.67). Divorce occurred in 0.31 of the possible instances, and there was one case of incest. Among newly recruited territory holders, 0.17 of the male and 0.15 of the female recruits were nestlings of the area. The other recruits were post-dispersal birds: 0.14 were banded as fledglings, 0.26 as 1st-yr, brown-crowned birds, 0.32 as full-crowned adults (2 yr old or more), and 0.11 were unknown. Of the total number of nestlings banded in the course of the study 0.078 entered the breeding population. In general: (1) territory size and density are stable across years. (2) One of the study regions was more variable in terms of reproductive success than the other across years, and the mean number of years that a bird held a territory was significantly less for the variable region. (3) A nonbreeding surplus of reproductively able males and females apparently is available throughout the breeding season. These results are discussed in relation to other data available. Some speculations are made regarding the significance of these findings to questions of natal dispersal.
10.2307/4088199| Newly laid Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) eggs were held at a constant temperature of 37.5C at one of three relative humidities: 0-5% ("arid"); 35-45% ("intermediate"); and 95-100% ("humid"). Samples in the humid treatment lost significantly less water than those in intermediate or arid treatments. There was significantly more water in embryos of the humid treatment than in the intermediate or arid treatments. Protein and carbohydrate content of samples in the humid treatment was significantly smaller than those in intermediate or arid treatments, whereas lipid and ash contents did not differ among the three treatments. Even in the worst case of constant exposure to near-saturation humidities, 50% of embryos succeeded to hatching. This is, however, significantly below the 85% or 90% hatching success characteristic of the arid or intermediate humidities, respectively. Of the doves that failed to hatch in the humid condition, 90% developed to pipping and initiated aerial respiration. Contrary to previous analyses that suggested that hatching failure is likely due to the embryo's failure to initiate pulmonary respiration or to maintain constant hydration, the failure of Mourning Dove embryos to hatch apparently was due to severe mechanical restriction upon movement within the rigid shell. This was produced by the lack of adequate internal space produced by evaporative water loss. 
10.2307/4088096|I examined gross and microscopic anatomical responses of the gastrointestinal tract of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) to experimental variation in diet quality. Birds fed an energy-dense diet had the smallest measures of gizzard, small intestine, and villi. Birds fed an energy-dilute diet had the largest villus length, lamina muscularis depth, and small-intestine outer diameter. These responses are consistent with observations in other birds and are related to increased intake.
10.1525/auk.2010.10164|Studies of genetic variation across hybrid zones have demonstrated that the evolutionary dynamics within them are often complicated. Using DNA extracted from toe pads of 701 individuals collected by
10.2307/4087759|We used radiographic techniques to observe gastric motility during digestion of a meal in four Leach's Storm-Petrel chicks, 40-55 days old. A radio-opaque substance was added to the daily feeding for radiographic observation. We observed a biphasic gizzard contraction cycle with a frequency of 7.5 cycles/min. Gastric emptying occurred with each cycle and frequent intestinal refluxes were observed. Proventricular contractions were rarely observed; when observed, they affected only the ventral surface near the gizzard. Layering of proventricular contents, which we assumed to be a layer of dietary lipid over an aqueous phase, developed postprandially. Limited proventricular motility would favor layering; and ventral proventricular motility, along with regular gizzard motility, would promote gastric emptying of the more ventral aqueous layer. These observations are consistent with the idea that procellariiform "stomach oils" are of dietary origin and that lipid accumulation in the stomach is linked to a unique gastrointestinal anatomy and motility.
10.2307/4088826| We examined the effects of two potential olfactory cues on the outcome of experiments using artificial nests to assay predation on open-cup nesting songbirds. In two experiments lasting 15 days each and replicated two times at three sites, bamboo nests baited with Japanese Quail (Corturnix japonica) eggs were placed on the ground in a 5  4 grid array with 50 m between adjacent nests. Egg survivorship was monitored every five days, and remote cameras were used to take photographs of animals removing bait eggs from nests. One experiment consisted of four treatments that varied the type and amount of olfactory information provided by the investigator: (1) human scent; (2) "no scent"; (3) "deer scent"; and (4) perfume. Artificial scents were applied to shoes, clothing, and skin during the experiment set-up and monitoring. For the first experiment, rates of nest loss were greater for the human-scent treatment than deer-scent and/or no-scent treatments in one-half of the spatial/temporal replicates. Rain appears to have complicated the effects of the scent treatments in some of the spatial/temporal replicates. Final levels of nest loss, however, were greater for perfume and human-scent treatments than deer-scent and no-scent treatments regardless of spatial/temporal replicate. The second experiment consisted of two treatments, one in which eggs were replaced periodically, and the other in which eggs were not replaced for the duration of the experiment. Both treatments had similar rates and final levels of nest loss. Approximately 90% of 51 photographs were of olfactory-searching, predominantly nocturnal mammals. We conclude that olfactory-searching predators can cue on human odors left in the area of artificial nests, but that either rain or scents (e.g. the deer scent) can be used to decrease this potential bias. In contrast, changing egg qualities over the time scale of our experiments do not provide additional cues to predators. 
10.1525/auk.2009.09153|Many studies of nutrient allocation to egg production in birds use stable isotope ratios of egg yolk to identify the origin of nutrients. Dry egg yolk contains >50% lipids, which are known to be depleted in
4090517| Unusual among birds, the bill tips in crossbills (Loxia spp.) overlap in the vertical plane, with the tip of the lower mandible to either the left or right of the tip of the upper mandible when viewed from above. Patterns observed in wild populations and experimental foraging data suggest that a 1:1 ratio of left- to right-crossing individuals is maintained by frequency-dependent natural selection in some populations, and that genetic drift causes deviation from a 1:1 ratio in other populations. Both processes require a genetic basis for this remarkable polymorphism, yet few data are available that address whether, and how, mandible crossing direction is heritable. To test for a genetic basis of this trait (single or quantitative, autosomal or sex-linked), we analyzed resemblance in mandible crossing direction between related captive-bred individuals of several crossbill taxa with standard statistical techniques as well as modern animal model methodology. Surprisingly, we did not find statistically significant support for a genetic basis of mandible crossing direction. Comparisons of the ratio of left- to right-crossing males and females in wild populations also did not support a sex-linked quantitative genetic basis. We conclude that mandible crossing direction may have uncharacteristically low heritability, but we cannot rule out that it is nongenetically determined. /// De modo inusual entre las aves, las puntas del pico de las especies de Loxia se superponen en el plano vertical, y la punta de la mandbula inferior est cruzada ya sea hacia la derecha o a la izquierda de la punta de la mandbula superior. Los patrones observados en las poblaciones silvestres y los datos de experimentos de forrajeo sugieren que la relacin 1:1 de los individuos con cruzamiento hacia la izquierda o hacia la derecha se mantiene el algunas poblaciones por seleccin natural dependiente de la frecuencia, y que la deriva gnica causa desviaciones de la relacin 1:1 en otras poblaciones. Ambos procesos requieren una base gentica para este destacable polimorfismo, aunque existen pocos datos que indiquen si el cruzamiento de la mandbula es heredable, y cmo sucede esto. Para evaluar la base gentica de este caracter (simple o cuantitativo, autosmico o ligado al sexo), analizamos el parecido en la direccin del cruzamiento de la mandbula entre individuos relacionados de varios taxa de Loxia criados en cautiverio usando tcnicas estadsticas estndar as como metodologas modernas de modelos animales. Sorprendentemente, no encontramos evidencias estadsticamente significativas que indiquen que la direccin de cruzamiento de la mandbula tiene una base gentica. Las comparaciones del cociente de individuos con cruzamiento hacia la izquierda y hacia la derecha en machos y hembras en las poblaciones silvestres tampoco apoyaron la existencia de una base gentica cuantitativa ligada al sexo. Concluimos que la direccin de cruzamiento de la mandbula podra tener un grado de heredabilidad atpicamente bajo, pero no podemos descartar que no est genticamente determinada. 
10.2307/4087766|We estimated sizes of over 90 social groups of Aphelocoma ultramarina in various regions of Mexico and recorded the presence or absence of Rattle calls. Group size over most of Mexico was similar to that in Arizona, not to that in Texas. We found that geographic variation in mean group size was not correlated with ontogeny of bill color. Group size correlated positively with body size. Rattles were found only in A. u. couchii but not in all populations. We hypothesize that natural selection may not be the only factor responsible for the patterns observed.
10.2307/4089111|A bird-borne data logger, which stores flight directions at regular intervals, was used to reveal the foraging patterns of Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) breeding at Latrabjarg in northwestern Iceland. Tracked birds traveled 10 to 168 km one-way to foraging sites in a narrow sector to the northwest of the breeding colony. The pattern of foraging activity was rather constant. Outbound birds stopped briefly several times, possibly testing prey availability. The longest stops occurred at sites close by the turning point of the outbound journey. During the inbound flight, stops were less frequent and shorter than on the outbound flight, suggesting that the sequence of stops was not the expression of a disturbance caused by the instruments.
10.2307/4087752|The field metabolic rate (FMR) of 19 adult Northern Wheatears (Oenanthe oenanthe) feeding nestlings was measured with the doubly labeled water
4090594| Common Murres (Uria aalge; hereafter "murres") and Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata; hereafter "auklets") breed and forage sympatrically over much of their range. They have similar diets during the breeding season, which suggests that they partition prey during the breeding season by foraging (1) at different locations, (2) at different times of day, (3) at different water depths, (4) on different proportions of the same prey species, or (5) some combination of the four. We examined possible mechanisms of niche partitioning during late summer and fall in Puget Sound, Washington, in 1993-1996. Murres and auklets fed mainly on Pacific herring (Clupea pallasii, occurring in 74.2% and 48.1%, respectively, of gastrointestinal tracts with contents), Pacific sand lance (Ammodytes hexapterus; 45.8% and 62.3%), and salmonid (Oncorhynchus spp.) species (21.9% and 9.7%). Auklets also consumed considerable amounts of threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus; 26.6%). Murres and auklets did not differ significantly (1) in their diet (between age classes or sexes of either species, or among years); (2) in mean lengths of Pacific herring (101 and 109 mm, respectively) and Pacific sand lance (82 and 86 mm) they consumed; or (3) in the mean depth (7-8 m) at which they were entangled in gill nets. Dietary diversity was low, with most gastrointestinal tracts containing only one or two prey species in both murres and auklets. Murres were caught and therefore presumably feed more frequently in the afternoon and evening; whereas auklets were entangled more often in early morning. We found differences between murres and auklets in the diel chronology of prey taken, which may partly explain how murres and auklets coexist during the breeding season and months thereafter, prior to auklet emigration from Puget Sound. /// Uria aalge et Cerorhinca monocerata nichent et recherchent leur nourriture en sympatrie. Ils ont des rgimes alimentaires similaires au cours de la priode de reproduction, ce qui suggre qu'ils se divisent les proies au cours de cette priode en effectuant leurs recherches (1)  des endroits diffrents, (2)  des moments diffrents de la journe, (3)  diffrentes profondeurs d'eau, (4) en prlevant des proportions diffrentes pour une mme espce de proie, ou (5) une combinaison des quatre. Nous avons examin les mcanismes possibles de la division de niches,  la fin de l't et au cours de l'automne,  Puget Sound, Washington, en 1993-1996. Uria aalge et Cerorhinca monocerata se nourrissaient principalement de Clupea pallasii (reprsentant 74,2% et 48,1%, respectivement, du contenu gastrointestinal), Ammodytes hexapterus (45,8% et 62,3%) et Oncorhynchus spp. (21,9% et 9,7%). Cerorhinca monocerata ont consomm des quantits considrables de Gasterosteus aculeatus (26,6%). Uria aalge et Cerorhinca monocerata ne diffraient pas de manire significative (1) dans leur rgime alimentaire (entre les classes d'ge ou les sexes quelque soit l'espce, ou parmi les annes), (2) dans la longueur moyenne de Clupea pallasii (101 et 109 mm, respectivement) et Ammodytes hexapterus (82 et 86 mm) qui ont t consomms, ou (3) dans la profondeur moyenne (7-8 m)  laquelle ils ont t capturs grce  des filets  mailles. La diversit du rgime alimentaire tait faible, avec un contenu gastrointestinal constitu d'une ou deux espces de proie seulement chez les deux espces tudies. Uria aalge a t attrap plus frquemment au cours de l'aprs-midi et de la soire, traduisant probalement le fait que cette espce se nourrit davantage au cours des ces priodes de la journe. Par contre, Cerorhinca monocerata a t captur, plus souvent, tt le matin. Nous avons trouv des diffrences entre ces deux espces dans la chronologie journalire des proies captures. Ceci pourrait en partie expliquer comment Uria aalge et Cerorhinca monocerata coexistent au cours de la saison de reproduction et les mois qui suivent, avant l'migration de Cerorhinca monocerata de Puget Sound. 
4086532|Nesting distribution, age-related seasonal movements, survivorship, and mechanisms of population expansion in Pacific Coast Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) were examined primarily through analysis of 412 recoveries of birds banded as juveniles between 1935 and 1980. Since the beginning of this century, the population has shifted from nesting in numerous small colonies associated with freshwater marshes in interior California and southern Oregon to nesting primarily in large colonies on human-created habitats along the coast. Colonies at Grays Harbor, Washington and San Francisco and San Diego bays, California account for 77% of the current Pacific Coast population (6,000 pairs), which has breeding and wintering areas separate from those of populations east of the continental divide. There also appears to be some segregation on the wintering grounds by birds from the three major colonies within the Pacific population. Age-related seasonal movements in the Pacific population are characterized by (1) a brief period of northward dispersal by newly fledged birds before migrating to the wintering grounds, (2) a residency on the wintering grounds through their second winter, (3) a return to the breeding grounds the third summer, when most birds are thought to prospect breeding sites and some may breed, and (4) attainment of adulthood the fourth summer, with subsequent annual movements between wintering and breeding grounds. The Pacific population has increased 70% since 1960, apparently all by intrinsic growth. Over half (57%) of the fledglings reach their fourth year, and they have a subsequent annual survival rate of 89% and a mean breeding life expectancy of 8.6 yr. An average annual fledging rate of 0.64 young per pair was calculated as necessary to have provided the observed growth of the population during its recent expansion. Growth of some of the individual colonies, however, particularly those in Washington, could only have resulted from extensive recruitment of birds from other Pacific Coast colonies. Philopatry is low in this population, and the growth of the northern colonies involved recruitment primarily of first-time breeders but also of some older adults. Factors promoting both first-time breeders and older adults to join new and often distant colonies are discussed.
10.2307/4090070| I studied summer movements of juvenile Reed Warblers (Acrocephalus scirpaceus) marked as nestlings during four field seasons (1999-2002). To control for birds' movements, nocturnal playback of songs and daytime mist-netting were done. Captures by song playback suggest the existence of nocturnal postfledging movements in Reed Warblers. Birds' age (days) during such movements was found to be 39-52 days. I analyze the temporal schedule and physiological condition of the birds during this period and discuss the mechanism of nocturnal postfledging dispersal and its background and relationships with other events of the annual cycle during the premigratory period. ///       Acrocephalus scirpaceus,             1999-2002 .         (  )    .   A. scirpaceus               .        39  52 .            .                . 
4090681| Partial migration is often considered a transitory stage between migration and residency, and whether partial migrants take weather conditions into account during migration is largely unknown. To assess whether partial migrants differ from regular migrants in their responses to weather, we compared the migratory intensity of a partial migrant, the Blue Tit (Cyanistes caeruleus), with more regular migrants in relation to weather at a migratory passage site in southern Sweden (Falsterbo) during the years 1993-2002. The regular migrants in the study were Linnet (Carduelis cannabina), Common Chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs), Brambling (F. montifringilla), and European Robin (Erithacus rubecula). The Blue Tit differed from the regular migrants mainly in showing a striking negative correlation between migratory activity and cloud cover. Also, weather had the highest explanatory power for migratory intensity in the Blue Tit. This suggests that the Blue Tit is more sensitive to weather conditions on migration than the regular migrants and that it preferably awaits days with wholly or partly clear skies before migrating past Falsterbo. As a consequence, Blue Tits usually restrict their migratory flights to the safest occasions, with relatively calm weather, good visibility, and all orientation cues (solar as well as magnetic) available. /// Comnmente se considera que la migracin parcial es una etapa transitoria entre la migracin y la residencia, y se desconoce en gran medida si los migrantes parciales tienen en cuenta las condiciones climticas durante la migracin. Para evaluar si los migrantes parciales diffieren de los migrantes regulares en sus respuestas al clima, comparamos la intensidad migratoria de un migrante parcial, Cyanistes caeruleus, con la de migrantes ms regulares con relacin al clima de un sitio de paso migratorio en el sur de Suecia (Falsterbo) durante los aos 1993-2002. Los migrantes regulares de este estudio fueron Carduelis cannabina, Fringilla coelebs, F. montifringilla y Erithacus rubecula. C. cannabina se diferenci de los migrantes regulares principalmente por mostrar una correlacin marcadamente negativa entre la actividad migratoria y la cobertura de nubes. Adems, el clima tuvo el mximo poder explicativo para la intensidad migratoria en C. cannabina. Esto sugiere que C. cannabina es ms sensible a las condiciones del clima durante la migracin que los migrantes regulares y que preferentemente aguarda los das con cielo total o parcialmente despejado antes de migrar a travs de Falsterbo. Como consecuencia, C. cannabina usualmente se limita a realizar sus vuelos migratorios bajo las condiciones ms seguras, con tiempo relativamente calmo, buena visibilidad y con todas las seales de orientacin disponibles (tanto solares como magnticas). 
4085159|The audibility thresholds of two Blue Jays were measured behaviorally using operant conditioning and psychophysical techniques. The jays responded to pure tones between 0.25 and 10 kHz. Their thresholds are similar to those reported for seven other passerines. This indicates that passerines are somewhat less sensitive than man in the detection of sounds in the 1 to 4 kHz range and considerably less sensitive than man to sounds above and below this range.
4089560|Using the altitudinal profiles of wind, temperature, pressure, and humidity in three flight models, we tried to explain the altitudinal distributions of nocturnal migrants recorded by radar above a desert in southern Israel. In the simplest model, only the tailwind component was used as a predictor of the most preferred flight altitude (T model). The energy model (E model) predicted flight ranges according to mechanical power consumption in flapping flight depending on air density and wind conditions, assuming optimal adjustment of airspeed and compensation of crosswinds, and including the influence of mass loss during flight. The energy-water model (EW model) used the same assumptions and parameters as the E model but also included restrictions caused by dehydration. Because wind was by far the most important factor governing altitudinal distribution of nocturnal migrants, differences in predictions of the three models were small. In a first approach, the EW model performed slightly better than the E model, and both performed slightly better than the T model. Differences were most pronounced in spring, when migrants should fly high according to wind conditions, but when climbing and descending they must cross lower latitudes where conditions are better with respect to dehydration. A simplified energy model (Es model) that omits the effect of air density on flight costs explained the same amount of variance in flight altitude as the more complicated E and EW models. By omitting the effect of air density, the Es model predicted lower flight altitudes and thus compensated for factors that generally bias height distributions downward but are not considered in the models (i.e. climb and descent through lower air layers, cost of ascent, and decrease of oxygen partial pressure with altitude). Our results confirm that wind profiles, and thus energy rather than water limitations, govern the altitudinal distribution of nocturnal migrants, even under the extreme humidity and temperature conditions in the trade wind zone.
10.2307/4086912|In many species, adult birds lay earlier and have higher reproductive success than do yearlings. We found no difference, however, between adult and yearling female Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus alexandrae) in date of clutch initiation, clutch size, hatching success, number of fledged young, or territory size. Adult females defended their broods more vigorously, and more were observed with broods, a situation suggesting that more yearlings lost their eggs or young and did not renest. Pairs composed of two adults produced more fledged young than did pairs composed of two yearlings, but clutch size and date of clutch initiation were similar in the two groups. We suggest that the following factors may allow yearlings to reproduce almost as successfully as adults: (1) a reduction in competition with adults for territories because of high population turnover, (2) the presence of extensive male parental care and precocial young, and (3) a dependence on a food source that is readily available and can be obtained without specialized foraging skills.
10.2307/4089421|In avian hybrid zones, differences in timing of breeding or clutch size may confer a selective advantage for one species over the other. We compared clutch sizes, arrival dates, pairing dates, and clutch initiation dates among Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis), Townsend's Warblers (D. townsendi), and their hybrids from areas within and adjacent to their hybrid zones in Oregon and Washington. Adult males of all phenotypes arrived first, with yearling males and females following by 10 and 18 days, respectively. Arrival was significantly later at higher elevations for adult males. The phenotypes did not differ in arrival dates when the effect of elevation was removed. Pairing dates were similar for the three male phenotypes, and clutch initiation dates were similar for the three female phenotypes. Thus, breeding phenology seems not to influence competition between these warblers and their hybrids. However, the clutches of Townsend's Warblers were 0.6 eggs larger than those of Hermit Warblers and 1.15 eggs larger than those of hybrids, suggesting a selective advantage for Townsend's Warblers. Hybrid females produced the smallest clutches we recorded (though not significantly smaller than Hermit Warbler clutches), suggesting that hybrids are inferior to both parental species.
25488714|In an urban landscape, population viability may require successful movement of recently fledged birds between habitat patches, yet postfledging movements are rarely studied. We used radiotelemetry to track 26 American Robin (
25150347| During migration, many songbirds eat primarily fruit while depositing fat. Given that some fruits contain mostly carbohydrate and others contain mostly lipid, the ability of birds to fatten may depend on the macronutrient composition of the fruit. Stable isotopes of carbon may be useful in determining the source of nutrients used for synthesizing fat, because the enzyme that regulates the transfer of carbon skeletons from carbohydrate into fat synthesis has a higher affinity for C than for C, whereas dietary lipids can be directly incorporated into animal fat. Thus, fat stores of animals that are synthesized directly from dietary lipid should have isotopic signatures similar to dietary lipid, whereas biosynthesis of fats from dietary carbohydrates should produce changes in isotopic signatures. We tested these predictions by manipulating the concentrations and isotopic signatures of macronutrients in diets fed to Yellow-rumped Warblers (Dendroica coronata). The C of depot fat in birds fed high-lipid diets was similar to that of dietary lipid, whereas C of depot fat in birds fed low-lipid diets indicated that a combination of dietary lipid and carbohydrate were used to synthesize depot fat. Models that incorporated 8 discrimination between dietary carbohydrate and depot fat consistently estimated the proportion of dietary lipid and carbohydrate routed into depot fat. Stable-isotope analysis of macronutrients in the diet of wild birds combined with estimates of the effects of diet composition on the isotopic signature of depot fat in birds offer a method to identify the relative importance of nutritional resources used by songbirds to deposit fat. /// Durante la migracin, muchas aves canoras se alimentan primariamente de frutas mientras acumulan grasas. Dado que algunas frutas contienen mayormente carbohidratos y que otras contienen principalmente lpidos, la habilidad de las aves para engordar podra depender de la composicin de macronutrientes de las frutas. Los istopos estables de carbono podran ser tiles a la hora de determinar la fuente de los nutrientes usada para sintetizar las grasas, debido a que la enzima que regula la transferencia de esqueletos de carbono desde carbohidratos a sntesis de grasa tiene una afinidad mayor por el C que por el C, mientras que los lpidos de la dieta pueden ser incorporados directamente a la grasa animal. De este modo, las reservas de grasa de los animales que son sintetizadas directamente a partir de los lpidos dietarios deberan presentar caractersticas isotpicas similares a la de los lpidos dietarios, mientras que la biosntesis de grasas a partir de carbohidratos dietarios debera producir cambios en las caractersticas isotpicas. Evaluamos estas predicciones manipulando las concentraciones y las caractersticas isotpicas de los macronutrientes en las dietas provistas a Dendroica coronata. El C en los depsitos de grasa de las aves alimentadas con dietas de alto contenido lipdico fue similar al de los lpidos dietarios, mientras que el C en los depsitos de grasa de las aves alimentadas con dietas de bajo contenido lipdico indic el uso de una combinacin de lpidos y carbohidratos dietarios para sintetizar los depsitos de grasa. Los modelos que incorporaron una discriminacin del 8 entre los carbohidratos dietarios y los depsitos de grasa estimaron de forma consistente la proporcin de lpidos dietarios y de carbohidratos destinados a los depsitos de grasa. Los anlisis de istopos estables de los macronutrientes en la dieta de aves silvestres, combinados con los estimados de los efectos de la composicin de la dieta sobre la caracterstica isotpica de los depsitos de grasa en las aves, ofrecen un mtodo para identificar la importancia relativa de los recursos nutricionales usados por las aves canoras para almacenar grasa. 
4090453| The incidence of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater; hereafter "cowbirds") within host species typically reflects the continental pattern in cowbird abundance across North America, where parasitism is heaviest in the Great Plains. However, we found considerable variation in cowbird parasitism on Dickcissel (Spiza americana) nests within a subregion of the Great Plains (the Flint Hills), where the highest levels of cowbird parasitism on grassland bird nests had been previously reported. Local parasitism frequencies on Dickcissel nests varied latitudinally across the Flint Hills, ranging from 0% to 92% of nests parasitized. Interestingly, we found no obvious patterns in habitat or host attributes that were associated with this step geographic gradient in brood parasitism. Cowbird parasitism on Dickcissel nests was not correlated with the vertical density of local prairie vegetation, mean nest distance to edge, proportion of forest to grassland habitat surrounding study sites (5 to 10 km), geographic variation in host abundance, or Dickcissel density or nest initiation dates. Parasitism frequencies and intensities (number of cowbird eggs per parasitized nest) on Dickissel nests were only significantly related to variation in local female cowbird density. Dickcissel clutch size and apparent fledging success were negatively correlated with local cowbird parasitism levels. Geographic patterns in cowbird abundance within and among regions should be considered when establishing conservation areas for grassland birds or other cowbird hosts of concern. /// La incidenica del parasitismo de cra por parte de Molothrus ater en sus especies hospederas tpicamente refleja el patrn continental de abundancia de este parsito a travs de Amrica del Norte, donde el parasitismo es ms intenso en la regin de la gran planicie. Sin embargo, encontramos variacin considerable en el parasitismo de los nidos de Spiza americana dentro de una subrregin de la gran planicie (las colinas de Fling), en donde los niveles mximos de parasitismo de cra por parte de M. ater sobre aves de pastizal haban sido documentados previamente. Las frecuencias locales de parasitismo sobre los nidos de S. americana variaron latitudinalmente a travs de las colinas de Flint, en un rango entre 0% y 92% de nidos parasitados. Resulta intersante que no encontramos patrones obvios en atributos del hbitat o del hospedero asociados con este marcado gradiente geogrfico en el parasitismo de cra. El parasitismo de los nidos de S. americana no estuvo correlacionado con la densidad vertical de la vegetacin local de pradera, la distancia media al borde, la proporcin de bosque-pastizal en el ambiente que rodeaba los sitios de estudio (5 a 10 km), la variacin geogrfica en la abundancia del hospedero, la densidad poblacional de S. americana o la fecha de iniciacin de la nidificacin. Las frecuencias e intensidades (nmero de huevos de M. ater por nido parasitado) de parasitismo slo estuvieron relacionadas significativamente con la variacin en la densidad local de hembras de M. ater. El tamao de la nidada y el xito de emplumamiento aparente de S. americana estuvieron correlacionados negativamente con los niveles locales de parasitismo. Los patrones de variacin geogrfica en la abundancia de M. ater entre regiones y dentro de stas deben ser tenidos en cuenta al establecer reas de conservacin para aves de pastizal y otros hospederos de esta especie parsita. 
10.2307/4088860|Currently the operational analysis of Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data by the National Biological Service accounts for observer differences in estimating the trend for each route, but within-observer differences are not modeled. We tested for the existence of a form of within-observer differences in skill level, namely a change in ability to count birds of a given species after an observer's first year on a given route. An increase in ability could positively bias the trend estimate. Removal of an observer's first year of observation on each route for the period 1966 to 1991 resulted in lower average unweighted trend estimates for 415 of 459 species (90%). These reductions were statistically significant for 213 species (46%). The average reduction in trend was 1.8% change per year (SD = 5.4%). In route-regression analysis, route data are weighted by a measure of precision. Removing first-year observer counts reduced the weighted trend estimate for 275 of 416 species (66%), but differences generally were small.
4087862|We used electrophoretic, syringeal, and osteological characters to establish affinities of the plantcutter genus Phytotoma. Both biochemical and morphological characters support placement of the plantcutters within the cotinga genus Ampelion. We retain the genus Phytotoma to recognize the distinctiveness of the plantcutters and we split Ampelion into the previously recognized genera Ampelion, Doliornis, and Zaratornis. We recommend placement of these taxa (seven species) within the family Phytotomidae.
10.1525/auk.2013.12235|Many waterbirds reproduce seasonally in response to fluctuations in food supply. White-shouldered Ibises (
4086123|Adult and juvenile Bananaquits (Coereba flaveola) were captured and banded at nine different sites in southern Grenada in August-October 1976, 1977, and 1978. The proportion of black morphs decreased to seaward on Point Saline. The morph-ratio cline was steeper for adults than for juveniles, because juveniles move greater distances than postbreeding adults. Home-range sizes of adults are larger during the dry season than in the wet season, which under some circumstances can bring about temporal changes in the steepness of a cline.
4085660| Data from 41 juvenile Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) collected in the Penobscot River valley of Maine from June through August 1974-76 were used to estimate the proportion of aquatic invertebrates in the prefledging diet and the allometric growth rates of the tarsi, flight muscles, and alimentary system. The proportion of aquatic invertebrates in the diet of downy and partially feathered juveniles averaged 88 and 91% of dry weight, but decreased to 43% for fully feathered young. The most important invertebrate food organisms for juvenile Black Ducks were asellid isopods, molluscs, nymphs of Ephemeroptera and Odonata, and larvae of Coleoptera, Trichoptera, and Diptera. A high proportion of invertebrates was consumed during the period of fastest absolute and relative growth. Estimation of allometric growth rates with the power formula (Y = a
10.2307/4086825|Long-tailed Hermits (Phaethornis superciliosus) normally fly faster than the velocity predicted to minimize their cost of transport. The average speed we measured for individuals flying a known 40-m course was 11.5 m/s. Rapid flower visitation yields rewards that could compensate for the extra costs of fast flight.
25488598|Studies of reproduction and habitat use are essential for any species assessment, especially for species with declining populations. We compared habitat in nest sites and randomly selected sites within Golden-winged Warbler (
10.2307/4088268|DNA-fingerprinting analysis of Blue Ducks (Hymenolaimus malacorhynchos) with two minisatellite probes indicated a decrease in genetic similarity (proportion of DNA bands shared) as geographic separation between samples increased. The genetic similarity between individuals from different regions (0.17-0.24) is within the range of the genetic similarities found within populations of other avian species. We found a significantly higher genetic similarity (0.36-0.51) within populations of Blue Ducks. The high degree of genetic relatedness and inbreeding within populations leads us to suggest that dispersal is very limited and inbreeding is common. These appear to be natural characteristics of the Blue Duck social system, but may be exaggerated in populations in more modified habitats. Low allozyme variation (H = 0.002) precluded electrophoretic analysis of population structure.
4086410|Most feeding by seabirds in the Peruvian Coastal Current, an upwelling of high productivity off the west coast of South America, takes place in groups. The major prey is an anchovy (Engraulis ringens), which occurs in large shoals and is exploited mainly by three species: the Peruvian Booby (Sula variegata), Peruvian Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis thagus), and Guanay Cormorant (Phalacrocorax bougainvillii). Other foraging situations have different species' compositions, and these appear to be related to the size, depth, and duration of availability of prey. Dominance interactions between species may be important in structuring flocks that are scavenging or feeding on plankton swarms. Interspecific piracy seems unimportant in flocks foraging on fish shoals. Certain species usually arrive first at new feeding situations. These species may be used as guides by other species or merely may be faster and thus reach food sources first. Studies of foraging of seabirds should be a valuable addition to the study of the distribution of birds at sea.
10.2307/4088717|I studied the breeding biology of a population of White-winged Trumpeters (Psophia leucoptera) in undisturbed lowland rain forest in Manu National Park, southeastern Peru. At this study site, it was possible to habituate trumpeters to humans, allowing groups to be followed and observed at distances of a few meters for entire days. I found that White-winged Trumpeters lived in cooperatively polyandrous groups of 4 to 13 individuals that defended permanent year-round territories. Clutches that averaged three eggs were laid by the dominant female on the floor of elevated cavities in trees. Eggs were incubated for about four weeks, primarily by the group's dominant male and female. Chicks hatched around the end of October at the beginning of the rainy season. If at least one of the brood survived, a subsequent clutch was not laid until the following breeding season. Predation on eggs and chick mortality resulted in an average of 1.6 young per group-year surviving to adulthood. White-winged Trumpeter chicks were precocial and left the nesting cavity the day after they hatched, able to walk and climb. Chicks were dependent on older birds to provide them with all of their food for over three weeks and were still receiving more than one-half of their food from adults at two months. Trumpeters reached sexual maturity at about two years of age, at which time both male and female offspring dispersed from their natal groups.
10.2307/4090108|Effects of bacteria on avian hosts in the wild have received little attention until recently. Whereas the pathogenic effects of bacteria are well known, positive effects of symbiotic bacteria are more rarely considered. Nestling growth has important repercussions for offspring fitness in avian populations and may be affected by microbial colonization of the gut. Enterococcus faecalis is a common opportunistic pathogen, whereas E. faecium has been used as a growth promoter because it interacts competitively with pathogenic bacteria, E. faecalis included. We followed the growth in tarsus length and mass of 18 Pied Flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) broods. Chicks were weighed and measured on days 4, 8, 10, and 13 after hatching. On day 13, wing length was also measured and cloacal swabs were taken of two chicks in each brood for detection of enterococci. In all, the methods used allowed us to detect six species of bacteria among a possibly much richer community. Most chicks had E. faecalis, whereas E. faecium was less prevalent. There was a negative association between scores for E. faecalis and for the rest of the species pooled. The presence of E. faecalis showed no detectable association with nestling mass or size at any age, whereas the presence of the other species showed significantly positive associations with mass and size on day 13, but not before. Presence of E. faecium on its own was positively associated with nestling mass and size shortly before fledging. E. faecium may act as a growth promoter in the wild through its competitive interactions with facultative pathogenic bacteria. The presence of some microbes are critically important in avian growth and development. /// Los efectos de bacterias sobre aves hospedadoras en estado salvaje han recibido escasa atencin hasta hace poco. Mientras los efectos patognicos de bacterias son bien conocidos, los efectos positivos de bacterias simbiontes han sido poco considerados. El crecimiento de pollos tiene importantes repercusiones para la eficacia biolgica de la descendencia en poblaciones de aves, y podra estar afectado por la colonizacin microbiana del intestino. Enterococcus faecalis es un patgeno oportunista comn, mientras E. faecium ha sido utilizado como promotor del crecimiento al interactuar competitivamente con bacterias patgenas, incluida E. faecalis. Seguimos el crecimiento en longitud del tarso y peso de 18 nidadas de Ficedula hypoleuca. Los pollos fueron pesados y medidos a los das 4, 8, 10 y 13 de vida. En el da 13, la longitud del ala fue tambin medida y se tomaron muestras cloacales de dos pollos de cada nidada para la deteccin de enterococos. En total, los mtodos utilizados permitieron detectar 6 especies de bacterias de una comunidad posiblemente mucho ms numerosa. La mayora de los pollos portaban E. faecalis, mientras E. faecium era menos prevalente. Existi una asociacin negativa entre la presencia de E. faecalis y la del resto de las especies. La presencia de E. faecalis no mostr una asociacin detectable con el peso o tamao de los pollos a ninguna edad, mientras la presencia de las dems especies mostr asociaciones significativamente positivas con el peso y tamao en el da 13, pero no antes. La presencia de E. faecium por si misma estuvo positivamente asociada con el peso y tamao de los pollos poco antes de volar. E. faecium puede actuar como promotor del crecimiento en condiciones naturales a travs de interacciones competitivas con bacterias facultativamente patognicas. La presencia de algunos microbios es de una importancia crtica para el crecimiento y desarrollo de las aves.
4085459|Songs of neighbor and non-neighboring individual Yellowthroats were presented to territorial male Yellowthroats in two different locations within the territory. Territorial males showed a significantly higher aggressive response to the songs of strangers than neighbors when the speaker was placed near the respective neighbor's boundary. Presentation of the two songs in the center of a territory resulted in a high aggressive response to both songs, with no discernable difference in response. Evidence is also presented that suggests that females are capable of recognizing their mates by song alone.
4088231|Time-lapse photography and frequent nest checks conducted at Canvasback (Aythya valisineria) nests revealed a high frequency of intraspecific parasitic egg laying. At least 36% of completed Canvasback clutches were parasitized by other Canvasbacks, and at least 9.7% of all Canvasback eggs were laid parasitically during the three-year study. The maximum hatching success of nonparasitic Canvasback eggs in successful nests was 79%, while the maximum success of known parasitic eggs was only 29%. Individual patterns of parasitic and typical nesting behavior were variable. In 15 cases, however, a marked female laid one or a few parasitic eggs before initiating her own nest. These parasitic eggs and subsequent nest initiations followed the seasonal peak of Canvasback nest initiations, suggesting that these females may have abandoned or had destroyed an initial nest prior to laying parasitically. I suggest that some females lay parasitic eggs after an initial nesting attempt is terminated early in the laying stage and before a second nest is initiated because the time-consuming task of nest building prevents them from having a second nest immediately ready to receive eggs. Parasitic egg laying in Canvasbacks also may function as a low-cost alternative to typical nesting when environmental conditions are unfavorable. Several younger females were known only to lay parasitic eggs in 1988, when drought conditions reduced the probability of successful nesting. Parasitic egg laying is a regular feature of the biology of Canvasbacks, but is a relatively unsuccessful reproductive tactic employed only in "best-of-a-bad-job" situations.
10.2307/4089971| Rapid assessment surveys of tropical bird communities are increasingly used to estimate species richness and to determine conservation priorities, but results of different studies are often not comparable due to the lack of standardization. On the basis of computer simulations and six years of field testing, we evaluated the recently proposed "20-specieslist" survey method and statistical estimators for assessing species richness of tropical bird communities. This method generates a species-accumulation curve by subdividing consecutive observations of birds into lists of 20 species, thus relating cumulative species richness to the number of observations rather than time or space and thereby accounting for moderate differences in observer qualification and field conditions. Species accumulation curves from computer-simulated communities and two empirical data sets from Bolivia were analyzed with nine species richness estimators to evaluate estimator accuracy with respect to variations in species-list size, sample size, species-pool size, and community structure. For empirical and most simulated data sets, the MMMEAN estimator performed best, but it was more sensitive to differences in community structure than most other estimators. The CHAO 2 estimator, which was recommended by previous studies, performed reasonably well but was considerably more sensitive to sample size than MMMEAN. The bootstrap and first- and second-order jackknife estimators performed poorly. We recommend using MMMEAN or, when standard deviations of richness estimates are indispensable, CHAO 2 with 10-species lists for estimating species richness of tropical bird communities and propose a set of standard survey rules. Careful examination of estimator accumulation curves is required, however, and a technique based on the ratio between estimator and species accumulation curve is suggested to control for the confounding effects of sampling effort. Overall, the species-list method combined with statistical richness estimation is doubtlessly much more standardized and valuable than simple comparisons of one-dimensional locality lists and represents a promising tool for conservation assessment and the study of avian diversity patterns in the tropics. /// Cada vez se usan con mayor frecuencia evaluaciones rpidas de comunidades de aves tropicales para estimar la riqueza de especies y para determinar prioridades de conservacin, pero los resultados de diferentes estudios a menudo no son comparables debido a la falta de estandarizacin. Basados en simulaciones realizadas en computadoras y en seis aos de evaluaciones de campo, evaluamos el mtodo de muestreo "lista de 20 especies" recientemente propuesto y los estimadores estadsticos para determinar la riqueza de especies de comunidades de aves tropicales. Este mtodo genera curvas de acumulacin de especies subdividiendo observaciones consecutivas de aves en listas de 20 especies. As, relaciona la riqueza acumulada de especies con el nmero de observaciones y no con tiempo o espacio, incorporando de este modo diferencias moderadas en la habilidad del observador y en las condiciones del tiempo. Analizamos curvas acumuladas de especies originadas a partir de comunidades simuladas y de dos juegos de datos empricos de Bolivia empleando nueve estimadores de la riqueza de especies para evaluar la exactitud de los estimadores con relacin al tamao de las listas de especies, tamao de la muestra, tamao del set de especies y estructura de la comunidad. Para juegos de datos empricos y para la mayora de los simulados, el estimador MMMEAN fue el mejor, pero fue ms sensible que otros estimadores a diferencias en la estructura de la comunidad. El estimador CHAO 2, recomendado por estudios previos, funcion razonablemente bien, pero fue considerablemente ms sensible al tamao de la muestra que MMMEAN. El "bootstrap" y los estimadores de primer y segundo orden de "jackknife" funcionaron mal. Recomendamos usar MMMEAN o, cuando se requieren estimaciones de la desviacin estndar de las estimaciones de riqueza, CHAO 2 con listas de 10 especies para estimaciones de riqueza de especies de comunidades de aves tropicales, y proponemos una serie de reglas estndares de muestreo. Sin embargo, es necesario examinar cuidadosamente los estimadores de curvas acumulativas, y sugerimos una tcnica basada en el cociente entre el estimador y la curva acumulada de especies para controlar la distorsin creada por efectos de esfuerzo de muestreo. En resumen, el mtodo de la lista de especies combinado con la estimacin estadstica de la riqueza es sin duda mucho ms estndar y vlido que comparaciones simples de listas de especies unidimensionales, y representa una herramienta prometedora para evaluaciones de conservacin y el estudio de los patrones de diversidad de aves en el trpico. 
10.1525/auk.2013.12225|The migration rate of NearcticNeotropic songbirds is expected to be influenced by whether the route is around or across migration barriers such as the Gulf of Mexico. To examine factors that influence fall migration strategies, we used light-level geolocators to track the journeys of 91 Purple Martins (
4090364| Masked gulls are believed, on the basis of morphological and recent molecular work, to be a monophyletic group within the Laridae, but relationships of species within the group are not well resolved. We used sequence data from four mitochondrial DNA genes (ND2, ND5, ATPase6, and ATPase 8) totaling >3,600 base pairs to clarify relationships among the species and test competing hypotheses about their origin and biogeography. Monophyly of the masked gulls was confirmed. We also found strong support for a clade including all Southern Hemisphere masked gulls as well as a lone Northern Hemisphere representative, the Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus). The Australasian taxa form a well-supported clade, in which the Black-billed Gull (L. bulleri) is sister to the Red-billed Gull (L. novaehollandiae scopulinus) of New Zealand and the Australian Silver Gull (L. n. novaehollandiae). Another well-supported clade includes the Black-headed Gull as sister to the South African Hartlaub's Gull (L. hartlaubii) and the Gray-hooded Gull (L. cirrocephalus) of Africa and South America. The strongly supported position of L. ridibundus within the "southern clade" suggests that it originated from a Southern Hemisphere ancestor and recently dispersed into the Northern Hemisphere. Estimates of divergence times using rate-smoothing methods are consistent with those from previous molecular work and suggest that (1) masked gulls diverged from other gulls <2 mya and (2) much of the radiation in the group occurred in the last 600,000 years. /// En se basant sur les travaux morphologiques et molculaires rcents, les mouettes "masques" sont considres comme un groupe monophyltique chez les Larids. Nanmoins, les relations entre les espces de ce groupe ne sont pas toutes clairement dfinies. Nous avons utilis des squences de donnes provenant de quatre gnes d'ADN mitochondrial (ND2, ND5, ATPase 6 et ATPase 8) totalisant plus de 3 600 paires de bases pour clarifier les relations parmi les espces et pour tester les hypothses concernant leur origine et leur biogographie. La monophylie des mouettes "masques" a t confirme. Nous avons galement trouv des preuves solides allant dans le sens d'un clade qui inclurait toutes les mouettes "masques" de l'hmisphre sud ainsi qu'un seul reprsentant de l'hmisphre nord, la Mouette rieuse (Larus ridibundus). Les taxons australiens constituent un clade qui reoit un bon support, au sein duquel la Mouette de Buller (L. bulleri) est apparente avec la Mouette scopuline (L. novaehollandiae scopulinus) de Nouvelle-Zlande et la Mouette argente (L. n. novaehollandiae) australienne. Un autre clade qui reoit un bon support inclut la Mouette rieuse comme parente de la Mouette de Hartlaub (L. hartlaubii) d'Afrique du Sud et la Mouette  tte grise (L. cirrocephalus) d'Afrique et d'Amrique du Sud. La position fortement conforte de L. ridibundus dans le "clade du sud" suggre que cette espce proviendrait d'un anctre de l'hmisphre sud qui ce se serait dispers dans l'hmisphre nord. Les estimations des dures de divergence, par l'utilisation de mthodes "rate-smoothing", confortent celles issues de travaux molculaires prcdents et suggrent (1) que les mouettes "masqus" divergeaient des autres mouettes de moins de 2 millions d'annes et (2) que la majeure partie de la radiation au sein du groupe s'est droule au cours des 600,000 dernires annes. 
10.2307/4088092|We manipulated hatching pattern and brood size in 102 European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) broods to test the "brood reduction" hypothesis for the adaptive significance of asynchronous hatching. According to this hypothesis, asynchronous hatching in food-limited broods reduces mortality or improves the condition of nestlings in comparison with synchronous hatching. In broods of 5 nestlings (modal clutch size was 5), overall mortality did not differ between synchronous and asynchronous (control) broods, although mortality of last-hatched nestlings in asynchronous broods was 30% higher than mortality of earlier-hatched nestlings. All last-hatched nestlings died in nests with greater asynchronous hatching than is normal for starlings. Mortality increased and fledging mass decreased in broods enlarged experimentally to 6 or 7 nestlings, which suggests food limitation in larger broods. In broods of 6 and 7 asynchronous hatching did not increase survival or fledging mass compared with synchronous broods of the same size; thus, there was no advantage to asynchronous hatching under conditions of food limitation. Similarly, brood reduction early in the nestling period did not enhance the condition of surviving nestlings, even for females forced to rear broods larger than the clutches they laid. Most mortality of late-hatched nestlings occurred during the first 6 days after hatching. Nestlings that died during this period already diverged in mass from their surviving siblings by the age of 1 day. This early divergence in mass was probably due to asynchronous hatching, not to low food availability to the brood. Last-hatched nestlings that survived did not fledge at mass equal to their nestmates.
10.2307/4090241| We measured the daily energy expenditure of free-living Common Loon (Gavia immer) chicks using doubly labeled water (DLW). Average body mass of chicks during the DLW measures were 425, 1,052, and 1,963 g for 10 day-old (n = 5), 21 day-old (n = 6), and 35 day-old (n = 6) chicks, respectively, and their mean daily energy expenditures (DEE) were
10.1525/auk.2012.12058|Phenological patterns in birds appear to be temperature-dependent in part, and global temperatures are undergoing change. Many studies of bird phenology are conducted at broad temporal but local spatial scales, making it difficult to assess how temperature affects bird migration across landscapes. Recently, networks of citizen science volunteers have emerged whose collective efforts may improve phenology studies as biases associated with such efforts are recognized and addressed. We compared mean Ruby-throated Hummingbird (
10.2307/4087534|Differentiation at 38 presumptive loci was examined among 30 species of palaeotropic finches (Estrildidae) by protein electrophoresis. Three species of Ploceidae, two of Fringillidae, and one of Emberizidae were included for comparison and the establishment of out-groups. Phenetic and cladistic analyses were employed, and both produced concordant patterns of relationships among the species. I conclude that all four families are closely related, with Estrildidae and Ploceidae grouped on one major sublineage and Fringillidae and Emberizidae on the other. Within the Estrildidae, three distinct radiations are identified, corresponding to the waxbill (Estrildae), mannikin (Lonchurae), and grassfinch (Poephilae) groupings in current classifications. Contrary to prevailing views, Aidemosyne is shown to be a member of Poephilae, not Lonchurae, and to be allied with Neochmia and Aegintha. Similarly, the relationships of Aegintha as currently presumed with the Estrildae are not consistent with the electrophoretic data. Overall, the data suggest a monophyletic origin for the Australasian Poephilae. Within this assemblage, however, Emblema and Poephila are clearly polyphyletic by current classifications. A major point of ambiguity in the data centers on the interconnections between the three major estrildid assemblages; at present, this can be treated only as an unresolved trichotomy.
4086600|Daily activity budgets of male and female Abert's Towhees (Pipilo aberti) were measured in 1980 during the reproductive cycle and then converted into energy budgets to determine the relative demands of different nesting phases. Mean daily energy expenditures
10.1525/auk.2012.11129|Wildlife monitoring surveys are prone to nondetection errors and false positives. To determine factors that affect the incidence of these errors, we built an Internet-based survey that simulated avian point counts, and measured error rates among volunteer observers. Using similar-sounding vocalizations from paired rare and common bird species, we measured the effects of species rarity and observer skill, and the influence of a reward system that explicitly encouraged the detection of rare species. Higher self-reported skill levels and common species independently predicted fewer nondetections (probability range: 0.11 [experts, common species] to 0.54 [moderates, rare species]). Overall proportions of detections that were false positives increased significantly as skill level declined (range: 0.06 [experts, common species] to 0.22 [moderates, rare species]). Moderately skilled observers were significantly more likely to report false-positive records of common species than of rare species, whereas experts were significantly more likely to report false-positives of rare species than of common species. The reward for correctly detecting rare species did not significantly affect these patterns. Because false positives can also result from observers overestimating their own abilities (overconfidence), we lastly tested whether observers' beliefs that they had recorded error-free data (confidence) tended to be incorrect (overconfident), and whether this pattern varied with skill. Observer confidence increased significantly with observer skill, whereas overconfidence was uniformly high (overall mean proportion = 0.73). Our results emphasize the value of controlling for observer skill in data collection and modeling and do not support the use of opinion-based (i.e., subjective) indications of observer confidence.
