41738605|The species known generally as Acacia ligulata is a subspecies of A. bivenosa DC. and the combination A. bivenosa subsp. wayi, based on A. salicina Lindl. var. Wayae Maiden, is made. A. bivenosa subsp. bivenosa and subsp. wayi are not sharply differentiated. A. elliptica A. Cunn. ex Benth. and A. bivenosa var. borealis Hochr. are synonyms of A. bivenosa subsp. wayi. A. mimula Pedley is a new name for A. propinqua Pedley non A. Rich. A. dissoneura F. Muell. is a synonym of A. dineura F. Muell. Prosopis glandulosa Torr., P. juliflora (Sw.) DC., P. juliflora (Sw.) DC. X P. velutina Woot. and P. limensis Benth. are naturalized in Australia. A key to distinguish them is given. A key to the five species of Lysiphyllum found in Australia is provided. New combinations are L. carronii (F. Muell.) Pedley based on Bauhinia carronii F. Muell., L. hookeri (F. Muell.) Pedley, based on B. hookeri F. Muell., and L. gilvum (F. M. Bailey) Pedley based on B. cunninghamii Benth. forma gilva F. M. Bailey. Caesalpina robusta (C. T. White) Pedley is a new combination based on Mezonevron robustum C. T. White and C. subtropica is a new name for C. brachycarpa (Benth.) Hattink non (A. Gray) Fisher. Daviesia flava Pedley and D. discolor Pedley are described and distinguished from D. arborea W. Hill, D. latifolia R.Br. and D. mimosoides R.Br. D. corymbosa does not occur in Queensland. A key to the six Queensland taxa of Mirbelia is given. M. speciosa subsp. ringrosei (F. M. Bailey) Pedley, based on M. ringrosei F. M. Bailey, is a new combination. M. confertiflora Pedley is a new species that has previously been confused with M. aotoides F. Muell. Stylosanthes sundaica Taub, is conspecific with S. humilis H.B.K. which is naturalized in Queensland. Three new names in Tephrosia are: T. spechtii Pedley, T. rufula Pedley and T. benthamii Pedley based on T. purpurea (L.) Pers. var. axillaris Baker fil., T. purpurea var. rufescens Benth. and T. rosea F. Muell. ex Benth. var. angustifolia Benth. respectively. T. delestangii and T. virens are described as new.
41738713|Cynanchum brachystelmoides P. Forster, a new species from northern Australia and southern Papua New Guinea, is described and figured. The name Marsdenia suberosa S.T. Blake, a later homonym of M. suberosa (Fount.) M alme, is replaced by M. lloydii P. Forster and an amplified description is given together with illustrations. Notes on habitat, distribution and conservation status of both taxa are given.
41729915|Fontaineafugax P.I.Forst, from Queensland, Australia, and F. borealis P.I.Forst, and F. subpapuana P.I.Forst, from Papua New Guinea are named as new species. Information is provided on their distribution, habitat and affinities. Separate identification keys are provided for Fontainea in New Guinea and Australia.
41729922|Australian material previously identified as Rothia indica (L.) Druce, is here described as a new subspecies R. indica subsp. australis A.E. Holland, subsp. nov. Illustrations and a key to the subspecies of Rothia indica are included.
41729917|The new genus Madangia is described with the sole species M. inflata P.I.Forst., D.J. Liddle & I.M. Liddle. M. inflata is thus far known only from the Madang Province of Papua New Guinea. The genus is closely allied to Hoya R.Br. to which it is compared.
41739088|The four new taxa described by F.M.Bailey for collections made by A.Meston during his 1904 ascent of Bellenden Ker Range, were first published in a Parliamentary Paper tabled 1st June 1904. This preceded his publication in the Queensland Agricultural Journal, on 1st July 1904. A note is also provided on place names associated with Bellenden Ker Range and their recommended spelling.
41738777|One species of Ophiorrhiza L. occurs in Australia viz O. australiana. The subspecies O. australiana subsp. heterostyla is described as new. A description of the genus and of the Australian species is given, together with notes on its habitat, distribution and conservation status.
41738761|Leucopogon blakei, L. grandiflorus, L. lavarackii, L. spathaceus and L. yorkensis are described as new. All are confined to Queensland. L. malayanus subsp. novoguineensis is a new combination based on Styphelia malayana var. novoguineensis Sleumer, for a taxon from north-eastern Queensland.
41739093|Corsia Becc., a highly specialised monocotyledonous genus, has been recorded from Australia for 40 years; however, the single known species has not been previously studied in detail, nor formally described. The new species C. dispar D.L.Jones & B.Gray is named and illustrated and notes on its taxonomy and ecology are provided. Corsia wiakabui (Takeuchi & Pipoly) D.L.Jones & B.Gray is newly recognised at specific rank, based on C. purpurata L.O.Williams var. wiakabui Takeuchi & Pipoly.
41738658|The genus Fontainea Heckel is reviewed and four species, F. australis, F. oraria, F. rostrata and F. venosa, are described as new for Australia. F. pancheri (Baillon) Heckel is confined to New Caledonia and is deleted from the flora of Australia and New Guinea.
41739017|Eucalyptus erosa, a new species of the stringybark group (E. ser. Pachyphloius Blakely) is described, illustrated and diagnosed against closely related species.
41738620|The grass flora of Australia is analysed by several different methods complemented by 6 figures and 15 tables. Native and naturalized exotic entities are given equal treatment and comparisons between the floras of each state are enumerated. Taxonomic breakdowns and comparisons for each state are given at tribal and informal sub-family groupings. Reasons are suggested for the data where possible.
41739084|Erythrina L. is represented in Australia by the following native or naturalised taxa; *E. caffra Thunb., *E. crista-galli L., E. fusca Lour., E. insularis F.M. Bailey, E. numerosa A.R. Bean, *E. speciosa Andrews, *E.  sykesii, E. variegata L., E. vespertilio subsp. biloba (F. Muell.) A. R. Bean and E. vespertilio Benth. subsp. vespertilio. Erythrina fusca is newly recorded for Australia. Distribution maps and illustrations are provided for all taxa. A dichotomous identification key catering for both flowering and fruiting material is included.
41738755|Hedyotis argillacea, H. largiflorens, H. leptocaulis, H. laceyi H. thysanota and H. delicata are described as new, and their distribution and relationship to allied species occurring in Australia are discussed.
41738960|The Macrozamia miquelii group consists of seven species, M. cardiacensis P.I.Forst. & D.L.Jones, M. douglasii W.Hill ex F.M.Bailey, M. longispina P.I.Forst. & D.L.Jones, M.macleayi Miq., M. miquelii (F.Muell.) A.DC, M. mountperriensis F.M.Bailey and M.serpentina D.L.Jones & P.I.Forst, sp. nov., all occurring in eastern Queensland. The complicated typification of Macrozamia douglasii W.Hill ex F.M.Bailey and Encephalartos douglasii F.Muell. is resolved with lectotypes selected for both names. A key to the species in the group is provided and all species are illustrated. A partial electrophetic analysis of the complex is also presented.
41738664|A new species of Trymalium, T. minutiflorum is described and notes on distinguishing features are given.
41738741|A descriptive and quantitative analysis of the bryophyte species in sub-tropical mangroves in southern Queensland, their host/substrata relationship and their occurrence relative to the adjacent non-mangrove environment is presented here. The study is based on 337 collections.
41739064|The genus Psydrax Gaertn. (Rubiaceae, Vanguerieae), as it occurs in Australia, is revised. Several species of this genus have previously been included in Canthium Lam. but are now considered distinct from that genus. Of the twenty two Australian species currently recognised as belonging to Psydrax, thirteen are described here as new, namely Psydrax ammophila S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. banksii S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. forsten S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. johnsonii S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. laxiflorens S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. lepida S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. longipes S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. pallida S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. paludosa S. T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. pendulina S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. rigidula S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. saligna S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and P. tropica S.T. Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend. New combinations are made for six of the other nine species, namely Psydrax attenuata (Benth.) S. T. Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., P. graciliflora (Mem & L.M. Perry) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. latifolia (F.Muell. ex Benth.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. oleifolia (Hook. f.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. reticulata (C. TWhite) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and suaveolens (S. Moore) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., while P. montigena S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. is provided as a new name for the plant previously known as Ixora orophila C.T.White, which belongs in Psydrax as well. New infraspecific taxa recognised ere are Psydrax attenuata var. myrmecophila S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. with Psydrax attenuata forma myrmecophila S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend. and P. attenuata forma megalantha S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. attenuata var. tenella S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., P. lamprophylla forma latissima S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., P. odorata subsp. arnhemica S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., P odorata subsp. australiana S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., with P. odorata forma australiana S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., P. odorata formafoveolata S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and P. odorata forma subnitida S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., and P. saligna iormafiliformis S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. Canthium buxifolium Benth. is reduced to a subspecies of Psydrax odorata (Forstf.) A.C.Sm. & S.P.Darwin containing P. odorata forma buxifolia (Benth.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and P. odorata forma parviflorifra S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend., and Canthium lineare E. Pritz. is accepted as conspecific with Psydrax suaveolens (S. Moore) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F. Hend. Lectotypes for Canthium attenuatum Benth. and Canthium lamprophyllum F.Muell., basionyms for Psydrax attenuata (Benth.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and P. lamprophylla (F.Muell.) Bridson respectively, are designated. Keys to the species and infraspecific taxa, distributional maps and illustrations of some of the species are provided. A list of currently accepted names of Australian taxa previously considered to belong in Canthium Lam. or Plectronia L., is given in Supplement A. New combinations are made in Appendix 1. for two related species occurring in New Guinea (but not in Australia) considered to belong in Psydrax, namely Psydrax cymigera (Valeton) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and P. suborbicularis (C.T.White) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend.
41738896|The genus Babingtonia is reinstated for a large group of species previously included in Baeckea L. sens. lat. Sixteen species are recorded for Malesia, New Caledonia and eastern Australia. Five new species: Babingtonia tozerensis A.R. Bean, B. granitica A.R. Bean, B. odontocalyx A.R. Bean, B. silvestris A.R. Bean and B. prominens A.R. Bean are described and illustrated. Nine new combinations are made; Babingtonia taxifolia (Merr.) A.R. Bean, B. procera (J. W. Dawson) A.R. Bean, B. leratii (Schltr.) A.R. Bean, B. pinifolia (Labili.) A.R. Bean, B. crenulata (F. Muell.) A.R. Bean, B. behrii (Schltdl.) A.R. Bean, B. cunninghamii (Schauer) A.R. Bean, B. jucunda (S. T. Blake) A.R. Bean and B. squarrulosa (Domin) A.R. Bean. An illustration and English description of Babingtonia squarrulosa are provided for the first time. Distribution maps are provided for all eastern Australian species. Keys are included for the genera previously included in Baeckea, and for the species of Babingtonia occurring in eastern Australia and Malesia.
41739056|The route of A. Meston's Bellenden-Ker Range Expedition of 1889 and F.M.Bailey's itinerary were determined from Meston's narrative of the Expedition. Many of the species that Bailey described from the Expedition were published as new species in as many as four publications. The chronology of the four publications has been established thus providing a priority of publication for the names involved.
41965607|Characters separating the Australian species of Blainvillea from the closely related Wedelia are discussed. Four species are recognised in Blainvillea; these are keyed, described and illustrated (Blainvillea acmella (L.) Philipson, B. calcicola Orchard, sp. nov., B. cunninghamii (DC.) Orchard, comb. nov. and B. gayana Cass.). Of these, the first three are considered native, while B. gayana is a naturalised alien. Examination of extra-Australian specimens reveals that these four species account for the genus worldwide and a partial global synonymy is presented.
41738784|A taxonomic revision of the genus Cynanchum L. in Australia is provided and 11 species are recognised. A key to distinguish them is provided. Lectotypes are selected for six names.
41738717|An illustrated taxonomic account of Dischidia R. Br. in Australia is given, with notes on the habitat, distribution and conservation status of the three species recognised. Dimorphic leaf forms are noted and illustrated for D. ovata Benth.
41739102|In this revision of Ardisia Sw., in Australia, eight species are recognized. This includes Ardisia sanguinolenta Blume which occurs on Christmas Island and other non-Australian areas, and two introduced and naturalised species A. crenata Sims and A. elliptica Thunb. Five species are restricted to Queensland and northern New South Wales. Ardisia brevipedata ?var. depauperata Domin is newly recognized as the species Ardisia depauperata (Domin) Jackes. Ardisia bifaria is again included in the genus Tetrardisia as T. bifaria (C.T.White & W.D.Francis) C.T.White. Descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps of all Australian mainland species are provided, as well as a species identification key.
41738786|Dianella fruticans, from south central Queensland, is described as new and its relationship to other species of the Phormiaceae is discussed. The legitimacy of Dianella odorata Blume is reviewed. It is concluded this is a legitimate name. Dianella brevipedunculata R. Henderson, confined to Queensland, is recorded for the Maranoa pastoral district at a site more than 350 km north-west of its previously known most westerly occurrence, and from the Port Curtis pastoral district at a site in the tropics at least 100 km north-west of its previously known most northerly occurrence.
41738790|Astrotricha cordata and A. intermedia, both with affinity to A. pterocarpa Benth., are described as new. A description of A. pterocarpa s. str. is provided. The correct name for Queensland plants previously known as A. floccosa DC. is shown to be A. latifolia Benth. A key to the Queensland species is presented.
41738624|A new genus Dansiea (Combretaceae) and a new species D. elliptica from North Queensland, Australia are described.
41739085|The new species Rimularia cerebriformis Kantvilas is described, based on a collection and field observations from dry eucalypt woodland in the Northern Territory, Australia. It represents an unusual occurrence of a genus that occurs mostly in moist environments in cool to cold, temperate latitudes of both hemispheres. Relationships with other species of the genus are discussed briefly.
41738789|Hoya australis R. Br. ex Traill is a highly variable taxon that occurs in Australia, Papuasia and Melanesia. Five subspecies are recognised within H. australis, defined by vegetative characters and floral phenology. H. australis subsp. oramicola is newly described and the new combinations H. australis subsp. tenuipes (H. oligotricha subsp. tenuipes K. Hill) and H. australis subsp. rupicola (H. rupicola K. Hill) are made.
43869003|A remarkable array of Plectranthus populations occurs on boulder and pavement fields on the geographically isolated Hann Tableland west of Mareeba in north-east Queensland. Seven species are present, namely P. bellus P.I.Forst., P. bipartitus P.I.Forst. sp. nov., P. congestus S.T.Blake, P. foetidus Benth., P. mirus S.T.Blake, P. spectabilis S.T.Blake and P. splendens P.I.Forst. sp. nov. The newly described species are illustrated and a distribution map is presented to all the species of Plectranthus on the Hann Tableland.
41739092|An Australian endemic species of tassel fern Huperzia tetrastichoides A.R. Field and Bostock is described as new. This species was previously confused with the non-Australian species Huperzia prolifera (Blume) Trevis. The new species is restricted to upland Queensland rainforests from the Windsor Tableland south to the Clarke Range west of Mackay. It is listed as Vulnerable under the Queensland Nature Conservation Act 1992. A dichotomous identification key to the Australian species of Huperzia is provided.
41738744|Bulbophyllum grandimesense, B. lewisense and B. windsorense, all members of section Oxysepalum from northeastern Queensland, are described as new and their relationships with previously known species of the section are discussed. A key to Australian species in section Oxysepalum is included.
41738763|Eucalyptus infera, a new species of Eucalyptus (E. Subgenus Symphyomyrtus Pryor and Johnson nom. inval.) is described, and notes on its taxonomie affinities, habitat, distribution and conservation status are given.
41965583|The Australian taxa in the genus Symplocos are revised. Nineteen species are recognised and separate identification keys are provided for flowering and fruiting material. Symplocos boonjee Jessup, S. bullata Jessup and S. oresbia Jessup are described as new species, four taxa are raised in rank to species viz. S. gittinsii Jessup, S. glabra Jessup, S. puberula Jessup and S. wooroonooran Jessup and one new variety, S. cyanocarpa var. pilosa Jessup is described.
41965608|The genus Hollandaea (Proteaceae) is revised, redescribed and distinguished from its closest relative, the genus Helicia. Hollandaea porphyrocarpa A.J.Ford & P.H.Weston and H. diabolica A.J.Ford & P.H.Weston are newly described, illustrated and diagnosed from related species. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status for all four species of Hollandaea are provided. A key to the species of Hollandaea is presented.
41738677|A new species, Arthragrostis aristispicula is described. New combinations are Australopyrum velutinum based on Agropyron velutinum Nees, Austrofestuca pubinervis based on Festuca pubinervis Vickery, Critesion murinum subsp. glaucum based on Hordeum glaucum Steudel and Elymus scabrus var. plurinervis based on Agropyron scabrum var. plurinerve Vickery. Australopyrum retrofractum (Vickery). Lve and Agropyron retrofractum Vickery are synonyms of Australopyrum pectinatum (Labill.) . Lve.
41738987|Details of the third record of the rare and poorly known Glossocardia orthochaeta (F. Muell.) Veldk. are presented. The habitat of this taxon is described for the first time. A revision of its conservation status to "Vulnerable" is recommended.
41738756|Names of six species and five subspecies are transferred from Racosperma Martius to Acacia Miller.
41738875|Type specimens of specific and infraspecific names in the genera Eustrephus and Geitonoplesium were examined. Lectotypes are designated for Eustrephus angustifolius, E. latifolius var. brownii, E. latifolius, E. watsonianus, Geitonoplesium cymosum, Geitonoplesium cymosum subsp. angustifolium and Luzuriaga montana. Neotypes are designated for Spiranthera ovata and Geitonoplesium asperum. Diagrams are presented clarifying the relationships between unorthodox infraspecific taxa proposed by J. Schlittler in 1951. No infraspecific taxon recognised by previous authors is here maintained. Descriptions are provided for the family and for each of its two species.
41738998|A new species, Mimulus aquatilis, is described, illustrated and a distribution map provided. It is found in a restricted area of north Queensland, where it is associated with permanent springs. An identification key to the Queensland Mimulus species is provided.
41738824|Four regional floras of eastern Australia each with over 1 500 species reveal superorder compositions similar to that for the whole of Australia. Of the 30 superorders known to occur in Australia, three to seven account for 75% of the concentration of dominance within the floras. Commeliniflorae consistently contributes at least 10% of species in a region. Fabiflorae, Myrtiflorae, Liliiflorae, Malviflorae and Asteriflorae may each contribute up to 10% or more. Eighteen superorders consistently contribute less than 5% each. One superorder, Loasiflorae has not been recorded from Australia. Twenty-two percent of Australia's flora has been recorded as rare. Percentage rarity recorded within superorders varies up to 37% but appears unrelated to superorder size. Future research into rare taxa depends on whether priority is given to groups accounting for high percentages of rare species within a flora, eg Myrtiflorae with 15% of Australia's rare species, or those taxa with a high degree of rarity, e.g. 37% of palms (Areciflorae) are rare but constitute only about 1% of Australia's rare species.
41739157|Ptilotus distans (R. Br.) Poir. hitherto treated as a uniform species is divided into two subspecies. Subsp. capensis, described as new, is confined to north Queensland, while subsp. distans occurs in the Northern Territory and Western Australia.
41739075|Notelaea ipsviciensis is described and notes are provided on its habitat, distribution and conservation status. It is found in a very restricted area of south east Queensland.
41739104|Four new species allied to Cyperus pedunculosus F. Muell., viz. Cyperus alaticaulis R. Booth, D.J.Moore & Hodgon, C. eboracensis R.Booth, D.J.Moore & Hodgon, C. multispiceus R.Booth, D.J.Moore & Hodgon and sharpei R.Booth, D.J.Moore & Hodgon are described and notes provided on their distribution and habitat. Cyperus pedunculosus is circumscribed and described. A key to this group of species is provided.
41739054|A taxonomic revision of the genus Zieria Sm. in Queensland is presented with thirty-five species recognised. Sixteen new species are described and illustrated: Z. actites Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. alata Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. bifida Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. boolbunda Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. cephalophila Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. distans Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. eungellaensis Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. exsul Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. graniticola J.A.Armstr. ex Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. hydroscopica Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. inexpectata Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. insularis Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. madida Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. scopulus Duretto & P.I.Forst., Z. tenuis Duretto & P.I.Forst, and Z. vagans Duretto & P.I.Forst. Z. whitei J.A.Armstr. ex Duretto & P.I.Forst, (based on Z. aspalathoides var. intermedia C.T. White) is newly recognised at specific rank and illustrated. Z. compacta C.T.White is reinstated at species level. Z. fraseri subsp. robusta (C.T.White) Duretto & P.I.Forst, is newly recognised at subspecific rank. An assessment is provided of the current conservation status for all Zieria taxa found in Queensland with occurrence in conservation reserves noted. New distributional information is given for various taxa. Keys to all taxa of Zieria found in Queensland are provided.
41729929|Leptochloa southwoodii, a new species from the brigalow belt of southern Queensland, is described and diagnosed from L. ligulata Lazarides, its apparent sister species.
41738700|A checklist is presented of all current binomials known from Queensland, together with synonyms relative to Queensland specimens or literature dealing specifically with such specimens. Footnotes are employed to expand on points of particular interest and a table of distributions is given, based on a proposal using four regional divisions. Genera in the checklist are numbered consecutively and are cross-referenced to an alphabetical index of genera. Notes on the history of hepatic research in Queensland and on the principal collections of Queensland specimens are also included.
41738965|E. broviniensis, a new gum-barked species is described, illustrated and diagnosed against the closely related E. hallii Brooker. The new species is confined to a very small area near Mundubbera in south-east Queensland, and its conservation status is assessed as 'critically endangered'.
41739110|Morinda constipata Halford & A.J. Ford and Morinda retropila Halford & A.J. Ford are described, illustrated and diagnosed against allied species. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status are provided.
41738828|Two new species of Hoya from Papuasia (Irian Jaya, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands) are described, namely Hoya dennisii and H. flavida. Both are in cultivation, and the latter is widely known as H. sp. 'Mt Gallego'.
41738846|The genus Wetria Baill. occurs in Asia, Malesia and Australia. Wetria australiensis P.I. Forst, sp. nov. is described and illustrated. It is endemic to a small area near Cairns in far north Queensland and is considered to be a vulnerable species requiring management. This is the first record of the genus Wetria for Australia
41738958|A revision of the genus Convolvulus L. in Australia is presented. Twelve species are recognised and described, including four that are new. They are C. graminetinus, C. recurvatus, C. tedmoorei and C. wimmerensis. In two species, C. angustissimus and C. recurvatus, subspecies have been recognised and described. C. angustissimus subsp. omnigracilis and C. angustissimus subsp. peninsularum, and C. recurvatus subsp. nullarborensis are described as new while C. angustissimus subsp. fllilobus is a new combination based on C. erubescens var. fllilobus Wawra. A key to identify all species and subspecies is provided together with distribution maps and illustrations of certain diagnostic characters.
41738685|A species of Pandanus section Austrokeura, P. yalna R. Tucker and intersectional hybrid, P.  nullumiae R. Tucker are described from Cape York Peninsula and their distribution, relationships, ecology and ethnobotany discussed.
41739035|A new species of Cryptandra Sm. is described from the Kakadu and Nitmiluk National Parks in Arnhem Land, Northern Territory, C. triplex K.R.Thiele ex Kellermann. It is closely related to C. intratropica W.Fitzg. and C. filiformis A.R. Bean. A distribution map, a photograph of the holotype and a key to Cryptandra species from northern Australia are provided.
41738782|Yellow blood woods, a well-known group now accepted as comprising 12 taxa of largely Queensland eucalypts, is revised. Five new species, Eucalyptus scabrida, E. bunites, E. petalophylla, E. aureola and E. leptoloma and two new subspecies E. peltata subsp. dimorpha and E. watsoniana subsp. capillata are described. The buds and fruits of each new taxon are illustrated where relevant and a key and distribution maps of all taxa are provided. The paper includes a summary of the five previously published species, notes on the classification of the series and comparisons in tabular form of all accepted bloodwood groups (informal Eucalyptus subgen. Corymbia Pryor & Johnson).
41729914|The genus DissiliariaF . Muell. ex Baill. is revised. Dissiliaria is endemic to Australia with six species from eastern Queensland, D. baloghioides F. Muell. ex Baill., D. indistincta P.I.Forst, sp. nov., D. laxinervis Airy Shaw, D. muelleri Baill., D. surculosa P.I.Forst, sp. nov. and D. tuckeri P.I. Forst, sp.nov. All species are described and illustrated, with notes on distribution, habitat, typification and conservation status. The names D. baloghioides and D. muelleri are lectotypified.
41738901|Rubus subg. Idaeobatus is revised for Australia. Five species, including one with two varieties are recognised; Rubus queenslandicus A.R. Bean sp. nov., R. probus L.H. Bailey, R. rosifolius Sm. var. rosifolius, R. rosifolius var. commersonii (Poir.) Tirveng., R. ellipticus Sm. and R. parvifolius L. All taxa are described in full and their distributions mapped. R. queenslandicus is illustrated. A key to the Australian taxa is presented.
41738621|Three new species of Homoranthus, H. papillatus, H. decasetus and H. tropicusarz described and a key to the species in the genus is given. Notes on the salient characteristics of the genus and each species with some notes on distribution are included.
41965604|A shrubby, perennial species of Croton L. from the Gympie area in south-east Queensland is newly described as Croton lucens P.I.Forst. This new species is known from only three small populations (less than 100 plants) and is considered Endangered. An identification key is provided for Croton species from south-east Queensland that have foliage that is penninerved and fawn-silver to silver-white below.
41738972|Livistona concinna, L. surru and L. tothur are described as new. Livistona concinna is endemic in north Queensland, and L. surru and L. tothur are endemic in Papua New Guinea. Each species is illustrated.
41739070|Newly discovered populations of Tylophora linearis (last collected in 1969) are documented from central New South Wales. An amplified description and diagnostic illustrations are provided. The conservation status of Tylophora linearis is reviewed with the recommendation that it be downgraded to Vulnerable. Tylophora linearis is newly recorded as a host-plant for the butterfly Danaus chrysippus petilia.
41738881|Two new species of Hibiscus section Furcaria DC. from northern Queensland are described, namely H. forsten F.D. Wilson and H. saponarius Craven. A key and an exsiccatae list are included for the seven species of H. section Furcaria we recognise as occurring in Queensland and New South Wales. We provide taxonomic notes on H. diversifolius Jacq. and the H. heterophyllus Vent, complex, and draw attention to the correct type of H, splendens Fraser ex Graham.
41738762|The genus Cryptolepis R. Br. is recircumscribed to include Gymnolaema Benth., Stomatostemma N.E. Br., Batesanthus N.E. Br. and Streptomanes Schumann. New combinations in Cryptolepis for African taxa are C. pendulina (Venter & D.V. Field) P. Forster, C. purpureus (N.E. Br.) P. Forster and newii (Benth.) P. Forster. Cryptolepis is recorded for Australia with C. grayi P. Forster, sp. nov. and for New Guinea with C. nymanii (Schumann) P. Forster, comb. nov. and C. papillata P. Forster, sp. nov. Gunnessia pepo P. Forster gen. et sp. nov. is described from north Queensland. Its position within the Asclepiadaceae is discussed. Marsdenia papuana Schltr. and M. klossii S. Moore are placed in the synonymy of M. velutina R. Br. Tylophora perlaxa Schltr. is placed in the synonymy of T. flexuosa R. Br. Lectotypes are selected for Marsdenia velutina and Tylophora flexuosa both of which are newly recorded for New Guinea. The new combination Dischidia torricellensis (Schltr.) P. Forster based on Spathidolepis torricellensis is made.
41738701|The new combination Gymnema dunnii based on Marsdenia rostrata R. Br. var. dunnii Maiden & Betche is made. The species is described and illustrated with notes given on distribution, habitat and conservation status.
41739109|A new species of Homoranthus is described, illustrated and diagnosed against related species. It is of very restricted distribution near Mundubbera in south-eastern Queensland.
41738757|An alternative classification to that of Hill, of the species of Hoya R. Br. in Australia excluding the H. australis R. Br. ex Traili complex is given. Six species are described and illustrated with notes on variation, distribution, habitat and conservation status. H. lauterbachii Schumann is a widely distributed species in far north Cape York Peninsula, Queensland and in Papuasia. Flower shape and colour of H. lauterbachii varies considerably. H. gigas Schltr. and H. coronaria var. papuana Bailey are placed in synonymy with H. lauterbachii. H. alata K. Hill is reduced to synonymy with H. pseudolittoralis Hemsley. Variation in H. macgillivrayi Bailey and H. nicholsoniae F. Muell. is described. H. litoralis Schltr. is recorded for Australia. H. serpens J.D. Hook, is naturalised at one locality. A key to the species of Hoya recognised for Australia is given.
41739025|The new, Australian endemic genus Shonia R.J.F.Hend. & Halford. is described and compared with Beyeria Miq. and Ricinocarpos Desf., to which it is closely allied, and Bertya Planch. Four species are recognised and a key is provided for their identification. Two species, Shonia carinata Halford & R.J.F.Hend. and S. territorialis Halford & R.J.F.Hend., are described as new, and the new combinations S. tristigma (F.Muell.) Halford & R.J.F.Hend. and S. bickertonensis (Specht) Halford & R.J.F.Hend., based on Beyeria tristigma F.Muell. and Beyeria bickertonensis Specht respectively, are made for the other two. Two new subspecies are recognised in S. tristigma, namely S. tristigma subsp. parvifolia Halford & R.J.F.Hend. and S. tristigma subsp. borealis Halford & R.J.F.Hend. All species are described, maps provided for their distribution, and information on their phenology and the habitat of their occurrence is given. The new species are illustrated and a lectotype is chosen for Beyeria tristigma F.Muell.
41739016|Gyrostemon osmus Halford is described, illustrated and diagnosed against related species. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided. A new section, G. sect. Monoecia Halford is proposed to accommodate the new species.
41739146|Oldenlandia gibsonii is described and notes are provided on its habitat, distribution and conservation status.
41738742|Cynanchum liebiana (F. Muell.) P. Forster comb. nov. and C. christineae P. Forster sp. nov. are described. Sarcostemma esculentum (L. f.) Holm is newly recorded for Australia with Marsdenia brockmaniana W. Fitzg. placed in synonymy. The status of Tylophora erecta F. Muell. ex Benth., T. macrophylla Benth. and T. stelligera Schltr. is reviewed with T. macrophylla and T. stelligera being relegated to synonymy. Tylophora benthamii Tsiang is shown to be the earliest available name for the taxon known variously as T. floribunda Benth. or T. crebriflora S.T. Blake. Isotype material of Sarcolobus ciliolatus Warb, and S. obovatus Rintz at the Queensland Herbarium is documented and S. obovatus recorded for the Solomon Islands and northern Papua New Guinea. A generic account for Finlaysonia Wallich in Australia and New Guinea is given, with F. obovata Wallich being recorded for the region. Gymnema sylvestre (Retz.) R. Br. ex Schuttes is lectotypifed. The species does not occur in Australia. Gymnema pleiadenium F. Muell. is an earlier name for the taxon known as Gymnema dunnii (Maiden & Betche) P. Forster. G. pleiadenium is distinguished from G. geminatum R. Br. and G. sylvestre. Brachystelma glabriflorum (F. Muell.) Schltr. is the earliest name for the species of Brachystelma that occurs in Australia and New Guinea.
41738876|The new species Hoya onychoides P.I. Forst., D.J. Liddle & I.M. Liddle from Papua New Guinea is described and illustrated. Hoya onychoides is compared with the closely allied H. macgillivrayi F.M. Bailey from Australia and H. archboldiana C. Norman from Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, with a description and illustration provided of the latter.
41738702|Three species, Bonamia alatisemina, B. deserticola and B. erecta are described as new.
41729913|The diagnosis of phylogenetic species and infraspecific taxa is considered from the perspective of botanical monography. Diagnosing phylogenetic species using population aggregation analysis (PAA) cannot be done in the herbarium, as it is a population-based procedure. However, herbarium specimens can be aggregated into phylogenetic species based on the presence of fixed characters, and PAA methodology in the field is encouraged to the maximum extent possible. The importance of diagnosing phylogenetic species by ordinary morphological means is stressed. A species is thus an aggregation of sexual or asexual semaphoronts consistently diagnosable by a fixed character or combination of characters recognizable by ordinary morphological means. Application of this species definition will generally decrease species numbers in botanical monographs and could therefore overlook significant but non-fixed phenetic variation. Given the widespread existence of such variation it is concluded that the recognition of infraspecific taxa remains desirable. However, since varieties are explicitly subordinate to subspecies in the Code and imply hierarchical pattern where none is expected to exist, the recognition of only one infraspecific category is recommended.
41738792|Four species of Secamone R. Br., S. elliptica R. Br., S. lineata Blume, S. auriculata Blume and S. timoriensis Decne. are recognised as occurring in Australia. The status of the genus Toxocarpus Wight & Arn. is discussed and its placement in the synonymy of Secamone is supported.
41739147|Jasminum jenniae sp. nov. is described, illustrated and compared to related species. Notes are provided on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. A key to the south eastern Queensland species of Jasminum is provided.
41738816|Acacia pedleyi, a new member of Acacia sect. Botrycephalae, is described and illustrated with notes on distribution, habitat and alliances. This species has a restricted distribution in the Biloela area in central-eastern Queensland.
41739140|The concepts of Ohashi (1973) are adopted and five genera are recognised for Australia: Aphyllodium (DC.) Gagnep. (Dicerma DC. sensu Benth.), Dendrolobium Benth., Desmodium Desv., Phyllodium Desv. and Tadehagi Ohashi. A classification of Desmodium in Australia, closely following Ohashi's for Asia, is presented. Taxa described as new are: Desmodium subg. Acanthocladum (type: D. acanthocladum F. Muell.), Desmodium ser. Arillata (type: D. microphyllum (Thunb.) DC), Desmodium ser Sagotia (type: D. triflorum (L.) DC.), Aphyllodium glossocarpum, A. latifolium, A. parvifolium, A. schindleri, A. stylosanthoides, Dendrolobium multiflorum, Desmodium glareosum, D. pullenii, D. pycnotrichum, D. tiwiense, Phyllodium pulchellum var. glabrius, P. hackeri and Tadehagi robustum. New combinations are Desmodium sect. Desmodiopsis (based on Alysicarpus sect. Desmodiopsis Schindl.) Desmodium ser. Stenostachys (based on Desmodium sect. Stenostachys Schindl., lectotype D. filiforme Zoll. & Moritzi), Dendrolobium cheelii (based on Alysicarpus cheelii C.A. Gardner), Dendrolobium polyneurum (based on Desmodium polyneurum S.T.Blake), Dendrolobium umbellatum var. hirsutum (based on Desmodium umbellatum var. hirsutum DC.) and Desmodium whitfordii based on Desmodium nemorosum subvar. whitfordii Schindl., the last two from the Mascarenes and the Phillipines respectively. Keys to species are provided; new and poorly understood taxa are described and references to descriptions of all others provided; brief notes on distribution and habitat of all species are included; and typification of some species is discussed. Forty-eight Australian species are treated: six Aphyllodium, six Dendrolobium, 32 Desmodium, three Phyllodium and one Tadehagi.
41729918|The new species Marsdenia jensenii is described and illustrated. It is endemic to north-eastern Queensland in the 'Wet Tropics' region and apparently restricted to a small area near Gadgarra State Forest.
41739018|The rediscovery of the long-lost Marsdenia arachnoidea Schltr. is reported. A neotype is selected for the name M. arachnoidea and the species is described and illustrated. It is endemic to Morobe Province of north-eastern Papua New Guinea, where the only known populations are under threat from habitat alteration.
41738833|The genus Peperomia Ruiz & Pav. (Peperomiaceae) is revised for mainland Australia. Five species are recognised, four are native, viz Peperomia bellendenkerensis Domin, P. blanda var. floribunda (Miq.) H. Huber, P. tetraphylla (G. Forst.) C. DC. and P. enervis C. DC. & F. Muell., and one is naturalised, viz P. pellucida (L.) Kunth. Peperomia bellendenkerensis and P. enervis are endemic. The names Peperomia affinis Domin, P. bellendenkerensis Domin and P. enervis C. DC. & F. Muell. are lectotypified. P. affinis is newly placed in the synonymy of P. tetraphylla.
41738853|Rutidosis crispata and R. lanata from south eastern Queensland are described. Conservation codings of 2K and 2E respectively, are suggested. A key to the species of Rutidosis in south eastern Queensland is given.
41739010|Revisions are presented for the Australian representatives of Pavetteae excluding the genus Pavetta L., viz. Tarenna Gaertn. (three species, two subspecies) and Triflorensia S.T.Reynolds (three species). The following are described as new, Triflorensia S.T.Reynolds genus nov., Tarenna subgenus Pacifica S.T.Reynolds subg. nov. and Tarenna monticola S.T.Reynolds & P.I.Forst, sp. nov. New combinations are made in Tarenna for T. pentamera (Benth.) S.T.Reynolds and T. dallachiana subsp. expandens (F.Muell. ex Benth.) S.T.Reynolds & P.I.Forst, and in Triflorensia for three species previously included in Diplospora or Tarenna, viz. T. australis (Benth.) S.T.Reynolds, T. cameronii (C.T.White) S.T.Reynolds and T. ixoroides (F.Muell.) S.T.Reynolds. Lectotypes are selected for several names. All recognised taxa are described with notes on their affinities, habitat, distribution, conservation status and etymology. Keys to taxa, distribution maps and line drawings of some of the taxa are also provided.
41738665|Hardenbergia perbrevidens (Fabaceae) and Logania diffusa (Loganiaceae) are described.
41738984|The new species Phyllanthera takeuchiana P.I.Forst, is described and illustrated. It is known from a single collection from Lake Lamu in the Gulf Province of Papua New Guinea. Differences between P. takeuchiana and P. multinervosa (P.I.Forst.) Venter are outlined.
41738661|The new combination Bertya opponens (F. Muell. ex Benth.) Guymer, based on Croton opponens F. Muell. ex Benth., is made for the name of the plant more recently described as Bertya oppositifolia F. Muell. & O'Shanesy.
41739038|Nepenthes tenax, endemic to the Cape York region of Queensland, is newly described and illustrated. The distribution, habitat and conservation status of this species are discussed, as well as the differences between N. tenax and its close relative, N. mirabilis (Lour.) Druce. An identification key to Australian Nepenthaceae is provided.
41965611|Ipomoea bracteolata R.W. Johnson, I. densivestita R.W.Johnson, I. dunlopii R.W.Johnson, I. funicularis R.W.Johnson, I. kalumburu R.W.Johnson, I. limosa R.W.Johnson, I. tolmerana R.W.Johnson, I. tolmerana subsp. occidentalis R.W.Johnson and I. versipellis R.W.Johnson are described as new species or subspecies. All new taxa are illustrated and notes are given on their distribution, habitat, phenology, affinities and conservation status. A key to all Australian species of Ipomoea is provided.
41738890|EucryphiajinksiiP.I.Forst and E. wilkiei B. Hyland are newly described and illustrated. Notes are provided on their affinities, distribution, habitats and conservation status. A key to the Australian species of Eucryphia is provided.
41738657|The new combinations Thelionema caespitosum (Stypandra caespitosa R.Br.), T. umbellatum (S. umbellata R.Br.) and T. grande (S. grandis C. White) are made for the three species included in Thelionema R. Henderson. Stypandra R.Br. is relectotypified by S. glauca R.Br. after rejection of earlier lectotypification by S. caespitosa. Styponema Salisbury is lectotypified by Stypandra glauca. The three genera covered by Brown's original concept of Stypandra are distinguished by a key.
41739036|Full descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps are provided for both Eucalyptus tetrodonta and E. megasepala sp. nov., the latter found in north-east Queensland.
41739164|A new species of Ampelocissus, A. frutescens is described and a new combination A. gardineri based on Vitis gardineri Bailey is made. A description of the genus and of each of the three species is given, together with a key to the species.
43869007|Ebenezer Cowley (1849-1899) was active as a botanical collector in north Queensland and British New Guinea (now Papua New Guinea) during 1889-1898. His official role was Overseer of the Kamerunga State Nursery. Cowley sent all his specimens to F.M. Bailey, Government Botanist in Brisbane. About 370 Cowley specimens have been located, and most of these, c. 330, are extant at BRI. A small number (c. 40) of duplicates and unicates are housed at BM, CNS, DNA, K, L, M, MEL and NSW. The provenance of Cowley's north Queensland collections included mostly the Kamerunga and Barron River areas. 47 Cowley specimens are significant in typification, mainly through the taxonomie work of F.M.Bailey: of these, 19 are associated with species names in current use. The taxa that involved Cowley specimens in typification are listed with annotations. Cowley's 1st daughter, Clara Moxon (ne Cowley) (1875-1905) also sent plant specimens to, and corresponded with, F.M.Bailey.
41965594|The Solanum ellipticum species group is endemic to Australia, and is here considered to comprise 13 species. Solanum lithophilum F.Muell. and S. cleistogamum Symon are reinstated. Solanum andicola A.R.Bean, S. callosum A.R.Bean, S. emmottii A.R.Bean and S. unispinum A.R.Bean are described as new. The four new species and Solanum lithophilum are illustrated and distribution maps are provided for them. A key to the identification of species in the Solanum ellipticum group is presented.
41738691|Three new species and one new variety in Pseuduvaria Miq. from north-eastern Queensland are described. They are P. hylandii, P. villosa, P. mulgraveana var. mulgraveana and P. mulgraveana var. glabrescens.
41738836|Dischidia littoralis Schltr. is resurrected as a species distinct from D. bengalensis Colebr. D. littoralis has been commonly collected from East Sepik, New Britain, Madang, Milne Bay and Morobe Provinces in Papua New Guinea, Irian Jaya and the Aru Islands, and is newly recorded here from Torres Strait in Queensland, Australia. The species is described and illustrated and a key to the species of Dischidia that occur in Australia is provided. D. bengalensis does not occur in New Guinea.
41738926|A new species of Ochrosperma is described and illustrated, with notes on habitat and conservation status. A revised key to the species of Ochrosperma is provided.
41738964|Nine species of Alysicarpus occur in northern Australia, three of them naturalised. All species are described and a key to their identification and notes on their geographical ranges and habitats are provided. Alysicarpus aurantiacus, A. major and A. suffruticosus are described as new.
41738703|Two species of Convolvulus, C. eyreanus and C. microsepalus are described as new. They are currently known only from South Australia.
41738986|The new genus Indagator Halford is described with a single species Indagator fordii Halford. Notes on its distribution and habitat are provided.
43869005|The classification and nomenclature of Tephrosia is reviewed and the names Brissonia Desv., Tephrosia section Brissonia DC. and Tephrosia section Recueria Benth. are lectotypified. An account of the species group surrounding T. varians is provided with description of the new species T. delicatula Pedley and T. turpinii Pedley.
41738889|The genus Triumfetta is revised for Australia. A generic description based on Australian material is given. Sixty one species are recognised as occurring in Australia including three introduced species. Forty species are described as new and one variety (Triumfetta micracantha var. albida Domin) is raised to specific rank. Lectotypes are selected for T. bradshawii F. Muell., T. denticulataR. Br. ex Benth., T. glaucescens R. Br. ex Benth., T. micracantha F. Muell. and T. triandra Sprague & Hutch. All species are described and illustrated and information on their habitat and distribution is provided. A key to identify the species is also provided.
41738806|Neoroepera is endemic in central-eastern and north-eastern Queensland, Australia. It contains two species, namely N. banksii Benth. and N. buxifolia Muell. Arg. & F. Muell. A lectotype is chosen for N. buxifolia. Placement of the genus in Caletieae Muell. Arg. rather than Phyllantheae Dumort. is justified on grounds of its spinulose pollen and attributes of flowers, fruit and seed. Comments on dates of publication of parts of Adansonia 6 (1865-6) are given in Appendix 1.
41738805|A survey of the 3 species of Perotis Aiton (Gramineae) in Australia and Southeast Asia is given. One species, P. clarksonii is described as new, while P. rara is recorded from Southeast Asia for the first time.
41729930|Lilaeopsis brisbanica A.R. Bean is described and illustrated, and diagnosed against related species. Notes on habitat, ecology, cultivation and conservation status are provided.
41739067|Two genera in the tribe Coffeeae occur in Australia, namely Coffea L. (with the naturalised species C. arabica L. and the doubtfully naturalised C. liberica Hiern.) and Psilanthus Hook. f. (with the single non-endemic species P. brassii(J.-F.Leroy) A.P.Davis). A key to genera is provided, together with an amplified description and illustration for Psilanthus brassii.
41738715|Eight fern species from northern Australia, namely Cheilanthes cavernicola, C. dunlopii, C. praetermissa, C. pinnatifida, Nephrolepis arida, Asplenium harmanii, A. capitisyork nad A. bicentenniale are described as new. The new combination Cheilanthes pseudovellea is made based on Cheilanthes sieben subsp. pseudovellea H. Quirk & T. Chambers.
41738827|The genus Pavetta L. in Australia is revised; ten species and four varieties are recognised, P. conferta, P. kimberleyana, P. rupicola, P. speciosa, P. tenella, P. vaga, P. australiensis var. pubigera, and P. brownii var. glabrata are new. All taxa recognised are described, and notes on their diagnostic features, affinities and geographical distribution given. Keys to these taxa and distributional maps of them are provided. P. modesta Bremek. is synonymised under P. granitica Bremek.; P. insulana Bremek. under P. brownii Bremek.; P. brownii var. pubescens Bremek. and P. brownii var. glabra Bremek. under P. brownii var. brownii. Specimens previously identified as P. brownii var. glabra are included under P. brownii var. glabrata. A lectotype is chosen for P. brownii Bremek.
41738767|Dendrobium discolor has two different labellum shapes which are geographically correlated. No apparent intergradation of this variation in labellum shape has been observed. The northern populations in Australia and those in New Guinea are given subspecifc status as D. discolor subsp. incurvata D. Liddle & P. Forster.
41738809|The circumscription of Adiantum diaphanum Blume with respect to A. setulosum J. Smith is discussed. It is concluded that the two are conspecific and that the earlier name A. diaphanum should be retained. The applicability of frond hairs to the taxonomy of Adiantum is reviewed and the conclusion reached that hair morphology is a reliable taxonomic character but that, with few exceptions, location and density of occurrence of hairs on the various frond surfaces are characters of dubious value.
41738947|Pratia puberula Benth. is lectotypified and Lobelia leucotos Albr. described and illustrated, with notes on distribution, habitat and relationships with other species of Lobelioideae.
41739121|Trichosanthes odontosperma W.E.Cooper & A.J.Ford is described and illustrated. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status are provided.
41738716|The genus Cissus L. is reviewed for Australian species, as well comments on species occurring in New Guinea are included. Two species, C. pentaclada and C. vinosa are described as new, and a new combination, C. cardiophylla based on Vit is cardiophylla F. Muell., is made. The occurrence of C. aristata on Dauan Island in the Torres Strait represents the first record of this species for Australia. A description of the genus and each of the fourteen species occurring in Australia is given, together with a key to the species.
41739090|Three new species of Rhodomyrtus (DC.) Rchb. are described from Papua New Guinea: Rhodomyrtus longisepala N. Snow & J.McFadden, Rhodomyrtus guymeriana N. Snow & J.P.Atwood, and Rhodomyrtus misimana N.Snow. Detailed descriptions, information on distributions and habitats, and conservation recommendations are provided for each new species. A tabular summary of some key vegetative and reproductive features is presented for species of Rhodomyrtus sensu lato. A membranous testa for three species of Rhodomyrtus is discussed for the first time, as is the occurrence of densely-packed, hair-like fibres comprising much of the outer testa in some species. Large, dark-maroon coloured cells in the fruit of some species impart visible pits on the outer surface of the seed coats in the dried fruits. Gelatinous endosperm is reported for the first time in the genus Rhodomyrtus, being present in Rhodomyrtus guymeriana. Transitions between the typological distinctions of eucamptodromous and brochidodromous leaf venation types are discussed for Rhodomyrtus surigaoensis.
41738891|Borya inopinata is described and illustrated. Notes are given on the species' distribution, habitat, affinities and conservation status. A Conservation Coding of rare (R) is recommended. A key to the species of Borya in Queensland is provided.
41739132|Typifications are provided for Psidium cattleianum Sabine and P. guineense Sw. from Brazil and the Caribbean respectively. Episyzygium oahuense Suess. & A. Ludw. is confirmed as being a synonym of Psidium cattlieanum, not of Eugenia. Two varieties of P. cattleianum from Brazil are reduced to synonymy. New combinations are made in Gossia, Syzygium and Xanthomyrtus for a number of species from Malesia and Melanesia. For Syzygium these include S. thompsonii (Merr.) N. Snow (including Eugenia trukensis Hosokawa, syn. nov.) based on E. thompsonii Merr.; S. bifarium (Wall.) Veldk. based on E. bifaria Wall., which is neotypified; and S. melastomatifolium (Blume) Veldk., which is based on Jambosa melastomatifolia Blume. Xanthomyrtus kanalaensis (Hochr.) N. Snow comb, nov., based on E. kanalaensis Hochr., is the older and correct name for the endemic species on New Caledonia formerly known as X. hienghenensis Guillaumin. New combinations for Melanesian species of Gossia are provided, including G. alaternoides (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow, G. alaternoides var. conspicua (Vieill. ex Guillaumin) N. Snow), G. alaternoides var. pulchrifolius (Guillaumin) N. Snow, G. aphthosa (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow, G. clusioides (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow, G. colnettiana (Guillaumin) N. Snow, G. diversifolia (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow, G. kuakuense (Vieill. ex Guillaumin) N. Snow (an older name for a basionym for the species recently known in New Caledonia as Austromyrtus cataractarum), G. nigripes (Guillaumin) N. Snow, G. pancheri (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow, G. vieillardii (Brongn. & Gris) N. Snow (which is shown to be the same taxon as the later named G. aneityensis (Guillaumin) N. Snow in Vanuatu), and G. virotii (Guillaumin) N. Snow. An expanded description based on fruiting material is provided for Rhodomyrtus kaweaensis N. Snow from Papua New Guinea. Taxonomic boundaries in the context of morphological and molecular variation are discussed for Rhodomyrtus montana Guymer and R. misimana N. Snow from New Guinea.
41738859|Seven new species of Macrozamia section Parazamia (Miq.) Miq. from south-east Queensland are described and illustrated. They are M. conferta, M. cranei, M. crassifolia, M. machinii, M. occidua, M. parcifolia, and M. viridis. All are restricted endemics allied to either M. plurinervia (L.A.S. Johnson) D.L. Jones or M. pauliguilielmi W. Hill & F. Muell. A key to the species of M. section Parazamia in Queensland is presented.
41738774|Bulbophyllum wolfei B. Gray & D. Jones, a new species of Bulbophyllum Thouars section Micromonanthe from north-eastern Queensland is described and illustrated.
41738734|Eucalyptus xanthope, a new bloodwood, and Eucalyptus decolor, a new ironbark, are described and illustrated. Both species have a restricted distribution in sub-coastal central Queensland.
41738609|Two new species of Orchidaceae from Cape York Peninsula are described. These are: Dendrobium tozerensis P. Lavarack sp. nov. and Oberonia carnosa P. Lavarack sp. nov. The following five orchids previously unrecorded in Australia are here recorded for the first time: Bulbophyllum masdevalliaceum Kranzlin, B. leratii (Schlechter) J. J. Smith, Taeniophyllum malianum Schlechter, Eulophia pulchra (Thouars) Lindl. and Schoenorchis sarcophylla Schlechter, while Didymoplexus pallens Griff, is recorded in north Queensland for the first time.
41738924|Three taxonomic sections of Stylidium are enumerated (S. sect. Debilia, S. sect. Floodia and S. sect. Lanatae sect, nov.) comprising 25 species (including 5. austrocapense, S. dehcatum, S. foveolatum, S. velleioides spp. nov. and S. pamculatum comb, nov.) indigenous to northern and eastern Australia (Kimberley region of Western Australia, Northern Territory, Queensland and northern New South Wales). The new species are illustrated, while for all species, distribution maps and notes on habitat, conservation status and taxonomic affinities are provided.
41739083|The genus Beyeria Miq. is endemic to Australia. Twenty-four species are recognised and a key provided for their identification. The following species are described here as new: Beyeria apiculata Halford & R. J. F. Hend., B. cockertonii Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. constellata Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. disciformis Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. lanceolata Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. lapidicola Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. physaphylla Halford & R. J. F. Hend., B. rostellata Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. simplex Halford & R.J.F. Hend., B. sulcata Halford & R.J.F. Hend. and B. villosa Halford & R.J.F. Hend. A new subspecies and new variety are described, namely Beyeria cinrea subsp. borealis Halford & R.J.F. Hend. and B. sulcata var. gracilis Halford & R.J.F. Hend. The new combinations Beyeria sulcata var. brevipes (Airy Shaw) Halford & R.J.F. Hend., based on B. brevifolia var. brevipes Airy Shaw and B. sulcata var. truncata (Airy Shaw) Halford & R.J.F. Hend., based on B. brevifolia var. truncata Airy Shaw, are made. Beyeria calycina var. minor Airy Shaw is raised to specific rank as B. minor (Airy Shaw) Halford & R.J.F. Hend. The new taxa are illustrated and distinguished from related taxa while all taxa are described and mapped with notes provided on their habitat, distribution and phenology. Lectotypes are chosen for Beyeria drummondii Mll. Arg., Beyeria latifolia Baill., Beyeria lechenaultii forma elaeagnoides Baill., Beyeria lechenaultii forma pernettioides Baill., Beyeria lechenaultii forma rosmarinoides Baill., Beyeria lechenaultii var. latifolia Griming, Beyeria lepidopetala F. Muell., Beyeria opaca F. Muell., Beyeria opaca var. linearis Benth., Beyeria viscosa var. amoena Mll. Arg., Beyeria viscosa var. angustifolia F. Muell. & Tate, Beyeriopsis latifolia Mll. Arg. and Crotn viscosus Labill. All known synonyms are listed here.
41965600|A systematic study of Euphorbia section Anisophyllum Roeper in Australia is presented. A total of 58 species are recognised of which 51 are native (48 endemic) and seven are naturalised. Twenty one species are described here as new: E. accedens Halford & W.K. Harris, E. albrechtii Halford & W.K. Harris, E. crassimarginata Halford & W.K. Harris, E. fitzroyensis Halford & W.K. Harris, E. gregoriensis Halford & W.K. Harris, E. hassallii Halford & W.K. Harris, E. laciniloba Halford & W.K. Harris, E. litticola Halford & W.K. Harris, E. macdonaldii Halford & W.K. Harris, E. multifaria Halford & W.K. Harris, E. occulta Halford & W.K. Harris, E. papillata Halford & W.K. Harris, E. papillifolia Halford & W.K. Harris, E. philochalix Halford & W.K. Harris, E. porcata Halford & W.K. Harris, E. psilosperma Halford & W.K. Harris, E. thelephora Halford & W.K. Harris, E. trigonosperma Halford & W.K. Harris, E. verrucitesta Halford & W.K. Harris, E. vicina Halford & W.K. Harris and E. victoriensis Halford & W.K. Harris. New species are illustrated while all species are described and their distributional range mapped, and notes on their distribution, habitat and phenology are given. Eleven new varieties are described as new: E. australis var. glabra Halford & W.K. Harris, E. australis var. hispidula Halford & W.K. Harris, E. ferdinandi var. appendiculata Halford & W.K. Harris, E. ferdinandi var. saxosiplaniticola Halford & W.K. Harris, E. inappendiculata var. robustior Halford & W.K. Harris, E. mitchelliana var. longiloba Halford & W.K. Harris, E. papillata var. laevicaulis Halford & W.K. Harris, E. papillifolia var. polyandra Halford & W.K. Harris, E. thelephora var. australis Halford & W.K. Harris, E. thelephora var. rugosa Halford & W.K. Harris, and E. vaccaria var. erucoides Halford & W.K. Harris. The new combinations E. macdonaldii var. potentillina (Baill.) Halford & W.K. Harris, based on E. australis var. potentillina Baill., E. mitchelliana var. filipes (Benth.) Halford & W.K. Harris, based on E. filipes Benth., and E. schultzii var. comans (W.Fitzg.) Halford & W.K. Harris based on E. comans W.Fitzg., are made. Lectotypes are chosen for E. alsiniflora Baill., E. armstrongiana Boiss., E. australis var. semiglabra Domin, E. comans W.Fitzg., E. distans W.Fitzg., E. erythrantha F.Muell., E. inappendiculata Domin, E. filipes Benth., E. macgillivrayi Boiss., E. macgillivrayi var. yarrabensis Domin, E. macgillivrayi var. pseudoserrulata Domin, E. macgillivrayi f. glabrata Domin, E. mitchelliana Boiss., E. mitchelliana var. cairnsiana Domin, E. mitchelliana var. dietrichiae Domin, E. mitchelliana var. glauca Benth., E. mitchelliana var. stenophylla Benth., E. petala Ewart & L.R. Kerr, E. schizolepis F. Muell. ex Boiss. and E. schultzii Benth. Keys to identify the species and varieties are provided.
41738811|Three new panicoid genera, namely Alexfloydia from northern New South Wales, and Cliffordiochloa and Dallwatsonia from the Cook Pastoral District of Queensland, are described as new and compared with related genera of the Paniceae. New species described are Alexfloydia repens, Cliffordiochloa parvispicula and Dallwatsonia felliana and details are given of their morphology and anatomy.
41738740|Clematicissus angustissima (F. Muell.) Planchon, endemic in the Geraldton area of Western Australia and the only species in the genus, is redescribed and figured.
41739057|The new species Trioncinia patens is described and illustrated, together with a map of its distribution. A table is provided listing the characteristic differences between the two species of the genus, T. patens and T. retroflexa. The distribution, habitat and conservation status of T. patens is discussed. It is only known from three locations in and near the Peak Range National Park between Clermont and Dysart in Central Queensland where it occurs in eucalypt woodland or grassland. A conservation status of Endangered is recommended.
41738871|The endemic Australian genus Triplarina Raf. is reinstated for the species formerly known as Baeckea camphorata R.Br. ex Sims, and six allied species. These species form a coherent group, possessing several features which justify their excision from Baeckea L. The first available generic name is Triplarina Raf. The new combination T. imbricata (Sm.) A.R. Bean is made, and six new species and one new subspecies are described; T. bancroftii, T. calophylla, T. nitchaga, T. nowraensis, T. paludosa, T. volcanica and T. volcanica subsp. borealis. Illustrations and distribution maps are provided for all species. Keys are given to the genera comprising Baeckea sens, lat, and to the species of Triplarina.
41738996|A distinctive new species of Backhousia is described and illustrated. It is diagnosed against related species and notes on habitat and conservation status are provided.
41738898|Plectranthus amoenus and P. thalassoscopicus are described and illustrated. Affinities and conservation status of both species are discussed. P. amoenus is considered a Vulnerable species and P. thalassoscopicus a Rare species under the Queensland Nature Conservation Act 1992.
41739072|Chromosome counts are reported for five species of Stylidium from northern Australia. In contrast to previous hypotheses, variation in number is evident: S. lobuliflorum and S. ensatum possess n = 11, S. schizanthum n = 14, whilst S. semipartitum and S. turbinatum possess n = 15. for their south-western counterparts, cytogenetic factors are postulated to be involved in the speciation of trigger plants of northern Australia.
41738764|Acacia acrionastes is described as new. It has close affinities with A. floydii and A. betchei. It is restricted to mountain peaks in south-eastern Queensland. A. floydii does not occur in Queensland.
41738834|The first record of the andropogonoid grass genus Thelepogon for Australia is reported, with the description of anew species Thelepogon australiensis.
41738928|The Australian species of tribe Hygrocybeae within the Lane Cove Bushland Park of Sydney, New South Wales are discussed and two genera are recorded: Hygrocybe (Fr.) Kummer; and Camarophyllopsis Herink. Eighteen taxa are included, with three new species and a new variety described: Hygrocybe austropratensis, H. lanecovensis, Camarophyllopsis kearneyi and Hygrocybe anomala var. ianthinomarginata. The data for a fifth undescribed taxon is included to facilitate its identification and the collection of sufficient material for a holotype. Photographic material indicates that at least another three taxa may be present in the area. Camarophyllus lilacinus (Cleland & Cheel) is transferred to Hygrocybe (Fr.) Kummer under the new name Hygrocybe cheelii nom. nov. The relationship of Hygrocybe graminicolor (Horak) May & Wood with Gliophorus pallidus Horak and Hygrocybe batesii A. M. Young is discussed and both Gliophorus pallidus and Hygrocybe batesii are reduced to synonymy with Hygrocybe graminicolor. Keys, descriptions and line drawings are provided to facilitate identification.
41738872|A new panicoid genus, Fasciculochloa, with a single species Fasciculochloa sparshottiorum, from the Moreton District of south-eastern Queensland is described and illustrated.
41738880|Solarium coracinum, S. dissectum, S. gympiense and S. stupefactum are newly described. All occur south of Rockhampton in south-eastern Queensland.
41738704|Isotropis foliosa is described as new and distinguished from its relatives. It is restricted to two known localities in south-eastern Queensland. A key to Queensland species of Isotropis is provided. The discovery in Queensland of Daviesia arthropoda F.Muell., a central Australian species, is reported.
41739066|Morinda podistra and M. ammitia are described, illustrated and diagnosed against related species. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided for each species.
41738676|Acacia maconochieana is described as new. It has a restricted range in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. It is compared with A. tephrina Pedley.
41738631|The following 8 species of Gramineae from south-eastern Queensland are described as new: Bothriochloa bunyensis, Dichanthium queenslandicum, Sporobolus laxus,  Cynochloris reynoldsensis, Dichelachne parva, Arundinella grevillensis, Paspalidium grandispiculatum and Eragrostis longipedicellata.
41739118|Three new species belonging to Stylidium subgenus Andersonia; S. exiguum A.R. Bean, S. notabile A.R. Bean and S. osculum A.R. Bean, are described from the Northern Territory. One new species belonging to Stylidium section Floodia Mildbr., S. centrolepoides A.R. Bean, is described from Queensland. All species are illustrated and a distribution map provided.
41738948|The new species Chamaesyce ophiolitica is described and illustrated. Information is provided on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. Its affinities are with the C. drummondii complex. C. ophiolitica is restricted to serpentine soils north of Rockhampton in central Queensland. The species is known from three extant localities and fulfils the criteria to be listed as an Endangered species.
41729931|A new species in Scrophulariaceae, Microcarpaea agonis A.R.Bean, is described and illustrated. It is compared to M. minima and its conservation status is discussed.
41738879|The endemic Australian genus Calycopeplus Planch, is revised. Five species are recognised, C. casuarinoides L.S.Sm., C collinus P.I. Forst, sp. nov., C. oligandrus P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. paucifolius (Klotzsch) Baill. and C. marginatus Benth. All species are described and illustrated and notes are provided on their distribution, habitat, typification and conservation status.
41738660|Melaleuca acacioides F. Muell., M. acwninata F. Muell., M. angustifolia Gaertner, M. arnhemica Byrnes, M. brassii Byrnes, M. cheelii C. White, M. biconvexa Byrnes, M. cornucopiae Byrnes, M. decussata R.Br., M. densispicata Byrnes, M. gibbosa Labill., M. glomerata F. Muell., M. halmatorum F. Muell. ex Miq., M. hypericifolia Smith, M. lasiandra F. Muell., M. linariifolia Smith, M. magnifica Specht, M. neglecta Ewart & Wood, M. nodosa (Gaertner) Smith, M. squarrosa Donn ex Smith, M. symphyocarpa F. Muell., M. thymifolia Smith, M. tortifolia Byrnes, M. uncinata R.Br. and M. wilsonii F. Muell. are described and maps of their distributions are given.
41738899|Sauropus anemoniflorus J.T. Hunter & J.J. Bruni, S. aphyllus J.T. Hunter & J.J. Bruhl, S. convallarioides J.T. Hunter & J.J. Brunl and S. decrescentifolia J.T. Hunter & J.J. Bruhl are described and notes are provided on their distribution, habitat and conservation status. A key to the Queensland species of Sauropus is also provided.
41738626|Ten species (9 endemic) of Atylosia occur in Australia. Virtually all species are confined to the tropics. They are described and a key to their identification is given. A. latisepala is a new species based on A. grandifolia Benth. var. calycina Benth. A. acutifolia and A. pubescens are new combinations based on Rhynchosia acutifolia F. Muell. ex Benth. and Tephrosia pubescens Ewart & Morrison respectively. A. mareebensis, A. reticulata subsp. maritima, A. scarabaeoidesvar. pedunculata and A. pubescens var. mollis art described as new. A. grandifolia Benth. is conspecific with A. reticulata (Dryander) Benth. and Rhynchosia quadricallosa Domin with A. acutifolia. Lectotypes have been chosen for A. acutifolia and A. cinerea.
41738855|The genus Acalypha L. is revised for Australia. Eight species are present in Australia, including six native taxa, A. capillipes Muell. Arg., A. eremorum Muell. Arg., A. lanceolata Willd., A. lyonsii P.I. Forst, sp. nov., A. nemorum F. Muell. ex Muell. Arg. and A. pubiflora subsp. australica Radel.  Sm. and two naturalised taxa, A. australis L. and A. wilkesiana Muell. Arg. Lectotypes are selected for A. capillipes, A. cunninghamii Muell. Arg., A. eremorum and A. nemorum. A. indica var. australis F.M. Bailey is placed in the synonymy of A. lanceolata.
41729924|Australian specimens originally identified as Guioa pteropoda Radlk., a species only known from the Indonesian Moluccas and New Guinea, are described as a new species, Guioa sarcopterifructa, because the fruits are reminiscent of the genus Sarcopteryx. Typical are the crenate leaflets, with a highly inserted domatium, and deviating angle of the nerve below the domatium.
41738977|The genus Bertya Planch, is endemic in Australia. Twenty-eight species are recognized and a key is provided for their identification. The following species are newly described: B. calycina Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. ernestiana Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. grampiana Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. granitica Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. lapicola Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. linearifolia Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. recurvata Halford & R.J.F.Hend., and B. riparia Halford & R.J.F.Hend. The new combination B. virgata (Ewart) Halford & R.J.F.Hend., based on Beyeria virgata Ewart, is made. Three new subspecies are described: B. cunninghamii subsp. pubiramula Halford & R.J.F.Hend., B. lapicola subsp. brevifolia Halford & R.J.F.Hend., and B. tasmanica subsp. vestita Halford & R.J.F.Hend. New species are illustrated, while all taxa are described and mapped, and notes on their distribution, habitat and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for B. findlayi F.Muell., B. polymorpha Baill., B. polymorpha forma mitchelliana Baill., B. polymorpha forma rosmarinifolia Baill., B. polystigma Gring, B. pedicellata F.Muell., B. pinifolia Planch., B. pomaderroides F.Muell., B. rosmarinifolia Planch., Ricinocarpos mitchellii Sonder and Croton rosmarinifolius A.Cunn. An epitype is chosen for B. polystigma Grning. All known synonyms are listed here including phase names that were used to identify taxa prior to their formal naming in this publication.
41738766|Pomaderris olivicola is described as new. The remaining Queensland species with indumentum on the upper leaf surfaces, viz P. prunifolia Cunn. ex Fenzl, P. vellea Wakef., P. lanigera (Andrews) Sims and P. tropica Wakef. are circumscribed and a key to the above species is given.
41738785|Two new Queensland Red Gum species (Eucalyptus series Exsertae) are described: E. nudicaulis, from the Mount Isa area and E. terrica, from south-eastern Queensland. A key to the members of Series Exsertae in Queensland and the Northern Territory is given.
41738848|An amplified description is provided of Dansiea grandiflora Pedley from Cape York Peninsula, Queensland, together with illustrations and notes on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. Macropteranthes leiocaulis P.I. Forst, from central and southern Queensland is newly described and illustrations together with notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status are provided. A key is provided to the species of Macropteranthes.
41738942|The first records of Cereus uruguayanus Ritt, ex Kiesl. as a naturalised weed in Australia are reported. Several populations occur in western Queensland on heavy clay soils in natural and disturbed woodland of brigalow (Acacia harpophylla F. Muell. ex Benth.) and belah (Casuarina cristata Miq.). Endozoochorial dispersal is thought to be responsible for the spread of this species in natural vegetation and eradication is recommended. It is estimated that at least 3240 individuals occur at one locality near Glenmorgan. Size class structure of this population is described which shows a preponderance of seedling juveniles and large mature plants. The stand is also notable for the high proportion of fasciated (10.9%) and monstrous (20.2%) individuals that occur. This represents the first numerical data on fasciation and monstrousity in a population, albeit naturalised, of Cactaceae.
41739125|A shrubby, perennial species of Croton L. from Bolt Head on eastern Cape York Peninsula is newly described. Croton dichromifolius P.I.Forst, is highly distinctive in the strongly discolorous foliage with multicoloured peltate scales. A second locality is reported for Croton simulans P.I.Forst., another species endemic to Cape York Peninsula. Putative relationships between C. dichromifolius, C. simulans, C. capitis-york Airy Shaw, and C. stockeri Airy Shaw are discussed, and an identification key to these Cape York Peninsula species is provided. Conservation status assessments of Vulnerable are recommended for both C. dichromifolius and C. simulans.
41738959|As a result of critical studies of Australian species that have, in the past, been included in Canthium Lam., the genus Cyclophyllum Hook.f. (Rubiaceae, Vanguerieae) is now accepted as occurring in Australia. A revision of this genus in this continent is presented here. Nine of its species occur in Australia, five of which are described here as new, namely C. longipetalum S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., C. maritimum S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., C. multiflorum S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., C. protractum S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and C. rostellatum S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. The new combinations C. brevipes (Merr. & L.M.Perry) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., coprosmoides (F.Muell.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend., C. costatum (C.T.White) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and C. schultzii (O. Schwarz) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. are provided for the remaining four. The new combination C. coprosmoides var. spathulatum (O. Schwarz) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. is provided for a distinctive variety of C. coprosmoides, and C. schultzii forma angustifolium S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. for a distinctive form of C. schultzii. All recognised taxa are described, and keys to identify them as well as maps showing their known distribution are provided. Line drawings representing some of the recognised taxa are also provided.
41739040|Somatic chromosomes (2n) from nine populations of all four currently recognised Australian Pellaea species, P. falcata, P. nana, P. paradoxa and P. calidirupium, were observed by the standard acetoorcein staining method. Pellaea falcata, P. nana and P. paradoxa respectively showed a chromosome number of 2n = 58 (2;  = 29). One of two populations of P. calidirupium showed a chromosome number of 2n = 87 (3) with the other showing 2n = 116 (4). The diploid counts obtained for P. falcata and the triploid result for P. calidirupium differ from previously published reports, which were based on New Zealand collections.
41739124|A new subspecies, Eucalyptus sideroxylon subsp. improcera A.R.Bean, is described. It is diagnosed against the typical subspecies, and illustrations are provided. It is confined to a small area of the Barakula State Forest in southern Queensland.
41739162|Diagnoses are given for eleven new species, five new varieties and two new forms of Melaleuca including M. arnhemica, M. biconvexa, M. brassii, M. cornucopiae, M. densispicata, M. kunzeoides, M. pallescens, M. parvistaminea, M. punicea, M. sericea, M. tort if ola, M. nervosa f. latifolia, M. nervosa f. pendulino, M. stenostachya var. pendula, M. styphelioidesvar. squamophloia, M. viminalis wax. minor, M. viridiflora war. canescens and M. viridiflora var. attenuata. New combinations M. viminalis based on Metrosideros viminalis Sol. ex Gaertner, M. viridiflora var. glabra based on M. cunninghamii Schauer var. glabra C. White and M. viridiflora var. angustifolia based on M. leucodendra L. var. angustifolia L. f. are made. M. erubescens Otto is a synonym of M. diosmatifolia Oum-Cours. A key to all species and infra-specific taxa is provided. Descriptions and distributions of six of the 61 species treated in the key are given. The remaining species will be treated in succeeding papers of this series.
41738635|During the nineteenth century James Stirton published 103 lichen names as new species from the Australian continent (excluding Tasmania). One of these was invalidly published. Type specimens have been located for 82 of the taxa, and the nature of the material - holotype, lectotype or syntype, designated. The types are in three herbaria, British Museum (Natural History) London, Glasgow Museum and Art Gallery, and the Queensland Herbarium, Brisbane.
41965586|Pterocaulon section Monenteles, comprising all species of the genus from Asia, Malesia, Australia and Melanesia, is revised. 14 species are recognised, including the six new species, P. brachyanthum A.R.Bean, P. ciliosum A.R.Bean, P. discolor A.R.Bean, P. paradoxum A.R.Bean, P. tricholobum A.R. Bean and P. xenicum A.R.Bean, and one new combination, P. intermedium (DC.) A.R.Bean. Descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided for all taxa. Monenteles sphacelatus and M. spicatus are lectotypified. The ecology, chemistry and diagnostic morphological characters of members of the section are discussed, and an identification key to species is provided.
41739143|Species are referred to sections recognised by Pedley (1978). Acacia Abbatiana, A. arbiana, A. barakulensis, A. hendersonii, A. rubricola (sect. Phyllodineae), A. argyrotricha, A. johannis, A. convallium (sect. Plurinerves), A. abbatiana, A. burdekensis, A. faucium, A. filipes, A. fodinalis, A. lacertensis, A. proiantha, A. scopularum and A. solenota (sect. Juliflorae) are described as new. A. tingoorensis nom. et stat. nov. is based on A. longispicata subsp. velutina Pedley. Notes on affinities, distributions and habitats of all species are given. Variation within A. leiocalyx (Domin) Pedley is discussed and a wide area of intergrade between A. fodinalis and A. cretata Pedley is postulated.
41738951|An amplified description and illustrations are provided for Dischidia torricellensis (Schltr.) P.I.Forst.. The first collection in over 60 years is reported from a new locality in Chimbu Province in Papua New Guinea.
41738817|Somatic chromosome counts are reported on 23 species of Ipomoea L. found in Australia. The majority are diploids of the basic number  = 15 (2n = 30), but three exhibit tetraploidy (2n = 60), namely I. plebeia R. Br.,I. lonchophylla J. Black and I. racemigera F. Muell. These results are discussed in comparison with the cytology of other Ipomoea species in the world, endemism of Australian species and the possibility of parallel but limited polyploidy as one product of geographically separate evolution in the genus.
41738670|Jedda multicaulis J. Clarkson gen. et sp. nov. is described and discussed. It is closely allied to the Asian genus Linostoma, and is the first representative of the subtribe Linostomatinae recorded from Australia. The species is known only from a small area 50 km west of Laura on Cape York Peninsula.
41738803|Liparis collinsii B. Gray, a new species of Liparis Rich, section Liparis, is described and illustrated. In addition notes on its taxonomic affinities, habitat, distribution and conservation status are given.
41738900|Dubouzetia saxatilis A.R. Bean & Jessup is described, illustrated and compared with related species. A key to the Australian species of Dubouzetia is presented.
41965609|The nomenclature, characters and morphological variation for several species of Goodenia from the Northern Territory and Queensland are investigated, and the names G. paludicola Carolin and G. heteroptera (F.Muell.) B.D.Jacks. are newly recorded as synonyms of G. minutiflora F.Muell. and G. pilosa (R.Br.) Carolin respectively. New amended descriptions are provided, along with notes on identification and conservation.
41738625|Sapindaceae in Australia consists of 30 genera with over 180 species. Most of the species are found in Queensland, mainly in the rainforests of northern Queensland. Castanospora, Diplopeltis, Distichostemon, Heterodendrum, and Sarcotoechia are endemic. Detailed descriptions of, and keys to, all taxa are given. The genera Diploglottis (8 species), Atalaya (9 species), Jagera (3 species) and Harpullia (8 species) are treated in this first paper of a series. Taxa described as new are: Diploglottis harpullioides, D. pedleyi, D. smithii, D. macrantha, Atalaya sericopetala, A. angustifolia, A. caldcola, A. rgida, Jagera discolor, and J. pseudorhusvar. integerrima. Diploglottis cunninghamii (Hook, f.) Benth. & Hook, is the correct name for D. australis Radlk.
41739062|Two species of Stictocardia are recognised from Queensland. A new combination S. queenslandica (Domin) R. W. Johnson, based on Argyreia queenslandica Domin, is made. A key to identify both species is provided, together with descriptions, distribution maps and illustrations of certain diagnostic characters.
41965591|Trichosanthes is represented by six species in Australia: T. cucumerina L. var. cucumerina, T. morrisii W.E.Cooper sp. nov., T. odontosperma W.E.Cooper & A.J.Ford, T. pentaphylla F.Muell. ex Benth., T. pilosa Lour, and T. subvelutina F. Muell. ex Cogn. Trichosanthes ovigera Blume has recently been synonymised with T. pilosa and we now include T. holtzei F.Muell. within this synonymy. All taxa illustrated (with the exception of T. odontosperma previously illustrated in 2010), and distinguished from other Australian species. Notes on habitat and distribution are included together with distribution maps. Three identification keys are presented, two to the sections of Trichosanthes and one to the species of Trichosanthes in Australia.
41739138|Seven Australian species related to Babingtonia virgata are described as new viz. B. angusta, B. collina, B. crassa, B. brachypoda, B. bidwillii, B. papillosa and B. similis, and one new combination is made, B. pluriflora. All species are described and illustrated and notes are provided on their distribution, habitat and conservation status. Babingtonia virgata is considered to be endemic to New Caledonia. A description of it is provided for comparative purposes, and its relationship to Australian taxa is discussed. A revised key is provided to all species of Babingtonia from eastern Australia, and for the Australian members of the B. virgata complex.
41739011|The genus Actephila Blume is revised for Australia. Fourteen native and endemic species (one with two subspecies) are recognised: A. bella P.I.Forst, sp. nov., A. championiae P.I.Forst, sp. nov., A. flavescens P.I.Forst, sp. nov., A. foetida Domin, A. grandifolia (Mll. Arg.) Baill., A. latifolia Benth., A. lindleyi (Steud.) Airy Shaw, A. longipedicellata P.I.Forst., A. petiolaris Benth subsp. petiolaris, A. petiolaris subsp. jagonis P.I.Forst, subsp. nov., A. plicata P.I.Forst, sp. nov., A. sessilifolia Benth., A. traceyi P.I.Forst, sp. nov., A. venusta P.I.Forst, sp. nov., and A. vernicosa P.I.Forst, sp. nov. An identification key to species is provided. All taxa are described and most species illustrated. Notes are provided on distribution, habitat, typification, affinities and conservation status for each taxon.
41738878|Examination of herbarium material of Gouania in Australia indicates that G. hillii F. Muell. is synonymous with G. australiana F. Muell. A taxon which occurs on northern Cape York Peninsula (Australia) and in Papua New Guinea, which was previously referred to G. hillii, is here described as Gouania exilis K.R. Thiele sp. nov.
41739032|The new species, Mischarytera megaphylla, is described and illustrated. It is known from lowland tropical rainforest in a small area at Oliver and Noah Creeks in the 'Wet Tropics' of north-east Queensland. A key to the Australian species of Mischarytera is provided.
41739033|A new species from the 'Wet Tropics' rainforest of north-east Queensland, Synima reynoldsiae is described and illustrated. This species is restricted to upland rainforest (simple to complex notophyll vineforests) on basalt, granite or rhyolite derived substrates. A revised key to the Australian species of Synima is provided.
41738938|Descriptions, distribution maps and notes on habitat, conservation status and taxonomic affinities are provided for the 37 species of Stylidium subg. Andersonia which are indigenous to mainland south-east Asia (China, Vietnam, Malaya, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Burma, Bangladesh, India), Sri Lanka, Malesia (Sumatra, Philippines, Sulawesi, Java, New Guinea, Aru Islands) and northern Australia (Western Australia, Northern Territory, Queensland, New South Wales). A key to the subgenera of Stylidium occurring in these areas is provided as well as keys to the sections and species of S. subg. Andersonia. Eight new species; namely S. confertum, S. longissimum, S. aquaticum, S. oviflorum, S. stenophyllum, S. accedens, S. divergens and S. ensatum are described and illustrated. A cladistic analysis of the group is provided. Five taxonomic sections are proposed of which two are new. S. subg. Alsinoida Mildbr. is reduced to sectional rank. The name Stylidium tenerum Spreng. is resurrected for the taxon formerly known in Australia as S. uliginosum Sw. ex Willd. S. dunlopianum Carlquist is newly recorded for Western Australia. S. prophyllum Lowrie & Kenneally, S. fluminense F.L.Erickson & J.H. Willis and S. diffusum R.Br. are newly recorded for the Northern Territory. S. cordifolium W.Fitzg. is newly recorded for Queensland.
41739086|Three infrageneric taxa are newly described for Boronia Sm. section Valvatae (Benth.) Engl.: these being B. subsection Anomalae Duretto, and B. subseries Lanceolatae Duretto and B. subseries Rosmarinifoliae Duretto of B. series Valvatae. Descriptions and notes on the distribution and species composition of each new taxon and B. subseries Valvatae are provided.
41738829|New species, Sporobolus blakei from central and western Australia and Sporobolus disjunctus, Sporobolus pamelae and Sporobolus partimpatens from Queensland are described and compared with other Australian Sporobolus species.
43869004|Four new species of the Solanum ellipticum species group are described, viz. Solanum adoxum A.R.Bean, S. capitaneum A.R. Bean, S. prolatum A.R.Bean and the new combination S. chillagoense (Domin) A.R.Bean. The phenetic relationships between these and other taxa of the S. ellipticum group are clarified by the results of a morphometric analysis, using 18 quantitative characters and 25 operational taxonomie units. The new taxa are illustrated and maps of their distributions provided as is a map of S. ellipticum. An identification key for all Queensland species of the S. ellipticum group is provided. Solanum dianthophorum Dunal is formally placed in synonymy with S. ellipticum R.Br.
41738976|Acacia subg. Acacia is represented in Australia by 11 species. A key to species, notes on the geographical ranges and habitats of each and references to published descriptions are given. A. clarksoniana and A. douglasica are described as new. The lectotypification of A. pallida F. Muell. and the application of the name A. pallidifolia Tindale are discussed at some length and, as an adjunct, A. valida Tindale & Kodela is treated as a synonym of A. pallidifolia and A. turbata is described for A. pallidifolia auct. non Tindale (A pallida var. major Benth.).
41738630|A. eungellensis, is described with notes on its distribution, ecology, and relationships to other species.
41739065|Gynochtodes sessilis Halford is described, illustrated and compared with Gynochtodes australiensis J.T.Johanss. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided.
41738776|Embelia N. Burman is represented by four species in Australia of which three are new, viz E. caulialata, E. curvinervia and E. grayi. All species are described with notes on their affinities and distribution. A key to distinguish the species is also provided.
41738825|Two new species of Symplocos (Symplocaceae) from Queensland viz S. harroldii Jessup and S. graniticola Jessup are named and described with notes on their affinities and distribution.
41738867|Rubus subg. Micranthobatus is revised for Australia. Two species are recognised; R. moorei F. Muell. and the new species R. nebulosus A. R. Bean. Both species are described, illustrated and their distributions mapped. A key to the species is provided.
41738634|Dendrobium carronii Lavarack et Cribb is described. The differences between this and the related D. canaliculatum R. Br. are discussed. The relationships of these two species are considered resulting in the placing of both in the section Ceratobium. A key to the Australian species of this section is presented.
41965602|Stylidium elachophyllum is described as new. It is an ephemeral herb known only from the Hann Tableland in northern Queensland, with a morphological affinity to S. fissilobum F. Muell., S. prophyllum Lowrie & Kenneally and S. oviflorum A.R.Bean. The species is illustrated and diagnosed against related taxa. Its conservation status is assessed and a status of Endangered is recommended.
41738804|New species, Arthragrostis clarksoniana, Cyrtococcum capitis-york, Panicum bombycinum, Panicum chillagoanum, Panicum robustum, Paspalum batianoffii, Paspalum multinodum and Yakirra websteri, are described. New combinations made are Brachiaria atrisola, based on Urochloa atrisola and Brachiaria holosericea subsp. velutina, based on Urochloa holosericea subsp. velutina. An overview of the current situation regarding the taxonomy of Brachiaria and allied genera is given. The occurrence of Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf in Australia, New Caledonia and Fiji is established.
41738950|Notes on the first identification and written record of a botanical species, Ximenia americana, in the Commonwealth of Australia on 21st September 1606, probably at Long Island, Torres Strait, as well as the historical background of the circumstances of its notation.
41738607|Two new species of Verticordia, V. decussata and V. verticillata from Northern Australia are described and some notes on distribution are given.
41738682|A new species of Acacia, A. eremophiloides is described and compared with A. ixodes Pedley. It has a restricted distribution in the southern part of the Burnett District. Associated vegetation includes Newcastelia velutina Munir, previously known only from the type collection. It and A. eremophiloides are Conservation Coded 2V in the system of Leigh et al. (1981).
41738683|Aristida dominii sp. nov. from northern Australia is diagnosed. A. browniana Henrard and its synonyms are placed in synonymy under A. holathera Domin and A. holathera var. latifolia is a new combination.
41738851|Eucalyptus rhombica, E. tholiformis, E. taurina and E. corynodes are all newly described. All are endemic to southern Queensland. Each species is illustrated and compared with related species, and its distribution mapped. A key to the ironbarks of southern Queensland is provided.
41738854|Eucalyptus clandestina, is described and illustrated, and is compared to related species. Notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status are given.
41738808|An annotated list of the 31 Leptospermum species accepted for northern Australia and Malesia is provided. L. madidum A. Bean replaces the illegitimate name L. longifolium (C. White & Francis) S.T. Blake. Two new species, L. pallidum and L. venustum, and one new subspecies, L. madidum subsp. sativum, are described. L. amboinense Blume is reinstated at species level, and L. petersonii subsp. lanceolatum J. Thompson is synonymised with it. A multi-access key and a dichotomous key to the 31 species are provided. Significant distributional data additional to Thompson's revision are given.
41738868|Sankowskya, a new genus of subtribe Dissiliariinae in the Euphorbiaceae is described. The genus is monotypic with the highly endangered S. stipularis sp. nov. endemic to the 'Wet Tropics' of north-east Queensland. Sankowskya is compared to other genera in the Dissiliarinae and a key to genera in the subtribe is provided.
41739024|The new species Goodenia elaiosoma I.D. Cowie (Goodenia section Goodenia, subsection Borealis) is described from the western Top End of the Northern Territory. The species is compared with the superficially similar, tropical species G. armstrongiana and G. debilis. A key to the 43 Goodenia species found in the northern Northern Territory is provided.
41738826|Two species of Neisosperma Raf. are recognised in Australia, namely N. kilneri (F. Muell.) Fosberg & Sachet and N. poweri (F.M. Bailey) Fosberg & Sachet. N. kilneri is lectotypified. Both species are described and illustrated. A key for their identification and notes on their distribution, habitats and conservation status are provided. N. kilneri is endangered whereas N. poweri is vulnerable. Both species are present in conservation reserves. A key to the 19 native and naturalised genera of Apocynaceae in Australia is given.
41738943|Descriptions, distribution maps and an identification key are provided for the four species comprising the E. normantonensis group, including one new species (E. provecta) and one new combination (E. tardecidens). All species occur in northern Queensland, with one extending to the Northern Territory.
41738622|Abarema sapindoides (Cunn. ex Sweet) Kosterm. is an illegitimate name. Its correct name is Pithecellobium pruinosum Cunn. ex Benth. The species of Pithecellobium that occur in Queensland are enumerated.
41738623|Two new species of Orchidaceae from Cape York Peninsula are described. These are Cadetia collinsi P. Lavarack sp. nov. and Malaxisfimbriata P. Lavarack sp. nov,. Peristylus banfieldii (F. M. Bail.). P. Lavarack is a new combination based on Habenaria banfieldii F. M. Bail. Habenaria anomala Dockrill is a synonym of H. xanthantha F. Muell. and H. ovoidea R. S. Rogers & C. T. White is a synonym of Peristylus candidus J. J. Smith.
41738992|The genus Croton L. is revised for Australia. Twenty-seven native species (all shrubs, trees or lianes) are recognised: C. acronychioides F.Muell., C. arnhemicus Muell.Arg., C. aridus P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. brachypus Airy Shaw, C. byrnesii Airy Shaw, C. capitis-york Airy Shaw, C. caudatus Geisel., C. choristadenius K.Schum., C. densivestitus C.T.White & W.D.Francis, C. dockrillii Airy Shaw, C. habrophyllus Airy Shaw, C. insularis Baill., C. magneticus Airy Shaw, C. mamillatus P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. minimus P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. multicaulis P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. multicaulis subsp. velutinus P.I.Forst, subsp. nov., C. mutabilis P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. phebalioides Muell.Arg., C. rarus P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. schultzii Benth., C simulans P.I.Forst, sp. nov., C. stigmatosus F.Muell., C. stockeri (Airy Shaw) Airy Shaw, C. tomentellus Airy Shaw, C. triacros F.Muell., C. verreauxii Muell.Arg. and C. waterhouseae P.I.Forst, sp. nov. All apart from C. caudatus, C. choristadenius and C. insularis are endemic. Three naturalised species are recorded: C. capitatus Hook., C. glandulosus L. and C. setigerus Hook., all being small herbaceous weeds. One species (C. armstrongii S.Moore) is of dubious origin with the type from Australia but no subsequent collections. An identification key is provided to all thirty-one species. All taxa are described and all native species and subspecies illustrated. Notes are provided on distribution, habitat, typification, affinities and conservation status for each taxon. Lectotypes are selected for the names C. acronychioides F.Muell., C. affinis Maiden & R.T.Baker, C. arnhemicus Muell.Arg., C. stigmatosus F.Muell. and C. triacros F.Muell. The new combination Adriana urticoides (A.Cunn.) Guymer is made for Crotn urticoides A.Cunn.
41965605|Seed dispersal syndromes in Viola are reviewed and the sequence of events culminating in the dispersal of seeds from capsules of Viola betonicifolia is documented. Seed parameters (length  width) and measurements of distances travelled after being ballistically ejected from a capsule valve were determined. Preliminary observations were recorded of the approximate length of time for a mature capsule to open and the approximate time for an open capsule to eject all seeds from its three valves.
41739063|90 species (82 indigenous and 8 naturalised) of Solanum subg. Leptostemonum are recorded for Queensland and far north-eastern New South Wales (north of 29S latitude), with 50 species endemic. 29 species and one subspecies are described as new and illustrated (S. ammophilum, S. argopetalum, S. cocosoides, S. crebrispinum, S. ditrichum, S. dryanderense, S. dumicola, S. dysprosium, S. eminens, S. fervens, S. francisii, S. galbinum, S. graniticum, S. hapalum, S. innoxium, S. intonsum, S. johnsonianum, S. jucundum, S. latens, S. longissimum, S. lythrocarpum, S. mentiens, S. parvifolium subsp. tropicum, S. pusillum, S. rixosum, S. senticosum, S. stenopterum, S. ultimum, S. versicolor and S. vicinum); six species are reinstated (S. angustum Domin, S. crassitomentosum Domin, S. defensum F.Muell., S. magnifolium F.Muell., S. mitchellianum Domin and S. shirleyanum Domin) and three are reduced to synonymy (S. cleistogamum Symon, S. dallachii Benth. and S. seitheae Symon). S. dianthophorum Dunal is accepted, but known only from the holotype. S. centrale and S. yirrkalense are newly recorded as native to Queensland, and S. incanum is newly recorded as naturalised. Lectotypes are chosen for S. defensum and S. dunalianum, and a replacement lectotype chosen for S. sturtianum. All Australian species are classified into (mostly pre-existing) informal taxonomic groups. Distribution maps and notes on distribution are given for all taxa. Other biogeographical data (based on degrees of latitude and longitude) are provided, both at species and group level. Indumentum characters (particularly those of the stellate hairs) have been used extensively to elucidate the taxonomy of the group. Ecological requirements of various Solanum species and the reasons for their infrequent or transient occurrence are discussed. The use of Solanum fruits as food is reviewed. Identification keys (dichotomous and multi-access) are provided for all Queensland species. The conservation status of all indigenous taxa is assessed.
41739144|Two new Stylidium species, S. leiophyllum and S. ramosissimum, and their closest relative, S. eriorhizum R.Br. are described, illustrated and distinguished in a key. Distribution maps, and notes on conservation status are provided.
41738678|A new combination Austrosteenisia stipularis (C. White) Jessup is made and a new species Austrosteenisia glabristyla Jessup is described.
41965584|The vegetative and reproductive morphology of Pseudoweinmannia is described and illustrated. The genus is endemic to eastern Australia with two species, Pseudoweinmannia apetala (F.M. Bailey) Engl. and P. lachnocarpa (F.Muell.) Engl., that can be differentiated by their leaf serration, stipule morphology and flower and fruit characters. New interpretations of floral and fruit morphology in Pseudoweinmania are discussed, and their significance in better understanding the phylogenetic relationships within the tribe Geissoieae are examined.
41738632|Two new species of Kunzea, K. obovata, K. graniticola and a new variety K. opposita F. Muell. var. leichhardtii are described. Notes on all species of Kunzea found in Queensland are given with their distribution and a key to the species is included.
41739141|A numerical analysis, using phenetic methods, was undertaken on the Boronia rosmarinifolia species complex. Four taxa were identified, three of which are new and are described here as B. forsteri, B. splendida and B. palasepala. Nine other new taxa belonging to Boronia sect. Valvatae (Benth.) Engl. (B. bella, B. duiganiae, B. excelsa, B. foetida, B. hoipolloi, B. jensziae, B. odorata, B. quinkanensis and B. squamipetala) are also described. All new taxa are confined to Queensland. A key to Boronia sect. Valvatae in Queensland is provided.
41738758|C. reticulata and C. tricarinata are described as new and illustrated. C. reticulata is from the western Kimberley region of Western Australia. C. tricarinata is from the Barkly Tableland area of the Northern Territory and western Queensland. C. ciliata is a new name for C. acuminata Ewart & McLennan non Poiret. C. ciliata is also illustrated.
41738982|The genus Crotalaria L. in Australia is examined, and a new record noted: Crotalaria prostrata Rottl., new combinations are made: Crotalaria cunninghamii subsp. sturtii (C. sturtii R.Br.), Crotalaria dissitiflora subsp. benthamiana (C. benthamiana Pritzel), Crotalaria novae-hollandiae subsp. crassipes (C. crassipes Hook.) and Crotalaria montana var. exserta (C. exserta Domin). New varieties and subspecies are described: Crotalaria medicaginea var. linearis, Crotalaria aridicola subsp. glabrata and C. aridicola subsp. densifolia. Lectotypes are chosen for Crotalaria cunninghamii R.Br., Crotalaria crispata Benth., Crotalaria brevis Domin and Crotalaria aridicola Domin. A neotype is chosen for C. benthamiana Pritzel. A key to the species occurring in Australia is provided.
41739037|Variation within Ipomoea polpha is discussed and three subspecies recognised, two subspecies, I. polpha subsp. latzii R.W.Johnson and I. polpha subsp. weirana R.W.Johnson are described as new. Causes of the widely disjunct current distribution of the three subspecies are postulated.
41738802|The genus Cerbero L. (Apocynaceae) is revised for Australia and Papuasia (Irian Jaya, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands). Four species are recognised and described with a key for their identification given. manghas L. and C. floribunda Schumann are widespread in the region whereas C. inflata S.T. Blake and C. dumicola sp. nov. are endemic to Australia. Ethnobotanical use of C. floribunda and C. manghas in the region is reviewed.
41738743|Trachymene clivicola Boyland & Holland is described and T. procumbens var. hookeri (Domin) B. L. Burtt is raised to specific rank as T. hookeri based on Didiscus procumbens var. hookeri Domin. T. cussonii (Montr.) B.L. Burtt is recorded for Australia and described.
41739103|Four species are recognised in the Eastern grey box group, E. moluccana Roxb., E. albens Benth., E. woollsiana R.T.Baker and E. microcarpa (Maiden) Maiden. E. pilligaensis is reduced to synonymy under E. woollsiana. The taxonomic status of E. microcarpa is discussed. The nomenclature of E. woollsiana is discussed and lectotypes are selected for E. woollsiana and E. albens. Distribution maps and a key to species are provided.
43869009|Johnson, R.W. (2014). Six new species of Bonamia Thouars. (Convolvulaceae) from northern Australia. Austrobaileya 9(2): 292-310. Bonamia fruticosa R.W. Johnson, B. longipilosa R.W. Johnson, B. multiflora R.W. Johnson, B. pilbarensis R.W. Johnson, B. toniae R.W. Johnson and B. wilsoniae R.W. Johnson are described as new and illustrated. Notes on their distribution, including maps, habitat, phenology and affinities are given.
41738852|Nervilia peltata B. Gray & D. L. Jones is described and illustrated. Keys to the Australian species of Nervilia based on vegetative and floral material are provided.
41738962|Lissanthe brevistyla, a new species from the serpentinite deposits near Rockhampton, is described and illustrated. It is compared to related taxa, and notes on the conservation status are provided.
41738612|Bentham's classification of Acacia with six series has usually been followed, with minor modifications. Recent studies in the chemistry of the heartwood, morphology of pollen and seedlings, and several taximetric studies have resulted in re-appraisals of Bentham's classification. Three subgenera with ten sections are recognised here. Of these sections Alatae (Benth.) Pedley and Lycopodiifoliae Pedley are new, and the names Spiciflorae DC. and Phyllodineae DC. replace the more familiar Vulgares (Benth.) Taub, and Uninerves (Benth.) Maiden & Betche respectively. Lectotypes for some infrageneric taxa are chosen. Characters useful in identification and classification are discussed. The arrangement of phyllodes, their shape, size, venation, indumentum and the position and structure of their glands enable a large proportion of species to be identified. The succession of bipinnate seedling leaves and their retention on older plants are discussed and it is suggested that the Botrycephalae and the Racemosae group of the Phyllodineae are related. Juvenile phyllodes of some species differ markedly from those of mature plants and some species retain them throughout their lives. The nature of the inflorescence (heads or spikes) and their arrangement are useful in defining groups of related species. Flowers show little variation in size and structure and are of limited value in classification and identification. Flower colour is more or less constant for each species. There is a great diversity of pods though only one-fifth of specimens examined included pods. Delimitation of species is discussed briefly. Naturally occurring hybrids are rare. Most species have a diploid complement of 26 chromosomes. Polyploids are more common in subg. Acacia than they are in other subgenera. Acacias are scarce or absent only in rainforest and grassland. Edaphic factors determine the ranges of many species. Most favour coarse-textured well-drained soils, but some wideranging, economically important species are confined to clays. Others are associated with deeply weathered rocks on scarps. Regeneration of most species is from seed, particularly after fires, but A. harpophylla and A. argyrodendron sucker from the roots. Their seeds lack an impervious testa. The abundance and geographic ranges of some species have been affected by man's activities. Though data are lacking dispersal by animals is probably insignificant. A key to the identification of 234 species and descriptions, essential synonymy, citation of some specimens, and notes on distribution, ecology and taxonomy for all species are given. A. nilotica (Asia), A. baileyana, A. decurrens (south-eastern Australia) and A. saligna (Western Australia) are naturalized. Taxa described as new are: A. ditricha (suibg. Acacia); A. jackesiana, A. spania, A. striatifolia, A. tenuinervis, A. hyaloneura, A. longispicata suibsp. velutina, A. oligophleba, A. leiocalyx subsp. herveyensis, A. crassa subsp. longicoma, A. grandifolia, (Juiiflorae); A. microcephala, A. maranoensis, A. ammophila, A. melvillei, A. melleodora, A. excelsa subsp. angusta, A. fleckeri, A. hyalonoma, A. legnota, A. leptoloba (Plurinerves); A. johnsonii, A. islana, A. burbidgeae, A. tindaleae, A. hockingsii, A. lauta, A. calant ha, A. deuteroneura, A. everistii, A. holotricha, A. polifolia, A. buxifolia subsp. pubiflora (Phyllodineae); and A. albizoides (subg. Aculeiferum). A. caroleae (Juiiflorae), A. ixodes and A. per angust a (Phyllodineae) are new species based on A. doratoxylon var. angustifolia, A. gnidium var. latifolia, and A. flmbriata var. perangusta respectively. Acknowledgements, bibliography and an index to collections in the Queensland Herbarium (BRI) are given.
41738856|The genus Archontophoenix H. Wendl. & Drude (Arecaceae) is revised and accepted as containing six species. Four new species, A. maxima, A. myolensis, A. purpurea and A. tuckeri are named. A. alexandrae (F. Muell.) H. Wendl. & Drude and A. cunninghamiana (H. Wendl.) H. Wendl. & Drude are maintained. Notes on distribution and ecology are included, as are separate keys for vegetative material and flowering/fruiting material.
41739074|Two catalogues of plants cultivated in Brisbane Botanic Gardens, Queensland, Australia, namely W. Hill's Catalogue of the plants in the Queensland Botanic Gardens, published in 1875, and F. M. Bailey's Catalogue of plants in the two metropolitan gardens, the Brisbane Botanic Garden and Bowen Park (The Garden of the Queensland Acclimatisation Society), published in 1885, were studied in regards to palm nomenclature. Citations and notes are provided for the entries Desmoncus minor, Jubaea speciosa, Pinanga smithii and Sagus blackalli.
41739053|The genus Claoxylon A. Juss. comprises four species in Australia, exclusive of Christmas Island, namely: C. angustifolium Mll. Arg., C. australe Baill., C. hillii Benth. and C. tenerifolium (F.Muell. ex. Baill.) F.Muell. Claoxylon hillii is reinstated from the synonymy of C. tenerifolium. Claoxylon tenerifolium comprises two subspecies with subsp. boreale P.I.Forst, newly described from the 'Wet Tropics' of north-eastern Queensland. All taxa are described and illustrated, together with notes on typification, variation, distribution, habitat, conservation status and etymology. A lectotype is designated for Mercurialis tenerifolia F.Muell. ex Baill. (= Claoxylon tenerifolium (F.Muell. ex Baill.) F.Muell.).
41738663|The genera Arytera (10 species), Dictyoneura (1 species), Elattostachys (4 species), Lepidopetalum (1 species), Mischocarpus (9 species), Sarcotoechia (6 species), Synima (2 species), Toechima (6 species) and Tristiropsis (1 species) are dealt with. A key to the species in each genus is provided and all species are described.
41738949|Clausena smyrelliana is described and illustrated. Information is provided on its distribution, habitat, phenology and conservation status. The species is currently known from one extant individual in the wild and a conservation status of Endangered is recommended.
41739120|Dendrobium uniflos F.M.Bailey, originally described in 1884 and subsequently placed in synonymy under Dendrobium hispidum F.Muell. var. taylori (F.Muell) F.M.Bailey and, in turn, Cadetia taylori (F.Muell.) Schltr., is reinstated here and given a new combination in the genus Cadetia. A description is provided for the species; this includes the capsule that was previously unknown. Notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status are also given. A key is provided to the Australian species of Cadetia Gaud.
41739155|Fourteen species of Comesperma occur in Queensland, six of them endemic. All species are described and a key to distinguish them is provided. C. breviflorum, C. hispidulum and C. pallidum are described as new.C. esulifolium and C. oblongatum are new combinations based on C. ericinum DC. forma esulifolium Gandoger and C. ericinum var. oblongatum R. Br. ex Benth. respectively.
41729919|The eleven species of Astrotricha DC, indigenous to Queensland are listed in systematic order, with synonymy, place of publication and distribution given. Two new species, A. brachyandra and A. umbrosa, are described and illustrated. A comprehensive key to Queensland species is included.
41738961|The monospecific genus Oreodendron, endemic in Queensland, has been distinguished from the related genus Phaleria by the absence of involucral bracts, the presence of a short pedicel and the arrangement and exposition of stamens. A study of these characters in Oreodendron shows that involucral bracts are present before anthesis. Furthermore, the presence of a short pedicel as well as the arrangement and exposition of stamens, said to be characteristic of Oreodendron, also occur in Phaleria. Therefore, Oreodendron is reduced here to synonymy of Phaleria and the new combination Phaleria biflora (C. T. White) Herber is made for White's species. A key to identify the four Australian species of Phaleria is provided.
41739069|Seven new species of Cryptandra, and one new species of Stenanthemum are described and illustrated. One (C. gemmata) is from the Northern Territory, four (C. debilis, C. filiformis, pogonoloba, S. argenteum) are from northern Queensland, and three (C. ciliata, C. orbicularis, rigida) are from southern Queensland. Full diagnostic descriptions are given for all Queensland taxa and for C. gemmata. Distribution maps and an identification key are provided covering all Queensland species. Photographic images are provided for all newly described taxa. C. armata is newly recorded for New South Wales.
41965606|Two new species of Calyptochloa C.E.Hubb. (Calyptochloa cylindrosperma E.J.Thomps. & B.K.Simon and C. johnsoniana E.J.Thomps. & B.K.Simon) endemic to central Queensland, and a new subspecies of Calyptochloa gracillima C.E.Hubb. (C. gracillima subsp. ipsviciensis E.J.Thomps. & B.K.Simon) endemic to southeast Queensland are described and illustrated.
41739105|The history of the genus Duperreya Gaudich. and its reinstatement in Australia is discussed. Three species are recognised and a key is provided for their identification. Duperreya halfordii R.W.Johnson is described as new. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided for all species as well as information on their distribution, habitat and phenology. Key identification characters are illustrated.
41738759|All the currently recognized major groups of the Poaceae (the grass family) with the exception of the pooids, are postulated to have had a Gondwanan origin. There is no hard evidence for this belief, the fossil record of the family being extremely poor and giving little assistance in the study of the palaeogeography and evolution of taxa. The evolution of the major groups, and in some cases genera and species of grasses, is reviewed in relation to Gondwanic events, both generally and in relation to Australia, in the light of studies from biogeography, plate tectonics, numerical methods and cytogeography.
41738830|The genus Cryptolepis R. Br. comprises seven species in Malesia. The taxonomic status of the genus Phyllanthera Blume is assessed and it is reduced to subgeneric status under Cryptolepis containing those species that lack lobes in the corolla throat. New combinations are made in Cryptolepis for Phyllanthera biflda Blume and P. perakensis Gamble and the latter is lectotypified. Cryptolepis in Malesia comprises C. bifida (Blume) P.I. Forster, C. lancifolia P.I. Forster, C. javanica (Blume) Blume, C. multinervosa P.I. Forster sp. nov., C. nymanii (K. Schum.) P.I. Forster, C. papillota P.I. Forster and C. perakensis (Gamble) P.I. Forster. A key to these taxa is provided.
41738765|Individuals intermediate in characters considered diagnostic for Owenia acidula F. Muell. and O. venosa F. Muell. have been recorded for a number of localities in southern and central Queensland. These intermediate individuals are rarely encountered in the region where the two species are parapatric. There is no evidence of clinal gradation between O. venosa and O. acidula. The intermediate individuals are considered to be hybrids based on phenotypic and ecological evidence and are described as O.  reliqua.
41738858|Eucalyptus ammophila, a new species from central and southern Queensland is described and notes on its affinities, habitat, distribution and conservation status are given.
41739128|The genus Amaracarpus Blume is represented in mainland Australia by a single, non-endemic species in the Wet Tropics bioregion of north-east Queensland. The new combination Amaracarpus nematopodus (F.Muell.) P.I.Forst, is made based on Psychotria nematopoda F.Muell, and represents an earlier name for the species previously known as A. heteropus Valeton. Illustrations based on Australian material are provided, together with notes on variation, distribution, habitat and conservation status.
41738699|The genus Cayratia Juss. is reviewed for Australian species. Two species C. maritima and C. cardiophylla are described as new. A description of the genus and of each of the eight species occurring in Australia is given, together with a key to the species.
41729923|Caesalpinia erythrocarpa and C. traceyi, both from tropical Queensland, are described as new. C. nitens is a new combination based on Pterolobium nitens Benth. A key to the six species of the subgenus in Australia is provided.
41738939|Meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for nine species representing eight genera of Acanthaceae from Madang and Morobe provinces in Papua New Guinea. Chromosome numbers of five species are reported for the first time and two new numbers are reported for the widely cultivated species Graptophyllum pictum (L.) Griff. Chromosome numbers obtained in Calycacanthus K.Schum. (n = 16) and Jadunia Lindau (n = ca 16) are the first reported for these genera. Subfamilial relationships are discussed with respect to the chromosome numbers now known for these and other Acanthaceae.
41738601|Three new species of Eucalyptus from Queensland, E. brassiana, E. henryi and E. melanoleuca, and one from Malesia, E. urophylla, are described and their relationships and distribution discussed.
41738698|Adiantum whitei Bailey (Adiantaceae), formerly recorded from a few localities in south-eastern Queensland, is now known to have a wider range in north-eastern Australia. The receptacle of this taxon bears thick-walled trichomes, a condition not previously reported for the genus. A. whitei is reduced to varietal status under A. hispidulum Sw.
41739127|The new species Crudia abbreviata A.R.Bean is described and illustrated. It is endemic to Cape York Peninsula, Queensland and considered to be closely related to C. blancoi Rolfe. A key to the Australian species of Crudia is provided.
41738870|Cycas desolata sp. nov. is described and illustrated. Its affinities are discussed and notes are provided on its distribution, habitat and conservation status.
41738927|Vetiveria Bory (Gramineae) is reduced to Chrysopogon Trin. resulting in 5 new combinations and the validation of 1 in Capillipedium. In Thailand there are 11 species (1 new) of Chrysopogon and in Malesia 13 species (3 new).
43869001|Diploglottis alaticarpa W.E.Cooper is described and illustrated. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided, as well as a species identification key for the genus.
41738722|Five new species of Orchidaceae are described from south-eastern Queensland: Corybas montanus D. Jones, Corybas barbarae D. Jones, Pterostylis nigricans D. Jones & M. Clements, Thelymitra fragrans D. Jones & M. Clements and Caladenia atroclavia D. Jones & M. Clements.
41738944|A new and rare species of Homoranthus with black petals is described and illustrated, and compared to related species.
41739106|A conspectus and key to the species of Merremia growing in Australia is provided. A new species from Western Australia, Merremia kimberleyensis R.W.Johnson, is described. A combination, Merremia incisa (R.Br.) Hallier f., which until recently had been overlooked, is shown to be the correct name for a well-known taxon from northern Australia. Descriptions and distribution maps have been provided for both these species.
43869008|Plectranthus acariformis and P. geminatus are newly described and illustrated: both are endemic to south-east Queensland. The former is currently known from a single population on trachyrhyolite in Noosa National Park near Coolum on the Sunshine Coast whereas the latter occurs in several localities associated with basalt and rhyolite derived from the Mt Warning caldera in the Lamington Plateau and Numinbah Valley.
41729921|The genus Austrosteenisia R. Geesink is revised. Four species are recognized, namely Austrosteenisia blackii (F. Muell.) R. Geesink, A. stipularis (C.T. White) Jessup, A. glabristyla Jessup and A mollitricha. Two varieties are recognized within A. blackii namely A. blackii (F. Muell.) R. Geesink var. blackii and A. blackii var. asticella D. J. Dixon. All taxa are described in detail and a key to their identity is provided.
41738687|Solanum abutiloides (Griseb.) Bitter & Lillo, a new naturalisation record for Queensland is described.
41738697|Thirteen species of Racosperma Martius are naturalised in New Zealand and one is widely cultivated. These species, which were all formerly referred to Acacia Miller, are listed. New combinations are made for five of them, and for one variety.
41965589|The new subspecies Eucalyptus melanophloia subsp. nana is described. The subspecies is of widespread but very scattered distribution in arid regions on rocky sites from the Yaripilangu Range in the Northern Territory in the west (about 250 km WNW of Alice Springs), eastwards to the Mount Isa area in north western Queensland. It is distinguished from subsp. melanophloia by its consistently multi-stemmed, bushy mallee habit and this is unique among the ironbark eucalypts (Eucalyptus series Siderophloiae and E. series Rhodoxylori). Illustrations of the new subspecies (including the holotype), a key to the subspecies of Eucalyptus melanophloia and a distribution map are provided.
41738720|The synonymy associated with Cynanchum carnosum (R. Br.) Schltr. is clarified. A lectotype for Oxystelma carnosum R. Br. is selected.
41738985|Eupomatia barbata Jessup, a new species from the Wet Tropics of north-east Queensland is described and illustrated. A key to identify the three species now recognised in Eupomatia is provided.
41739023|The new species Dendrobium eymanum, D. flebiliflorum, D. paragnomus, D. spenceanum, D. spinuliferum, D. stipiticola, Glomera pseudomonanthos, Pseuderia takeuchii, Robiquetia brassii and Tainia serratiloba are described from Papuasia (Indonesian Papua, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands). All species are illustrated and notes are provided on their affinities, distribution and habitats.
41739154|Enteropogon ramosus is described and the new combination Enteropogon paucispiceus is made. A key to the six species of Enteropogon in Australia is given.
41739012|In Australia, there are three species recognised in the genus Tapeinosperma. One new species T. pallidum Jackes is from North Queensland and one new combination and reinstatement, T. repandulum (F.Muell.) Jackes, is a species that occurs in southern Queensland and northern New South Wales. Descriptions, an identification key, illustrations and distribution maps are provided for each species.
41738807|1. The group of species of Hoya, known colloquially as 'New Guinea Whites', is revised. This group includes H. albiflora (Zipp. ex Blume) Boerl., H. magnifica P. Forster & Liddle sp. nov., H. naumanii Schltr., H. australis subsp. tenuipes (K. Hill) P. Forster & Liddle and H. calycina Schltr. Two subspecies are recognised for H. calycina with subsp. glabrifolia P. Forster & Liddle newly described. 2. H. pottsii Traill is lectotypified and H. nicholsoniae F. Muell., H. hellwigiana Warb, and H. sogerensis S. Moore are placed in synonymy. 3. H. anulata Schltr. is found to be the earliest name for the taxon described as H. schlechteriana S. Moore, H. poolei C. White & Francis, H. pseudolittoralis C. Norman or H. alata K. Hill. 4. H. revoluta Wight ex J.D. Hook. is found to be the earliest name for the taxon described as H. litoralis Schltr., H. inconspicua Hemsley or H. dodecatheiflora Fosb. 5. H. sussuela (Roxb.) Merr. is the earliest name for a widespread taxon to which the name H. lauterbachii Schumann has been previously misapplied. H. hollrungii Warb, and H. coronaria var. papuana Bailey are placed in synonymy of H. sussuela.
41729916|The five indigenous and naturalised Australian taxa belonging to Rubus subg. Malachobatus (Focke) Focke andRubus subg. Diemenicus subg. nov. are treated. A new variety, R. moluccanus var. trilobus A. R. Bean is described. A key to the native and naturalised Australian taxa of Rubus is presented.
41739031|The genus Ixora L. has seven species in Australia. Five species are endemic  Ixora baileyana Bridson & L.G. Adams, I. beckler i Benth., I. biflora Fosberg, I. oreogena S.T.Reyn. & P.I.Forst, sp. nov. and I, queenslandica Fosberg, and one species I. timorensis Decne., occurs elsewhere in Malesia. Ixora coccinea L. occurs as a semi-naturalised adventive at a small number of localities in Queensland and Western Australia. All species are described, native species illustrated and a key to native and naturalised species and a key to Australian cultivated species are provided.
41738812|Australian Rubiaceae previously referred to Oldenlandia and/or Hedyotis and Synaptantha are referred to Oldenlandia, Synaptantha, Kohautia and Hedyotis. Keys to recognized genera and species are given. Twenty species of Oldenlandia, two species of Synaptantha and four species of Hedyotis are recorded for Australia. Two new species, Oldenlandia kochiae and O. spathulata, one new subspecies, O. mitrasacmoides subsp. nigricans, and one new variety, Synaptantha tillaeacea var. hispidula are diagnosed and described. Oldenlandia leptocaulis, O. laceyi, O. largiflorens, O. thysanota, O. delicata, O. argillacea, O. mitrasacmoides subsp. trachymenoides and Synaptantha scleranthoides are new combinations based on Hedyotis leptocaulis Halford, H. laceyi Halford, H. largiflorens Halford, H. thysanota Halford, H. delicata Halford, H. argillacea Halford, H. trachymenoides F. Muell. and H. scleranthoides F. Muell. respectively. Lectotypes are designated for Hedyotis galioides, H. polyclada, H. coerulescens, H. mitrasacmoides, H. trachymenoides and Synaptantha tillaeacea.
41739148|Cassytha glabella R. Br. is described with special reference to the cotyledons. Seedlings are cryptocotylar and seed germination is epigeal with the remains of the diaspore covering the tip of the plumular shoot.
41738603|Solanum callium sp. nov. (2n=48) occurs in north eastern New South Wales and south eastern Queensland. Typification of S. villosum Miller, S. americanum Miller and S. gracile Dunal is discussed.
41738738|Secamone is represented in Australia by a single variable species, S. elliptica R. Br. which also occurs in Malesia. Lectotypes are designated for S. elliptica and the synonyms S. ovata R. Br. and S. papuana Warb. S. lanceolata Blume, S. micrantha (Decne) Decne, S. attenuata Decne, S. multiflora Decne and S. flavida Schltr. are newly placed in synonymy. An illustrated taxonomie account with notes on variation, distribution, ecology, habitat and conservation status is given.
41738724|On the basis of a comparative growth experiment with subsequent morphological and anatomical investigations, Gynura drymophila (F. Muell.) F.G. Davies is considered to be a variable species, comprising two varieties. G. drymophila var. glabrifolia var. nov. is described. Notes on the distribution, habitat and conservation status of the varieties are provided.
41738745|Tetrastigma nitens (F. Muell.) Planchon, previously the only known species of Tetrastigma recorded for Australia, is redescribed. Three new species T. crenatum, T. petraeum and T. thorsborneorum are described and illustrated. A description of T. pisicarpum is included as specimens from a vine growing in vine forest at the tip of Cape York possibly belong to this species. A description of the genus is also given, together with a key to the species.
41738929|A new species, Rutidosis glandulosa A. E. Holland, is described and illustrated with details on habitat and conservation status. A new combination, R. helichrysoides subsp. acutiglumis (Philipson) A.E.Holland, is made with notes on the variation and distribution of R. helichrysoides. A key to the species of Rutidosis is given.
41738781|A key to the species of Trachymene known to occur in Queensland is provided. A new species, Trachymene montana Holland, and a new variety, T. bivestita var. pterocarpa Holland, are described. Previous descriptions of T. bivestita (Domin) L. Johnson and T. tenuifolia (Domin) B.L. Burtt are amended. All species are listed with distribution, place of publication and notes on toxicity.
41738978|Two new prostrate Solanum species (S. serpens and S. acanthodapis) are described from subtropical notophyll rainforest near the Queensland-New South Wales border in eastern Australia. Both are stoloniferous, with long trailing stems that frequently root at the nodes. In Solanum subg. Leptostemonum, this growth habit is thought to be confined to these species and one other taxon.
41738723|The new combinations Solanum americanum subsp. nodiflorum and Solanum americartum subsp. nutans are made.
41738731|Coix gasteenii sp. nov., from northern Queensland, is diagnosed and compared with other known species of Coix.
41738712|Seven species of Gardenia are endemic to north-eastern Queensland. Five new species, G. actinocarpa, G. psidioides, G. rupicola, G. scabrella and G. tessellaris are described and a key to all species is provided. Five taxa currently included in Gardenia are excluded from the genus: G. jardinei F. Muell. ex Benth., G. kershawii Bailey, G. macgillivraei Benth., G. merikin Bailey and G. ochreata F. Muell.
41738869|The endemic Australian genus Syncarpia is revised, resulting in the recognition of four taxa, namely S. glomulifera (Sm.) Nied. subsp. glomulifera, S. glomulifera subsp. glabra (Benth.) A.R. Bean comb, et stat. nov., S. hillii F.M. Bailey, and S. verecunda A.R. Bean sp. nov. Each species is described and a distribution map provided for it. S. verecunda is illustrated. A key to the species is presented.
41739094|The new species Capparis batianoffii (Capparis section Monostichiocalyx Radlk.) is described and illustrated, together with information on its distribution, habitat and conservation status.
41738995|A systematic study of Pseudanthus Sieber ex Spreng, and Stachystemon Planch, is presented. Nine species are recognised in Pseudanthus, of which three are newly described here, while nine species are recognised in Stachystemon, three of which are also described here as new. These six new species are Pseudanthus ballingalliae Halford & R.J.F.Hend., P. ligulatus Halford & R.J.F. Hend., P. pauciflorus Halford & RJ.F. Hend., Stachystemon intricatus Halford & R. J. F. Hend., S. mucronatus Halford & R.J.F. Hend. and S. vinosus Halford & R.J.F. Hend. The new combinations Pseudanthus orbicularis (MiilLArg.) Halford & R.J.F. Hend., based on Caletia divaricatissima var. orbicularis Mll. Arg., Stachystemon nematophorus (F.Muell.) Halford & R.J.F. Hend., based on Pseudanthus nematophorus F. Muell. and S. virgatus (Klotzsch) Halford & R.J.F. Hend., based on Chrysostemon virgatus Klotzsch, are made. New species are illustrated while all species are described and their distributional range mapped, and notes on their distribution, habitat and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for Pseudanthus orientalis F.Muell., P. ovalifolius F.Muell. and P. polyandrus F.Muell., as well as Stachystemon vermicularis Planch. Pseudanthus pimeleoides Sieber ex Spreng, is neotypified. All known synonyms are listed here including phrase names that have been used to identify the taxa prior to formal publication of their names. A key to identify the species is also provided.
43869006|In July and August 1918, Cyril Tenison White spent four and a half weeks in Papua New Guinea, during which time he went on two extended excursions and collected 829 botanical specimens, of which at least 722 are known to be extant, representing 562 species. 32 new species and two new varieties were named from specimens collected by White during his survey, including 15 new taxa authored or co-authored by White. This paper provides an itinerary for his time in Papua, accurate geocodes for his collections, and descriptive and photographic background for his excursions. The significance and legacy of White's Papuan survey are discussed.
41738779|Nicotiana wuttkei is described as new and compared with N. suaveolens Lehm. It is known only from a single population on the Atherton Tablelands in north-eastern Queensland. The haploid chromosome number n = 14 is the first record of this number for the genus Nicotiana worldwide.
41738897|Thryptomene remota A.R. Bean and Ochrosperma sulcatum A.R. Bean are described and illustrated. Notes on distribution, affinities and conservation status are given. A key to all species of Ochrosperma is included.
41738940|A new species Wahlenbergia celata P.I.Forst. is described and illustrated. It belongs to the group of fleshy-rooted, lithophytic Wahlenbergia species that is endemic in Queensland and the extreme north-east of New South Wales. Four species are now recognised in this group with new distributional data presented for the previously described species. An identification key to the species in this group is provided.
41738793|A revised key to the species of Graptophyllum in Australia is given. The most important diagnostic characters for Graptophyllum in Australia are discussed. Graptophyllum reticulatum A. Bean & Sharpe sp. nov. from south-east Queensland is described. G. thorogoodii C. White is reduced to synonomy with G. excelsum (F. Muell.) Druce.
41739129|A new species, Zornia macdonaldii A.E.Holland is described and illustrated, with notes on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. A table of differences between Z. macdonaldii and closely related species is provided. Zornia pedunculata S.T.Reynolds & A.E. Holland is newly synonymised under Z. dyctiocarpa DC.
41739158|New taxa are: Cenchrus elymoides F. Muell. var. brevisetosus, Lolium hubbardii and Sporobolus virginicus (L.) Kunth var. minor. New combinations are Ischaemum australe R.Br.var. arundinaceum based on I. arundinaceum F. Muell ex Benth., Panicum effusum R.Br.var. simile based on P. simile Domin, Setaria gracilis Kunth var. pauciseta based on S. geniculata (Lam.) P.Beauv. var. pauciseta Desv., S. pumila (Poiret) Roemer & Schultes subsp. pallide-fusca based on Panicum pallide-fuscum Schumach and Whiteochloa cymbiforme based on Panicum cymbiformis Hughes. Panicum chilligoense Domin is a synonym of P. seminudum Domin var. cairnsianum Domin.
41739156|Darwinia decumbens is described as new. Its relationship to D. fascicularis is discussed.
41738780|The genus Lamprolobium Benth. consists of two species, L. fruticosum Benth. and L. grandiflorum S.L. Everist ex R. Henderson sp. nov. described here, and is confined to tropical north-eastern Australia. A lectotype is chosen for L. fruticosum.
41739043|The new species Commersonia perkinsiana Guymer, C. inglewoodensis Guymer and C. macrostipulata Guymer are described and illustrated, and a key to Queensland species of Commersonia subg. Commersonia is provided. Notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status are provided for the new species. The new combination Commersonia procumbens (Maiden & Betche) Guymer is made for Rulingia procumbens Maiden & Betche.
41739009|The genus Poranthera Rudge is revised for Australia. Oreoporanthera Hutch, is accepted as a taxonomic synonym of Poranthera. Fourteen species of Poranthera are recognised in Australia and a key is provided for their identification. The following are described here as new: P. dissecta Halford & R.J.F.Hend., P. florosa Halford & R.J.F.Hend., P. leiosperma Halford & R.J.F.Hend., P. obovata Halford & R.J.F. Hend. and P. oreophila Halford & R.J.F.Hend. The new combination P.petalifera (Orchard & J. B. Davies) Halford & R.J.F.Hend., based on Oreoporanthera petalifera Orchard & J. B. Davies, is made. New species are illustrated, all species are described and distribution maps provided, and notes on their distribution, habitat and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for P. microphylla var. intermedia Mll. Arg. and P. arbusculo Sond. Poranthera coerulea Schwarz is neotypified.
41739139|A systematic revision of species formerly placed in Myrtella F.Muell. (Myrtaceae) is presented. Species primarily from New Guinea remain in Myrtella sensu stricto (M. beccarii, M. bennigseniana) whereas all species from Australia are transferred to the genus Lithomyrtus F.Muell. Lithomyrtus includes seven new species viz L. densifolia N.Snow & Guymer, L. dunlopii N.Snow & Guymer, L. grandifolia N.Snow & Guymer, L. hypoleuca N.Snow & Guymer, L. kakaduensis N.Snow & Guymer, L. linariifolia N. Snow & Guymer and L. repens N.Snow & Guymer. Four new combinations viz L. cordata (A.J. Scott) N.Snow & Guymer, L. microphylla (Benth.) N.Snow & Guymer, L. obtusa (Endl.) N.Snow & Guymer and L. retusa (Endl.) N.Snow & Guymer are made for other species belonging to Lithomyrtus. Myrtella phebalioides (W. Fitzg.) A.J.Scott is reduced to synonymy under L. retusa, and M. rostrata Lauterb. is transferred to Uromyrtus as U. rostrata (Lauterb.) N.Snow & Guymer. Character data and preliminary cladistic studies strongly support the generic separation of Lithomyrtus from Myrtella, but all clades within Lithomyrtus in the strict consensus tree are highly unstable. Iterative studies with additional outgroups are needed to more confidently infer generic and specific relationships in Lithomyrtus, Myrtella and related genera.
41738726|New combinations are Racosperma latescens, R. perryi and R. juliferum subsp. curvinervium based on Acacia latescens Benth., A. perryi Pedley and A. curvinervia Maiden respectively. The first two are formally recorded for Queensland for the first time. The combination R. mearnsii is discussed.
41739015|Bazzania sauropoda sp. nov. (Marchantiophyta: Lepidoziaceae), a liverwort from tropical rainforest in north-eastern Queensland, is described, and its known distribution described.
41738711|A new species of Bertya, B. sharpeana, is described and figured. Bertya glabrescens (C. White) Guymer based on B. oleifolia Planchon var. glabrescens C. White is a new combination. Bertya brownii S. Moore is deleted from the flora of Queensland and is an earlier name for the species known as B. astrotricha Blakely from the Sydney district. A key to the species of Bertya is provided.
41738739|Eight new species, namely Cymbopogon dependens, Eulalia annua, Ischaemum albovillosum, I. tropicum, Mnesithea pilosa, Schizachyrium mitchelliana, Thaumastochloa heteromorpha and Vetiveria rigida are diagnosed and described. New combinations are Bothriochloa bladhii subsp. glabra based on Andropogon glaber Roxb., Dichanthium sericeum subsp. humilius based on Dichanthium humilius J. Black, Dichanthium sericeum subsp. polystachyum based on Andropogon sericeus var. polystachyus Benth. and Hyparrhenia rufa subsp. altissima based on Hyparrhenia altissima Stapf. Synonyms created for the first time are Andropogon affinis R. Br., A. chrysatherus F. Muell., A. sericeus var. mollis Bailey (and names based on these basionyms) under Dichanthium sericeum (R. Br.) A. Camus, Andropogon sericeus var. geniculatus Bailey and A. sericeus forma micranthus Domin under Dichanthium sericeum subsp. humilius and Hyparrhenia quarrei Robyns under H. hirta (L.) Stapf. Dimeria chloridiformis (Gaudich.) Schumann & Lauterb. is recognized as the correct name for D. ciliata Merr., Eulalia aurea (Bory) Kunth for E. fulva (R. Br.) Kunth and E. geniculata Stapf, Mnesithea rottboellioides (R. Br.) Koning & Sosef for Coelorachis rottboellioides (R. Br.) A. Camus, Mnesithea granularis (L.) Koning & Sosef for Hackelochloa granularis (L.) Kuntze, Mnesithea annua (Lazarides) Koning & Sosef for Heteropholis annua Lazarides, Mnesithea formosa (R. Br.) Koning & Sosef for Rottboellia formosa R. Br. and Polytrias diversiflora (Steudel) Nash for P. amaura (Buse) Kuntze.
41738925|The genus Mallotus is revised for Australia. Thirteen species are recognised; M. claoxyloides (F.Muell.) Muell. Arg., M. discolor F. Muell. ex Benth., M. dispersus P.I. Forst, sp. nov., M. ficifolius (Baill.) Pax & K. Hoffm., M. megadontus P.I. Forst, stat. et nom. nov. (based on M. claoxyloides var. angustifolia F.M. Bailey), M. mollissimus (Geisel.) Airy Shaw, M. nesophilus Muell. Arg., M. paniculatus (Lam.) Muell. Arg., M. philippensis (Lam.) Muell. Arg., M. polyadenos F. Muell., M. rpandus (Willd.) Muell. Arg., M. resinosus (Blanco) Merr. and M. surculosus P.I.Forst, sp. nov. All taxa are described and the majority illustrated, with notes on distribution, habitat, typification, conservation status and phenology. Lectotypes are selected for Crotn ricinoides Pers., Echinus claoxyloides var. cordata Baill., E. claoxyloides var. ficifolia Baill., Mallotus nesophilus and M. polyadenos. An identification key to the species is provided.
41738671|Planichloa nervilemma, a new grass from northern Queensland, is described and its relationships are discussed.
41738725|A new species of Backhousia, B. kingii, is described and a key to the species of the genus is provided. Backhousia floribunda A.J. Scott is transferred to Austromyrtus.
41739068|Caelospermum dasylobum Halford & A.J.Ford is described, illustrated and diagnosed against related species. Notes on its habitat and distribution are provided.
41738760|Acacia porcata P. Forster is described and compared with A. longipedunculata Pedley. It has a restricted distribution in the southern part of the Burnett Pastoral District, Queensland and occurs in an area rich in endemic taxa.
41738832|Sigesbeckia fugax (Heliantheae) and Tetramolopium vagans (Astereae) are described as new. The former is related to the two other species of S. sect. Sigesbeckia occurring in Australia. The latter represents the first record of the genus for Australia and belongs, with species from New Guinea, to T. sect. Alpinum Lowrey.
41738619|Observations of pollination by birds in Acanthus ilicifolius and Lysiana subfalcata var. maritima, hawkmoths in Clerodendrum inerme ma Sonneratia alba, and bees in Sesuvium portulacastrum, are presented along wth detailed descriptions of floral morphology and pollination efficiency using pollen/ovule ratios. Self-fertilization is restricted in Sesuvium, Acanthus, and Clerodendrum by protandry, while the flowers of Lysiana, Sonneratia, and Acanthus are morphologically incapable of automatic self-pollination. The high fruit set seen in flowers of these species suggests that these species are self-compatible. Self-compatibility in mangrove and mangrove-associated species will presumably allow some fruit set even in isolated, single plants after a new habitat is colonized.
41739130|Solanum pisinnum A.R. Bean sp. nov. and S. orgadophilum A.R. Bean sp. nov. from central Queensland are described and illustrated. Notes on affinities, conservation status, distribution, etymology, habitat and phenology are provided.
41738815|The only published description of Glossogyne orthochaeta F. Muell. (Composite) is based on fruiting material; a more complete one is given here. The species is transferred to Glossocardia Cass. and the new combination Glossocardia orthochaeta (F. Muell.) Veldk. is made for it. A key to it and related species is added. Additional collections of some rare species have been found and are noted.
41738887|The genus Micromyrtus is revised for Queensland, with the recognition of fourteen species, of which the following ten are new: M. albicans, M. capricornia, M. cannata, M. delicata, M. forsten, M. gracilis, M. littoralis, M, patula, M. rotundifolia and M. vernicosa. All new species are endemic to Queensland. Illustrations are provided for all new taxa and for M. leptocalyx (F. Muell.) Benth. Ai. striata J. W. Green is newly recorded for Queensland. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided for all Queensland taxa. Informal species groups are established within Micromyrtus, into which the Queensland species are allocated. A key to all Micromyrtus species occurring in Queensland is given.
43869010|Bean, A.R. (2014). Pluchea tenuis A.R.Bean (Asteraceae: Plucheinae), a new species from Cape York Peninsula, Queensland. Austrobaileya 9(2): 311-313. Pluchea tenuis A.R. Bean is newly described and illustrated. It is known from just one locality on Cape York Peninsula where it is associated with mound springs.
41738893|Acomis bella is described and illustrated, notes are provided on its habitat and distribution, and a key to all species of Acomis F. Muell. recognised is provided.
41738981|The endemic Australian genus Monotaxis Brongn. is revised. Within Monotaxis, two sections and a total of eight species are recognized. M. sect. Monotaxis is comprised of M. linifolia Brongn., M. occidentalis Endl., M. macrophylla Benth., M. luteiflora F. Muell. and M. tenuis Airy Shaw, while M. sect. Hippocrepandra contains M. bracteata Nees, M. grandiflora Endl. (including M. grandiflora Endl. var. grandiflora and M. grandiflora var. obtusifolia F.Muell. & Tate) and M. paxii Grning. All taxa are described and mapped, and notes on their distribution, habitat of occurrence and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for M. luteiflora F.Muell., M. megacarpa F.Muell., M. grandiflora var. obtusifolia F.Muell & Tate and M. paxii Grning. Identification keys to species and varieties are provided.
41738963|A new species of ant-plant Hydnophytum ferrugineum P.I.Forst, is described and illustrated. Notes on the distribution, habitat and conservation status are provided for the new species which is restricted to upland rainforests on granite in the Mcllwraith Range, Cape York Peninsula where it is known from a small area. A conservation status of Vulnerable is recommended. A key to the Australian species of Hydnophytinae is provided.
41738873|Omphalea celata P.I.Forst, is described and illustrated. This species is known from two localities in central Queensland and is considered vulnerable. A key is provided to identify the three species of Omphalea that occur in Australia.
41739133|Arthragrostis brassiana B.K. Simon, Digitaria basaltica B.K. Simon, Digitaria cowiei B.K. Simon, Digitaria dolleryi B.K. Simon, Digitaria sharpeana B.K. Simon, Digitaria veldkampiana B.K. Simon, Entolasia minutifolia B.K. Simon, Isachne sharpii B.K. Simon, Paspalidium johnsonii B.K. Simon and Pseudoraphis jagonis B.K. Simon are diagnosed as new species. Pseudoraphis minuta var. laevis B.K.Simon and Arthragrostis brassiana var. minutiflora B.K. Simon are diagnosed as new varieties. New combinations and changes of status are provided for Cenchrus brevisetosus (B.K. Simon) B.K. Simon, Oplismenus mollis (Domin) Clifford & Evans ex B.K. Simon, Setaria pumila subsp. subtesselata (Buse) B.K. Simon, Urochloa occidentalis (C.A. Gardner & C.E. Hubb.) B.K. Simon, Urochloa occidentalis var. ciliata (C.A. Gardner & C.E. Hubb.) B.K. Simon and Urochloa gilesii var. nothochthona (Domin) B.K. Simon. All Pennisetum species have recently been placed in synonymy with Cenchrus and the name changes that apply to taxa occurring in Australia are listed. Cenchrus spinifex Cav. is the correct name for what has been called C. incertus M.A. Curtis. Two more species of Cyrtococcum, C. patens (L.) A. Camus and C. accrescens (Trin.) Stapf are reported as occurring in Australia. Two species of Digitaria Hall., D. diminuta Hughes and D. fumida S.T. Blake, are removed from the synonymy of D. breviglumis (Domin) Henrard; the latter species has been recircumscribed to include a species previously known under the phrase name Digitarla sp. (Mt Mulligan J.R. Clarkson 5821). Keys and descriptions are given to the species D. breviglumis, D. diminuta, D. fumida and D. orbata Hughes. Isachne minutula (Gaudich.) Kunth is the correct name of a species previously referred to in Australia as I. pulchella auct. non Roth. The genus Plagiosetum Benth. is resurrected from synonymy with Paractaenum P.Beauv. Brachiaria occidentalis var. ciliaris C.A. Gardner & C.E. Hubb., Oplismenus undulatifolius var. molle Domin and Pseudoraphis minuta (Mez) Pilger are lectotypifed.
41738694|Two new species of Diploglottis, D. berniana and D. obovata and a new Alectryon, A. ramiflorus are described with notes on their distribution and relationship to the other species that occur in Australia. Heterodendrum Desf. is reduced to Alectryon Gaertn. and the new combinations Alectryon diversifolius, A. tropicus, A. pubescens and A. oleifolius, based on Heterodendrum diversifolium F.Muell., H. tropicum S.Reyn., H. pubescens S.Reyn. and H. oleifolium Desf., are made. Two new subspecies of A. oleifolius, subsp. canescens and subsp. elongatus, are described. Alectryon semicinereus (F. Muell.) Radlk. is removed from synonymy under A. coriaceus (Benth.) Radlk.
41738966|Proiphys in Australia comprises four species, P. amboinensis (L.) Herbert, P. cunninghamii (Aiton ex Lindl.) Mabb., P. alba (R.Br.) Mabb. and P. infundibularis D.L.Jones & Dowe sp. nov., all occurring in eastern Queensland with P. alba also found in northern Western Australia and P. cunninghamii in northern New South Wales. A key is provided for identification of the Australian species of the genus. Three of the four species (not including P. alba) are illustrated. Notes on the habitat and ecology of P. infundibularis are included.
41738684|Three species and one variety of fern, Ctenopteris repandula Kunz, Dicranopteris linearis var. altissima Holttum, Gleichenia milnei Baker and Ophioglossum intermedium J. D. Hook, are recorded from Australia for the first time. In addition Asplenium unilaterale Lam. is confirmed as occurring in Australia and the status of Ophioglossum lineare Schlecter & Brause as a distinct taxon is upheld.
41738791|Seven new species of Hibbertia (Dilleniaceae) viz H. arnhemica, H. cymosa, H. hendersonii, H. laurana, H. mulligana, H. oligodonta, and H. pholidota, and a new form of H. banksii viz H. banksii forma rigidula from Australia are described with notes on their affinities and distribution.
43869002|The new species Ptilotus senarius A.R.Bean, recorded only between Georgetown and Croydon, is described, illustrated, and differentiated from similar taxa. A conservation status of Presumed Extinct is proposed.
41738923|The new species Rhodamnia angustifolia N. Snow & Guymer (Myrtaceae) is described from the Cedar Creek area of the Wietalaba State Forest (583) south of Gladstone and Calliope in south-eastern Queensland. It is easily distinguished from other species of Rhodamnia by its narrowly elliptic leaves. The species is known from only nineteen individuals on a single ridgetop and subtending slopes in SF 583. Its recommended conservation status is Endangered under both the Queensland Nature Conservation Act 1992 and the IUCN Species Survival Commission. The essential oils previously found in the species are discussed briefly.
41738970|The new species Cycas cupida P.I.Forst, from sandstone substrates in central Queensland is described (together with illustrations) and compared to C. couttsiana K.D.Hill and C. desolata P.I.Forst. A key to the species of Cycas series Cairnsianosae K.D.Hill is presented.
41965593|Wilkiea kaarruana Zieh & A.J.Ford endemic to the Wet Tropics of north-east Queensland is described, illustrated and distinguished from related Australian species. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status are provided.
41738894|Caustis blakei Kk. is divided into two subspecies that are geographically isolated. G blakei subsp. macrantha subsp. nov., occurs inland near Murphy's Creek and Helidon, south-east Queensland. It has larger anthers, spikelets and fruit than C. blakei subspecies blakei, which occurs in coastal districts and on islands in south-east Queensland. Notes on distribution and conservation status are provided.
41738696|The 246 species of Racosperma Martius known to occur in Queensland are listed alphabetically. New combinations are made for 228 species, 14 subspecies and two varieties. Most of the species were previously referred to Acacia Miller.
41965592|Plectranthus caldericola P.I.Forst, from New South Wales and P. bellus P.I.Forst., P. fragrantissimus P.I.Forst., P. insularis P.I.Forst, and P. venustus P.I.Forst, from Queensland are described as new species. All species are illustrated together with notes on their habitat, distribution, affinities and conservation status.
41738999|Idiospermum australiense (Diels) S.T. Blake (Calycanthaceae) is restricted to two relatively small regions in the lowland tropical rainforests of north-east Queensland, Australia. Previous morphological studies have focussed on specimens from the northernmost of these two regions. Examination of flowers from all known populations of the species revealed significant differences between the northern and southern regions with respect to numbers of floral parts, especially carpels. Polycarpelly was found to be widespread in the southern populations, a feature previously unreported in the literature.
41738721|Few records of foliicolous lichens from Australia have been published. Records in the present paper are based primarily on collections from New South Wales and Queensland by the junior author. Anisomeridium foliicola R. Sant. & Tibell and Phyllobathelium nigrum R. Sant. & Tibell are described as new. The new combination Phylloporis obducta (Muell. Arg.) R. Sant. & Tibell is proposed. In all 66 species of foliicolous lichens are included, 28 of them being newly recorded from Australia. The genera Badimia, Calenia, Lasioloma, Loflammia, Microtheliopsis, Phyllobathelium and Raciborskiella are new to Australia. A few comments on the ecology and distribution of the species are also given.
41738718|Rhodamnia pauciovulata is described as new and compared with R. rubescens (Benth.) Miq. It has a restricted range along the central coast of Queensland.
41738850|Plectranthus actites, P. apricus, P. cyanophyllus, P. dumicola, P. excelsus, P. glabriflorus, P. habrophyllus, P. leiperi, P. megadontus and P. pulchellus are described as new species. All species are illustrated and notes on their distribution, habitat, affinities and conservation status are provided. A key to the species of Plectranthus in Queensland is presented.
41739111|Mischocarpus ailae from south-east Queensland and north-east New South Wales is described as new with notes on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. A key to the Australia species o Mischocarpus is provided.
41738629|A new species of Ptilotus, P. blakeanus from Queensland, is described and figured, with some discussion on its affinity to P. brachyanthus.
41738994|The history of the genus Racosperma, which is based on Acacia (sect.) Phyllodineae DC., is briefly outlined. Names of 976 species of Racosperma (with 130 names of infraspecific taxa, autonyms excluded) are listed. Of these, only ten species (one represented by one of two subspecies) do not occur in Australia. Transfers of 834 taxa (711 to species, 58 to subspecies and 65 to variety) are made to Racosperma the vast majority from Acacia, 15 from Mimosa and one from Adiantum. Taxonomy closely follows the treatment of Acacia in the Flora of Australia, vols 11A & 11B (Orchard & Wilson 2001) and reference is made to the treatment of each species in the Flora. Acacia cyclops, A. stowardii and A. vincentii are treated as synonyms of Racosperma eglandulosum, R. sibiricum, and R. deltoideum respectively. Acacia juncifolia subsp. serpentinicola is raised to specific rank, Racosperma serpentinicola', as is Acacia wickhamii subsp. parviphyllodinea to Racosperma calligerum (nom. nov.), with A. wickhamii subsp. viscidula as a synonym of it. Acacia clivicola, usually considered conspecific with A. stowardii, is reinstated as R. clivicola; A. cupularis is referred to R. ligulatum var. minus and A. curvinervia to R. juliferum subsp. curvinervium. R. sophorae is considered to be a species distinct from R. longifolium. A. desmondii and A. racospermoides are the same as R. nelsonii and R. paniculatum respectively.
41965587|The new species Heliotropium microspermum E.J.Thomps., endemic to Cape York Peninsula, Queensland, is described and illustrated.
41738980|A new species from the Wet Tropics rainforest, Cupaniopsis cooperorum is described and illustrated. This species is restricted to complex notophyll vineforest on basalt derived substrates in the area around Topaz, Millaa Millaa and Butchers Creek. A conservation status of Vulnerable is recommended. A new key to the species of Australian Cupaniopsis is provided.
41738604|The two Queensland species currently referred to Pentapanax are shown to be members of Polyscias. Appropriate new combinations are made: Polyscias willmottii (F. Muell.) Philipson and Polyscias bellendenkerensis (F. M. Bailey) Philipson.
41738695|The new species Notelaea pungens and N. lloydii are described and illustrated.
41738967|The term drupe as defined in modern Australian Floras has several meanings and is often employed inconsistently. Reasons for the various usages are offered and a new definition of the term proposed.
41738968|M. artesium Halford & Fensham is described, illustrated and diagnosed against related species. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided.
41738969|23 pappus characters (including several newly recognised) and five achene characters have been used to compile comprehensive morphological descriptions for 30 species of mostly naturalised thistles occurring in Australia and New Zealand. This represents the first detailed English account of pappus morphology for tribe Cardueae. Some new pappus terminology for the tribe is introduced, and standardised definitions are suggested. A key to the described species is provided, based on pappus and achene morphology only.
41738736|Gardenia jardinei F. Muell. ex Benth., G. ochreata F. Muell. and G. suffruticosa R. Br. ex Benth. are revised and transferred to Kailarsenia Tirvengadum emend. Puttock. Full descriptions, notes and a key to these species are provided. Gardenia kershawii Bailey, G. macgillivraei Benth. and G. ochreata var. parviflora F. Muell. are analysed using multiple regression analysis. These taxa are reduced to synonymy of Kailarsenia ochreata (F. Muell.) Puttock.
41739041|Acacia argentina, A. burrana, A. lumholtzii, A. rubricaulis and A. webbii are described as new. Notes on their taxonomic affinities, habitats and geographical distributions are given and illustrations provided. Acacia tindaleae Pedley is treated as a synonym of A. conferta A. Cunn. ex Benth. and A. mariae is described for A. tindaleae as usually understood (for example, in Flora of Australia). Acacia microcybe Pedley is a nomen novum for the illegitimate name A. microcephala Pedley. A lectotype is chosen for A. leptostachya Benth.
41738788|Four new species of Sapindaceae from Queensland viz Atalaya collina, Atalaya oligoclada, Cupaniopsis simulatus and Rhysotoechia florulenta, and a new subspecies of Rhysotoechia bifoliolata Radlk., viz R. bifoliolata subsp. nitida are described and notes on their distribution and affinities provided. Jagera dasyantha (Radlk.) S. Reyn. is a new combination based on Guioa dasyantha Radlk. The relationships of Alectryon unilobatus S. Reyn. with A. reticulatus Radlk., and Jagera discolor L.S. Smith ex S. Reyn. with J. dasyantha are assessed. A. unilobatus is reduced to synonymy of A. reticulatus, and J. discolor to J. dasyantha. Flowers of Alectryon kimberleyanus S. Reyn. and Cupaniopsis dallachyi S. Reyn. are described for the first time. Extensions of the range of Alectryon subdentatus forma pseudostipularis Radlk., and Atalaya calcicola S. Reyn. are recorded.
41739142|The neotropical grass Leptochloa fusca subsp. uninervia is reported for the first time in Queensland, Western Australia, Northern Territory, South Australia and Tasmania, and its weedy tendencies are discussed. A brief overview is given regarding the taxonomy of Leptochloa, including why Diplachne P. Beauv. is no longer recognised, and of the L. fusca species complex. An updated key is provided for the fourteen confirmed taxa of Australian Leptochloa.
41738733|The genus Zornia J. Gmelin is represented by 17 species including 4 subspecies and 4 varieties in Australia. The identity of two additional taxa is uncertain. All species are described and notes and maps of their distribution appended. A key to distinguish them is provided. Eight new species viz Z. acuta, Z. maritima, Z. disticha, Z. floribunda, Z. oligantha, Z. pedunculata, Z. prostrata and Z. ramosa, two new subspecies Z. muelleriana subsp. congesta and Z. muriculata subsp. angustata, and one new variety Z. prostrata var. macrantha are described. The new combination Z. dyctiocarpa var. filifolia, based on Z. filifolia Domin is made. Lectotypes are chosen for Z. chaetophora F. Muell., Z. muelleriana Mohl., Z. stirlingii Domin and Z. filifolia var. adenophora Domin. Z. nervata Mohl. is a synonym of Z. albiflora Mohl. The majority of plants previously identified as Z. nervata are included in Z. prostrata. Z. gibbosa Span, apparently does not occur in Australia; Australian collections formerly identified as such are included in Z. disticha.
41739039|Two new species each of Gossia N. Snow & Guymer (G. scottiana N. Snow, G. longipetiolata N. Snow) and Rhodomyrtus (DC.) Hassk. (R. kaweaensis N. Snow, R. mengenensis N. Snow) in the myrtle family (Myrtaceae) are described from Papua New Guinea. All four species are known only from the type collections. Each species is considered "Data Deficient" following IUCN guidelines, and all are probably narrowly distributed. The new species of Gossia bring to six the number of species in this genus now known from the island of New Guinea. The newly described species in Rhodomyrtus, along with another undescribed species in preparation from Papua New Guinea, suggest that ten species of Rhodomyrtus occur on New Guinea. The new species of Rhodomyrtus have brochidodromous nervation, relatively long petioles, and narrowly elliptic to elliptic leaves. Included are photographs of the type specimens, a distribution map of the new species, separate keys to species of Gossia and Rhodomyrtus from Malesia, and a discussion of the biogeography of Gossia and Rhodomyrtus.
41739108|Coelospermum purpureum Halford & A.J.Ford is described, illustrated and diagnosed against allied species. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status are provided. A key to the species of Coelospermum in Australia is presented.
41739160|A new species Hibbertia monticola from south-eastern Queensland is described.
41738675|Rhodamnia dumicola, R. whiteana and R. glabrescens are described and a key to the Australian species of Rhodamnia is provided. An emended description of R. costata is given.
41738971|Five new combinations made as follows, Niemeyera whitei for Amorphospermum whitei Aubrev, Pouteria queenslandica for Planchonella queenslandica P.Royen, Pouteria myrsinifolia for Sersalisia myrsinifolia F.Muell., Pouteria myrsinodendron for Chrysophyllum myrsinodendron F.Muell., Pouteria cotinifolia var. pubescens for Planchonella cotinifolia var. pubescens P.Royen, while Pouteria asterocarpon is a new combination made at a new rank for Planchonellapohlmaniana var. asterocarpon P.Royen, and Pouteria pearsoniorum is a new name provided for Planchonella macrocarpa P.Royen.
41738778|The Rhodomyrtus trineura species complex is revised. R. novoguineensis, R. canescens and R. sericea are reinstated as species distinct from R. trineura. R. pervagata, R. trineura subsp. capensis and R. effusa from Australia and R. lanata and R. montana from New Guinea are described as new. A key to the species is provided and the new species illustrated.
41738983|Oldenlandia intonsa, a new species closely related to O. thysanota, is described and illustrated. Notes on habitat and distribution are provided.
41739145|Habenaria praecox Lavarack & Dockrill is described and illustrated. Relationships of this species to other Australian species are discussed and a key to Queensland species of Habenaria and Peristylus is provided.
41738847|Two new species of Aristida from Queensland are described and compared with other Australian species of Aristida. One is A. thompsonii from the 'desert uplands' of the North Kennedy District and the other is A. forsteri from heathlands of the Darling Downs District.
41738874|Ochrosperma adpressum A.R. Bean from central Queensland, is described as new, illustrated and its known distribution mapped. The new combination Ochrosperma oligomerum (Radlk.) A.R. Bean is made. Additional distribution records for O. lineare (C.T. White) Trudgen are given. A key to all recognised species of Ochrosperma is presented.
41738692|New combinations are Racosperma deltoideum, R. adenogonium, R. froggattii, R. stipulosum and R. sublanatum, based on Acacia deltoidea Cunn. ex G.Don, A. deltoidea var. pungens Benth., A. froggattii Maiden, A. stipulosa F.Muell. and A. sublanata Benth., respectively. All species are described. Notes on their geographic ranges and habitats in the extreme north of Western Australia and in the Northern Territory and a key to their identification are given. A. deltoidea is lectotypified.
41729925|Capparis velutina (Capparis section Busbeckea (Endl.) Hook. f.), a new species allied to arborea (F. Muell.) Maiden, is described and illustrated. Information is provided on its distribution, habitat and conservation status.
41729928|A key to the species of the New England Blackbutts and Scribbly Gums (E. ser. Psathyroxyla Blakely) of south-eastern Australia is provided. The new species Eucalyptus montivaga A.R. Bean is described and illustrated. The species related to E. montivaga are described and their distributions mapped. E. microcodon L.A.S. Johnson & K.D.Hill is reduced to synonymy with E. codonocarpa Blakely & McKie.
41738787|Macrozamia fearnsidei and M. lomandroides, both members of section Parazamia (Miq.) Miq. from central Queensland, are described as new, the new combination M. plurinervia is made for M. pauli-guilielmi subsp. plurinervia L. Johnson and M. mountperriensis Bailey is recognised as specifically distinct from M. miquelii (F. Muell.) A. DC. A key to the species of Macrozamia in Queensland is given.
41739087|The new species, Solanum succosum from Queensland and the Northern Territory, is described and illustrated. It is closely allied to S. chippendalei for which a comparative description is provided. Distribution maps are presented for both species and S. succosum is illustrated.
41738775|The genus Sarcolobus R. Br. is revised for Australia and Papuasia (Irian Jaya, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands). Astelma Schltr. and Papuastelma Bullock are considered congeneric. Three species occur in Australia, namely S. ritae sp. nov., S. vittatus sp. nov. and S. hullsii comb. nov. (Marsdenia hullsii F. Muell. ex Benth.). Nine species occur in Papuasia including S. porcatus sp. nov., S. spathulatus sp. nov., S. vittatus sp. nov., S. kaniensis comb. nov. (Gymnema kaniense Schltr.), S. secamonoides comb. nov. (Astelma secamonoides Schltr.) and 5. brachystephanus comb. nov. (Marsdenia brachystephana Schltr.). Separate keys to the Australian and Papuasian taxa are given.
41738674|The following new combinations are made. Desmos goezeanus (F. Muell.) Jessup; Desmos wardianus (Bailey) Jessup; Miliusa brahei (F. Muell.) Jessup; Polyalthia australis (Benth.) Jessup; Pseuduvaria froggattii (F. Muell.) Jessup. Unona queenslandica Domin is a synonym of Desmos goezeanus and Polyalthia holtzeana F. Muell. is a synonym of Polyalthia australis.
41729926|Naturalisations in Queensland are documented for Graptopetalum paraguayense (N.E.Br.) Walther (Crassulaceae), Kalanchoe lateritia Engl. (Crassulaceae), Jasminum mesneyi Hance (Oleaceae), Jatropha podagrica Hook. (Euphorbiaceae), Manihot esculenta Crantz (Euphorbiaceae), M. grahamii Hook., M. glaziovii Muell. Arg., Persicaria capitata (Buch.-Ham. ex D. Don) H. Gross (Polygonaceae), Sedum praealtum A.DC. (Crassulaceae) and Vernicia fordii (Hemsl.) Airy Shaw (Euphorbiaceae). A generic key to naturalised genera of Crassulaceae, and a key and descriptions of the naturalised species of Manihot are presented. Orthography of the family name Aloaceae is highlighted and name changes in Aloe L. discussed.
41738753|Argophyllum verae sp. nov. occurs on Cape York Peninsula in northern Queensland. A key and comparative table to distinguish it from other species of Argophyllum in Australia is given.
41738783|The first authentic record of the genus Kohautia Cham, et Schlecht, in Australia is made, with K. australiens is, the only Australian representative, described as new. Notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status of this species are given.
41738659|Lycopodium lockyeri and L. marsupiiforme are described as new. A key to the ten epiphytic species of Lycopodium in Australia is given.
41739107|The new species, Crotalaria inaequalis, is described and illustrated, together with a map of its distribution. The distribution, habitat and conservation status of C. inaequalis is discussed. Crotalaria inaequalis is only known from the vicinity of Croydon in the Gulf Plains in northern Queensland. An amendment to the key by Holland (2002) to Australian species of Crotalaria is provided.
41729927|Laportea cordifolia L.S.Sm, from the Atherton Tableland is reinstated as Dendrocnide cordifolia (L.S.Sm.) Jackes & Hurley. Dendrocnide cordata (Warb, ex H. J. Winkl.) Chew is recognised as a separate species occurring on northern Cape York Peninsula. A key to the Australian species of Dendrocnide is provided.
41738941|Nucleotide sequencing of two independent genomic regions has shown that two Flindersia species, F. oppositifolia F. Muell and F. pimenteliana F. Muell were genetically indistinguishable. This coupled with supporting morphological observations by Hartley (1969) and Whiffin (1982) has lead us to reassess the taxonomic status of the two species. The new recombination is Flindersia pimenteliana F. Muell. forma oppositifolia (F. Muell.) K. D. Scott, W. K. Harris & J. Playford, comb. & stat. nov.
41738979|Four new species are described for Queensland: two new species from northern Queensland, G. splendida and G. debilis, and two from the south-west of the state, G. atriplexifolia and G. expansa. A central Queensland species, G. rosulata Domin, is also reinstated. Notes on affinities and conservation status are included. A key to the species occurring in Queensland is provided.
41738810|Five species of Lycopodiella occur in Australia including L. limosa here described as new and compared with L. serpentina (Kunze) B. Ollg. A key to the Australian species and distribution maps are provided. An unusual growth form in Lycopodiella serpentina is discussed.
41739020|In Stenocarpus the inner wing of the seed derives from the mesophyll of the outer integument whereas with Strangea this wing develops from the inner epidermis of that integument. The outer wing in both genera derives from the outer epidermis of the outer integument. Contrary to the present circumscription of the Subtribe Stenocarpinae in neither genus is the inner integument involved in wing production. An emended diagnosis for the Subtribe Stenocarpinae is provided.
41739013|The taxonomic history of the narrow-leaved ironbarks is discussed, as are the problems associated with the taxonomic delimitation of its member species, particularly E. crebra sens. lat. and E. drepanophylla sens. lat. Eucalyptus elegans sp. nov. is described and illustrated. The identity of the poorly known E. bowmanii Benth. is discussed, and the circumscription of E. tholiformis is expanded.
41738857|Euphorbia plumerioides Teijsm. ex Hassk. has previously been confused with a number of distinct taxa in the Papuasian and Melanesian regions. A revision of the species complex, including E. plumerioides is provided here, and eight species are recognised, namely E. brassii P.I. Forst, nom. et stat. nov. (based on E. plumerioides var. macrocarpa Radei.-Sm.), E. buxoides Radei.-Sm., E. euonymoclada Croizat, E. heyligersiana P.I. Forst, sp. nov., E. indistincta P.I. Forst, sp. nov., E. kanalensis Boiss., E. norfolkiana Boiss. and E. plumerioides. E. fidjiana Boiss. is reduced to synonymy of E. plumerioides. E. plumerioides var. acuminata J.J. Sm. and E. plumerioides var. microphylla Radcl.-Sm. are reduced to synonymy of E. kanalensis. E. plumerioides is lectotypified.
41738608|Diagnoses and a key to the twelve species occurring in Australia are given. Taxa described for the first time are:P. arida, P. fallax, P. microphylla, P. corymbosa var. minor, P. corymbosa var. torrensis and P. spirostylis subsp. compacta. New combinations are: P. breviflora var. gracilis (based on P. synandra var. gracilis Benth.), P. spirostylis subsp. densiflora and subsp. glabra (based on P. synandra var. densiflora Benth. and P. glabra White & Francis respectively). Other names placed in synonymy are: P. brevianthera Ewart & Cookson, P. burtonii F. M. Bailey, P. gamopetala Berhaut, P. longiflora var. leucantha Benth., P. parviflora Domin, P. pumilio Domin, P. spirostylis var. intercedens Domin var. intricata Domin, and var. resulans Domin, P. synandra F. Muell., P. triloba Ewart & Cookson and Reesia erecta Ewart. The name P. breviflora F. Muell, has been misapplied to the taxon described as P. corymbosa var. minor. The record of P. spicata Arn. from Australia is considered doubtful.
41739055|A morphological taxonomic study of Callitriche L. occurring in Australia (excluding island territories) has resulted in a reduction in the number of accepted indigenous species, with two species being reduced to synonymy (C. cyclocarpa Hegelm. under C. umbonata Hegelm.; C. capricorni R. Mason under C. sonderi Hegelm.). The name Callitriche hamulata has been misapplied in Australia for C. brutia Petagna var. brutia. Lectotypes are chosen for Callitriche brachycarpa Hegelm., C umbonata Hegelm. and C. muelleri Sond. Callitriche deflexa A. Braun ex Hegelm. is a recent naturalisation for Australia. All names used for Australian Callitriche have been accounted for. A key is provided for the identification of Callitriche species occurring in Australia.
41739027|Ten new species of Commersonia are described: Commersonia argentea, C. beeronensis, C. johnsonii, C. leiperi, C. pearnii, C. pedleyi, C. reticulata, C. rossii and C. viscidula from eastern Australia, and C. obliqua from Vanuatu. The new combination C. novoguinensis (Gilli) Guymer is made based on Disaster novoguinensis Gilli. The new subgenus Commersonia subgenus Verticillata Guymer is described for the species with deeply 3-lobed petaloid staminodes: C. fraseri, C. rossii, C. argentea, C. beeronensis and C. viscidula. An epitype is selected for C. bartramia. All new taxa are described and most illustrated, with notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status. An identification key to the Queensland species of Commersonia is provided.
41738888|The genus Drypetes is revised for Australia. Four species are recognised, Drypetes acuminata P. I. Forst., sp. nov., D. deplanchei (Brongn. & Gris) Merr., D. iodoformis L.S.Sm.ex P.I. Forst, sp. nov. and D. vernicosa P.I.Forst., sp. nov. All species are described and illustrated and notes are provided on their distribution, habitat and conservation status. The name Cyclostemon subcubicus J.J. Sm. is lectotypified. The name Drypetes subcubica (J.J. Sm.) Pax & K.Hoffm. has been misapplied to the Australian taxon here named D. iodoformis.
41739159|A new species of Macarthuria, M. complanata is described and notes on distinguishing features are given.
41739163|Four species of Xylosma occur in Australia, all are endemic. The name X. ovatum Benth. has been misapplied to one Lord Howe Island species. X. parvifolium from Lord Howe Island is described as new.
41738606|Allosyncarpia S. T. Blake with one species A. ternata S. T. Blake has flowers partly fused into small heads, circumsciss calyx-tube, many free stamens, 2-celled ovary with horizontal ovules, 1-seeded capsules, large seeds with large much convoluted cotyledons and unique branched septate hairs.
41965585|The endemic Australian genus Nyssanthes is revised, with the recognition of four species, N. erecta R.Br., N. diffusa R.Br., N. impervia A.R. Bean sp. nov. and N. longistyla C.H.Mill. sp. nov. All species are illustrated, and distribution maps provided. Notes for each species are given on conservation status, distribution and habitat, and an identification key is presented.
41738719|Three species of Miliusa Leschen. ex A. DC. occur in Australia, viz M. horsfieldii, M. brahei and M. traceyi which is described as new.
41739165|Thirteen new species, namely Aristida annua, A. arida, A. au st ralis, A. blaket, A. borealis, A. burbidgeae, A. burraensis, A. grantica, A. kimberleyensis, A. latzii, A. lazariais, A. lignosa and A. vickeryae are described. Diagnoses are given for five new varieties, namely A. benthamii Henrard var. spinulifera, A. biglandulosa J. Black var. laevis, A. browniana Henrard var. latifolia, A . calycina R. Br. vat. filifolia, and A . titilis F. M. Bailey var. grandiflora, and one new subspecies, A. macroclada Henrard subsp. queenslandica. A new combination A. queenslandica Henrard var. dissimilis is made for A. dissimilis S. T. Blake. A. praealta (Domin) Henrard (including A. armata Henrard) is re-established as A. calycina var. praealta Domin and A. china ta Henrard and A. persona ta Henrard are placed in synonymy with A. ramosa R. Br. var. scaberula Henrard and A ramosa var. speciosa Henrard. A key to the taxa of Aristida in Australia is given.
41738831|A key to the genera of Tiliaceae in Australia is presented, as well as a key to the species oi Berry a Roxb. In Australia, Berry a is represented by 2 species, viz B. javanica and B. rotundifolia. B. javanica (Turcz.) Burret is newly recorded for Australia. Lectotypes are designated for Berrya rotundifolia Domin and Trichospermum pleiostigma (F. Muell.) Kosterm. A new species of Grewia L., G. graniticola from North Queensland is described. Descriptions, illustrations and notes are provided for all native species discussed.
41739052|The genus Ricinocarpos Desf. is endemic to Australia. Twenty-eight species are recognised as belonging to it, and a key is provided for their identification. The following species are described here as new: R. brevis R.J.F.Hend. & Mollemans, R. caniana Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. crispatus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. graniticus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. linearifolius Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. megalocarpus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. oliganthus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. pilifer Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. ruminatus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. trachyphyllus Halford & R.J.F.Hend., R. trichophyllus Halford & R.J.F.Hend. and R. verrucosus Halford & R.J.F.Hend. The new species are illustrated and distinguished from similar species while all taxa are described and mapped, and notes on their habitat, distribution and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for R. ledifolius F. Muell., R. marginatus Benth., R. muricatus Mll. Arg., R. pinifolius Desf., R. rosmarinifolius Benth., R. stylosus Diels and R. velutinus F.Muell. Ricinocarpos glaucus var. jasminoides Baill. is neotypified. All known synonyms are listed here including phrase names that were used to identify taxa prior to their formal naming in this publication.
41739042|Gynochthodes oresbia Halford & A.J. Ford is described, illustrated and distinguished from other Australian species. Notes on habitat, distribution, and conservation status are provided. An identification key to the species of Gynochthodes in Australia is presented.
41738922|The genus Bridelia Willd. is revised for Australia and contains five species, B. exaltata F.Muell., B. finalis P.I.Forst, sp.nov., B. leichhardtii Baill. ex Muell.Arg., B. insulana Hance and B. tomentosa Blume. All species are described and a key to distinguish them is provided. Distribution, habitat, typification, phenology and conservation status are outlined for each taxon.
41738895|The genus Austrobuxus Miq. in Australia is revised. Two species are recognised, A. swainii (Beuzev. & C.T. White) Airy Shaw and A. megacarpus P.I. Forst., sp. nov. The name A. nitidus Miq. has been misapplied to A. megacarpus.
41739150|The Australian representatives of tribe Vanguerieae have been revised. Three genera, viz. Everistia S.T. Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. gen. nov. (one species), Cyclophyllum Hook.f. (9 species) and Psydrax Gaertn. (23 species) occur here. Australian plants formerly included in Canthium Lam. belong to these genera. In this paper, the following new combinations are made for some of them: Everistia vacciniifolia (F.Muell.) S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. (Canthium vacciniifoliium F. Muell.), Everistia vacciniifolia var.nervosa S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. and Everistia vacciniifolia f. crassa S.T.Reynolds & R.J.F.Hend. All recognised taxa of Everistia are described, and relevant keys, distributional maps and line drawings are provided.
41739019|The contribution made by Ludwig Leichhardt to Australian botany is examined with reference to his collections and their use as types. About 2800 specimens collected by Leichhardt were located, of which at least 78 specimens have been designated as types. Leichhardt's records of species distribution, and manuscript names, are also examined. Forty-nine eponyms, named for Leichhardt, are listed.
41739061|Twenty-two species are recognised and a key is provided for their identification. The following species are newly described: C. aulacocarpus Halford, C. carnarvonensis Halford, C. congener Halford, C. incanus Halford, C. lasiocarpus Halford, C. mitchellensis Halford, obclavatus Halford, C. puberulus Halford, subargentus Halford, C. sublatus Halford and tectus Halford. Three new combinations C. sericeus subsp. densiflorus (Benth.) Halford, based on C. walcottii var. densiflorus Benth.; sidoides subsp. rostrisepalus (Domin) Halford, based on rostrisepalus Domin; sidoides subsp. vermicularis (F.Muell.) Halford, based on C. vermicularis F.Muell., are made. Two new subspecies are described: C. incanus subsp. lithophilus Halford and C. lasiocarpus subsp. parvus Halford. All new taxa are illustrated, while all taxa are described and mapped, and notes on their distribution, habitat and phenology are given. Lectotypes are chosen for Nettoa crozophorifolia Baill., C. elderi F.Muell., C. pumilio R.Br. ex Benth., C. rostrisepalus Domin, sidoides F.Muell., C. tomentellus F.Muell., C. walcottii F.Muell. and C. walcottii var. densiflorus Benth. All known synonyms are listed here including manuscript names that were used to identify taxa prior to their formal naming in this publication.
41738735|Marsdenia liisae J. Williams, a new species from north-eastern New South Wales related to M. glanduliera C. White of Queensland, is described and figured. Notes on habitat, distribution and conservation status are given.
41738686|Protasparagus africanus, an introduced weed from South Africa, is described and figured. Notes on its distribution and ecology are given with a key to the naturalised taxa of the Asparagaceae in Australia. The new combination Protasparagus densiflorus cv. Sprengeri is made based on Asparagus sprengen Regel.
41738849|E. fontanum is described and illustrated. A conservation status of 2V is recommended. A key to the Queensland species of Eryngium L. is given.
41739131|Davenportia R.W. Johnson is described as new. It differs from existing genera in the tribe Merremieae in its pollen morphology, hair type and bracteoles. Ipomoea davenportii F. Muell. is transferred to the new genus with the new combination Davenportia davenportii (F. Muell.) R.W. Johnson. Descriptions, illustrations and a distribution map are provided for Davenportia and its sole species.
41738835|Wrightia versicolor S.T. Blake is reinstated as a species distinct from W. pubescens R. Br. The species is described, illustrated and notes on distribution, habitat and conservation status are given. A key to distinguish the Australian species of Wrightia is presented.
43869000|The Australian taxa of the genus Diospyros are revised. Twenty two species (21 native and 1 naturalised) are recognised. Six species are described as new: Diospyros granitica Jessup, D. peninsularis Jessup, D. pluviatilis Jessup, D. rheophila Jessup, D. uvida Jessup and D. yandina Jessup and new combinations are made for D. hemicycloides (F.Muell. ex Benth.) Jessup (based on Maba hemicycloides F.Muell. ex Benth) and D. laurina (R.Br.) Jessup (based on Maba laurina R.Br.). Descriptions, distribution maps, illustrations and identification keys based on male or female material are provided.
41738714|Five new species of Sida L., 5. arenicola, S. argillacea, S. asterocalyx, S. brachypoda and S. everistiana are described, with notes on their distribution and relationship to other species that occur in Australia.
41738693|R. armillatum, R. ommatospermum, R. paniculatum, and R. homalocladum (F. Muell.) Pedley, with which R. paniculatum has been confused, are described. Flowers of R. fleckeri (Pedley) Pedley, are described for the first time. These are all members of the 'Oligoneura group' of Racosperma which is here defined. Other new species are R. meiospermum and R. polyadenium. All species are referred to Racosperma sect. Plurinervia.
41739089|Three new subspecies of Zieria odorifera endemic to northern New South Wales are described and illustrated, these being: subsp. copelandii Duretto & P.I.Forst., subsp. warrabahensis Duretto & P.I.Forst, and subsp. williamsii Duretto & P.I.Forst. A key to the four subspecies of Z. odorifera is provided.
41965601|Utricularia corneliana R.W.Jobson, possibly endemic to the Minnamoolka area of northern Queensland, is described, illustrated, and differentiated from the local, and closely related African and South American species. Notes are provided on habitat and ecology, and conservation status. A key to Australian and related suspended aquatic species of Utricularia is provided.
41739014|Backhousia enata A.J.Ford, Craven & J.Holmes is described, illustrated and compared with a putatively related species. Notes on habitat, distribution, conservation status and an analysis of essential oils are provided. The oil profile of the new species is most similar to that of B. sciadophora F. Muell. whereas morphologically B. enata is very similar to B. myrtifolia Hook. & Harvey, to which we believe it is most closely related. A revised key to the species of Backhousia is presented.
41738680|Melaleuca alternifolia (Maiden & Betche)Cheel, M. arcana S. T. Blake, M. argentea W. V. Fitzg., M. armillaris (Sol. ex Gaertner)Smith, M. bracteata F. Muell., M. cajaputi Powell, M. capitata Cheel, M. dealbata S.T. Blake, M. deanei F. Muell., M. decora (Salisb.)J. Britten, M. diosmatifolia Dum-Cours., M. ericifolia Smith, M. groveana Cheel & White, M. howeana Cheel, M. kunzeoides Byrnes, M. lanceolata Otto, M. leucadendra (L.)L., M. linophylla F. Muell., M. nervosa Lindley, M. parvistaminea Byrnes, M. pustulata J.D. Hook., M. saligna Schauer, M. sericea Byrnes, M. sieben Schauer, M. squamea Labili, M. stenostachya S.T. Blake, M. styphelioides Smith, M. viminalis (Sol. ex Gaertner)Byrnes are described and maps of their distributions given. M. quinquenervia (Cav.)S.T. Blake is included in M. viridiflora (as M. viridiflora var. rubriflora Brong. & Gris). Four other varieties of the species are recognised. Callistemon viminalis is referred to Melaleuca (as M. viminalis (Sol. ex Gaertner)Byrnes).
41739071|Two species of Siphula are described and illustrated: S. australiensis Kantvilas sp. nov. from the Central and Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, and S. parhamii Kantvilas sp. nov. from the humid wet tropics of Queensland. Their relationships with other taxa in the genus are discussed. An unusual, peltate form of Siphula coriacea Nyl. from Central Queensland is briefly noted and illustrated.
41738754|The tribe Aeschynomeneae has been revised. Seven genera, viz Aeschynomene L. (6 species), Arachis L. (1 species), Cyclocarpa Afzelius ex Urban (1 species), Ormocarpum P. Beauv. (1 species), Smithia Aiton (2 species), Stylosanthes Swartz (5 species) and Zornia J. Gmelin (17 species), occur in Australia. With the exception of Zornia (discussed previously) all genera are dealt with in this paper. All taxa are described and keys to the subtribes, genera and species (in each genus) and distributional maps of the species are provided. No new taxa are described in this account. Aeschynomene, Arachis and Stylosanthes have been introduced into Australia (some probably from pre European times) and have become naturalised. Arachis was introduced for its fruits and Aeschynomene and Stylosanthes for trials as pasture legumes.
41739123|A new species of Citrus is described and illustrated and its putative relationships discussed. Citrus wakonai is known from Goodenough Island, Milne Bay Archipelago in Papua New Guinea where it is a small understorey tree up to 6 m tall. It provides small edible fruit, but currently lacks potential as a source of new rootstocks or germplasm for the citrus industry due to viral susceptibility.
41739034|A new species from the 'Wet Tropics' rainforest, Cupaniopsis papulosa is described and illustrated. This species is restricted to upland rainforest (complex notophyll vineforest) on basalt-derived substrates near Ravenshoe. A revised key to the species of Australian Cupaniopsis is provided.
41739166|The hybrid Sonneraiia taxon, S. alba  S. caseolaris, previously reported from an isolated stand in north-western Borneo, has been observed in north-eastern Australia as widespread and consistent in morphological form. The taxon is described as S.  gulngai. Notes on its floral phenology, distribution in Australia and its ecology are given.
41738993|Phebalium distans P.I.Forst, is named as a new species and distinguished from P. longifolium S.T.Blake (newly resurrected at specific rank) and P. squamulosum Vent. It is known from ten extant populations in small remnants of semi-evergreen vine thickets in southeastern Queensland and is considered as endangered due to the low number of populations with few individuals. Both P. distans and P. longifolium are described and illustrated. A key to the species of Phebalium in Queensland is provided.
41738737|Two species of Ancana F. Muell. occur in Australia, viz A. stenopetala F. Muell. and A. hirsuta which is described as new. Possible relationships with other genera in Annonaceae are briefly discussed.
41965590|A new species of Cycas from the Broadsound and Connors Ranges in central Queensland is described, illustrated and diagnosed as C. terryana P.I.Forst. It is known from five populations in an area of occurrence of approximately 800 km and does not occur in any conservation reserves. A conservation status of Vulnerable based on the IUCN criterion of D2 is recommended for the species.
41738945|Apatophyllum teretifolium and A. flavovirens, both endemic to Queensland, are newly described and illustrated. The distribution, habitat and conservation status of each is discussed. Generic distinctions between Apatophyllum and Maytenus are discussed, including a comparison of the stomatal types possessed by the two genera. A key to all known species of Apatophyllum is presented.
41738997|Descriptions, illustrations and a distribution map are provided for six new Queensland species of Hydrocotyle, viz. H. digitata, H. dipleura, H. miranda, H. oraria, H. paludosa and H. tumida. A key to all Queensland species is provided.
41739073|A new species from the ranges southwest of Brisbane, and the northeastern highlands of New South Wales, is described and illustrated. G hirtus, found in dry sclerophyll forest, belongs to a complex of weak scrambling subshrubs found throughout the Great Dividing Range, from Victoria to Queensland, and is most closely allied to G. longifolius and G. effusus.
41738672|Four species, Ipomoea antonschmidii, I. argillicola, I. polpha and I. saintronanensis are described as new.
41965588|The new species Pluchea punctata A.R.Bean and P. xanthina A.R.Bean are described from Queensland, with the latter replacing the misapplied name P. dioscoridis (L.) DC. Illustrations, a distribution map, and notes on the habitat and conservation status are provided for each new species. A note is given regarding the apparent sexual dimorphism of Pluchea baccharoides. A key to the identification of Queensland species of Pluchea is included.
41738866|The simple-haired species of the genus Corchorus are revised for Australia. A generic description of Corchorus is given based on Australian material. Thirteen species are recognised, C. aestuans L., C. capsularis L., C. cunninghamii F. Muell., C. fascicularis Lam., C. hygrophilus Benth., C. macropetalus (F. Muell.) Domin, C. macropterus G.J. Leach & Cheek, C. olitorius L., C. pascuorum Domin, C. reynoldsiae Halford, C. thozetii Halford, C. tridens L. and C. trilocularis L. Distributional maps and illustrations are provided for all 13 species. Lectotypes are selected for C. cunninghamii F. Muell., C. pascuorum Domin, C. tridens L. and Triumfetta macropetalus F. Muell.
41738681|The genus Combretum Loefl. (Combretaceae) is recorded for the first time from Australia with the discovery of C. trifoliatum Vent, in northern Cape York Peninsula. The species is described and figured from Australian material. A key to the Australian genera of Combretaceae is given.
41738710|Anthericum adenanthera G. Forster is lectotypified and Dianella intermedia Endl. is neotypifed. Dianella adenanthera comb. nov. is made for certain plants in New Caledonia. The species does not occur in Australia. D. adenanthera and D. intermedia, from Norfolk Island, are not conspecific.
41738679|Laxmannia compacta Conran & P. Forster, a new species from eastern Australia is described and figured. This species was previously included within L. gracilis R.Br.
41738813|Paspalum moratii sp. nov. is described and its relationship with allied species is discussed.
41738673|A new species Goniothalamus australis from north-eastern Queensland is described thereby extending the known distribution of the genus to Australia.
41738814|Plectranthus graniticola, P. minutus, P. nitidus, P. omissus and P. torrenticola are described as new. All are endemic to Queensland except for P. nitidus which also occurs in New South Wales. All are restricted in distribution and are endangered species. A new description is provided for P. argentatus S.T. Blake to compare it with the allied species  P. graniticola, P. omissus and P. torrenticola. New localities for P. gratus S.T. Blake and P. amicorum S.T. Blake in Queensland are recorded and both species are allocated conservation codings. A new locality for P. arenicola P. Forster is recorded and the species is allocated a revised conservation coding. P. amboinicus (Lour.) Sprengel is recorded as naturalised in the Brisbane area. A key to the native and naturalised species of Plectranthus occurring in Queensland is presented.
41738946|Jasminum domatiigerum subsp. australis from north Queensland is described as new and is illustrated and compared with other related species from Australia. Previous records of this species are from New Guinea where it occurs in similar habitats. This is the first reported occurrence from Australia. Notes are provided on its distribution, habitat and conservation status. A key to the Australian and New Guinea trifoliolate species of Jasminum is provided.
41739022|Taxa previously allocated subspecies rank under Philotheca myoporoides are elevated to species rank as P. conduplicata (Paul G. Wilson) P.I.Forst., P. epilosa (Paul G. Wilson) P.I.Forst., P. glasshousiensis (Domin) P.I.Forst., P. obovatifolia (Bayly) P.I.Forst, and P. queenslandica (C.T.White) P.I.Forst. Diagnostic descriptions and a key are provided to the Queensland species of Philotheca section Erionema (F.Muell.) Paul G. Wilson.
41739091|A new species (Plectranthus batianoffii P.I. Forst.) known from several continental islands in north-east Queensland is described and illustrated. A conservation status of Vulnerable is recommended.
41738732|The recognition of subspecies in Ceropegia cumingiana Decne is unwarranted. An illustrated taxonomic account of C. cumingiana and notes on habitat, distribution, ecology, affinities, variation, conservation status and ethnobotanical use are provided. A lectotype is chosen for C. perforata N.E. Br.
41738930|Peperomia hunteriana is described and illustrated. Information is provided on its distribution and habitat. A conservation status of Rare is recommended. A key to the native and naturalised species of Peperomia in mainland Australia is appended.
41738892|The DNA sequence of the large subunit of the chloroplast enzyme, ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rbcL), has been determined for Hernandia albiflora and Doryphora aromatica (F. M. Bailey) L.S.Sm. (Monimiaceae). Bootstrap analyses of these sequences and those from related species were carried out using parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood methods. Hernandia albiflora is very strongly grouped with Hernandia ovigera L. (100%) in all three analyses. This supports its placement in the Hernandiaceae and not in the Lauraceae. The analyses also supported traditionally recognised phylogenies. For example, the Laurales are distinct from other magnoliid orders which are represented in our analyses by Eupomatia and Amborella. Within the Laurales Hernandiaceae, Lauraceae, Calycanthaceae and Monimiaceae are distinct clades. The molecular analyses differ from Cronquist (1988) in the inclusion of Idiospermum with the Calycanthaceae (supported by 99-100% of bootstrap replicates in our analyses), and the weak association of Gyrocarpus with the Hernandiaceae (supported in less than 65% of bootstrap replicates). Our analyses also suggest that Doryphora may be in a separate clade from Hedycarya, but this needs to be examined further by the inclusion of sequence data from more species of Monimiaceae.
41739149|A descriptive analysis of the bryophytes occurring within the wallum environment, together with notes on their host/substratum, micro-habitat and occurrence in the adjacent bryophyte community is provided. Six moss and five liverwort species are recorded, and the most northerly known occurrence of the moss Sphagnum australe Mitt. is noted.
41738662|The ironbark species allied to Eucalyptus crebra are discussed and E. pruinosa is rejected from this group on account of its box bark. A new species belonging to the group, E. quadricostata, from the Pentland district, Queensland, is described.
41739021|Details of the first collection of Boronia inflexa Duretto subsp. grandiflora Duretto with accurate site and habitat information are presented. The descriptions for the species and subspecies are revised and an amended key to the subspecies of B. inflexa is provided. The habitat of the B. inflexa subsp. grandiflora is discussed for the first time and it is recommended that the conservation status of the subspecies be revised to 'Critically Endangered'.
41738877|Astrotricha pauciflora A.R. Bean, a new species from Mount Barney National Park is described, illustrated and compared to related species. Astrotricha roddii Makinson is newly recorded for Queensland.
41738618|Acacia tephrina and A. handonis are described as new. A. lazaridis is a new name for A. brevifolia (F. Muell. ex Benth.) Benth. non (Lodd.) G. Don. A. clivicoto Pedley is referred to A. stowardii Maiden which is distinguished from A. duriuscuto W.V. Fitzg. A. difflcilis Maiden and E. estrophiolata F. Muell., recorded from Queensland for the first time, are described. Notable extensions to the ranges of A. cincinnata F. Muell. and A. sotondri Benth. and an additional specimen of A. ramiflora Domin are recorded. A. angustissima (Miller) Kuntze is recorded as an occasional weed in tropical Queensland though its deliberate introduction is also noted.
41739161|The genera Cardiospermum (2 naturalised species), Allophylus (1 species), Castanospora (1 species), Ganophyllum (1 species), Lepisanthes (1 species), Guioa (6 species), Rhysotoechia (4 species), Cupaniopsis (10 species), Distichostemon (6 species) and Sarcopteryx (5 species) are dealt with. All taxa are described and keys to the species in each genus provided. Cupaniopsis fleckeri, C. newmanii, Distichostemon arnhemicus, D. barklyanus, D. hispidulus war. aridus, Sarcopteryx acuminata, S. montana and S. reticulata are described as new. Cupaniopsis tomentella is a new combination based on Cupania tomentella F. Muell. ex Benth. (syn. Cupaniopsis serrata (F. Muell.) Radlk. var. tomentella (F. Muell. ex Benth.) Radlk.). Distichostemon hispidulus var. phyllopterus is a new combination based on D. phyllopterus F. Muell.
