10.2307/3872612|The official records of forestry and hunting organizations were examined for data pertaining to the legal and illegal harvest of brown bears (Ursus arctos) during 1946-85 in Gorski Kotar, Yugoslavia. During the 40-year period, 281 brown bears (191 males, 57 females, and 33 of unknown sex) were killed in Gorski Kotar. Total annual mortality ranged from 0 to 20. Bear mortalities consisted of 205 (73%) by hunting, 26 (9%) by poisoning, 31 (11%) by traffic (trains and motor vehicles), and 19 (7%) by unknown causes. Legal hunting accounted for 169 (60%) of all losses, illegal shooting took 36 (13%), and deaths from other causes totalled 76 (27%). The estimated ages of bears killed were 25 bears <1 year (9%), 105 bears 1-4 years (37%), and 151 bears >4 years of age (54%). Of bears killed, 105 (37%) weighed <100 kg, 80 (29%) weighed 100-150 kg, and 96 (34%) weighed > 150 kg. Legal hunting, accomplished by shooting from elevated stands over baits, tended to select adult males. About one-half of the illegally shot bears were taken in the same fashion and those also favored adult males. The most successful hunting occurred in spring (Mar-May) when 142 (69%) of 205 legally and illegally harvested bears were taken. The greater spring hunting success compared to other seasons was attributed to a number of factors including greater bear use of baiting sites because of the lack of natural foods and increased hunting effort because of pelt primeness.
10.2307/3872918| Production of foods has been linked to population sizes, social organization and mating strategies of many vertebrates, yet few studies of bears have quantified food production. In the Southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, we quantified production of 2 important foods for black bears (Ursus americanus) during 1986-1988 and the U.S Forest Service quantified a third between 1962 and 1973. Annual production of squaw root (Conopholis americana) averaged 4.14 kg/ha whereas annual production of berries (Vaccinium spp., Gaylussacia spp., Rubus spp.) averaged 52 kg/ha in areas with berry bush cover, which translates to 2.6 kg/ha over the whole forest (including areas without berry cover). Mean gross energy production by squaw root was 4.97  10
10.2307/3872525|A method was developed to test food preferences of 2 young captive female black bears (Ursus americanus) under controlled conditions. Two sets of food items (5 native and 7 non-native) were tested biweekly for 1 year in a seminatural enclosure in Tennessee. The bears exhibited definite preferences among both sets of foods. The preferences were significantly correlated between the bears and were consistent throughout the year. In the native food test, acorns (Quercus alba) were the most preferred. In the non-native food test, fish (Ictiobus sp.) was the most preferred food. The foods most highly preferred were rich in either protein or carbohydrates.
10.2307/3872744|The hunting of mountain lions (Felis concolor), tule elk (Cervus elaphus nannodes), black bears (Ursus americanus), and other mammals has become controversial in California. Litigation by animal protection groups has resulted in several rulings regarding procedures used to adopt hunting regulations. The process has resulted in all hunting regulations being adopted pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act. Although the process has been expensive and frustrating, and hunting opportunities have been foregone, many benefits in terms of the public's increased awareness of key issues facing wildlife populations have resulted from the litigation.
10.2307/3872728|Habitat loss adjacent to Riding Mountain National Park (RMNP), as is common on nature reserves throughout North America, is creating insular pockets of wilderness and wildlife. Consequently, successful management of black bear (Ursus americanus) populations within the area of RMNP requires an understanding of trans-boundary movement, spatial distribution, and location specific areas of mortality. The Canadian Parks Service (CPS) is mandated to preserve black bears in a naturally regulated system, while the Manitoba Department of Natural Resources (MNR) is required to maintain a black bear population of sufficient size to support existing consumptive and nonconsumptive uses. Information derived from radio monitoring 47 black bears of mixed ages, sexes, and reproductive status over a 3-year period was analyzed using a Geographic Information System (GIS). Movements of individual bears, were analyzed relative to the availability and distribution of home ranges, den locations, and unnatural foods at landfill locations and hunter bait sites. Implications and applications of GIS are discussed.
10.2307/3872599|During the 16th century, the European brown bear (Ursus arctos) inhabited most of the Iberian Peninsula. At present, its range in Spain is limited to 2 relict populations: the Pyrenees and the Cantabrian mountains. In 1973, the bear was declared a protected species; hunting was prohibited and compensation was paid for all livestock and agricultural damages by bears. The small Cantabrian bear population is distributed throughout 5 provinces covering approximately 5,000 km
10.2307/3872885|On the central Alaska Peninsula, 344 different coastal brown bears (Ursus arctos L.) were immobilized and marked during 5 spring seasons. Between 1970 and 1976, the observed locations of 123 marked bears were determined 354 times, and the locations of 139 marked bears killed by hunters during spring and fall hunting seasons were recorded. Bears moved greater distances per unit of time during spring than during other seasons of the year. Summer movements were restricted as bears concentrated along streams to feed on salmon. Dispersal away from streams began in late summer. Denning usually began by mid-November, but some bears remained out of hibernation through mid-December. The seasonal ranges of 30 adult females averaged 293 km
10.2307/3872619| Criteria that could be used to determine habitat quality for the spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus) were defined in the Historical Sanctuary of Machu Picchu and 3 adjacent valleys. Habitat quality was determined by a comparison of vegetative and environmental data between regularly selected sites and sites that contained bear sign. Good grassland habitat was found to have hiding cover within 25 m in subalpine paramo, 35 m in rain paramo, and 40 m in steppe habitat. Desirable criteria for slope were maximum values that ranged between 26.6 and 46.0 for the 3 habitats. Paramo sites used for feeding were found to have at least 3 food species with a combined importance value of 6.0 in subalpine paramo and 9.0 in rain paramo habitat. Similar sites in steppe habitat had at least 2 food species with a combined importance value of 1.4. Four desirable criteria for forested habitats were based on parameters from sites used by traveling or feeding bears. Good quality sites for traveling bears had slopes less than 34.6 and less than 49% vegetation cover between 0.15 and 1 m above the ground. Forested sites that met criteria for good food quality had at least 2 bear foods with a combined importance value of at least 3.8. Better habitat with less human disturbance was found in the Lucumayo and Santa Teresa drainages bordering the Sanctuary than in the Sanctuary. 
10.2307/3872887|Forty-seven completed and partially dug grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) dens were examined in Banff National Park, Alberta, Canada, in 1975-76. The following environmental parameters were measured or estimated at most den sites: slope, aspect, altitude, soils, vegetation, snow accumulation, and age. Most environmental parameters studied had low variability. They appeared to be important in relation to dens that were physically stable for at least 1 winter, and where snow accumulation and perhaps thermal inversion contributed to energy conservation within the den. When environmental parameters associated with dens in Banff Park are compared with those found for grizzly/brown bear dens elsewhere, some parameters, such as slope angle and snow accumulation, are similar; others, such as elevation and aspect, are dissimilar. Despite the differences, which appear to be due to local biogeoclimatic factors, a comparison of data from various areas yields a consistent, general picture of the ecology of grizzly bear den sites.
10.2307/3872939|There are few records of predation by polar bears (Ursus maritimus) on walruses (Odobenus rosmarus), although their distributions overlap extensively. During the late winter and early spring from 1981 through 1989, we recorded interactions between polar bears and walruses in the central Canadian High Arctic, where walrus movements are severely restricted in the winter by limited areas of open water for breathing and haulout holes. Predatory behaviour of bears and anti-predator behaviour of walruses were observed. We found evidence that polar bears made wounding but non-fatal attacks on 3 walruses, killed 3 walruses, and probably killed 4 others. One walrus was frozen out of its breathing hole and vulnerable to predation. Although the vulnerability of walruses to polar bear predation would vary with habitats and seasons, it is clear that polar bears are important predators of walruses in the central Canadian High Arctic in late winter-early spring.
10.2307/3872655|The conservation problems of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Cantabrian Mountains of Spain include illegal hunting and habitat loss. Recovery Plans recommend increasing the number of guards in key areas, declaring more Parks and Reserves, and evaluating environmental impacts. Even though their application is still minimal, Recovery Plans are to date the best technical and legal instrument in existence for brown bear preservation in Spain.
10.2307/3872528|Habitat use by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) was studied from 1977 through 1979 in a 20,000-km
10.2307/3872670|Moose (Alces alces) hunters were asked to report brown bear (Ursus arctos) observations made during the hunting season in central south Norway and in the eastern part of Hedmark county in the late 1960s and 1970s. Extremely high values for hunter-days/bear observation were obtained, indicating very low bear density. The density in Hedmark was about twice as large as that in central south Norway during the late 1970s. The quantitative results of a previous tracking study on snow in central south Norway could be converted to density in Hedmark by means of the results of the moose hunter study, since conditions during the hunt were very similar in the 2 areas. An approximate number of bears could thus be calculated for Hedmark, which was much lower than previous and later estimates.
10.2307/3872820|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) were observed in 2 alpine areas in Denali National Park, Alaska, in 1980. The dispersion and variety of habitat types and seasonal changes in food availability influenced use of the areas by brown bears. The presence of mated pairs apparently excluded family units. Habitat use and activities of bears were influenced by the phenological development of crowberry (Empetrum nigrum), peavine (Hedysarum alpinum), horsetail (Equisetum arvense), polar grass (Arctagrostis latifolia), soapberry (Shepherdia canadensis), and availability of animal food items.
10.2307/3872815|Dens of radio-instrumented black bears (Ursus americanus) were examined in the southern Appalachian Mountains from 1973 to 1982. Most dens were in tree cavities high above ground. Entrance height differed among tree species with high entrances in yellow poplars (Liriodendron tulipifera) and low entrances in chestnut oak (Quercus prinus), red maple (Acer rubrum), and yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis). Den tree species differed with elevation, macrotopography, and microtopography. Both tree dens and ground dens were characterized by high microtopographic position. Chestnut oaks and northern red oaks (Q. rubra) comprised 10 of 15 tree dens in the exterior of the study area. Extensive use of these 2 species indicates the importance of incorporating site provisions into timber management plans in the Southern Appalachian Region.
10.2307/3872814| Radiotelemetry was used to locate 101 grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) dens from 1975 to 1980; 35 dens were examined on the ground. Pregnant females denned in late October, and most other bears denned by mid-November. Duration of denning averaged 113, 132, and 170 days for males, females, and females with new cubs, respectively. Males emerged from mid-February to late March, followed by single females and females with yearlings and 2-year-olds. Females with new cubs emerged from early to mid-April. Den sites were associated with moderate tree cover (26%-75% canopy cover) on 30-60 slopes. Dens occurred on all aspects, although northerly exposures were most common. Grizzly bears usually dug new dens but occasionally used natural cavities or a den from a previous year. Males usually dug larger dens than females with young. Eight excavated and 2 natural dens of the 35 examined dens were used for more than 1 year. 
10.2307/3872691|Whereas many short-term goals to maintain bears and biodiversity target biological concerns and use preservationist strategies, long-term maintenance depends on improving human welfare and development. The focus of this paper is to provide ways to resolve conflicts between short- and long-term goals and to improve the delivery of inputs to human and wildlife targets in developing countries. The entire world community has a stake and responsibility in the outcome of bear conservation. The importance of bears to the progression from permanent agriculture to regional development, and to national, and international security is discussed.
10.2307/3872833|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) require large areas to satisfy their needs for food, cover, and space. They thrive best where disturbance by man is minimal. It is not a coincidence that the two major grizzly bear populations in the lower 48 states exist in large wilderness systems closely associated with two large national parks and a relatively large game preserve. If management objectives for these areas do not change, and man-bear interactions can be kept low, viable grizzly bear populations can probably be maintained. Outside of parks and wilderness areas, the picture is less clear. Grizzly bears adapt to some habitat modifications. The extent of their adaptability to habitat modification or human interaction is largely unknown. Answers to many pertinent questions will be slow in coming. In the meantime, management policies based on common sense rather than on adversary reactions among agencies are the best insurance of the grizzlies' survival.
10.2307/3872933| Brown bear (Ursus arctos middendorffi) movements and seasonal range were examined in relation to the temporal and spatial distribution of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) on southwest Kodiak Island, Alaska, from 1983 to 1987. Salmon were available to bears from late June to mid-December and were utilized by all sex and age classes. From 50-89% of adult females fished at 2 separate areas of salmon abundance each year. Mean composite summer range of females tracked 2-5 yrs (108 km
10.2307/3872720| Thirty-three black bears (Ursus americanus) were captured and 27 (11 F: 16 M) were radiocollared from 1983 to 1988 on 2 study areas in north-central Florida to study home-range characteristics, habitat use, and mortality. A total of 2,146 locations were recorded. Home-range sizes, calculated by the convex polygon method, averaged 170  26 (SE) km
10.2307/3872672|We studied brown bear (Ursus arctos) reproductive rates by monitoring females with cubs in the 2 unconnected populations in the Cantabrian Mountains in northwest Spain. Annual average number of females with cubs, number of cubs, and litter size were 5.00, 11.20, and 2.24 respectively, for the western population (1986-90), and 1.67, 2.67, and 1.67, respectively, for the eastern population (1988-1990, except mean litter size, 1985-90). The significantly larger litter size for the western population (P < 0.05) may be related to greater food availability. At least 2 of the 6 females breeding in 1989 bred again in 1991 after an especially good hard-mast crop in 1989 and 1990.
10.2307/3872529|Vegetation was sampled on 330 sites known to be used by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). The response to disturbance of 6 shrub species important as grizzly bear foods was determined by comparing their percent canopy cover on disturbed sites with that on undisturbed, old-growth sites. Overall, the canopy cover of these species was higher on sites burned by wildfire 35-70 years ago than on comparable old-growth sites. The canopy cover of these species was generally less on clearcut sites where the slash was bulldozer-piled than on burned sites. The shrub response on clearcut sites where slash was not treated was intermediate; some shrubs increased while others declined. Site treatment is at least partially responsible for this differential response; bulldozer-scarification apparently destroys the vegetative reproductive organs of these shrubs. Habitat use patterns of 4 radio-collared grizzly bears were studied in 1979. Grizzly bears preferred snowchutes, ridgetops, and creek bottoms during the spring; they preferred shrubfields, slabrock, ridgetops, and creek bottoms during the summer/fall. Cutting units and habitat affected by open, travelled roads were avoided throughout the active season. Cutting units used by grizzly bears were generally isolated from human disturbance factors and provided nearby cover (within 50 m) in the form of well-developed shrub strata, leave trees, and cutting unit boundaries.
10.2307/3872841|Typical mammalian hibernators overwinter with low metabolism (0.01 normal), heart rate (7 bpm), and body temperature (5 C). There is some evidence that bears hibernate like typical small (50-500 g) mammalian hibernators. It is known that bears remain in winter dens for 4-7 months with very little movement and without food, water, urination, or defecation; they show a large reduction in heart rate and a small reduction in core temperature. To gain further evidence, we compared the unique EKG of typical hibernators with the EKG of bears with respect to season, activity, and dormancy. In this study, the EKG of 3 species of bears and of Marmota hibernators was recorded by implanted radio-capsule while they were in winter dens. The EKG of awake typical small hibernators is characterized by a reduced relaxation (QT) interval. It was determined that the 3 species of bears, when awake, also have a reduced relaxation interval (bears 0.14-0.23 second; marmota-species 0.07-0.14 second; man 0.39 second). This finding was interpreted as further evidence that bears are hibernators. Additional findings were that (1) the faster the heart rate of hibernators, the shorter is the relaxation interval; and (2) at a constant heart rate, the relaxation interval of both bears and typical hibernators when nondormant, changes from winter to summer.
10.2307/3872541|The temporal distribution of activity and rest over the 24-hour cycle is characteristic of a species and, to some extent, a function of the environment. Parameters of this distribution could possibly be used to estimate the stress on a given animal population. To measure the diel activity pattern of the last brown bears (Ursus arctos) of the Alps, which live in a relatively densely populated area (70 human inhabitants/km
10.2307/3872696|In China, a bear's fur, grease, gall, paw, meat, and other parts are highly valued. The bear has been an important game species since ancient times. However, in the past 100 years, bear habitat has been destroyed, and the number of bears has been declining because of unreasonable hunting methods, overharvest, and extensive deforestation. The result is that every subspecies of bear in China is now listed in the protected animal catalog, not only protected by national wildlife protection law, but also supervised by CITES. China formerly was one of the countries with the most abundant bear resources.
10.2307/3872927|Investigations of brown bear (Ursus arctos middendorffi) denning ecology in 2 areas of Kodiak Island, Alaska, revealed that subpopulations of bears living within 70 km of each other had developed noticeably different denning behaviors. One hundred and fifteen radio-collared brown bears were located in 321 dens. The relative order in which bears in various reproductive categories entered their dens was similar in both study areas; females entered dens earlier than most males, and pregnant females generally entered dens earliest. Female bears in Southwest Kodiak generally entered their dens 2 to 3 weeks later than their counterparts in the Terror Lake area. We hypothesize that this variation was related to the relative food availability in the 2 areas during late autumn. Emergence chronology was similar in both areas. Males were generally the 1st group to emerge from their dens, and females with new cubs were usually last. Bears at Terror Lake preferred steep slopes in alpine habitat for den sites. In Southwest Kodiak, midslope habitat and moderate slopes were preferred denning habitat. Two areas with high concentrations of dens were identified in the Terror Lake area. A high degree of fidelity to specific den sites was exhibited by individual brown bears on Kodiak. Two notable anomalies in denning behavior were observed in this study; use of multiple dens by 27 bears and failure to enter dens by 8 bears. Management implications of the differences in the denning ecology of these subpopulations are discussed.
10.2307/3872884|Brown bear (Ursus arctos middendorffi) alpine summer habitat use patterns were studied at the Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge in 1973, 1974, and 1975. Seven plant communities were described and mapped within the alpine and subalpine zones of the 56.5-km
10.2307/3872717|Movement, home range, and habitat use of 10 (7 M and 3 F) brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) were investigated by radiotracking in southwestern Oshima Peninsula, Hokkaido, from May 1987 through May 1990. The annual home-range size was 28.1-39.1 km
10.2307/3872686|Increased bear activity associated with food conditioning led to excessive nonsport kills in Juneau, Alaska. Improvements in garbage handling were sought through public education and enforcement of sanitation ordinances. Aversive conditioning, both physical and ingestional, were used to change bear behavior and reduce nonsport losses. Rubber bullets were used on 14 bears and an emetic (Thiobendazol) was added to garbage cans. All but 1 bear continued to forage in town. Garbage handling was improved, but current containment ordinances failed to functionally limit food availability to bears. Education improved public attitudes and understanding of the problem. Aversives may be useful in settings where single source anthropogenic food sources occur, but are of questionable value in urban locales.
10.2307/3872904|Visual observations were used to determine if human recreational activity affected grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) use of open meadow areas in Pelican Valley, Yellowstone National Park. Visitor compliance with bear management regulations and safety warnings were also evaluated. From May-September 1984-88, 944 bear observations were recorded. During this period, the study area was managed for 3 levels of backcountry use: open (both day use and overnight camping allowed), restricted use (day use only), and closed (no visitor use allowed). The average flight distance of grizzly bears to tree cover following disturbance by backcountry users was 422 m. When the valley was open to visitors, bear activity in areas greater than 500 m from forest cover was significantly reduced and bears avoided areas around occupied backcountry campsites. No differences in diurnal hourly activity patterns were observed among the open, restricted, and closed periods. Foot parties were more likely to be charged during an encounter with a grizzly bear than people on horseback. All incidents in which hikers were charged by bears involved groups of 1 or 2 people. Only 17% of the observed hiking parties followed the recommended group size of 4 or more people. Compliance with the area closure and day use only regulations was 99% and 83%, respectively.
10.2307/3872681|The Ministry of Forestry of the Peoples Republic of China and World Wide Fund for Nature have cooperated since 1980 in an effort to conserve the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) in the wild in China. This conservation project has 4 major components: biological research, population survey, management planning, and training. This paper first evaluates the focus and results of the biological research using a framework based on population viability analysis and life-history theory. Demographic parameters and the causes of their variation are still poorly understood. A number of habitat-related ecological processes are relatively well understood. Second the paper assesses the dominant role of biological research in the project. The principal threats to panda population viability are anthropogenic: habitat loss and poaching. However, this conservation project has not sufficiently addressed the socio-economic conditions and behaviors that cause and influence the threats to panda persistence. Incorporating social scientists along with biological scientists in a team of investigators at the inception of a conservation project should make the project more successful.
10.2307/3872656|The giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) population in Wuyipeng is a well-protected, well-studied population, and many parameters for population viability analysis (PVA) computer modeling are available. We used Vortex software (Version 5.1) to model the conservation status of the Wuyipeng giant panda population. The initial population size modeled was 25 in 1981 at Wuyipeng, with a carrying capacity of 62. Because of a bamboo (Bashania fangiana) die-off in 1983, carrying capacity declined from 62 to 50, with a 4.21% annual decrease for 5 years. Results showed a potential annual growth rate of 1.066. Though this small population has a potential for population growth, the extinction rate of all simulations were >10%, and expected heterozygosity retained <80%, even without inbreeding depression or catastrophes. All extinction rates modeled failed to meet the minimum tolerance of 2% for probability of extinction in 100 years set by the conservation objectives under realistic assumptions. Therefore, these results support immediate conservation measures for wild giant pandas in China.
10.2307/3872637|One hundred ten dens of 57 black bears (Ursus americanus) were examined in east-central Ontario from 1976 to 1980. Most bears denned within summer range boundaries. Entry dates ranged from 20 September to 29 November. Denning sequence was yearlings, pregnant females, solitary females, females with cubs, adult males, and subadults of both sexes. Bears that fed on acorns denned later than non-acorn feeders. Eighty-nine percent of dens (N = 110) were excavations below ground level, and 84% occurred on well-drained upland sites. Dens of individual bears in consecutive years were similar. There was no indication of den reuse. Cubs orphaned during the spring hunt constructed and lined dens similar to those of older bears. In 1 instance, a 2-year-old male was denned with an adult female and 2 newborn cubs. Thirty-three percent of yearlings and 11% of subadults abandoned dens due to investigator disturbance; young males abandoned dens more frequently than females. Emergence extended from 23 March to 1 May with a peak around 5-20 April. Males were the 1st group to emerge and females with cubs, the last. Adjustment of hunting seasons to harvest specific sex and age groups selectively during the fall would be only marginally successful due to the lengthy den entrance period and overlap of entrance times among groups. During the spring hunt, females with cubs could be afforded greater protection by closing the hunting season earlier.
10.2307/3872923|Kruskal-Wallis tests were used to compare annual and seasonal activity for adult males, adult females with cubs, and adult females without cubs among grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) of the northern Yukon Territory; Tuktoyaktuk Peninsula and Richards Island, Northwest Territories; west-central Alberta; and Jasper National Park, Alberta. Seasons were spring-early summer (15 May to 21 July) and mid-summer-early fall (22 July to 21 September). Multiple comparisons of mean class ranks from significant K-W tests (P < 0.05) were used to identify satistically distinct population subsets. These comparisons showed adult females without cubs in northern Yukon used annual and seasonal ranges that were significantly smaller than those for the same class of bears in the other study areas. Adult males in northern Yukon had the smallest annual home ranges. Bears in northern Yukon had lighter spring weights, were older, had the highest population density (26-30 bears/1,000 km
10.2307/3872718|Habitat-capability models are necessary for evaluating the effects of forest management on the management of indicator species (including brown bears [Ursus arctos]) of the Tongass National Forest. Habitat-use data from 95 radio-collared brown bears on Admiralty and Chichagof Islands were used to develop this habitat-capability model. Each of 20 habitats was assigned a habitat-capability value based on bear habitat preference or best professional judgment. The effects of human activity and resource development on brown bears were estimated, based on best professional judgment, as reductions in habitat capability within zones of human influence.
10.2307/3872932| The food habits and distribution by elevation of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Banff National Park, Alberta, were investigated during a 3-year radio-telemetry study. Analysis of feeding signs indicated that the typical year is divided into the following bear food seasons: 1) green-up (den exit to mid-June), when horsetails (Equisetum sp.) and graminoid vegetation (grasses, sedges and rushes) formed the major portion of the diets of bears, with importance values of 38.2 and 34.2%, respectively; 2) ant (mid-June to mid-July), when bears consumed ants (Formicidae) and ant larvae to a large extent (69.3%); 3) buffaloberry (mid-July to end-August), when bears fed upon buffaloberries (Shepherdia canadensis: 91.4%) once they ripened in mid-summer; 4) post-buffaloberry (end-August to den entry), when, once buffaloberries had fallen from the bushes, bears switched to alternate foods such as crowberries (Empetrum: 85.1%), bearberries (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi: 11.1%) and juniper (Juniperus communis) berries (0.7%). Some bears were found to feed primarily upon crowberries during this season, while others mainly ate bearberries. The mean elevation at which all collared bears were located ranged from 1,500-1,543 m during the first 3 seasons, but increased to 1,694 m during the post-buffaloberry season. Some bears, however, stayed at low elevations (x = 1,463 m) during the fall and fed upon bearberries. Those that fed upon crowberries during the post-buffaloberry season had a mean elevation of 1,768 m, while those that fed upon high-elevation bearberries and white-bark pine (Pinus albicaulis) nuts had a mean elevation of 1,818 m. 
10.2307/3872639| During May-July, 1981-85, 111 black bears (Ursus americanus) were immobilized with ketamine (x = 5.0 mg/kg) and xylazine (x = 2.0 mg/kg). Time from complete immobilization to recovery (walking) ranged from 22 to 140 min. We experimented with yohimbine (0.04-0.35 mg/kg) to counteract immobilization and thereby speed recovery. Eleven bears were given intramuscular injections of yohimbine, of which only 2 (18%) recovered within 10 min. In contrast, 35 bears were given intravenous injections of yohimbine, of which 31 (89%) recovered within 10 min (median = 5 min). Heart rates increased an average of 61% within 1 min of intravenous injections. Two bears that were immobilized with ketamine alone (10 mg/kg and 17 mg/kg) did not recover within 10 min after intravenous injection of yohimbine, although their heart rates increased appreciably. These data suggest that yohimbine antagonizes the effects of xylazine but likely does not counteract the effects of ketamine. We tested 3 dosages of yohimbine with respect to the dosage of xylazine (0.05, 0.10, and 0.15 mg yohimbine/mg xylazine) and found no differences in recovery times. Also, no relationships were observed between recovery times after yohimbine injection and the weight, age, or sex of the bear, dose of yohimbine given, time since immobilization (range 10-66 min), or the dose of ketamine given (range 2.7-8.9 mg/kg). We conclude that an intravenous injection of 0.05 mg yohimbine/mg xylazine provides a safe and effective antagonist to ketamine-xylazine immobilization in black bears. 
10.2307/3872522|Denning activities and den characteristics of black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in west-central Idaho during 1973-77. Den entry and emergence varied among bears and years, and the denning season extended from mid-October until mid-April. Thirty-one radio-instrumented bears were handled 83 times in 65 different dens. Forty-seven (72%) of the 65 dens were ground dens excavated into a hillside or under the base of a tree, stump, or shrub. Thirteen (20%) dens were located in the base of hollow trees and 5 (8%) in hollow logs or rock cavities. Bears denned at various elevations, slopes, and aspects, and under a variety of canopy coverages, but some selection for snow and vegetative cover characteristics at different elevations and aspects was noted. No significant differences in den dimensions were noted for specific sex or age classes of bears, except that adult males dug larger entrances (P < 0.05) than other bears. Four instances of den reuse were observed.
10.2307/3872851|A mark-recapture study of Alaskan polar bears (Ursus maritimus) was conducted between 1967 and 1976. Of 809 bears tagged, 147 were recaptured 1 or more times or killed by hunters. Three-year-old males and 6- and 7-year-old females were underrepresented in the captured sample. Analyses of cohort age composition over time indicated male (age 6+) and female (age 8+) annual survival rate of 0.84. Average litter size was 1.63 and breeding interval was 3.6 years. The age of first successful breeding for females was 5.4 years. For adult females, the average number of young per year was 0.45. With these fecundity estimates, the annual juvenile survival rate of 0.97 calculated from cohort data is that which is required to maintain population size.
10.2307/3872919|The present distribution and abundance of the ursids is but an ephemeral reflection of an evolutionary path that began with the first identifiable bear, the dawn bear (Ursavus elmensis), 20 million years ago in the early Miocene epoch. Although the dawn bear was only the size of a fox terrier, by the Pleistocene its descendents had evolved into some of the largest terrestrial carnivores the world has known. Most bear species evolved in the northern hemisphere although some dispersed and reached South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Each species had to cope with ecological changes that affected interspecific competition or the availability of food. Apparently the black bear was sufficiently adapted to have survived largely unchanged from what it was like a million years ago. Numerous species went extinct, leaving only the 8 still present today. Some understanding of the evolutionary pressures that the modern bears have evolved through may help us to understand their behavioral ecology. During the Pleistocene, bears at higher latitudes grew large and ecologically plastic while those closer to the equator remained small and became ecological specialists, as predicted by Geist's (1987) dispersal theory. Adaptations of the teeth of ancestral bear species allowed them to be both herbivores and carnivores. This allowed them to develop large size and broad ecological plasticity. Large body size enabled bears to conserve heat, capture large prey, defend carrion, travel great distances, and, as vegetation increased in the diet, to survive on qualitatively poorer food. Quantity and quality of available food and the degree of sexual dimorphism influenced the size of the home range and the evolution of social behavior in each species. Bears show a great deal of individual variation in behavior and may exploit different subniches as a result of learned behavior. Slight differences in phenotype may also influence exploitation of subniches. Recent literature indicates that some terrestrial bear species are more active predators than previously thought and some evidence suggests a degree of scaling between the size of bears and the size of their prey. Social signalling appears to have been influenced by life in forest habitats but is not well understood. We give a preliminary interpretation of the social organization of the present day bears through the interactive framework of proximate ecological pressures, phylogenetic history, and learning. There are likely few populations of bears anywhere in the world whose behavior has not been significantly influenced by man. This may confound our understanding of their behavior and ecology. Remaining populations of bears may not be able to adapt successfully to the combined effects of human predation, disappearing habitat, and climatic change.
10.2307/3872624| Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) habitat use in the Front Ranges of Banff National Park is described in terms of vegetation types and their successional status. The alpine zone was not important to foraging grizzly bears. Feeding in mature forest was recorded for only 1 major food, horsetails (Equisetum arvense), even though mature forest covered about one-third of the study area. Rather, grizzly bears fed for most foods in a variety of open and seral vegetation types in the subalpine zone. Factors limiting forest development included avalanching, cold air drainage, high water table, xeric site conditions (southerly exposure, well-drained soil, chinook wind) and, especially, wildfire. Of a 148 km
10.2307/3872725|The ecology of alpine aggregations of army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris) and the feeding behavior of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) at these areas were studied in the Yellowstone ecosystem from 1988 to 1991. Army cutworm moths migrate to mountain regions each summer to feed at night on the nectar of alpine and subalpine flowers, and during the day they seek shelter under various rock formations. Grizzly bears were observed feeding almost exclusively on moths up to 3 months each summer at the 10 moth-aggregation areas we identified. Fifty-one different grizzly bears were observed feeding at 4 of these areas during a single day in August 1991. Army cutworm moths are a preferred source of nutrition for many grizzly bears in the Yellowstone ecosystem and represent a high quality food that is available during hyperphagia.
10.2307/3872716|A black bear (Ursus americanus) food value index (FVI) was developed and calculated for forest cover type classifications on Ozark Mountain (White Rock) and Ouachita Mountain (Dry Creek) study areas in western Arkansas. FVIs are estimates of bear food production capabilities of the major forest cover types and were calculated using percent cover, mean fruit production scorings, and the dietary percentage of each major plant food species as variables. Goodness-of-fit analyses were used to determine use of forest cover types by 23 radio-collared female bears. Habitat selection by forest cover type was not detected on White Rock but was detected on Dry Creek. Use of habitats on Dry Creek appeared to be related to food production with the exception of regeneration areas, which were used less than expected but had a high FVI ranking. In general, pine cover types had low FVI rankings and were used less than expected by bears. Forest management implications are discussed.
10.2307/3872937|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) were observed preying on elk calves (Cervus elaphus) on 60 occasions in Yellowstone National Park, with 29 confirmed kills. Some bears were deliberate predators and effectively preyed on elk calves for short periods each spring, killing up to 1 calf daily. Primary hunting techniques were searching and chasing although some bears used a variety of techniques during a single hunt. They hunted both day and night and preyed on calves in the open and in the woods. Excess killing occurred when circumstances permitted. One bear caught 5 calves in a 15-minute interval. Elk used a variety of antipredator defenses and occasionally attacked predacious bears. The current level of this feeding behavior appears to be greater than previously reported. This is probably related to the increased availability of calves providing a greater opportunity for learning, and the adaptation of a more predatory behavior by some grizzly bears in Yellowstone.
10.2307/3872898|The role of the large provincial park system in British Columbia (B.C.) in protecting grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations, range and ecological variation was examined in a provincial, national and international context. Varying degrees of protection of grizzly bears are provided by the 53 larger parks over 1,000 ha each and 89 smaller parks under 1,000 ha each. Trophy hunting is still allowed in 20 parks. Grizzly bears are extirpated in 12 larger parks and severely reduced in another 7. These 19 parks represent about 10% of the total range of 4,402,600 ha protected by provincial parks. B.C. parks support about 6% of the provincial grizzly population, contribute 5.6% of grizzly range, and represent about 1/3 of the 45 distinct landscapes in grizzly range, thus protecting ecological diversity. Nationally, B.C. provincial parks contribute about 27.5% of the total area of Canada's protected grizzly range and about 39% of the protected population. Internationally, B.C. provincial parks preserve grizzly bears in 2 unique global biogeographical provinces and contribute to 2 important Canadian-U.S. protected grizzly regions. Preliminary minimum viable population analysis showed that no B.C. provincial park is large enough to support the number of grizzly bears (393) considered necessary for long-term survival of genetic in-breeding and catastrophes should park populations become further isolated. Preservation of B.C.'s valuable grizzly bear resource therefore depends on sound management of large ecological systems that include large cores of protected wilderness and adjoining multiple-use lands. A comprehensive management program is recommended.
10.2307/3872829|We analyzed plasma protein profiles in an attempt to identify physiological parameters associated with pregnancy in black bears (Ursus americanus) that might be used as early confirmation of this reproductive state. We collected serial blood samples from 2 animals over 3 consecutive fall periods. Both females were pregnant during the 1st and 3rd years; cubs from the 1st litters were removed early so females were in a non- pregnant, anestrus state during the 2nd year. We qualitatively analyzed the plasma proteins using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Several distinct differences were apparent between samples from pregnant and non-pregnant animals and the protein profile changed during pregnancy as the time of implantation approached. Results suggest that 1 or more plasma proteins are associated with early stages of pregnancy in the black bear.
10.2307/3872882|The natural food habits of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis Ord) in Yellowstone National Park were investigated in 1973-74 to identify the grizzly's energy sources and trophic level(s), nutrient use, and distribution. Food consumption was determined by scat analysis and field observations. Food quality and digestibility were estimated by chemical analysis. Grizzlies were distributed in 3 distinctive feeding economies: valley/plateau, a grass/rodent economy where grizzlies were intensive diggers; mountain, primarily a grass/springbeauty/root economy where grizzlies were casual diggers; and lake, primarily a fish/grass economy where grizzlies were fishers. The economies occured in areas with fertile soils; distribution of bears within each was related to the occurrence of succulent plants. The feeding cycle in the valley/plateau and mountain economies followed plant phenology. Grizzlies fed primarily on meat before green-up and on succulent herbs afterwards; meat, corms, berries, and nuts became important during the postgrowing season. Succulent grasses and sedges with an importance value percentage of 78.5 were the most important food items consumed. Protein from animal tissue was more digestible than protein from plant tissue. Storage fats were more digestible than structural fats. Food energy and digestibility were directly related. Five principle nutrient materials (listed with their percentage digestibilities) contributed to total energy intake: protein from succulent herbs, 42.8; protein and fat from animal material, 78.1; fat and protein from pine nuts, 73.6; starch, 78.8; and sugar from berries and fruits, digestibility undetermined. Protein from succulent herbs, with a nutritive value percentage of 77.3, was the grizzlies' primary energy source. Because succulent, preflowering herbs had higher protein levels than dry, mature herbs, grizzly use of succulent herbs guaranteed them the highest source of herbaceous protein. Low protein digestibility of succulent herbs was compenstated for by high intake. Grizzlies were digestively flexible and maximized use of protein from plant and animal sources. They were adapted to the most constant and abundant sources of protein: succulent herbs and animal material from open, fertile grasslands. Competition among grizzlies for animal food during the pregrowing season may be regulatory for the grizzly population. The grizzly population level can be partially accounted for by the grizzlies' status as secondary consumers during pregreen-up periods and primary consumers during the growing and postgrowing seasons. The essential environmental requirement was the availability of fertile grasslands and herblands interspersed with cover and capable of maintaining artiodactyls, rodents, and abundant nutritious herbs as sources of food.
10.2307/3872711|Habitat of black bears (Ursus americanus) in the eastern United States has been substantially altered by increases in human populations and associated habitat change. Radio telemetry has been the primary technique used in examining the effects of development on bears. However, most state agencies do not have the resources necessary to collect long-term telemetry data, but do routinely collect annual harvest data to monitor trends in their bear populations. We investigated the potential use of annual harvest data for assessing impacts of habitat alteration on local bear abundance. We compared bear harvests within townships of New Hampshire to changes in human populations, road densities, and land-use patterns during 1961-84. Harvests tended to be negatively related to human-population density, roads in town, roads subject to bars and gates, and developed land. Harvests tended to be positively related with national forest roads and agricultural land. Comparisons of long-term harvest data with human demographic variables also may provide baseline information on threshold densities of human demographic variables that affect local bear abundance. However, before accurate conclusions can be reached, additional information is required to improve the sensitivity of the harvest data. We recommend that wildlife managers index hunter effort, monitor the availability of major foods used by bears, and verify the exact location of each bear kill.
10.2307/3872821|Responses of denning grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to noise associated with winter seismic surveys and small fixed-wing aircraft were studied on the north slope of Alaska during the years 1978-81. Changes in signal amplitude and collar temperature were monitored in 4 bears denned near seismic lines. Heart rates monitored by implanted transmitters, were measured in 1 of these bears and in a 2nd bear not subjected to seismic exploration activities. None of the bears left their dens as a result of seismic exploration activities. In undisturbed midwinter conditions, heart rates of 2 denned bears ranged 12-26 beats/min, but rose to 30-50 beats/min for brief periods at least once or twice in 24 hours. Signal amplitudes and collar temperatures, monitored in 1 bear, did not vary. During 3 days when seismic crews were working near 1 den, changes in signal amplitude and collar temperatures, accompanied by increases in heart rate to a maximum of 64 beats/min, indicated that the bear moved several times. Heart rates of 2 bears recorded during midwinter overflights were the same as those measured in midwinter from the ground in undisturbed conditions. About the time of emergence, heart rates were higher than those recorded in midwinter and during undisturbed resting behavior in mid-June.
10.2307/3872520|A minimum population of 34 black bears (Ursus americanus) visiting and feeding at the town dump in Jasper National Park, Alberta, were observed for over 750 hours on 141 days in 1968. Females with young of the year visited the dump more than any other group. Their average litter size of 2.67 for regular dump visitors suggests that food from the dump contributed to reproductive success. Social interactions between bears were characterized by tolerance, avoidance, and spacing, but we did observe 141 intraspecific agonistic interactions. In 89 out of 91 agonistic interactions, females with young of the year dominated all other age/sex classes, including adult males. These females, even when not with their young, used agonistic behaviour to maintain an individual distance of 3 to 30 m. Twelve postural and 4 vocal components of the agonistic repertoires are described and frequency of use is given for each identified bear. Agonistic signals were stereotyped but not invariant; physical contact was rare. Agonistic interactions were more frequent early in the season than later. The dump was visited by 7,500 to 10,000 tourists; despite hundreds of close approaches, including 57 situations in which people threw rocks or chased bears, a bear never struck, bit, or touched a person. Bears on 15 such occasions directed agonistic signals toward people; these were similar to signals used in intraspecific encounters. Subadults and females with their young climbed trees, where they appeared to find safety from harassment. Bears in trees were seen nursing, playing, sleeping, sheltering, relaxing, or cooling. The dump offered a food source which was concentrated, high-quality, predictable, and prolonged in time. Bears exploited this resource by forming social aggregations, tolerating other bears at shorter distances when at the dump than when away.
10.2307/3872896| Due to recently increasing game exploitation and habitat fragmentation, the existence of Formosan black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus formosanus) was thought to be endangered. To assess the current status of this species, aboriginal hunters, forestry workers and game store owners were interviewed and 6 field surveys were also conducted. The results showed that this species was distributed mostly in mountains where the elevation is higher than 1,500 m; whereas in winter it could be seen in low elevation from 500 to 1,000 m. From 1985-88, 32-60 bears were sighted by the forestry workers in 22 locations. Most bears were found in Lala Mountain Reserve, Yushan National Park and Snow Mountain Area. In addition, from our surveys some bears were found in Tawu Mountain Reserve. At present, this species can fetch a price of between $727 US and $7,274 US (x =$2,713 US, N = 13) in the local market. This price is approximately 1/2 the annual income of an aboriginal hunter. Besides, over half of the aboriginal hunters (N = 97) were willing to catch the animal regardless of its fierceness. This species is widely favored by game store owners; about 91 bears were sold in game stores between 1985-88. A decreasing bear population was reported by most of the game store owners, aboriginal hunters and forestry workers, as a result of unlimited hunting. To cope with the current crisis, the Council of Agriculture legally declared in January 1989 that the Formosan black bear is a threatened and protected species and a reserve to protect the Formosan black bear is now being planned. 
10.2307/3872803|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Yellowstone National Park fed heavily on garbage at open-pit dumps from about 1895 until the dumps were closed in 1968-71. Concurrent with dump closure, mean cub litter size declined 17%. Almost 20% of the decline was associated with coincidental worsening of the climate and nearly 80% with closure. Impacts of closure may have been compounded by the simultaneous increase in adult male abundance, to which litter size was negatively correlated.
10.2307/3872514|A 5-year study of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Yosemite National Park commenced in 1974 to provide park managers with information necessary for professional stewardship of the species. At the time, both the public and the National Park Service were concerned about increasing property damage and personal injuries caused by bears, and that actions by visitors and park staff were inimical to a wild, healthy bear population. Black bear food habits were investigated to determine the role of food of human origin in bear diet. We found that plants comprised 75% of the diet of Yosemite black bears. Herbage, including grasses, sedges, and herbaceous dicots, was the principal food during spring and early summer. Nuts and berries, expecially manzanita (Arctostaphylos spp.) and oak acorns (Quercus spp.) predominated in the late summer and fall. Insects, especially ants (Formicidae), and deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were the principal animal foods. Foods of human origin constituted 15% of the bear diet. Great annual fluctuations in the proportions of the major food categories reflected varying weather patterns and efforts by the Park Service to eliminate human foods from black bear diets.
10.2307/3872607|The sex, age, and other characteristics of 668 brown bears (Ursus arctos) killed in nonsport circumstances in Alaska during the period 1970-85 were examined. These data represent an unknown fraction of total nonsport kills as not all kills were reported. Both sport harvests and nonsport kills are increasing in Alaska. Nonsport harvests averaged 5.1% of total sport and nonsport kills. Areas with the highest human density had the highest ratio of nonsport to sport harvests. Nonsport harvests are most common during periods when most people are in remote areas to hunt or fish. Males predominate in the nonsport kills of younger bears and females in the nonsport kills of older bears. Regulations and other factors make adult male bears more vulnerable to sport hunters than adult female bears. Partially as a result, nonsport kills contain more adult females than sport kills. An analysis based on affidavits from 224 persons killing bears revealed that bears were shot to avoid perceived danger (72%), to protect property (21%), and to eliminate nuisances (7%).
10.2307/3872856|Home range and movement patterns of 17 radiocollared adult black bears (Ursus americanus) were determined from approximately 2,000 radio-locations obtained between January 1973 and December 1976 in northeastern Pennsylvania. Total home range size averaged 173 km
10.2307/3872855|The Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife began the active phase of comprehensive species planning in 1974 and implemented the resultant plan for black bears (Ursus americanus) in 1975. The black bear's past, present, and projected future status were evaluated in terms of interrelationships among population, density, distribution, habitat, use-demand, and use-opportunity. Alternate goals and objectives were formulated for presentation to wildlife professionals, administrative personnel, and selected segments of the public. The goal set for the black bear was to maintain 1970-74 levels of abundance, distribution, and use. The objective was to provide for an annual harvest of about 800-1,000 bears by 30,000 hunters statewide, with maximum allowable harvest differing according to management units. Experience thus far indicates that comprehensive species planning has greatly benefited black bear management in Maine and can be highly recommended for other areas.
10.2307/3872834|The Endangered Species Act of 1973 is the strongest legislation ever enacted to protect species faced with extinction. Section 7 of that Act requires all federal agencies to ensure that their actions do not jeopardize the continued existence of legally designated endangered or threatened species or result in destruction or modification of their critical habitats. Critical habitats are determined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife service to delineate those areas of air, land, and water that are essential to the survival and recovery of listed species. Critical habitats are not refuges, de facto wilderness areas, or areas in which little or no activity can be undertaken. Rather, critical habitats are delineated so that federal agencies can be aware of the essential habitats of listed species and can take special care to plan and carry out their activities in ways that will not adversely impact endangered or threatened species or their habitats.
10.2307/3872615|Weights and/or measurements of 151 grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) captured 261 times were recorded from 1975 to 1985. Males were consistently heavier than females within all age classes beginning at age 2. Mean weight for 65 adult males (5+ years old) was 192 kg and 135 kg for 63 adult females (5+ years old). Mean monthly weights by sex and age class indicated adults lost weight from den emergence through July, generally regaining emergence weight by August. Weaned yearlings lost weight July-September, whereas unweaned yearlings gained weight during the same period. Sexual dimorphism in body measurements within age classes was apparent in cubs and became significant in all body measurements by age 3. Girth was the measurement most closely correlated with weight for both males and females. Adults feeding at garbage dumps weighed more than bears relying on natural food sources. Bears were smaller and weighed less in this study than during the period 1959-70, when major dumps were available as a food source. Mean annual weights of nondump females were highly correlated with annual habitat productivity indices for Yellowstone Park. Correlations between mean adult female weight and cub litter size (r = 0.92) and mean age at 1st cub production (r = -0.52) were apparent. In general, females with reliable high-energy foods tended to attain larger body sizes, mature at an earlier age, and have larger cub litters than females using relatively low-energy foods.
10.2307/3872931|The movements and space use of 7 yearling black bears (Ursus americanus) (3 males, 4 females) from 3 family groups were intensively monitored concurrently with 13 adults (6 males, 7 females) in the Cherokee National Forest, Tennessee from February 1983 until December 1983. The timing of family breakup occurred in 2 families between 29 May-5 June, and 22-25 June, respectively. The third family dissolved after the accidental death of the mother during immobilization at the den; the subsequent movements of the orphaned young were recorded. Reassociations between mother and offspring, and between siblings did occur after breakup. The mean summer home ranges of yearlings (n = 6) averaged 4 km
10.2307/3872552|To study the hormonal changes during hibernation in the black bear (Ursus americanus), 2 adult male bears were injected with insulin and with glucagon during their active and hibernating phases, and plasma urea, glucose, insulin, glucagon, and corticosteroids were measured before and after. The baseline urea values decreased during hibernation a pattern consistent with protein conservation. Baseline insulin values increased during the fall active phase, when bears are hyperphagic, returning to the normal range during early hibernation. Baseline glucagon levels increased during the fall hyperphagia phase and early hibernation and then tended to decrease at the end of hibernation. Baseline corticosteroid levels were lower during the summer active phase than during the other three periods. The insulin, glucagon, and corticosteroid responses to glucagon and insulin injection were variable, but in general were delayed during early hibernation. The plasma glucose response to insulin stimulation was also delayed during early and late hibernation but more so during early hibernation. The glucose response to glucagon stimulation was delayed to similar degrees during both early and late hibernation. These findings are consistent with decreased glucose utilization and increased lipolysis during hibernation. Furthermore, the apparent increase in glucose utilization at the end of hibernation when fat stores are nearly exhausted suggests a continuum of metabolic activity from early to late hibernation with a transition to the active phase by the end of hibernation.
10.2307/3872736|We examined relationships between reproductive performance of female Minnesota black bears (Ursus americanus) and various potential indicators of nutritional condition during late hibernation. Litter size (n = 101 litters) was influenced more by litter order (first or subsequent) than by maternal condition, except perhaps in very large females. An increased proportion of male cub births corresponded with increased maternal weight and serum alkaline phosphatase (ALKP) and decreased serum creatinine (CR). Weight and growth of cubs and yearlings were closely related to mother's size; they also correlated positively with maternal ALKP, and negatively with serum total protein (TP), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV). Cub survival was affected only when mother's weight 2 months postpartum was below about 65 kg. No juvenile females (2-8 years old) weighing < 41 kg in March produced their first cubs the following spring, but 57% of those above this threshold weight produced cubs. Litter frequency and yearling recruitment were unrelated to maternal condition. Life history parameters of black bears appear to respond to declining nutrition in the following sequence: (1) litter size declines, then stabilizes across a broad range of maternal weights; (2) age of first reproduction increases; (3) juvenile survival decreases; (4) first-year cub survival decreases; and (5) litter frequency decreases. Better definition of these relationships, particularly at nutritional extremes, will likely require collaborative efforts of researchers studying diverse populations.
10.2307/3872709|To estimate population abundance, data were collected from 1,239 black bears (Ursus americanus) trapped in 3 areas of the Smoky Mountains (SM), 1972-89. Bears were tagged, tattooed, and released, and using the Jolly-Seber open population model, density estimates ranged from 0.09 to 0.35 bears/km
10.2307/3872551|Annual behavioral and biochemical patterns of black bears (Ursus americanus), grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis), and polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were reviewed. We propose that black and grizzly bears show 4 annual physiological stages: Stage I -- hibernation, in which lean body mass is preserved and body fat supplies energy; Stage II -- walking hibernation, in which the biochemistry of hibernation is integrated with physical activity, but food and water intake are minimal; Stage III -- normal activity, in which patterns are consistent with those of nonhibernating mammals; and Stage IV -- hyperphagia, which increases fat reserves for hibernation. For polar bears, using published reports and recently collected data, we propose that all 4 stages are possible and that polar bears appear able to shift between Stages I and II in both summer and winter, which permits successful adaptation to the arctic environment.
10.2307/3872556|An ethological investigation of panhandler black bears (Ursus americanus), conducted in Great Smoky Mountains National Park from 1976 through 1978, focused on agonistic behavior exhibited by these bears in their interactions with park visitors. Seven different types of aggression were recorded. Apparent precipitating factors for such behavior were divided into 20 categories, e.g., handfeeding, petting, photographing, crowding. Of 392 panhandling sessions, 43.9% involved at least one incidence of agonistic behavior; overall, 624 aggressive acts were recorded. Some types of aggression were more likely to occur, and certain precipitating factors were likely to result in specific types of agonistic behavior. Less than 6% of all aggression led to actual physical contact with visitors. Some individual bears reacted more aggressively than others in their interactions with people. In general, more aggressive behavior was shown by males. Management implications include the need for visitor education, enforcement of National Park Service regulations, removal of garbage, and priorities in relocation of bears.
10.2307/3872530|A stochastic computer simulation is presented for use in determining the relationship of population size to extinction probabilities for populations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). Published data on numbers, age, sex, reproduction, and mortality for the grizzly bear population of Yellowstone National Park were used to develop and test several simulation models. The results indicate that, for the Yellowstone grizzlies, 35 to 70 bears constitute a minimum viable population (the smallest population with a 95% probability of surviving at least 100 years). Minimum area requirements for populations of this size range from 700 to 10,000 km.
10.2307/3872924|Radio-collared brown bears were studied in 2 areas, one located in northernmost Sweden, the other in the centre of the Scandinavian Peninsula on both sides of the border between Norway and Sweden. Most bears were tracked on snow in spring and radio-collared after being darted from a helicopter. When possible all bears were monitored once a week by fixed-wing aircraft. Some bears were monitored more continuously several days each week by car from forest roads. In 1984-88, 48 individual bears were radio-equipped in the project. Males used larger home ranges than females. In the northern study area 4 adult males had minimum annual ranges of 726-2,634 km
10.2307/3872635|Between 1978 and 1985, denning ecology of the black bear (Ursus americanus) was studied in the Kenai Peninsula, the Susitna River basin, and Prince William Sound, Alaska. All these populations are near the northern extension of their range. In different years the mean number of days spent in dens varied from 189 to 233 days; the maximum time spent in a den by an individual bear was 247 days. Timing of emergence in the spring and entrance in the fall appeared most related to time of year and secondly to weather, snow accumulation and melt, and food availability. Bears in the more severe climate along the Susitna River entered dens almost 2 weeks earlier and emerged later than bears on the warmer Kenai Peninsula. Chronology of denning differed among pregnant females and other sex and age groups, but overlap occurred with all age and sex groups. Site selection, vegetation type, and den type (cave, tree, excavated) varied with area and was related to winter weather conditions (rain vs. snow), soil type (deep vs. shallow and rocky), and topography of the areas (mountains vs. flats). Den morphometry was compared among areas. Denning chronology was compared with that of other North American black bear populations and with current denning theory.
10.2307/3872929| Thirty-three black bear (Ursus americanus) dens were located on the Beartooth Face of south-central Montana during the winters of 1984/85 through 1986/87. Mean slope (28) and elevation (2,239 m) of den sites did not significantly differ between males and females. Most (61%, N = 33) den sites were located on northerly (northeast, north, and northwest) aspects. Most (71%, N = 16) dens inspected required some form of excavation. In 1986, den entrance began the last week of September and lasted 4-5 weeks. The largest number of bears entered dens between 8-15 October. Twenty and 18% of radio-collared bears abandoned den sites and relocated to new dens during 1985-86 (N = 15) and 1986-87 (N = 11), respectively. Security of dens appeared to be important, especially for females with cubs, and was related to bears denning on high elevation, steep slopes away from disturbance. 
10.2307/3872679|During the 25 years from 1967 to 1992, public interest and environmental laws stimulated conservation efforts and provided a rationale for expanded scientific efforts relating to bears. As the years progressed, field technology advanced rapidly and knowledge emerged as a powerful conservation tool. A survey of colleagues with a professional interest in bears resulted in a reading list of 11 technical publications that were considered important contributions to the literature for the period. Historical trends are used to envision future conservation based on the concept that bears and humans are biological competitors.
10.2307/3872908|Body measurements, sex, weight, age, and reproductive condition were collected from 1,210 captures of wild and 492 captures of panhandler black bears (Ursus americanus) trapped in the Smoky Mountains (SM) from 1968 to 1988. Gender was associated with the bear's status (i.e., panhandler/wild) (panhandler: 60% male, wild: 54% male, P = 0.056). Wild male bears were significantly older than panhandler males (3.9 vs 2.9 yr, P = 0.0001); wild female bears were older than panhandler females (4.9 vs 3.7 yr, P = 0.004). Male and female panhandlers were significantly heavier than their wild counterparts (P < 0.05), and panhandler bears grew faster than wild bears. The number of lactating females was significantly associated with status (P < 0.001); 56% of the panhandler and only 33% of the wild females were lactating. Panhandlers were more fertile and larger than wild bears likely reflecting the panhandlers' better access to and use of high-energy, human foods particularly during years of natural food shortage. Small amounts of these foods, the availability of which varies with panhandler bear management, appear to make differences in body size. Dispersal and the large home range size of the males and subadults probably explain the propensity of these bears to become panhandlers. The above findings as well as differences in demographic characteristics among wild bears within the Smoky Mountains are further discussed as they relate to the nutritional qualities of the environment.
10.2307/3872845|The Japanese black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus Schlegal) removes bark from both broad-leaved and coniferous trees in Japan. These injuries are predominantly inflicted on coniferous species over an extensive geographical area on Honshu and Shikoku islands. Seventeen conifer species are known to be attacked. The bark is typically removed at the base of the tree and the exposed sapwood is gnawed and presumably eaten by bears. Tree feeding occurs mainly between mid-June and mid-July. Japanese cedar (Cryptomeria japonica) and Japanese cypress (Chamaecyparis obtusa), the most useful timber species in Japan, sustain the most severe damage. Most Japanese cedar trees sustain bole circumference girdling of 10-40 percent without showing symptoms of distress, but trees with 50 percent or more girdling usually display evidence of serious weakening. Trees completely girdled eventually die. Tree wounds are subject to infections that can deteriorate wood quality. Prevention of bear damage is an imposing challenge to Japanese forestry.
10.2307/3872947|Litter size, natality (cubs per adult female per year), and maturation rate are positively related to body weights of adult males and females. This is shown by regressions of reproductive parameters on weight, using mean values from each of 7 hunted populations. Maturation rates to weaning and adulthood are, respectively, proportional to the inverses of interbirth interval and age at first whelping, generation length. Assuming that weight is an index of nutritional status, these findings for black bear (Ursus americanus) are consistent with the typical mammalian dependence of reproductive rate on nutritional status. Because body weights are commonly obtained by game managers, they may be a quick, inexpensive basis for estimating reproductive rate for populations where reproductive data are lacking.
10.2307/3872801|The dispersal of a brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in northern Europe was studied from 1968 to 1982 with the help of the Finnish Border Patrol Establishment and local hunters. Bears immigrated to Finland in the 1970s and early 1980s from the saturated Soviet Karelian population. Continued immigration from Soviet Karelia into Finnish Northern Karelia, Kainuu, and Koillismaa caused the bears to move through the inland areas of Finland, some crossing the entire country from east to west. Bears also appeared in the southeastern frontier area of Finland, and some immigration was recorded from the Kola Peninsula into eastern Finnish Lapland. From 1969 to 1981, 682 more bears immigrated to Finland, mainly from South Karelia, than emigrated. During this period at least 456 bears were killed in Finland; the number of bears in Finland thus increased by about 200 (to 300-350). The bears killed in eastern Finland were predominantly males, 64.1% in 1960-81, and the proportion of cubs killed was 17.8%. It is assumed that intraspecific aggressiveness (leading especially to subadult dispersal) results in emigration, the males being more mobile than the females.
10.2307/3872902|Most grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) live outside parks and reserves and often have to contend with, among other things, resource extraction industries. These activities can affect individual bears and therefore populations by: 1) causing strong, energetically expensive reactions by bears that disrupt their normal behaviour, 2) displacing bears from areas of human use, 3) altering habitats in which bears live, 4) disrupting the bears' social system, and 5) industrial personnel killing bears or increasing mortality rates indirectly by improving access for hunters, poachers, other resource users, and settlers. Grizzly bears are able to adapt to many habitat changes and a temporary increase of human presence. In most cases, increased motorized access that results in a long term increase of human activity and/or settlement with consequent increase in bears being shot is the most significant aspect of industrial developments. If an industrial activity is conducted with adequate guidelines to maintain important habitats, properly locate camps, incinerate garbage, restrict use of firearms, and close motorized access after the job is complete, the bear population probably will be maintained at a satisfactory level. Although many bears may be alive when an industry has completed its work, if access remains intact, the grizzly population is placed in a precarious position and may decrease in size and eventually be extirpated. Closing access after job completion is often physically and politically difficult. Industry personnel and government managers must take leading roles in planning, advertising, and implementing road closures. Cumulative effects models have been built to predict the impact of human activities on bear populations. These models are in early stages and require data to support the coefficients used and the relationships between coefficients. Then they should be tested. One significant variable the models lack is the potential for a specific activity to be the seed for blooming additional and perhaps more harmful developments.
10.2307/3872805|The effects of hunter harvest on a tagged sample of black bears (Ursus americanus) (198 males, 144 females) in east-central Ontario were investigated from 1969 to 1980. Hunters annually removed an average of 18% of available males and 10% of available females during spring hunts and 5% of available males and 2% of available females during fall hunts. During the 12 year period, hunters shot 32% of all tagged males and 28% of all tagged females. Mean and maximum elapsed times between tagging and hunter kills were 2.1 and 6 years, respectively, for males and 3.4 and 11 years, respectively, for females. Males aged 2-6 years were more vulnerable than younger or older males. For females, 3- to 6-year-olds were more vulnerable than the younger or older age classes. Females older than age 6 appeared relatively invulnerable, as only 13 of 35 different bears at risk for a total of 292 years were harvested. Eight of those kills occurred during the final 3 years, when spring hunting pressure on the study area increased by 700% over the 1969 level. The frequency of movements > 20 km between capture and kill sites was greater for males than females. More males (72%) than females (20%) were killed outside the study area. The major effects of hunting were to reduce population size and lower the mean age of captured males. The prolonged period of maturation for black bears in Ontario, and the increased vulnerability of adult females, with increased hunting pressure emphasized the need for conservative provincial harvest quotas.
10.2307/3872604| Population density estimates were obtained for sympatric black bear (Ursus americanus) and brown bear (U. arctos) populations inhabiting a search area of 1,325 km
10.2307/3872850|Information on 35 overwinter maternity dens of Alaskan polar bears (Ursus maritimus Phipps) and on 101 female polar bears with cubs, recently emerged from dens, was obtained by aerial and ground surveys, interviews with Arctic coast residents, and literature review. Pregnant females form snow dens in October and November and give birth in December and January. Females and cubs emerge from dens in late March and April. Factors necessary for continued successful denning in an area include ice movements that enable bears to reach the area in the fall; the availability of seals as a food source and ice conditions facilitating their capture during the predenning and postdenning periods; and suitable weather conditions (snowfall, wind, and ambient temperatures) and topography that combine to produce snowdrifts that do not thaw during the denning period. Dens consist of 1 or more chambers, connecting tunnels, and entrance-exit tunnels. Alaskan dens were found as far inland as 48 km from the coast, along the coast, on offshore islands, on shorefast ice, and on drifting sea ice. Bears denning in the coastal zone are subject to human disturbance and should receive protection.
10.2307/3872936|Success rate, frequency, chronology, and techniques of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) predation on elk calves (Cervus elaphus) were determined from visual observations in the Pelican Valley area of Yellowstone National Park, 1984-88. Seventy hunts directed toward elk groups containing calves were recorded, 26 of which were successful. Twenty-one, 13, and 4 percent of all grizzly bear sightings in May, June, and July, respectively, involved hunts toward cow/calf groups. Success was significantly correlated with the number of attempts and the time of year. Grizzly bears were successful in killing calves in 71%, 42%, and 7% of the observed hunts in May, June, and July, respectively. Grizzly bears used 3 different techniques to hunt elk calves. Attempted predation on adult elk and other fauna was also observed.
10.2307/3872912|Denning bears maintain normal serum calcium concentration and do not develop osteoporosis after months of recumbency. A circulating substance may be responsible for this previously undescribed phenomenon. Further investigation of its potential therapeutic usefulness in man makes preservation of all ursine species an important management priority.
10.2307/3872824|Kananaskis Provincial Park (504 km
10.2307/3872743|From 1931 through 1959, an average of 48 people per year was injured by bears within Yellowstone National Park (YNP). In 1960, YNP implemented a bear management program designed to reduce the number of bear-caused human injuries and property damages occurring within YNP and to re-establish bears in a natural state. Although the 1960 program included some efforts to reduce the human food and garbage sources that were attracting bears into developed areas and roadside corridors, most management effort went into the removal of potentially hazardous bears and those bears that damaged property in search of human foods. After 10 years (1960-69) of the program, 332 nuisance black bears (Ursus americanus) and 39 nuisance grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) had been removed from the population. However, the number of bear-caused human injuries within YNP had decreased only slightly, to an average of 45 per year. In 1970, YNP initiated a new, more intensive bear management program with the objectives of restoring the grizzly bear and black bear populations to subsistence on natural forage and reducing the number of bear-caused injuries to humans. Management involved eliminating the sources of human food and garbage that attracted bears into developed areas and along roadsides, the source of most bear-human conflicts. During the first 3 years of the program, bear-caused human injuries decreased significantly to an average of 10 per year. During the same period, an average of 38 grizzly bears and 23 black bears per year were trapped and translocated from roadsides and developed areas to backcountry areas. In addition, an average of 12 grizzly bears and 6 black bears per year, were removed from the population. After 1972, the number of bear-human conflicts as well as the number of bear management control actions declined significantly. A modified bear management program similar to the 1970 program, but with greater emphasis on habitat protection in backcountry areas, was implemented in 1983. Since 1983, bear-caused human injuries have declined to an average of 1 per year and the number of nuisance bears translocated (grizzly bears = 4/yr, black bears = 2/yr) as well as the number of incorrigible bears removed from the population (grizzly bears = 1/yr, black bears = 0.4/yr) has also declined significantly from earlier periods. During the first years of these management programs, most bear-human conflicts involved food-conditioned bears that aggressively sought human foods. In more recent years, management problems have involved habituated (but not food-conditioned) bears seeking natural foods within developed areas and along roadsides.
10.2307/3872698| The spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus), depends on the mountain forests along the Andes Cordillera. This means that in Venezuela this species has 2 distinct ranges. Perij, with 8,052 km
10.2307/3872865|Home range activities of 21 adult, 1 subadult, and 10 yearling black bears (Ursus americanus) in west-central Idaho were studied between March 1975 and December 1976. Adult males occupied significantly larger and less stable home ranges and ranged farther between radio-locations than adult females or yearlings. Habitat selection and movements were governed primarily by the distribution, availability, and phenology of key food plants. Home ranges overlapped extensively within and between sex-classes. Females separated from their yearling offspring about 1 June; however, occasional reassociations occurred shortly after the initial breakup. Dispersal appeared to occur primarily in the 2.5-year-old age group. The nondenning period extended from about the second week of April to about the last week of November. Time of entrance into and emergence from dens was highly variable among bears and between years. The minimum breeding age for females was 3.5 years; regular alternate-year breeding was not noted. Breeding began in late May, peaked in June, and extended through late July. Mean litter size was 1.9 cubs with a nearly even sex ratio. The reproductive rate was 0.782.
10.2307/3872557|Reports of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) observations between 1977 and 1979 in Glacier National Park were examined to test whether the behavior of grizzly bears was different in areas with high versus low levels of human activity. In both types of areas, females with young were more likely than adults and subadults to avoid human-use areas and showed little habituation to people. A midseason increase in habituated behavior by adult and subadult bears occurred in both areas, but adults and subadults showed a greater degree of habituation throughout the season in the high-use area.
10.2307/3872842|Sixty-six blood samples were collected from 44 livetrapped black bears (Ursus americanus) for 23 blood chemistry and hematology determinations. Statistical factorial experiments for analysis of variance revealed significant (P < 0.25) individual variability for 19 of 23 blood characteristics. Male bears had significantly (P < 0.05) higher serum calcium, mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentrations (MCHC) than females. Cholesterol and MCH increased significantly with age; total protein and globulin were both significantly higher in adults than in yearlings or cubs, and total bilirubin in cubs and yearlings was significantly higher than in adults. Predenning samples (1 July-31 December) had significantly higher glucose, packed cell volume (PCV), and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) but lower MCHC than postdenning (1 January-30 June) samples. Leukocyte differentials were comparable to findings by others. Of 48 serum samples submitted for brucellosis and 1 suspicious and 1 positive reaction were observed for leptospirosis; a female cub had 50 percent or more cell agglutination at a 1:1,600 dilution for Leptospira pomona. Examination of approximately 250 blood smears resulted in no observations of blood parasites.
10.2307/3872741|We extracted DNA from 120 grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in an arctic population for paternity analysis using DNA fingerprinting. Preliminary results indicate that a combination of several probes and/or enzymes will be necessary to identify sires of offspring with known mothers. Development of genetic profiles will provide estimates of population genetics parameters such as inbreeding coefficients, heterozygosity, and degree of polymorphism to use as a baseline in managing this and other, more endangered, populations. We present these preliminary results in order to inform others of the direction of our research and to facilitate sample collection and lab work in other studies.
10.2307/3872938|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) prey on spawning cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki, formerly known as Salmo clarki) in tributary streams of Yellowstone Lake. These tributary streams were surveyed from 1985 to 1987 to determine the presence and level of trout spawning activity and bear use. Indices were developed to enumerate spawner density and levels of bear use. Of 124 known tributaries of Yellowstone Lake, 48% had a spawning run. Of these spawning streams, 93% had associated bear activity, and 61% had associated evidence of bear fishing. Bears were apparently using more spawning streams and fish compared to 10 years earlier. Bear use of cutthroat trout spawning streams appeared to be largely a positive function of volumetric spawner density. We hypothesize that abundance and quality of stream-side vegetation relative to other foraging options influenced bear use. Intra- and interspecific avoidance among bears was suggested by patterns of spawning stream use. Less bear use of spawning streams than expected occurred within 1 km of park developments.
10.2307/3872888|Time-lapse cameras were effective for gathering limited distribution and population data on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (Ursus americanus) in northwest Wyoming. Thirty-six stations, each consisting of a camera and a lure, were monitored for 551 camera-days; 83 rolls of film were exposed. Five different lures were tested. Thirty-one bears (5 grizzly, 25 black, 1 unknown bear) were identified at 15 stations. Young:adult and young:female ratios observed (0.4 and 1.5 for black bears and 0.7 and 2.0 for grizzlies) corresponded well with those of other researchers in the region. One sighting recorded on film extended the known range of the grizzly bear in the Shoshone National Forest.
10.2307/3872690|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) and humans come into close proximity and interact at Pack Creek, Admiralty Island, Alaska, a long-established site for recreational brown bear viewing. We conducted direct behavioral observations of bear-human interactions at Pack Creek using ad-lib sampling methods supplemented by fine-grained videotape analysis. Our observations yielded a behavioral classification of common types of human-bear interactions. We defined 3 distinct interaction types a priori and confirmed these classes by statistical analysis of behavioral frequencies. Analysis of bear-human interactions can contribute to the scientific basis for managing human activity in brown bear habitat.
10.2307/3872519|A total of 691 black bear (Ursus americanus) mark trees were located in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Mark trees along preselected index trails were tagged, physiognomic parameters around the trees measured, and characteristics of the tree and mark recorded. Trees along the index trails were reobserved periodically from April to December 1976-77 (biweekly between May and October) to monitor fresh marking. Eight different coniferous and 26 different hardwood species were marked; the choice of species apparently reflects their availability in areas of high bear use. Mark trees were located primarily along abandoned trails and ridge tops. Most fresh marking occurred during May, June, and July. Thirty-one percent and 23% of the mark trees along index routes exhibited fresh marks during 1976 and 1977, respectively. Reduction of aggression may not be the only function of marking. The incidence of fresh marking may be useful as an index to population density.
10.2307/3872684|Since a management plan was developed in 1973, the McNeil River State Game Sanctuary has become internationally famous as a spectacular wildlife viewing opportunity. A restricted number of human visitors interact in proximity with wild brown bears (Ursus arctos)that congregate at the McNeil River Falls to fish for chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta). Brown bear habituation is defined and described. In the 21 years since the management plan has been in effect bear use has doubled, no bear has had to be destroyed or removed from the sanctuary, and no human has been injured. This program illustrates that humans and brown bears can co-exist peacefully particularly when humans behave in appropriate ways.
10.2307/3872546|The mark/recapture analyses that are currently used to study polar bears (Ursus maritimus) generally underestimate the average number of cubs per litter and assume that the annual survival of cubs is unity. In this paper, a relationship among the number of yearlings per litter and 2-year-olds per litter is used to derive the survivorship of yearlings, which is then used to solve for the number of cubs per litter. When this relationship was applied to published population data from North America, the resulting estimated survival rates of yearlings ranged from 0.70 to 0.75, and the estimated average number of cubs per litter was between 1.70 and 1.98. These findings indicate that current estimates of sustainable yield for polar bear populations may be in error because the reproductive rate of adult females was likely to be underestimated, and the survival rate of cubs of the year was likely to be overestimated.
10.2307/3872518|Mortality of young moose calves (Alces alces gigas) was evaluated on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, during spring and early summer 1977 and 1978. Studies were conducted both inside and outside of a 461-ha browse-rehabilitated area (Willow Lake) where standing vegetation had been crushed with LeTourneau tree crushers in winter 1974-75. Uncrushed areas (control) were regrowth of vegetation that was burned by forest fire in 1947. Moose calves were radio-collared with mortality-sensor transmitters soon after birth. Black bear (Ursus americanus) predation accounted for 40-42% of the calf mortality in control areas (6 of 15 calves collared in 1977 and 10 of 24 in 1978); no calves (of 8 collared in 1978) were killed by black bears within the rehabilitated areas. Movements of 23 radio-collared black bears were also monitored during 1978 and 1979. Radio-collared bears, including 15 whose home ranges bordered or included rehabilitated areas, either did not utilize or avoided crushed sections. Results of our studies indicated that neonatal mortality of moose calves was significantly reduced within browse-rehabilitated areas.
10.2307/3872917|Growth and reproduction of black bears (Ursus americanus) have been linked to food availability, particularly berries and nuts. However, quantitative data on availability of fruits in different habitats are lacking. Fruit production is highly variable and precise measurements such as berry counts are very time consuming. We used visual ratings in conjuction with systematic sampling to characterize the areal coverage and productivity of 22 species of herbs and shrubs that produce food for bears in 11 common forest types in northcentral Minnesota. We made sample counts of berries and nuts to relate visual ratings to fruit biomass. Abundance of fruit-producing species was highest in regenerating (5-15-year-old) aspen (Populus tremuloides) stands, but total fruit production was highest in 8-20-year-old red pine (Pinus resinosa) plantations that contained interspersed openings of windrowed slash. Fruit yields were poorest under dense (>80% closed) canopies and in lowland forest types, but lowlands provided a different array of species from uplands. Subjective ratings were less precise than actual berry counts but could be conducted more quickly, and they were accurate enough to distinguish important differences among stands. Because many stands could be surveyed during the short berry season, the technique enabled us to compare fruit yields across years and among different forest types, ages and canopy densities.
10.2307/3872524|We sampled 86 composites of 646 scats collected at 2-week intervals during 1976 and 1977 and identified 5 seasonal patterns of food use by black bear (Ursus americanus) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Plant material composed 80% of the diet, and animal remains, mostly insects, were 12%. Major plant food items were identified. Crude protein and acid-detergent-fiber content of major food items were determined and nutritional value of each seasonal diet was evaluated. The early spring diet was of low nutritional value and bears lost weight during spring. The late spring, summer, and early fall diets were conducive to growth of bears because readily available energy and high-quality proteins were consumed. The late fall diet, high in available energy, led to rapid increase in weights of bears.
10.2307/3872666|In June 1989 and June 1992, 2 female brown bears (Ursus arctos), 3.5 (bear 1) and 6.5 (bear 2) years old, respectively, were released in the Limestone Alps of Styria and Lower Austria. The release area was within the home range of an old male that had migrated from Slovenia in 1972. Ranges used in the first 3-4 months after release were 115 km
10.2307/3872644|Body measurements and live weights were obtained from 3 black bear (Ursus americanus) populations in Montana. Although high correlation coefficients were usually found between log
10.2307/3872727|Twenty-nine radio-collared female black bears (Ursus americanus) were tracked to 48 den sites during winters 1988-89 and 1989-90, in the Ouachita and Ozark mountains of Arkansas, to study den selection and habitat. Bears on both areas used rock cavity dens most often (66.6%), followed by excavations (12.5%), clearcuts (12.5%), open nests (4.2%), and tree cavities (4.2%). Multivariate models detected significant habitat component differences among rock, excavation, and clearcut dens (P < 0.05). Black bears selected dens that were physically different, but functionally similar. Rock cavity dens occurred on steep slopes, within structurally secure cavities, far from external disturbances. Excavation and clearcut dens lacked permanent structure, but security was compensated by dense understory vegetation and increased horizontal cover. It is not known if survival was also compensated at excavation and clearcut dens; this question should be addressed so reliable information on the relationship between den-type availability and cub production and survival can be incorporated into bear management plans.
10.2307/3872729|We studied denning chronology, den use, and den characteristics of the Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) in the remnant bottomland hardwood forests of the Tensas River Basin in northeastern Louisiana. We monitored 20 radio-collared bears (12 F, 8 M) for 30-den years during 1988-89, 1989-90, and 1990-91. Pregnant females (n = 9) entered dens earlier (P = 0.0002), emerged later (P = 0.0003), and denned longer (P = 0.0004) than all other bears. Pregnant females denned for an average of 142 days; they entered dens as early as 26 November and emerged as late as 30 May. At least 45% (n = 13) of bears used >1 den site during a denning season. Some (34%, n = 10) bears displayed some winter activity, and an adult male did not den during 1 year of the study. Bears denned in elevated cavities in bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) (n = 17), overcup oak (Quercus lyrata) (n = 2) and sycamore (Platanus occidentalis) (n = 1), ground nests (n = 17), and brushpiles (n = 7). Tree dens were used by 80% (n = 12) of all adult females and 68% (n = 15) of all adults. Only 1 bear, an adult male, reused a den (cypress). Bears denning in trees were less vulnerable to human disturbance than ground-denning bears. Availability of denning sites does not appear to be a limiting population factor but forestry management practices should be directed toward conserving forested wetlands and den trees, maintaining thick cover for ground dens, and reforestation.
10.2307/3872798|Twenty brown bears (Ursus arctos) radio-tracked on Admiralty Island in southeast Alaska for 2-13 months were not uniformly distributed during summer in lower-elevation tidal and riparian habitats. These findings differ from the assumption of uniform summer distribution. Our data suggest that a segment of the population remains in upper-elevation interior regions and does not use anadromous salmon (Onchorynchus spp.) streams during the summer.
10.2307/3872915|Methodologies of a 3-year study of black bear (Ursus americanus) habitat use in Banff National Park, Alberta are presented. The study was designed to determine if black bear habitat use could be described by an existing 1:50,000 scale Ecological (Biophysical) Land Classification (ELC) of Banff National Park. Fifteen bears were radio-collared and their use of ecological land units (ecosites) was determined through 1,855 locations. Feeding signs were recorded and 466 scats collected. Seasonal ecosite importance ratings on a 5-tier scale were assigned using a 3-step process. First, a subjective assessment was conducted that relied on the biologists' field experience during the study, results of scat analysis, and tabulation of feeding signs found. Second, the telemetry results were analyzed for the observed versus expected use of ecosites by bears as determined by the area of each ecosite. Third, a food habits model that was based on the relative percent occurrence of ELC vegetation types and key bear foods within each ecosite was used to derive a second set of seasonal ecosite importance ratings. From 77-90% of seasonal ecosite ratings either matched for all 3 methods, or differed by 1 rating class between the subjective and modeled techniques. This strong consistency between rating methods indicates that the relative importance of closed legend ecosites at a 1:50,000 scale of mappings can be discerned within a 5-tier rating system. It is cautioned that at this scale of mapping, the rating classes serve only as a first-order planning tool. High ratings should raise a red flag to managers who must then conduct site-specific investigations.
10.2307/3872920| The first capture of a European brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Spain occurred in the National Hunting Reserve of Riao on 16 October 1985. An adult male was radio-marked and movements and activities were monitored until September 1988. Distances between daily radio-locations ranged from <0.1 km to 20.5 km and averaged 1.6 km. The 2 extremes were attributed to food availability, particularly winter-starved ungulates, and breeding. Seasonal home ranges varied from 39 km
10.2307/3872673|Conflicts between brown bears (Ursus arctos) and humans have occurred since both species first occupied habitats concurrently. Although the nature of bear-human conflicts has remained similar, methods for resolving them have improved with technological advances, to the extent that humans and bears now have a better chance of coexistence. Conflict-resolution techniques used in the United States and Russia differ due to the population status of brown bears in the 2 countries. Various techniques including aversive conditioning, deterrents, and relocation are commonly used in the United States; bears are removed from the population with the aid of Laika dogs in Russia. Combining techniques from both countries may significantly improve techniques previously used singularly. We discuss management implications for modifying grizzly bear behavior using Laika dogs and additional conditioning reinforcement techniques in the United States.
10.2307/3872875|The number of scats dropped by captive European brown bears (Ursus arctos) was recorded in all months of the year, 1971-73. An overall total of 3,634 scats was recorded in 1,094 bear-days. Clear seasonal differences were found, with low values of about 2 scats per bear-day from November through June and higher values in the remaining months, and with a distinct peak in August of 7.19 scats per bear-day for adults. Extremes observed ranged from 0 to 11 scats per bear-day. Preliminary data indicate at least a 28 percent higher defecation rate for cubs. Significant (P < 0.01) differences were found among individual bears kept under identical conditions. Possible application of these findings to estimation of bear densities or bear use in the wild is discussed.
10.2307/3872668|During 1989, 291 lambs in 3 herds of domestic sheep were tagged with silent mortality transmitters prior to release onto open, coniferous forest range in southeast Norway. Twenty-six lamb carcasses were recovered. Lamb mortality was attributed to disease (19%), accidents (22%), and predation (59%). In addition to the dead lambs, the carcasses of 21 ewes were also recovered. Of these, 20 were attributed to predation. Brown bear (Ursus arctos) was the sole predator implicated. Use of silent mortality transmitters was found to be highly effective in the prompt recovery of sheep carcasses in rugged, densely vegetated terrain.
10.2307/3872643|Serum progesterone levels in 5 female Hokkaido brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) were determined from April 1983 to April 1985. Four females were mated with males, while the 5th female was segregated to serve as a control. The growth of fetuses in 2 females was monitored by ultrasonography at 10-day intervals during December and January. Serum progesterone levels increased from basal levels of 0.4-1.1 ng/ml on day -300 (300 days before parturition) to higher levels at approximately day -210. The levels, which ranged from 1.6 to 5.4 ng/ml, were maintained until approximately day -60, when they sharply increased to 8.3-9.7 ng/ml. The levels then dropped on day 0 and remained at 0.4-0.5 ng/ml between day 30 and day 90. Change in serum progesterone level in the unmated female was similar to that of the mated animals. The images of fetuses in 2 bears were first observed on day -37 and day -33 when their crown-rump length was 1.5-2.0 cm. Thereafter fetus growth was sigmoidal. The females carried 2 and 3 fetuses and had 1 and 3 cubs 1 month postpartum, respectively.
10.2307/3872623|A study of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in 1984 and 1985 in Denali National Park investigated the differences between family and single bear habitat use patterns. Differences in family age, seasons, and years contributed to differences in habitat use patterns. Proportions of cub families seen in the spring were low but increased through the field season, whereas proportions of observed yearlings remained constant. Seasonal patterns of habitat use were generally consistent among cub and yearling families and single bears. Small but notable proportions of observations of families were made in more rugged, isolated terrain, especially in spring. Habitat use patterns between the years were significantly different and probably a result of a late spring and wetter weather in 1985. The 1984 habitat use pattern was more concentrated in extreme habitat combinations (high-rugged vs. low-flat) than was the 1985 pattern.
10.2307/3872695| The spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus), is a threatened species that inhabits the Andean zones of South America. Its threatened status is due primarily to deforestation and hunting pressure. Its future in Venezuela depends on the populations that remain in national parks. The Sierra Nevada National Park (Mrida and Barinas States, Venezuela) is one of the most important parks for bears in Venezuela. During 1990 and 1991, PROVITA undertook an ethnozoological study in this national park to determine significant human-bear interactions. This study was used to define priorities for conducting an environmental education program in the park, with the spectacled bear as the key to this program. Eighty-six personal interviews concerning the spectacled bear were carried out in 35 sites within and bordering the park. Hunting pressure is greater outside than within the park. The presence of the park seems to be more effective in protecting the bears than general laws prohibiting bear hunting. In the southwestern part of the park the hunting pressure is especially high, and this zone should have the highest priority for urgent action. The most important changes needed are modification of the cattle raising system employed in the zone and the transformation of the mythical beliefs held about this animal. 
10.2307/3872889|Is hunting detrimental to bear populations? Or do harvests stimulate compensatory reproduction and decrease natural mortality among the survivors? When the literature was reviewed to evaluate support for the various sides of this controversy, data were found still inadequate for conclusions to be drawn. At best, available information can aid in distinguishing which additional data are most critical and which hypotheses are most likely to be heuristic. Among six U. arctos populations in North America, those with lowest proportions of adult males had highest reproductive potentials, and vice versa. Likewise, within Yellowstone National Park, there was a strong negative correlation between numbers of adult males during a given year vs. number of offspring. However, those populations with highest reproductive potentials were also in the best habitats. So whether the former relationships were due to (a) effects of adult males on conception and survivorship, or (b) a coincidental product of nutritional differences, must still be tested. For 2 black bear (U. americanus) populations in Idaho, 1 in good habitat which was hunted heavily and the other in poorer habitat that was hunted lightly, higher natality in the former was attributed not to hunting but to better nutrition. When trophy hunting was simulated on a formerly little-exploited population of black bears in Alberta, the natality rate was not obviously altered. Dispersal of a once seasonally aggregated population of grizzly bears was apparently followed by marked increase in cub survival, perhaps because of lowered exposure of cubs to aggression by older bears. However, evidence does not confirm the idea that depletion of mature males substantially increases survivorship of cubs or otherwise offsets losses due to hunting. In fact, under some circumstances, trophy hunting may indirectly increase cub mortality. Aside from this aspect and the possible impacts of inverse culling on gene pools, trophy hunting may be less detrimental to bears than to certain ungulates, where fully-adult males regulate aggression by adolescent males and serve other important social roles.
10.2307/3872890|Interactions between humans and 7 species of wildlife, including grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis), were investigated in backcountry areas of the Gallatin Range, Yellowstone National Park, during the summers of 1973 and 1974. Grizzly bear distribution, movements, and behavior and human behavior were examined. Because grizzlies utilized areas with elevations much in excess of the study area's average trail elevation, the likelihood of the off-trail party observing a grizzly bear was 3-4 times greater than that of a trail-traveling party. During the hiking season, grizzlies exhibited an elevational migration. The frequencies of on-trail and combined on- and off-trail observations and sign discoveries per party tended to peak during those periods that grizzlies were found at low elevations. Activity patterns of grizzlies at the point of first observation or after the bears had become aware of the human presence did not indicate behavioral traits likely to accentuate the possibilities of human-bear confrontations. Some backcountry travelers engaged in activities that could increase detrimental encounters with grizzly bears.
10.2307/3872839|Reports of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) from throughout the Border Grizzly Area were collected, verified, coded, and stored in a computerized file called the base data bank. Each report included four primary categories of information -- report type, date, location, and source of information. Depending upon complexity, additional data were either stored in the base data bank using secondary information categories or were recorded verbatim in a narrative file that was cross-referenced from the base data bank. Applications of the system and its further development are discussed.
10.2307/3872876| Between 1913 and 1942, the brown bear (Ursus arctos) was totally protected on state land in Sweden. The resultant increase in the population allowed a shooting season to be established in 1943 in 2 areas, in central and northern Sweden. Official shooting statistics show that the annual harvest of bears decreased sharply after 1971 even though the population was believed to be increasing. To resolve the status of the brown bear, a nationwide survey embodying questionnaires and some field work was carried out in 1975-76. Reports from Lapp villages, local affiliates of the Swedish Sportsmen's Association, large lumber companies, and the Swedish Forest Service were used to determine the nationwide distribution of the species and to estimate the maximum and minimum numbers of bears for each area that reported. Survey results indicate that the present brown bear population numbers 400-600 individuals widely but very unevenly distributed in northern and central Sweden, with marked concentrations in the northern parts of Jmtland and in wooded and low mountain areas in central Norrbotten. As a result of the survey, it is suggested that the open season be abolished and that a license system be established for better adjustment of the harvest to the true distribution of the species. 
10.2307/3872733|Plasma lipids (triglycerides and cholesterol) from polar bears (Ursus maritimus) fed a nearly 100% seal fat diet and from fasted bears are compared. Fasted bears had plasma with more triglycerides and cholesterol than fed bears. Fatty acid composition of both triglycerides and cholesterol differed between fed and fasted bears. Omega-3 fatty acids (found in seal fat) were higher in both plasma lipids from fed bears than fasted bears.
10.2307/3872930|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in southcentral Alaska spent an average of 201 days in winter dens. Males spent the least time in dens (mean = 189 days) and parturient females the most (mean = 217 days). Females with cubs of the year and females pregnant at den entry spent the least amount of time out of dens (158 and 164 days, respectively) and males the most (180 days). No difference in den entrance date based on sex or reproductive status was observed. Mean den entrance date was 14 October. Entrance date differed between years, early entrance appeared associated with berry crop failures and colder weather. Mean date of exit from dens was earliest for males (23 April) and latest for females with newborn cubs (15 May). Exit dates also varied between years with late exits correlated with colder weather and persistent snow cover. Dens used by brown bears in this area were excavated, no unmodified natural cavities were used. These dens collapsed during spring and summer precluding reuse. Some individuals dug dens in the same general area from year to year; mean distance between den sites used in successive years by all bears was 6.1 km. Characteristics of den sites and sizes of dens are described. Typically dens were dug at higher elevations and on the periphery of home ranges used during summer and fall. Upon exit, most bears moved to lower elevations but females with newborn cubs tended to remain in the vicinity of den sites. Available data suggest this behavior reduces loss of newborn cubs to predation by other bears. Compared to a sympatric population of black bears (Ursus americanus), brown bears denned at higher elevations, spent less time in dens, and entered dens earlier. Den exit dates were similar. Dimensions of brown bear dens were not significantly larger than excavated black bear dens and mean date of emergence from dens was about the same. A proposed hydroelectric project in this study area would likely have reduced black bear populations through impacts on black bear denning habitat. The project would have had only indirect impacts on brown bear denning habitats.
10.2307/3872913| Captive animals were used to conduct 3 simulated denning experiments on each North American Ursid species. One polar bear was studied in its natural maternity den. Initial weight of the study animals ranged from 70 to 285 kg (1 kg). Although the initial weight between black and grizzly bears and between grizzly and polar bears overlapped, the results provide evidence of a species-specific rate of weight loss. The average body weight loss per day of all of the study animals ranged from 0.18 to 0.91 kg. The present data combined with previously reported information on metabolic rates are used to calculate the caloric equivalent of weight loss. These calculations indicate that polar bears may have preferential protein catabolism and/or elevated water loss during denning. 
10.2307/3872642|Blood samples were taken from 8 free-living European brown bears (Ursus arctos) from Plitvice Lakes National Park, Croatia, Yugoslavia, and 4 captive European brown bears from the Zagreb Zoological Park; zoo bears served as a control group. Up to 13 serum chemistry parameters were measured from each sample. Results revealed that the capture procedure provoked an increase of creatine kinase, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and serum urea. Creatine kinase was a very sensitive indicator of muscle damage. Free-living bears exhibited higher total lipid concentrations than captive bears, probably due to a more diverse diet.
10.2307/3872860|American black bears (Ursus americanus) were tested to quantify their response to novel objects placed in their environment. The results indicate that the level of orientation may be greater in the black bear than in other North American carnivores. The exploration of objects by the black bear is characterized by a high degree of contact with the objects. This contact consists primarily of manipulating the objects with the forepaws and chewing the objects. The intense curiosity of the black bear should be recognized and considered in the management of this species and in the evaluation of bear/human conflicts.
10.2307/3872631|Habitat capability models are frequently used in long-term land management planning to evaluate the effects of management alternatives on wildlife populations. We believe that the relationships between timber harvest operations and black bear (Ursus americanus) population dynamics in the southern Appalachians make habitat capability models alone inadequate to predict long-term population response to timber harvest. An explicit consideration of population dynamics is necessary. Most timber in the region is harvested by clear-cutting, which requires an extensive road system and subsequently increases the vulnerability of bears to hunters. We present a simple deterministic model in which habitat dynamics are linked to population dynamics in 2 ways. The 1st is through the classic notion of carrying capacity, the 2nd is through a vulnerability factor that depends on local road density, which is in turn a function of the amount of clear-cutting that has occurred. We simulate the dynamics of a bear population in an area of Pisgah National Forest under 3 management regimes that facilitate comparison of the effects of different rotation intervals on the population. We conclude that some timber harvest regimes may improve the biotic capability of bear habitat in terms of carrying capacity, but that these benefits may be easily outweighed by the concommitant increase in vulnerability to hunting. Under present conditions hunting is a stronger influence on the population than is biotic habitat quality.
10.2307/3872861|Reproductive tracts were collected from 87 female black bears (Ursus americanus) killed by hunters in northeastern and north-central Pennsylvania during November 1974 and 1975. Pregnant animals carried an average of 2.75 corpora lutea. Corpora lutea were significantly larger in tracts that had implantations than in tracts during the delay stage. The sources of ova were found to be equally divided between ovaries. Twelve blastocysts and 22 implanted embroys were examined. Variation in development stage among these samples indicated that implantation occurred late in November or early in December. An average of 2.88 placental scars were observed in animals bearing scars. Potential recruitment from first breeding (2.39 animals) was significantly less than from second or later breedings (3.23 animals). Minimum breeding age for female bears was 2.5 years, at which time 38 percent of the animals bred. The majority of females bred by the time they were 3.5 years old. A very low incidence of nonbreeding females was found.
10.2307/3872600|In 1984-85, 4 brown bears (Ursus arctos) were radio-tracked in the alpine and northern boreal zones in northern Sweden, and 3 bears were radio-tracked in the northern and middle boreal zones in central Sweden to obtain information on movements, home ranges, food habits, and activity patterns. With 1 exception, ear-attached transmitters were used. They functioned well on 1 bear for 2 seasons but not as well on 6 other bears. In 4 cases, the signal gradually weakened until bears could not be relocated. Preliminary results indicate home range sizes varied from about 50 km
10.2307/3872694|This report reviews the status of Japanese black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus), and proposes a conservation plan for this species. Ten thousand black bears are estimated to live in Japan as estimated by distribution of data and density estimates of 0.11-0.18 bears/km
10.2307/3872906|We examined the reactions of 24 radio-tagged black bears (Ursus americanus) to roads on the Harmon Den area of Pisgah National Forest, North Carolina, during 1984 to 1987. The number of times roads were crossed by bears was related to the road density within their home range, and to the traffic volume associated with these roads. Roads were classified according to the mean number of vehicles using that road per day. Class I roads had 10,000+ vehicles per day, Class II had 50-100 vehicles per day, and Class III roads had 5-20 vehicles per day. Bears crossed Class I roads significantly less (P <0.0001) than Class II and Class III roads. Class II and III roads were crossed with almost equal frequency. A mean difference of 60 vehicles per day between the 2 classes did not affect the crossing frequency by bears. Bears strongly avoided (P <0.0001) Class I roads as the density of these roads in their home range increased. Bear crossings of Class III roads increased as road density increased. Bears were found to cross roads with greater frequency during daylight hours than at night. The potential adverse effects of human activities such as timber management and hunting are discussed in relation to different types and uses of roads.
10.2307/3872870|Sixty-six percent of black bears (Ursus americanus) harvested in Oregon during the 1971-74 sport-hunting seasons were killed by persons hunting other game at the time. Male bears, however, were harvested most heavily during the months when the majority of bears taken were killed by persons hunting exclusively for bears. Most females bred as 3- or 4-year-olds but produced fewer cubs in their first litter than were produced by bears older than 5 years. Survival of females in age-classes 1-5 was significantly higher than survival of males in the same age-classes. Survival did not differ between sexes in bears older than 6 years.
10.2307/3872881|Observations on numbers, distribution, locations of dens, and responses of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos L.) to industrial disturbances were noted on Richards Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, during 1972-75. During this period, 13-23 bears occupied the 2,460-km
10.2307/3872914|Throughout the world, bears are declining in numbers and range as habitat is reduced and bear-human interactions increase. Although ursids are widely distributed and inhabit a variety of habitats, they possess a number of biological characteristics that make them particularly vulnerable to conflict with humans. The habitat concept is discussed relative to the unique characteristics of bears. Because bears are wide-ranging species of landscapes, habitat relationships must be evaluated on a broader context than habitat types per se. Human activities and land uses must be factored into bear habitat relationships. Forest clearing and road building, in particular, are common problems for the conservation and management of many bear populations. An understanding of the processes of habitat fragmentation and population extinction is necessary for maintaining viable bear populations in the face of increasing habitat destruction and isolation. Several management tools and research needs for bear habitat management are discussed.
10.2307/3872641|I used blood chemistry and hematology to evaluate the physical condition of black bears (Ursus americanus). Analyses were performed on 70 blood samples taken from 55 live-captured black bears in the redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) region in northcoastal California. Blood parameters analyzed included calcium, inorganic phosphorus, total protein, albumin, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, uric acid, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, GGT, SGOT, SGPT, LDH, sodium, potassium, chloride, ferrous, total globulins, WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MVC, MCH, and MCHC. Bears captured in Aldrich foot-snares, chased up trees with trained dogs, or immobilized with sedative darts while free-roaming had significantly greater (P < 0.01) WBC and serum levels of uric acid, SGOT, SGPT, and LDH, and lower levels of inorganic phosphorus than bears captured in culvert traps. Male bears had significantly (P < 0.01) less MCH than female bears. Additional significantly different (P < 0.05) blood values between sexes suggest a differential stress response of females to immobilization and handling procedures. Adult bears had significantly (P < 0.01) higher MCV, MCH, and serum levels of triglycerides and lower levels of alkaline phosphatase than subadults or cubs. Seasonal differences were observed for inorganic phosphorus, total protein, creatinine, total globulins, MCH, and MCHC. These latter differences were probably a result of adult male capture bias in spring and subadult capture bias in fall. Six indices of physical condition were developed. Each bear was assigned a condition evaluation index (CEI) value based on subjective assessment of body fat deposits, number and types of parasites, and pelage condition. Five physical condition ratio (PCR) values were calculated by dividing body weight by each of 5 somatic measurements (total length, girth, height at shoulder, head circumference, and head length). The CEI did not reflect physical condition as well as the PCR values. The ratio body weight/total length (PCR-A) permitted objective physical condition comparisons between sex and age classes. These comparisons suggest relationships between and within sex and age classes based on intraspecific competition for available resources. Blood parameters significantly correlated (P < 0.005) with PCR-A (total protein, albumin, total globulins, triglyceride, glucose, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCH, and MCHC) may be used to monitor the nutritional status of black bear populations under a variety of conditions.
10.2307/3872944|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) densities within a 1,862 km
10.2307/3872608|We investigated grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) use of caribou (Rangifer tarandus) as carrion and prey in 3 areas: 2 areas were in or adjacent to the traditional calving grounds of large caribou herds, and 1 area that did not include caribou calving grounds. The western Brooks Range study area was located in the mountains and foothills near the calving grounds of the Western Arctic Caribou Herd (est. 200,000 in 1985); the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge study area was in the coastal plain and foothills of the eastern Brooks Range in the calving grounds of the Porcupine Caribou Herd (est. 150,000 in 1985); and the Canning River study area was in the mountains and foothills of the eastern Brooks Range, 80 km southwest of the calving grounds of the Porcupine Herd. Predation or scavenging was determined from direct observation, locating radio-collared bears feeding on caribou, and from blood on the muzzles of captured bears. The Canning River bear population was distant from calving grounds, showed little use of caribou, and was characterized by low population density and productivity. Caribou were used as carrion and prey by the 2 grizzly bear populations for which calving caribou were available. Bear population density and productivity were higher when caribou were available, even though patterns of caribou use by bears differed between the 2 areas. Near the calving grounds of the Western Arctic Herd, western Brooks Range grizzly bears stayed within their established seasonal home ranges and used caribou as the caribou migrated through their home ranges. In contrast, on the Porcupine Herd calving grounds, some Arctic Refuge bears left seasonal home ranges in the mountains to take advantage of the caribou on the coastal plain, staying only as long as the calving caribou were available. In addition, some bears that preyed on Porcupine Herd animals apparently traveled long distances following the path of migrating caribou to the calving grounds. No bears from the Canning River study area were observed to leave their home ranges to reach the calving grounds. The proportion of caribou that were killed by bears vs. those that were scavenged was not determined. Although most caribou killed by bears were calves, adults were also preyed upon. Grizzly bears of all sex and age classes fed on caribou.
10.2307/3872688|A quantitative study of the behavior of brown bears (Ursus arctos) was undertaken at Brooks River in Katmai National Park and Preserve 1988-90 to determine whether human activity affected use of the area by females with young. Over the 3 fall seasons 862 hours of systematic observations were recorded or not (late Aug through mid-Oct salmon spawning period). Ten different females with young were observed, 4 of them over a complete reproductive cycle. Each female was classified according to human tolerance as "habituated" (n = 5), or "nonhabituated" (n = 5). The seasonal patterns of family group activity were examined according to habituation class. There was a direct relationship between the distribution of river use by nonhabituated family groups and proximity to Brooks Camp, while no relationship was found for habituated family groups. Use of areas by nonhabituated families increased near Brooks Camp late in the season, when human activity and noise in camp decreased. Availability of fish for bears was highest in areas near camp; however, nonhabituated females with young used these areas significantly less than habituated families.
10.2307/3872536|Abilities to digest dry matter, crude protein, and gross energy were evaluated for 2 captive grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in 1977 and 1978. Four diets were used: 1 basal (horsemeat plus dog chow), 2 incorporating natural foodstuffs (blueberries and salmon), and 1 containing high fiber (beet pulp). Average apparent digestibilities (% dry weight) for the horsemeat plus dog chow, blueberry, and salmon diets were 82% (dry matter), 90.2% (crude protein), and 88.1% (gross energy). Relative digestibilities of specific foodstuffs in descending order were: blueberries, salmon, and beet pulp. Addition of beet pulp to the diet reduced measured digestibilities to: 48.7% (dry matter), 75.1% (crude protein), and 62.0% (gross energy). Grizzly bears feeding on horsemeat exhibited digestibilities similar to those reported for obligate carnivores. Although U. arctos has evolved omnivorous food habits and morphological adaptations for herbivory, it digests cellulose poorly but has apparently conserved the ability to digest meat efficiently. The ability to digest high quality forage rapidly is presumably a necessary concomitant of denning.
10.2307/3872633|Aerial locations of radio-instrumented grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) were used to analyze effects of human activity associated with developments and primary roads on grizzly bear habitat use in Yellowstone National Park. Grizzly bear occupancy of habitat near human facilities was reduced, efficient foraging strategies were disrupted, and cohorts tending to be subordinate or security-conscious were displaced into habitat nearer developments by more dominant cohorts, particularly during summer and fall. Adult females and subadult males residing closer to developments were management-trapped at a higher rate than animals of the same class residing farther away. Adult females and subadults bore a disproportionate part of costs associated with avoiding roads and developments. For this reason and because adult females are generally thought to operate under considerable energetic duress in the Yellowstone area, avoidance of developments and roads may have resulted in higher mortality and lower productivity among the adult female cohort.
10.2307/3872629|During May 1984, we initiated a study of black bear (Ursus americanus) ecology on the 410 km
10.2307/3872665|We monitored 3 wild brown bear (Ursus arctos) cubs orphaned in July 1991 (approximately 6 months old) in the Cantabrian Mountains over autumn, denning, and den emergence periods, totalling 57 observation days and more than 113 hours time-in-sight. Their diet followed that reported in bear diet studies from the area and included items unknown to them. They denned from 8 December to 18 March and separated in early May 1992, at least 1 year earlier than other litters. Their home range from October 1991 to May 1992 was 0.82 km
10.2307/3872653|The most important remaining population of bear (Ursus arctos) in Greece is found in the Pindus range, in a vast area with extensive human activities and structures. The current condition of the bear's habitat is a result of human history and traditional exploitation, but this situation is changing under the pressure of new development plans and changes in the sectorial economy. Although attitudes of people in the Greek highlands are primarily positive toward the bear, the efficiency of bear protection efforts depends on the integration of conservation measures into the socio-economic setting. On a large scale, objectives such as conservation of bear habitat integrity and diversity can be specified using zoning techniques and may be incorporated into regional planning. Conversely, it is possible to increase space availability and limit disturbance to important sectors for bears by re-adjusting critical human activities or by broadening the scope of EIA studies. All steps of a bear conservation project should be designed properly and adapted to the local environment and economic activities.
10.2307/3872630|Theoretical and empirical research indicates that territoriality is related to habitat productivity. Female black bears (Ursus americanus) exhibit intrasexual territoriality in northern North America where habitat productivity is low. However, telemetry studies show that adult female black bears in the Southern Appalachian Mountains, where productivity is higher, exhibit considerable home range overlap. This overlap was quantified using an index that weighs home range overlap by the extent that 2 bears share parts of their home ranges. Home range of adult females overlapped extensively during each year and season. Females who reached sexual maturity established home ranges close to their mothers or took over their mothers' home ranges if their mothers had died. The importance of sample size and statistical and biological independence of bear locations to home range analysis is unclear.
10.2307/3872521|A total of 68 black bear (Ursus americanus) dens were located by radio-tracking 27 radio-instrumented animals from October 1974 through May 1979. Regardless of mild weather conditions and year-around availability of food, all bears denned. Duration of denning varied with sex and age class but averaged 4 to 5 months. Ninety-one percent of the dens studied were located in the Interior Chaparral vegetation type. Site selection appeared to be based on a combination of dense vegetative cover at bear height (0.3-1.8 m) and early development of spring forage. All dens were located under large rocks. Den sites appeared to abundant, with most bears preparing numerous dens. Only 6% of our bears reused dens. Den sites of adult animals appeared to be within normal home range areas. Because of the ready availability of den sites, plans for conversion of chaparral areas to grassland should limit neither bear den sites nor bear populations.
10.2307/3872708| Seven seasonal population estimates were derived from 1989 to 1991 for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Swan Mountains of western Montana using a capture-recapture model for closed populations. Mace et al. (1994) discussed in detail the study design and population modeling procedures, which used systematic snaring for initial capture and self-activating cameras for recapture. Twenty-one marked grizzly bears within the camera grids formed the foundation for recapture analysis. We generated 27 photographic records of detections and 71 nondetections in 7 photo sessions. On average, the marked population we sampled was dominated by adult female (29.5%) and adult male (22.6%) grizzly bears. Nearly an equal number of male and female bears were detected on film, but the nondetection sample was skewed towards females (73.3%). Adult males were more frequently detected than adult females or females with young. Most detections (66.6%) were of bears with a prior history of detection. Adult males moved greater distances and consequently encountered more camera stations than other age-gender classes. Generally, movements for all age-gender classes were greatest during the spring and decreased thereafter. When the 7 photo sessions were pooled, it was shown that grizzly bears were not exposed to many camera stations (x = 1.6, SD = 1.8) and bears we successfully detected were confronted with significantly more stations (x = 2.30, SD = 2.3) than those we failed to detect (x = 1.30, SD = 1.44). Logistic regression showed that detections decreased over time. We concluded that differential movement patterns among age-gender classes played an exceedingly important role in photographic detection. The precision of population estimates could be improved by grid densities >5-8 camera stations/100 km
10.2307/3872854|Black bear (Ursus americanus) activities in southeastern North Carolina were determined by radiotelemetry, trapping success, track counts, seat collections, and hunter harvests from May 1974 to January 1977. All data indicated that bear activity decreased progressively in autumn. The only significant winter movement was by males, 3 years old and younger. Four bears denned on the ground in dense Carolina bay vegetation. One adult female denned in a bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) with an entrance cavity approximately 25 m above the water. The earliest date for denning by radio-monitored bears was 5 December and latest emergence was 22 April. five bears remained inactive for periods ranging from 85 to 113 days, averaging 102. An adult male had the shortest period of inactivity. Two subadult males remained active throughout the midwinter. Postdenning movements gradually increased and reached a peak during breeding season in June and July.
10.2307/3872810|Two European brown bears (Ursus arctos) were captured in Plitvice Lakes National Park, fitted with radiocollars and tracked for 426 and 198 days. The home ranges used by these bears were 85 km
10.2307/3872663|Black bears (Ursus americanus) were extirpated from the Big South Fork area (BSFA) of Kentucky and Tennessee around the turn of this century. We developed a habitat suitability index (HSI) model to study the feasibility of a black bear reintroduction into this area. We applied the HSI model to the BSFA and identified high- and low-quality habitat components, their spatial distribution, and their projected change over time. Potential for human influences seems to be the weakest aspect of the BSFA as a successful reintroduction location. In conjunction with the habitat analysis, we developed a detailed release protocol, identifying factors that may further increase the probability of reintroduction success. Our approach could apply to other bear species and geographic areas because of the flexible structure of HSI models and acceptance of various types of data.
10.2307/3872693|In 1985 an experimental method was introduced by Pingrang Zoo for extracting bile from living black bears (Selenarctos thibetanus). This method has since become a large-scale production in China. There are now 30 farms producing the bear-gall powder in provinces of northeast and southwest China from 4,000 captive bears. Bear gall is a medicine from wild bears, quite rare and expensive. The rapid development of bile-extracting methods from living bears is an attempt somewhat following the successful example of farming Sika deer (Cervus nippon) for antlers, where the farmed population is now approaching 300,000, which is more than the wild population of Sika deer. The bears in bear farms were captured from the wild. From now on, domesticated bears must be increasing every year in farms until a population of second-generation offspring is established and capturing bears from the wild is stopped. Considering that the black bear would become a new experimental animal in the near future for the scientific research of osteology and physiology, developing these techniques of breeding and domesticating is of remarkable significance.
10.2307/3872846|The range of the Japanese subspecies of the Himalayan black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus) has declined in western Honshu. In Kyushu and Shikoku, local populations are approaching extinction. Meanwhile, the annual harvest of bears has increased from less than 1,000 to over 2,000 between 1950 and 1972, largely resulting from the increasing number of control kills. The distribution dynamics and the ecological consequences of the impact of human activities on 4 subpopulations were studied. Reductions in bear range and outbreaks of tree damage by bears were found closely associated with the rapid disappearance of natural forest. Present control practices and the various types of habitat destruction made these subpopulations increasingly vulnerable, and in 2 cases, partial or complete elimination of a subpopulation was confirmed.
10.2307/3872662|A small study area (4,029 ha) was used to build a model of potential brown bear (Ursus arctos) habitat quality. In a first step, based on existing data of bear diets and the calculated coverage of food-producing plants, we established a series of food selection indices. Foods with the highest selection indices for bears included the Umbelliferae, apple (Malus sp.), bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus), and chestnut (Castanea sativa). By combining the food indices with the surface description of each environmental unit, we obtained the trophic values of each habitat. Herbaceous formations, non-oak (Quercus sp.) shrub formations and chestnut forests are the most important environmental units in the diet of the bear. The final habitat quality (obtained by calculating mean value between trophic and refuge-cover values) showed that high quality areas were scarce. Processing of GIS data allowed the extrapolation of results to the entire area of study by using trophic resource maps and details of refuge-cover and global habitat quality. This mapping was obtained for each season of the year and annually.
10.2307/3872703|Dental cellular cementum deposition (DCD) was studied in black bears (Ursus americanus) in Arizona between 1973 and 1990. Cub production and cub survival were monitored for 17 adult (>4 years) females. First premolars were later collected from these females; 11 had received intramuscular oxytetracycline injections to label cementum. Annual DCD layer measurements were made from transverse sections of first premolars. Dental cellular cementum deposition measurements were standardized by calculating a proportional width for each cementum layer to compensate for individual differences in cementum growth rate. Age effects on cementum growth rate were removed prior to analyses. Pairwise comparisons, after individual and age differences were removed, revealed that female DCD was reduced (P = 0.003) during years when cubs were successfully raised compared to years when the same females produced no cubs. Female DCD was also reduced (P = 0.018) during years of successful cub rearing compared to years when cubs were produced but lost. A predictive model with confidence intervals was developed to allow estimation of reproductive history for female black bears from dental cementum deposition.
10.2307/3872809|Habitat and spatial relationships of 47 radio-collared black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in 1975 and 1976 on 218 km
10.2307/3872640|Metabolism of the essential amino acid leucine was studied in 3 black bears (Ursus americanus) in February while the bears were denning and not eating or drinking and in May while they were eating and drinking normally.
10.2307/3872515|Hourly movements of radio-collared black bears (Ursus americanus) were monitored periodically from May through December 1976-1979 in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and Cherokee National Forest in eastern Tennessee. Diel movements were affected by habitat, food supply, time of year, time of day, sex, age, presence of cubs, and social interactions. Bears were relatively sedentary where food was easily obtained but foraged over larger areas when high-energy foods were dispersed. Nocturnal movements were most affected by food supply. Daily movements changed seasonally and from year to year in response to seasonal and year-to-year changes in food supply. Adult males generally traveled more per day than adult females, and young bears traveled further than adult bears. Females with cubs limited their movements, especially during the spring. All bears utilized only a small portion of their seasonal range in the course of a day, often traveling in a zig-zag or circular pattern. Circuitous travel routes were particularly evident where bear densities were high.
10.2307/3872935| A study was conducted in northeastern Minnesota from 1986-1989 to determine the feaibility of habituating black bears (Ursus americanus) to observers for behavioral and ecological research. Of 18 males and 8 females that repeatedly visited an artificial feeding site in the presence of humans, 32-year-old females were radio-collared for further habituation away from the site. The 3 females were repeatedly located, fed, and accompanied at various locations in their territories. After 50-100 hours of this additional contact, each bear accepted human presence and mostly ignored observers that followed 1-10 m behind. The bears were no longer fed in their territories except for the feeding of scat markers for digestion studies. The bears were observed for 24- or 48-hour periods approximately weekly as they matured, reproduced, and raised cubs. While being followed, they foraged, napped, slept through nights, showed REM and non-REM sleep, mated, played, nursed their cubs, captured young animals, maintained territories, marked bear trees, prepared dens, and began hibernation. They relied on natural foods and showed activity and movement patterns similar to daily and annual patterns of 103 non-habituated bears that were radio-tracked previously in approximately the same area. A field computer with an internal clock was programmed to aid in the recording of activities, habitat use, food consumption, and weather. A personal computer was programmed to sort and tabulate the data and calculate 1) time spent in each activity, 2) time spent in each cover type, 3) number of bites taken of each food in each cover type, and 4) time spent in each activity and cover type in each weather condition. The computer calculated these time-activity budgets for single 24-hour observation periods or for any combination of observation periods specified. Problems of excessive hunting loss, habitual nuisance behavior, or appreciable observer injury did not occur. Study results were directly useful to forest managers for identification of opportunity areas for habitat preservation or improvement. Results provided new insights into black bear diet, bioenergetics, foraging strategies, activity patterns, sociobiology, communication, and bear-human interactions. Drawbacks were few study animals and limited study area. Comparative studies are needed in new locations, involving additional age and sex classes, additional physiological data, and additional behavior regimes such as might be exhibited by translocated bears, nuisance bears, or bears whose ranges have been altered by fire, development, insect defoliation, or extensive timber management. 
10.2307/3872926|The Error Polygon Method (EPM) of Heezen and Tester (1967) is used most frequently to quantify telemetry error. Complete scientific reporting for this method should include the confidence arcs with associated confidence levels, a measure of distance from the receiver to the estimated location, and a measure of the angle of intersection. The EPM assumption of a normal distribution of bearing errors was rejected with a large data base (n = 940) collected on 13 transmitter locations that resulted in 388 estimated locations. Empirical data of actual error demonstrated the EPM's ability to delineate 90% error polygons that contained the actual location >90% of the time, although both the area and longest diagonal of the error polygons were 6.3 and 7.4 times, respectively, larger than actual error. The EPM did not give an accurate measure of location error.
10.2307/3872948|Mean adult body sizes (BS) and reproductive parameters were compared across 12 populations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). BS was assessed in terms of mean adult body weight (BW) and skull length (SL). BWs of adult males and females are positively related to each other and to SL. As BS increases, litter size (C/L) and natality (C/L/IBI) tend to increase, while interbirth interval (IBI) and age at first whelping (AFW) decrease. To the extent that IBI and AFW are inversely related to maturation rates to weaning and adulthood, respectively, these results indicate a positive relationship between maturation rate and BS in a population. Both BW and SL are inexpensive predictors of reproductive rate reliable enough for management purposes where reproductive data are lacking.
10.2307/3872606|Recent analyses of data on the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) population of Yellowstone National Park and its environs suggest the likelihood of a continuing decline in numbers if losses of fully adult females are not reduced. The size of the population is not known, and a simple projection model has been used to identify some inconsistencies in the available index data. Population dynamics calculations, based on Lotka's equation or a stochastic model, indicate a continuing decrease in numbers, although continued observations through radio-telemetry are needed to verify these trends. The margin between stabilizing the population and a continued decrease appears to be roughly the loss of 2 fully adult female bears per year. At present, the risk of extirpation of this population over the next 30 years appears to be small. Continued monitoring of survivorship will be needed, particularly because "recovery" of the population may be mainly characterized by a shift in the pattern of mortality, from adults to subadults, and not necessarily a reduction in absolute number of losses.
10.2307/3872680|Canada's current grizzly/brown bear (Ursus arctos) population estimate is between 22,000 and 28,000. The grizzlies' range can be subdivided into 14 biophysically based zones. Banci (1991) classified the grizzly as extinct in 2, threatened in 1, vulnerable in 7, and secure in 4. This documents the need for future-oriented, proactive planning to protect grizzly bear populations in the face of development. Through a survey, all provinces, territories, and national parks having grizzly bears were contacted and their opinions were sought regarding grizzly bear status, threats, and the role of reserves for long-term conservation of viable grizzly bear populations. All respondents believed that the concept of a strictly protected core area and a surrounding region managed to allow limited, carefully regulated resource development, but planned to minimally impact grizzly bears, would be an important component of long-term grizzly bear conservation. I concluded that creation of a new system of such reserves for grizzly bears and other highly mobile species was unlikely. I suggest that the already established 10 national parks of Canada that have grizzly bears could form at least major parts of the strictly protected areas. At least enough land surrounding each park would need to be managed to protect grizzly bear habitat and populations so as to give a high probability of population viability. Canadian national parks by themselves only protect approximately 3.4-4.4% of Canada's grizzly bears so interagency cooperation would be necessary to protect viable populations in larger grizzly bear ecosystems. The need for and progress toward interagency management is discussed with respect to each Canadian national park having grizzly bears. Means of forming interagency management teams are identified. The legislative, policy, and managerial ability of the Canadian national parks to protect grizzly bear habitat and populations is discussed and found to be good enough to allow national parks to function as protected cores. Cooperation from territories and provinces in the management of grizzly ecosystems will depend on public support.
10.2307/3872621|From May 1982 to April 1985 we studied seasonal use of domestic fruits at 330 abandoned homesites by 24 adult female, 17 adult male, and 3 subadult male black bears (Ursus americanus) in central Shenandoah National Park, Virginia. Distance-to-nearest-homesite measurements indicated that males were never closer (P > 0.10) to homesites than females or random points during any season and that females were closer (P < 0.001) to homesites than males and random points during summer. Only females were located < 100 m from homesites more (P < 0.001) than expected during summer and early fall. Food habit analysis of 857 scats indicated that bears consumed apples (Malus spp.) and sweet cherries (Prunus avium) at abandoned homesites mainly in summer, early fall, and late fall. Bears used homesites in late fall more than distance measures indicated. Domestic fruits were an important nutritional food for black bears in relation to total soft fruits eaten.
10.2307/3872721|In a sample of 55 dens of bears (Selenarctos thibetanus ussuricus and Ursus arctos lasiotus) in the South Xiaoxinganling Mountains, we found 3 types: tree dens (n = 23, 41.8%), ground dens (n = 30, 54.5%), and open-ground "nest" dens (n = 2, 3.6%). Most dens are lined with different bedding materials. Half of the tree den entrances face up, the rest mostly face east, southeast, and northwest. Most ground den entrances face northeast. The majority of dens are in mixed conifer-broadleaf forest on middle slopes that face east. Den trees generally are Populus ussuriensis, Pinus koraiensis, and Tilia spp. Average slope is 17.8 degrees for tree dens, 24.2 degrees for ground dens, and 28.5 degrees for open-ground "nest" dens. Human activity affects the distribution of dens (except for tree dens). Elevations range from 300 to 500 m for the majority of tree dens, from 400 to 700 m for most ground dens. The number of dens decreases as elevation increases. Dense understory plants are very important for ground dens and open-ground "nest" dens.
10.2307/3872632|To assess the impacts of log truck traffic on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Coastal British Columbia, the zone of hauling activity (zha) in the Kimsquit River study area was mapped using the sound levels (dB[C]) recorded at 25-m intervals along 200-m transects perpendicular to the road. The logging road bisected the home ranges of 2 adult female grizzly bears that were intensively monitored by radiotelemetry. We obtained 2 years of prelogging information and 2 years of data during logging activity on how these bears used the zha. Two hypotheses were tested to assess the impacts of truck movement: (1) there would be no difference in the pattern of use of the zha by adult female grizzly bears during and not during disturbance and (2) there would be no difference in activity patterns within the zha during disturbance among areas with different vegetative screen types and between areas with and without visual screens. Based on our information, hypothesis 1 was rejected, and hypothesis 2 was not. Additional information is presented that corroborates these findings.
10.2307/3872645|The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) in the Cabinet Mountains of Montana is threatened and the population may consist of as few as 15 individuals. Survival of this semi-isolated population depends on innovative habitat and population management techniques. Because potential for immigration into this population is low and the population is small, population augmentation is being considered. Possible augmentation techniques include moving animals of selected age and sex from high-density areas into the area and cross-fostering captive-born grizzly bear cubs to selected black bear (U. americanus) females resident in the area. Although the potential success of these efforts are not known, it is known that without such efforts, the survival of this population cannot be assured.
10.2307/3872735|We studied reproduction by black bears (Ursus americanus) in 3 dissimilar Maine study areas from 1982 to 1991. Nuts of American beech (Fagus grandifolia) were the primary fall food source in Spectacle Pond, a major fall food in Stacyville, and rarely available in Bradford. We visited 396 dens, including 303 dens of 96 adult females, and examined 154 newborn litters. Alternate-year beechnut crop failures appeared to maintain reproductive synchrony at Spectacle Pond, where 73 of 77 (95%) litters were produced on odd-numbered years following abundant beechnut crops. Most bears at Spectacle Pond began to reproduce at 6 years of age, and had 2-year intervals between litters, even after litter loss. Eighty percent of breeding females (i.e., adults without cubs) produced litters at Spectacle Pond when beechnuts were abundant, but breeding females lost weight and only 13% produced litters when beechnuts were scarce. Reproductive synchrony was less pronounced at Stacyville and Bradford, where most bears began to produce litters at 4 years of age, and generally produced subsequent litters 1 year after litter loss. At Stacyville and Bradford, bears maintained stable weights regardless of beechnut abundance, and most breeding females produced litters every year. Where bears depend upon few fall foods, food failures may synchronize female reproductive schedules and impact population age structures. Adequate understanding of bear reproductive biology includes estimates of litter losses and resulting inter-litter intervals for projections of cub production.
10.2307/3872857|An evaluation was made of 1,028 reports of black bear (Ursus americanus)/human incidents involving personal injuries, property damage, and bear control actions in Great Smoky Mountains National Park, 1964-76. Respective totals for personal injuries and incidents of property damage were 107 (range, 1-23 per year) and 715 (range, 9-116 per year). Captures and relocations for the period numbered 332, and 18 bears were destroyed. Seventy-six percent of the nuisance bears were males. Improper food storage, violations of park regulations, and high levels of visitor use at certain campsites, shelters and along a few main roads and trails are factors contributing to bear/human conflicts.
10.2307/3872823|As a result of declining populations and habitat loss over the past decades, the Pyrenean brown bear (Ursus arctos Pyrenaicus) is limited to 2 isolated populations confined to remote areas of the Pyrenees. The remnant population in the western French Pyrenees is the largest and best known. Confronted with the lack of bear population data, we decided to analyze bear predation on livestock data recorded between 1968 and 1979 for insight into recent bear population size and trends. During the 12-year study we investigated 606 bear attacks in detail. The investigations were in response to farmer claims for compensation following acts of bear predation on livestock. During the study period, the number of attacks per year and the range of bear predations decreased gradually. This decline occurred throughout their range to varying degrees. This disparity was particularly marked west of the Aspe River in an area where human disturbance is great.
10.2307/3872843|Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis and Company have developed a new drug combination known as CI-744 (to be marketed for veterinary use as Tilazol TM). CI-744 is a 1:1 ratio of the phencyclidine hydrochloride (Sernylan) analogue tiletamine hydrochloride and a non-phenothiazine tranquilizer, zolazepam hydrochloride. Field trials of CI-744 in 39 black bears (Ursus americanus) showed its effects to be similar to a 1:1 mixture of Sernylan and promazine hydrochloride. However, CI-744 provides the advantages of shorter restraint time, faster recovery, less salivary and respiratory secretion, and ease of use (no supplemental drugs were needed). Based on 25 immobilizations (22 bears) for which complete and accurate data are available, mean values of 4 important parameters were: induction time, 7 minutes; restraint time, 81 minutes; emergence time, 36 minutes; total down time, 117 minutes. Mean dosage rate was 4.1 mg/kg, but the optimum for routine field work is about 4.0 mg/kg.
10.2307/3872901|Human effects on bear habitat use are mediated through food biomass changes, bear tolerance of humans and their impacts, and human tolerance of bears. Large-scale changes in bear food biomass have been caused by conversion of wildlands and waterways to intensive human use, and by the introduction of exotic pathogens. Bears consume virtually all human foods that have been established in former wildlands, but bear use has been limited by access. Air pollution has also affected bear food biomass on a small scale and is likely to have major future impacts on bear habitat through climatic warming. Major changes in disturbance cycles and landscape mosaics wrought by humans have further altered temporal and spatial pulses of bear food production. These changes have brought short-term benefits in places, but have also added long-term stresses to most bear populations. Although bears tend to avoid humans, they will also use exotic and native foods in close proximity to humans. Subadult males and adult females are more often impelled to forage closer to humans because of their energetic predicament and because more secure sites are often preempted by adult males. Although male bears are typically responsible for most livestock predation, adult females and subadult males are more likely to be habituated to humans because they tend to forage closer to humans. Elimination of human-habituated bears predictably reduces effective carrying capacity and is more likely to be a factor in preserving bear populations where humans are present in moderate-to-high densities. If humans desire to preserve viable bear populations, they will either have to accept increased risk of injury associated with preserving habituated animals, or continue to crop habituated bears while at the same time preserving large tracts of wildlands free from significant human intrusion.
10.2307/3872724|Food is considered to be a primary influence on black bear (Ursus americanus) habitat selection, however relative abundance of foods among habitats is rarely quantified. We measured seasonal food abundance within 17 habitats in the central Adirondack Mountains of New York and used food abundance indices to predict habitat selection. Managed habitats provided the highest abundance of spring foods and summer fruit. Nonmanaged and uneven-aged managed hardwood habitats provided the highest amounts of beechnuts (Fagus grandifolia), a primary fall food. Analysis of habitat-use data from 5 adult female black bears monitored during 1989-91 suggested that habitat selection was greatly influenced by food abundance. Seasonal shifts in habitat use were related to changes in food resources. Bears used habitats with high food abundance more than expected and habitats with low food abundance less than expected (P = 0.05). Habitat diversity within a bear home range appears to be beneficial. Management implications are discussed.
10.2307/3872925|Assessing patterns of concentrated and diffuse use of an animal's home range is an important component of understanding ecological and behavioral processes. We present the Area Independent Method (AIM), a graphical and quantiative technique for identifying the pattern of home range use (i.e., clumped or even) and for distinguishing between heavily and lightly used parts of an individual's home range when clumping is present. This technique does not require that the data have any specified statistical distribution. The results of the AIM are compared with those from Samuel et al. (1985) when both methods are applied to radio-telemetry locations of 18 black bears (Ursus americanus). Total home range size has a lesser effect on the size of the core area identified by the AIM than by Samuel et al.'s (1985) method. Both methods result in core area usage that is little affected by total home range size. This technique provides an objective method for comparing areas of concentrated and peripheral use among individuals.
10.2307/3872658| Since the middle ages the brown bear (Ursus arctos) has occurred throughout the Pyrenees Mountains. In the mid-eastern portion of the Pyrenees, brown bears may already have been eliminated. A small relict population occupies a very restricted range in the area of the Pyrnes Atlantiques. This population has been monitored since 1978, and since 1983, the population has been counted annually. The last detailed status report was published in 1989. On the French side of the Pyrenees, the species still exists in the Ossau, Aspe, and Bartous valleys. This population is believed to inhabit approximately 50,000 ha and is believed to be comprised of 6-8 individuals, plus 2 more bears that frequent the Spanish side. From 1988 to 1992, these numbers appear to have remained stable. The birth of a cub in the Ossau valley in 1989 indicates that some reproduction is occuring. Although a few measures have been enacted to protect this population, it remains extremely vulnerable. If the population is not augmented and bear conservation objectives are not included in current land-use programs, the population may go extinct. 
10.2307/3872862|Three black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs were abandoned, at approximately 2 weeks of age, on 4 February 1976, in New York State's Catskill region. The dens of 4 radio-telemetered adult female bears were located by the Department of Environmental Conservation during research on the black bear population in the Catskills. Two of the abandoned cubs were placed in the only maternity den existing among the 4 radio-telemetered female bears. The 6-week-old foster cubs were accepted by the adult female bear. The foster mother left the den in mid-April accompanied by 3 cubs. The family group was observed twice from radiotracking aircraft during the spring and summer of 1976.
10.2307/3872868|Two geographically discrete populations of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Idaho were studied during 1973-76. The Council population, located in west-central Idaho, has a history of heavy hunting pressure, accessibility, and liberal hunting seasons. The Lowell population in north-central Idaho has relatively light hunting pressure, poor accessibility, and liberal hunting seasons. An analysis of the male and female age structures indicated that adult males were more susceptible to hunting than other segments of the population. Sex composition differed significantly between subadult and adult segments of the 2 populations, but not between populations. Mean litter size was 1.9 at Council and 1.7 at Lowell. Productivity (number of young produced per year) appears to be density-independent and a function of habitat quality and the number of adult females present in the population.
10.2307/3872808|We studied black bear (Ursus americanus) habitat use patterns in northern Idaho from June 1980 to November 1981. Habitat availability was estimated with a random-dot technique and habitat use was determined from 676 radiolocations of 9 adult bears (5 female, 4 male). Black bears preferred selectively logged areas during spring, summer, and fall; clearcuts were avoided during all seasons. Habitat selection differed significantly between sexes. Female black bears preferred timber habitats and avoided roads; males used timber and roads in proportion to their availability.
10.2307/3872526|The food habits of Japanese black bears (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus) were studied in the Neo Nishitani Valley, Gifu Prefecture, between 1973 and 1977. The bear live in the temperate forest zone where beech (Fagus crenata), Mongolian oak (Quercus mongolica var. grosserata), and Japanese white oak (Q. serrata) dominate. Their diet was composed mostly of plant matter throughout the year. During spring, bear ate nuts of beech and oaks which had fallen in the previous year, beech buds and shoots of herbaceous plants. During summer, bears ate a large quantity of animal matter such as ants and other insects, and much plant matter such as the fruits of Japanese cluster cherry (Prunus grayana) and dogwood (Cornus controversa). Nuts of oaks and beech were consumed in large quantities during fall. A census of the numbers of fruit trees with branches broken by bears revealed that the animals mainly used beech in 1973, Japanese white oak and Japanese chestnut (Castanea crenata) in 1974, chestnut and Mongolian oak in 1975, beech in 1976, and chestnut in 1977. In 1976, when few broken branches of beech tree were found, fallen beechnuts were eaten.
10.2307/3872905|Radio locations from 3 grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and 26 black bears (U. americanus) in the Cabinet Mountains of northwest Montana were analyzed to determine the effects of roads and trails on seasonal habitat use patterns from 1983 to 1988. Two seasons, spring and fall, were identified based on food habits and habitat use. Distances from radio locations to the nearest open road and trail were compared to distances from random points to the nearest road and trail. Grizzly bears used habitat 0-914 m from open roads less than expected based on availability during spring and fall (P <0.05). Black bears used habitat 0-274 m from open roads less than expected during spring and used habitat 0-914 m from roads less than expected during fall. Grizzly bears used habitat 0-122 m from trails less than expected during spring and fall. Black bears used habitat 0-122 m from trails less than expected during spring and used habitat 0-305 m from trails less than expected during fall. Habitat availability appeared related to grizzly bear avoidance of trails, and black bear avoidance of roads and trails. Mean distance from grizzly bear radio locations to a seasonally closed road increased when the road was opened (P <0.001), though black bear locations did not (P = 0.324). The benefits of road closures in bear management were discussed.
10.2307/3872909|A management planning program for Kluane National Park Reserve was completed in 1980. A major decision was made to develop a public transit system in the Slims River Area to facilitate visitor access to a large valley glacier. The transit system was not built and the valley was managed as a backcountry hiking area for an interim period. Characteristics of grizzly bear-people conflicts were monitored from 1981 to 1987. Park staff and 2,603 registered overnight backcountry users recorded 503 grizzly observations. Observations of solitary bears increased from 40% of total bear observations in 1981 to 84% in 1987. Frequency of avoidance behavior by grizzlies decreased whereas apparent neutral and approach behaviors increased. Incidents defined as serious were infrequent from 1981 to 1984 (n = 3). Serious incidents sharply increased in 1985 (n = 10) and continued to be relatively frequent in 1986 (n = 6) and 1987 (n = 9). Serious incidents were categorized as close approach or charge (n = 10), pack robbing (n = 8), food cache robbing (n = 2) and disturbance of tent camps (n = 4), facilities (n = 3) and vehicles (n = 1). Management actions resulted in the death of 5 grizzlies, relocation of 5 grizzlies and area closures. Our analysis of relevant documents from 3 national park planning and management processes indicated that grizzly bears were not adequately treated in plans and environmental assessments for the Slims River Area because of emphasis on the proposed public transit system. The relationship between habituation of grizzlies to people and food conditioning was not recognized in management of the Slims River Area as a wilderness hiking area. We considered national park management processes to be valid tools for grizzly management provided they are implemented by trained, knowledgeable staff that apply adequate information before making decisions.
10.2307/3872605|Aerial surveys conducted in 1983 over a stratified random sample from about 2,500 km
10.2307/3872822|We obtained 2,757 radiotelemetry activity readings, at 15-min intervals, from 2 brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Plitvice Lakes National Park. In late fall, while still with her family group, a yearling female was active during the day, but became nocturnal after her mother disapperared the following year. Her main rest period was from 0800 to 1600 hours, with a secondary rest period around midnight. An adult male followed a similar nocturnal schedule (Jul-Oct 1982 data only). Both bears were active 50%-60% of the time between July and October, 40% of the time in November and December, and 5% of the time in the winter den (Feb 1982, female only).
10.2307/3872625|An approach for relating fitness to foraging activity is described for 2 adult female grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in coastal British Columbia. During berry season both bears roamed widely (seasonal home ranges of 3932 and 3565 ha) using at least 10 different species of berries in widely divergent habitats. Bears spent 62%-69% of their time in habitat types used for feeding. Habitat use by the bear with the smaller home range was correlated with food quantity and quality (r
10.2307/3872659|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Russia is approximately 130,000 animals, the largest population of this species remaining in the world. While the eastern part of brown bear range probably has not changed significantly for ages, the western part, especially that in the European part of the country, has been dramatically reduced compared with previous centuries. Progressive deforestation led to the southern border of bear range retreating northward. The northern border of brown bear range in Russia is still limited exclusively by natural zonation. This study reviewed the changes in brown bear range that occurred during the last 30-40 years using literature sources and a mail survey of local game managers. Brown bear distribution in Western Siberia did not appear to change significantly since 1960, while in European Russia the species range progressively enlarged to the south. The largest extension of brown bear distribution was observed in neighboring Estonia, where bears are now more widespread than they were 130 years ago. However, some insular populations were eliminated, and 5 remain in danger.
10.2307/3872941|A system that provided outfitters guiding non-resident hunters with a 3:1 incentive to take male over female grizzly bears was tested in 20 outfitting areas in the Yukon Territory between 1985 and 1988. This system replaced annual quotas, 1980-1984, that had been criticized as being too small, too inflexible, and lacking incentive for male-selective or dispersed harvest. This new system was implemented in each outfitting area. Sex was confirmed through compulsory inspection of "male" pelts with attached bacula. Most other regulations were unchanged. Most of the 20 outfitters modified hunting operations and behaviours. The behavioural changes most likely to increase male harvest were increased upland hunting, spring hunting, small plane use and hunting over "gutpiles". Generally, the kill increased, sex ratios changed little, the proportion of older bears taken increased, and the head size of bears taken increased. Future increases in male harvest are expected, but will require training of hunting guides. Outfitters ranked flexibility, opportunity to increase harvests if male proportions increased, frank individual discussions with biologists, increased potential harvest, and new population estimates, as the most beneficial attributes of this program.
10.2307/3872516| Thirty-five black bears (Ursus americanus) were captured (22 males, 13 females), 25 were radio-collared, 4,224 telemetric observations, and 1,112 radio triangulations were made from ground and air between September 1977 and March 1980 in connection with a study of the interactions between humans and bears in Michigan's Lower Peninsula (mainly in Crawford, Kalkaska, Missaukee, and Roscommon counties). Identified positive effects of humans on bears included changes in hunting regulations possibly resulting in an increasing bear population; bears frequently using oil pipeline right-of-ways, oil well service lanes, and lumber roads as travel routes; early-successional vegetational stages induced by roadside cutting, commercial lumbering, clear-cutting deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management projects, and controlled burns; and bee-keeping. Negative effects included loss of habitat due to human encroachment, heavy automobile traffic, hunting aided by service roads, marked bears (11 of 28) and females with cubs being shot, and bears which fled their dens when approached. Questionable impacts included proximity of den sites to centers of human activity, closure of most sanitary landfills, and disturbance by small game and deer gun hunters. Unknown impacts included those of oil wells, snowmobile activity near denned bears, and contact between humans and bears. Data were insufficient to indicate whether a high incidence of periodontal disease (11 of 35 bears in varying degrees of severity) affected bear behavior, although diseased animals suffered tooth loss and jaw and gum atrophy. Twenty-three marked animals were sighted and reported 63 different times by the public. Forty-six nuisance and damage complaints were reported in the study area between August 1977 and July 1980. Average home range for males ( 6 months telemetric data) was 150.4 km
10.2307/3872878|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is very important in the USSR from a practical point of view: It is a source of valuable hunting trophies; the meat is nourishing; the high-calorie fat has medicinal properties; the bile is in high demand in medicine; and by consuming the carcasses of dead animals, the bear performs a sanitary function in nature. Our research on the ecology of the brown bear was conducted in 1967-76, in a 35,000-km
10.2307/3872818|Nine hundred and ninety-two interactions were recorded between black bears (Ursus americanus) and visitors in the backcountry of Yosemite National Park during 1978-79. Ursid aggression was observed in less than 6% of the interactions and less than 2% of the total bear behaviors recorded during those interactions. Running toward and jumping toward visitors constituted more than half of these aggressive behaviors. Age of visitors and distance between bears and people were 2 of the few factors correlated with bear aggression. Visitors usually responded to bear aggression with fear or neutrality. Understanding the circumstances in which black bears become agonistic can help park managers better prepare visitors for encounters.
10.2307/3872544|Observations were made on the behavior of female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) with cubs of the year in the first post-denning period in a densely populated denning area at Kongsoya, Svalbard. This period has formerly not been studied. During 2 field seasons 3,148 hours of observations on females, and 6,185 hours on cubs, were obtained from 25 family groups. Mean litter size was 1.96, mean breakout date 17-18 March. The bears usually emerged on sunny days. Mean period spent in the area was 14 days. Family groups tolerated each other within certain limits, but no evidence for a social hierarchy was found. Cub motor ability and play intensity increased throughout the period, as did mutual distance within the groups. Females ate vegetation and bear droppings, but the groups were mainly dependent on the females' fat reserves. Females were inactive 93.5% of their total time, cubs 91.6%. The post-denning period is probably of major importance for training and developing the cubs for hard travels on the ice.
10.2307/3872916|Florida black bears (Ursus americanus) were radio-monitored from October 1976 through July 1978. Composite home range of 11 animals was evaluated to identify important habitat components in the Osceola National Forest (ONF), Florida. Large swamp systems and surrounding pine flatwood communities were major components of bear habitat. The composite home range, which covered 49% (303 km
10.2307/3872874|The population size of the Pyrenean brown bear (Ursus arctos L.) has declined from about 200 animals to 20 or even less during the past 40 years. Distribution covered the Pyrenean slopes from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean Sea but is now restricted to an area of about 800 km
10.2307/3872527|Information on grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) distribution and relative seasonal abundance in the Bridger-Teton National Forest, Wyoming, was gathered by direct observation of bears and bear sign and by outfitter interviews in 1977-78. Operation of commercial outfitting camps was examined and case histories of bear-human interactions documented in 1978 to assess the potential for bear-human conflict. We compiled 394 reports of grizzly bear for 1968-78, including 228 reports for 1977-78. Report localities were distributed widely throughout the northern portion of the Forest, but concentrated in Teton Wilderness (Buffalo Ranger District). An estimated 45 grizzlies occurred on the Forest during May-November 1977: 15 single bears and 10 females with 20 young. In 1978, 37-38 grizzly bears were tallied during May-November: 21-22 single bears and 7 females with 9 young. Each of 20 outfitter camps examined had conspicuous bear attractants, including low-hanging racks of game meat, open garbage pits, and unsealed livestock and human foods. Attractants were near human quarters and concealment cover for bears. Eighteen camps had histories of bear encounters. Management guidelines could reduce attraction of camps for bears.
10.2307/3872836|Over 6,000 references on bears have been assembled, including published and unpublished materials. The FAMULUS programs are being used to produce and search files on brown and American black bears (Ursus arctos and U. americanus). As of July 1977, over 1,000 references on each of these two species had been computerized. Effective searches by subject (based on title), author, date, and keywords (for about 5 percent) are possible. Draft review copies were distributed. Announcements of general availability and search costs will be made as soon as feasible. Work is continuing, although additional support will be needed for maximum productivity.
10.2307/3872543|Aerial surveys to assess polar bear (Ursus maritimus) productivity were conducted along the northern coast of Ontario during February and March, 1974 through 1978. Cub production varied from 33 to 112 annually, and averaged 71 during the 5-year period. Average litter size was 2.0. Emergence extended from late February to early April with the peak around 1-15 March. Maternity dens occurred throughout the northern coast; distances inland extended from 29 to 118 km. The section between the Winisk and Severn Rivers consistently contained the greatest concentration of family groups. Most dens were situated in open or treed bog habitat where snow accumulation was greatest. Maternity dens lacked the presence of an earth chamber or intricate internal structures recorded in areas further north. After emergence, family groups remained in the den vicinity for 2 to 3 weeks. Movement to the sea was usually quite direct, and invariably towards Hudson Bay, although James Bay was sometimes much closer. Some groups travelled over 300 km to reach seal (Phoca hispida) hunting areas on the Hudson Bay ice. Maternity denning on Akimiski Island represents the most southerly occurrence of reproducing polar bears currently known anywhere in the world.
10.2307/3872532|Yellowstone National Park began an intensive bear management program in 1970, with the stated goal of restoring and maintaining natural populations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus). The Park closed the last of its large open-pit garbage dumps in 1971. During the decade 1970-79, bear management went through 3 phases. In 1970-72 most incorrigible bears that had developed strong ties to sources of human foods were translocated or removed. This period also included intensive efforts to educate people, increased law enforcement, intensified sanitation, refinement of management techniques, and development of a monitoring system to provide management information. The next period, 1973-78, represented a transition from emphasis on correction of a situation to awareness that a high level of preventive bear management must be a routine and never-ending part of Park operations. By the summer of 1979, the bears with prior knowledge of sources of unnatural foods within the Park appeared to be gone. Thus, in 10 years Park management appears to have attained the objective of restoring the populations of bears to subsistence on natural forage to the extent that outside influences beyond the Park's control will permit. The future of the grizzly bear in and around Yellowstone appears increasingly dependent on management decisions which give the bear adequate priority over human desires.
10.2307/3872934|Brown bears of all ages play. They use fighting movements and postures to interact harmlessly with conspecifics, they chase birds, they roll and slide, and they manipulate objects. Individual bears at the Pack Creek estuary on northern Admiralty Island played from less than 1% to over 20% of their total time in sight in 1987-8. Play frequencies in 1987-8 were independent of presence or absence of human visitors.
10.2307/3872847|Damage to coniferous trees by black bears (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus Schlegel) was studied in 1 man-made stand recently clearcut and in another stand 20 years old, in west-central Honshu. Diameters of stumps of bear-damaged trees in the man-made stand ranged from 9.8 cm to 29.8 cm, and, in the 20-year-old stand, trees with a dbh greater than 10.4 cm became susceptible to damage. Information on geographical distribution and history of bear damage and on species and ages of bear-damaged trees was obtained by questionnaire. Relating changes in the pattern of bear damage to the practice of clearcutting and to great declines in natural forests more than 51 years old shows that when clearcutting and man-made forests are extensive, bear damage to man-made forests increases.
10.2307/3872816|Movements of radio-collared black bears (Ursus americanus) were documented during the 1980 and 1981 breeding seasons on Long Island, Wash. Males and females were 1st found in association 21 May 1980 and 10 May 1981 with no associations documented after 5 July 1981 and 2 July 1980. The peak in breeding associations occurred between 12 and 30 June both years. Individual females were visited periodically by males for 4-7 week periods during the breeding season. Most associations were brief, lasting only 0.25-2 hours, presumably as males assessed the estrous stage of a female. These brief associations preceded and followed extended associations that lasted 2-5.25 days. These longer associations, believed to be the actual breeding period, were characterized by the pairing of the female with 1 of the 2 dominant males (identified through observations of male/male observations) and frequently the presence of 1 or 2 of the other males. In these situations the dominant male generally remained closest to the female during the entire period. The 3 most dominant males were associated with each of the 7 females without cubs in 1981. The 4th male was associated with 3 of the 7 females.
10.2307/3872661|I review the past and present status of the Asiatic black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus) in Northeast China, their change in number and geographical distribution, and the cause of those changes. This paper also introduces the practice of breeding bears in captivity in northeast China.
10.2307/3872863|Emetine hydrochloride (EHCl), alpha-naphthyl-thiourea (ANTU), and lithium chloride (LiCl) were tested as aversion-conditioning chemicals on black bears (Ursus americanus Pallas) and on polar bears (U. maritimus Phipps) from 1975 to 1977. Captive black bears were fed varying doses of EHCl and LiCl to establish effective dose levels of these chemicals. Four cow kills, treated with LiCl and ANTU, showed an apparent 50 percent increase over controls in the times taken by free-ranging black bears to consume the carcasses. ANTU, EHCl, and LiCl reduced the consumption of Gainesburger baits by free-ranging polar and black bears. Approximate effective dosages of each chemical (orally administered and based on body weight) are 25 mg/kg for ANTU, 100-350 mg/kg for LiCl, and 2.0-4.0 mg/kg for EHCl.
10.2307/3872540|One hundred and nineteen European brown bear (Ursus arctos arctos) daybeds and their surroundings were studied in Hedmark County, Norway, in 1974-77. In addition to bed type and size, the following parameters were measured or estimated: slope, aspect, altitude, type and age of vegetation, cover, distance to close objects, and distance from the site to farms and roads. Abiotic exposure avoidance, concealment, defense/safety, and construction behavior are discussed as elements of bed site selection. Bed studies based on field signs met with difficulties such as distinguishing daybeds from dens, and problems of bed classification are discussed.
10.2307/3872806|Black bear (Ursus americanus) population dynamics on Long Island in Willapa Bay, Washington, were monitored between 1973 and 1982. The population apparently grew from a small nucleus of bears present after major logging efforts stopped in 1968 to a peak of 33-36 bears over 1 year of age in 1975-76. Twenty-two bears remained on the island in the spring of 1982. Successional changes in plant communities in clear-cut areas altered their food value to bears through this period. By 1976 female progeny were generally no longer accepted into the breeding population and population productivity began to decline. Each of 5 radio-collared adult females raised young to 9 months of age in 1974 or 1975, whereas only 3 of 11 were successful in 1981 or 1982. Observations of marked bears and ages of trapped bears also documented the decline in production. By 1980 some resident bears began to include parts of the mainland in their home areas. Changes in size, productivity, and behaviors of this population illustrate the mechanisms employed by black bears in response to ephemeral habitats.
10.2307/3872609|Population characteristics of brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) on Oshima Peninsula, Hokkaido, Japan were studied from January 1983 to May 1985. Although the sex ratio of bears greater than 2 years of age did not differ from 50:50, the younger age classes of males constituted a significantly (P < 0.05) larger portion of the kill than those of females. Within the study area, the age and sex structure of harvested bears did not differ by locality and did not change between the periods 1972-75 and 1981-84. There was no consistent trend in harvest from 1969 to 1984. Assuming the population was stationary, the average annual mortality rate was calculated from the age distribution of harvested bears as 20.5%, 14.2%, and 16.9% for males, females, and sexes combined, respectively. The differential vulnerability to hunting among the sexes may be 1 of the causes of these differing mortality rates.
10.2307/3872647|Questionnaires were mailed to black bear (Ursus americanus) hunters in Arkansas following the 1980-84 bear seasons to determine participation, hunter success, and number of bears observed by hunters. Man-days of hunting to harvest a bear ranged from 148 to 671 and hunter success ranged from 0.4% to 2.2%. With the exception of 1980, number of permits issued, man-days of bear hunting, and bears harvested appear affected by hunting permit cost.
10.2307/3872707|We analyzed the age, sex, and chronology of the polar bear (Ursus maritimus) harvest in the Northwest Territories (NWT) from 1979-80 to 1989-90. The mean annual harvest during that period was 517 with a current quota of 617. Sex and age information was obtained on approximately 90% of the total kill. The harvest was selective for males (63%). The mean age, sex ratio, and age composition varied according to area, type, and month of harvest. Inuit hunters accounted for 88.8% of the harvest, 5.7% was taken by non-native sport hunters, 5.2% of the harvest was killed in conflicts with humans, and 0.3% was killed through illegal or unknown factors. Sport hunting increased by a factor of 2 to 3 times over the sample period and the number of hunts comprised 10.6% of the allowable quota. Forty-seven percent of the harvest occurred in the spring. Accurate reporting of the sex composition of the harvest is required to determine sustainable harvest quotas. Management of polar bears in the NWT is based on inventory studies, harvest sex ratio, and population modelling.
10.2307/3872722|From June 1989 to November 1991 movements of radio-collared female black bears were monitored in the boreal forest of northern Ontario. Bears emerged from dens from mid to late April, then occupied a summer range that included the denning site until late July to early August. Summer home ranges overlapped extensively in this high-density (0.6 bears/km
10.2307/3872942| The reproductive characteristics of 241 female black bears (Ursus americanus) 3-years-old were examined in east-central Ontario from 1969-1980. During the 12-year period, the percentage of adult females reproducing each year ranged from 13-58 and averaged 38. Litter sizes ranged from 1 to 4 and averaged 1.9 from summer captures and 2.5 from den examinations. Size of litters was positively correlated with both age of the female (P < 0.009) and weight the previous fall (P < 0.001) (N = 28). Fall weights of 20 adult females that produced cubs the following year averaged 97 kg compared to an average of 70 kg for 14 females that did not produce cubs. Weights of 16 of 20 of the former exceeded 80 kg whereas only 4 of 14 of the latter group were that heavy. Females produced their first litters at ages 5-8; the mean age of first reproduction was 6. Age-specific natality rates for females aged 5-18 ranged from 0.36 to 1.50. Females aged 5-7 produced an average of 0.6 cubs/year and females aged 8-18 an average of 1.2 (P < 0.01). Based on 4-8 consecutive years of breeding history, 14 of 15 bears had a 2-year breeding cycle. The male-to-female ratio of cubs produced was 113:100 (N = 96). Of the 68 different adult females checked during the study, 59% produced at least one litter of cubs. However 17 of the 68 bears produced 66% of all litters. Characteristics common to the most productive females were longevity, large size, possession of a home range and low vulnerability to hunters. Because a successful female had a high probability of being successful again, the protection of females with young would be a desired management strategy in heavily hunted populations or populations occupying marginal or fragmented patches of habitat. 
10.2307/3872689|I documented 270 personal encounters with brown bears (Ursus arctos piscator) when the latter detected my presence. Bear reactions were avoidance (70%), determine human and move away (14%), indifference (12%), threat demonstration (3%), and attack (1%). I also analyzed the causes and circumstances of 15 bear attacks on humans.
10.2307/3872910|The ovaries and uteri of 25 wild adult female Hokkaido brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis), killed by hunters during the March-May period from 1982 to 1986 in Hokkaido, Japan, were observed macroscopically and histologically for the presence of corpora albicantia (CA) and placental scars (PS). The numbers of CA, PS and young were compared. The female bears were classified into 4 groups: solitary females, females accompanied by their cubs, yearlings, or 2-year-old young. CA were classified into 3 types (I, II or III) based on the degree of degeneration. Of the 3 types, only Type I CA were regarded as formed recently. PS were classified into 2 types (new or old) according to size. The relationship among numbers of Type I CA, PS and young was examined for each group of females. Type I CA and new PS were observed in some solitary females. These findings may mean the occurrence of embryo loss during delayed implantation, abortion after placentation, and/or death of young after birth.
10.2307/3872738|Behavioral responses to aversive conditioning techniques by nuisance, radio-collared female grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) were studied in the Yellowstone ecosystem during 1986-89. Five females, 2 accompanied by their young, were treated 27 times with an aversive conditioning agent paired with a conditioned stimulus. Sample sizes were too small to fully evaluate responses to the conditioning stimulus, but positive trends occurred. When the aversive agent was applied, all bears responded by running from the trial site without displaying aggression. Capturing nuisance bears and removing the unnatural attractants often caused the bears to leave the problem area and precluded testing. No nuisance adult male grizzly bears engaged in nuisance behavior following initial capture and radiocollaring. Attempts to aversive condition an underweight, subadult female with poor dentition failed. This report includes recommendations for further application of aversive conditioning techniques on grizzly bears in the Yellowstone ecosystem.
10.2307/3872712|Observations of recognizable brown bears (Ursus arctos) at McNeil River State Game Sanctuary (MRSGS) during 1963-91 provided long-term data on population size, sex and age composition, reproductive success, and survival rates. Bears using MRSGS increased from 66 (SE = 5.8) during 1969-84 to 113 (SE = 8.5) during 1987-91. Adult sex ratio averaged 121 males/100 females. This reflected a low exploitation rate and greater seasonal movements of male bears. Adult survival rates averaged 0.94 for males and 0.93 for females. Since 1963, 31% of 168 cubs disappeared between 0.5 and 1.5 years of age. Kaplan-Meier estimates of summer survival rates were 0.67 for cubs and 0.89 for yearlings. Twenty females, observed for a total of 242 bear-years, raised 83 yearlings in 47 litters. Lifetime recruitment for 11 females observed from sexual maturity to presumed death averaged 2 (range 0-8) yearlings. Despite the high ratio of adult males to females and increased population size, we did not detect a density-dependent suppression of cub production or survival.
10.2307/3872613|A population study of the Ezo brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) was initiated in 1975 in northern Hokkaido. One hundred fifty-two brown bear skulls collected from 1980 to 1985 were used to determine age. Most of these bears were killed in nuisance control hunts conducted during the early spring. The youngest age classes of bears (0-5 years old) constituted 67.7% of the harvest, probably a result of high hunting pressure. Subadults (2-5 years old) comprised 41.4% of the sample, with a preponderance of young males. The youngest females with cubs were 5 years old, and the female reproductive rate was 0.67 cubs/adult female/year. The brown bear population in northern Hokkaido is declining.
10.2307/3872715|We developed a transmitter drop technique that improved interpretation of habitat-use data by black bears (Ursus americanus). The study was conducted in Harmon Den Bear Sanctuary, Pisgah National Forest, North Carolina, during 1985-87. To assess the accuracy and value of transmitter drops, habitat-use data obtained with this technique was compared to those collected using conventional aerial and ground tracking. We used 1,697 ground locations, 204 aerial locations, and 111 transmitter drops to determine the habitat types used by 14 radio-tagged female black bears. Habitat use, as determined by the 3 tracking methods, varied among methods. Ground tracking suggested bears used white oak (Quercus alba)-red oak (Q. rubra)-hickory (Carya spp.) cover types more than expected and yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipfera) cover types less than expected in 1986-87. During 1985 ground tracking suggested bears used all cover types in proportion to availability. Aerial telemetry suggested bears avoided yellow poplar stands over all years. Data from transmitter drops detected differences in habitat use for all years. Yellow poplar-white oak-northern red oak and chestnut oak (Q. prinus) cover types were used more than expected and nonforest, pine (Pinus spp.), mixed hardwood, and yellow poplar stands were used less than expected.
10.2307/3872826|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) inhabit the Mission Mountains on the Flathead Indian Reservation in western Montana. Their spring and fall foraging brings then to low elevations (975 m), where they have coexisted with a ranching economy since the 1900s. The goal of the 1981 Reservation Grizzly Bear Management Plan is to "secure and/or maintain a viable, self-sustaining population in essential habitat occupied in the Mission Mountains." Bears that prey on livestock are usually removed from the population. We examined the circumstances of livestock depredations by grizzly bears from 1960 to 1982 and found that subadults and adults of both sexes were involved with depredations. There are at least 2 factors leading to livestock depredation and "problem" bear status: individual bear behavior and human environment. Our systematic determination of "problem or nuisance" bear status is crucial, because initiation of bear trapping causes intense public interest and agency commitment. Selective bear removal has broadened human tolerance, potentially increasing survival of the bear population. Grizzly bear mortalities from nonhunting causes have been reduced from an annual average of 2.25 bears for 1972-79 to 1.33 bears for 1980-82 after intensive management effort.
10.2307/3872907|We investigated the impacts of the construction and operation of the Terror Lake hydroelectric project on brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) on northern Kodiak Island, Alaska, during 1982-86. Radio collars were maintained on a mean of 35.6 bears throughout each year of the study. We relocated these bears an average annual total of 933.3 times during a 3-year construction period (1982-86) and 994.5 times during a 2-year post-construction period (1985-86). Bears that resided near the project used approximately the same areas each year, making only minor shifts to areas with dense cover during construction. In areas near the project, bears used alpine habitat less, and midslope and lowland habitat more than expected, based on availability. Over 90% of the bear locations in alpine habitat near the project were made after construction activities ceased, suggesting that bears avoided these open areas during construction. Dense, brushy cover in midslope and lowland habitats gave bears secure cover, so they continued to use preferred feeding areas near the project both during and after construction. Areas of mean home range polygons for 5 females closely asociated, and 8 females unassociated, with the project were not significantly different (P > 0.1) during construction and post-construction periods. Individual bears varied widely in their relative associations with the project, but several bears were commonly located near active construction. Impacts on denning were less than predicted because most bears denned in areas remote from and at elevations above project features. Bears exhibited high fidelity to the same denning areas irrespective of the bears' association with project features. Total habitat lost to inundation and removal of vegetation was <0.5% of the study area. Improved vehicular and foot access provided by constructed roads and powerlines, and the increased incentive for development of rural lands provided by surplus electric power, is expected to have longterm impacts on bears through increased disturbance and killing of bears by recreationists and settlers. Mitigation of the project included dedication of adjacent lands for wildlife and creation of a trust fund to support research and habitat maintenance for bears.
10.2307/3872911| Black bears (Ursus americanus) were live-trapped, immobilized, and examined to determine the incidence of dental caries, broken and missing teeth, and jaw and bone trauma; and the incidence and cause(s) of periodontal disease in northern Wisconsin in 1974-1975 (N = 95), and in Michigan's northern Lower Peninsula from 1977-1980 (N = 35). Based on tooth sectioning, Wisconsin bears ranged in age from 0.5 to 15.5 years (average age for males and females was 4.5 and 6.02 years, respectively); Michigan bears ranged in age from 0.02 to 8.1 years (average age for males and females, 4.5 and 4.29 years, respectively). As expected, dental caries were common in both Wisconsin (9 [10.5%] of 86 bears examined) and Michigan bears (7 [20%] of 35). In both cases, caries appeared to develop in older animals, ranging from 3.5 to 15.5 years of age in the Wisconsin sample and 3.5 to 8.1 years of age in the Michigan sample. Bears suffering from periodontal disease varied considerably between cohorts. In Wisconsin, only 1 (1.1%) of 95 bears, a 5.5-year-old female, was infected with the disease. In Michigan, however, 13 (37%) of 35 bears had periodontal disease in varying degrees of severity, suffering tooth loss, infection, edema, bleeding, and jaw and gum atrophy. There was insufficient evidence, however, to indicate that bacteria (N = 12) caused the disease. Using 2-dimensional isoelectric focusing, 5 samples of blood serum from diseased bears contained a minor protein band not present in disease-free samples. The results could not be replicated from other diseased bears, however. Selenium levels were low in bears examined (0.066-0.74 g Se/ml serum), and although baseline values are not known for black bears, insufficient quantities of selenium in bear diets in Michigan's Lower Peninsula selenium-deficient belt are suspected of causing or at least contributing to the disease. Although periodontal disease was reported as age-dependent in other studies, such was not the case in Michigan (disease range = 1.75-6.5-years-old). Winter movements of several seriously-infected bears were related to disease infection. 
10.2307/3872883|Since 1967, brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) have been radiotracked in studies devoted to movements and use of habitat. A total of 487 contacts were made with 29 animals. The bears tended to move to Karluk Lake streams in July to feed on salmon. In August, they spent more time in the midlands to feed on berries. Midlands appeared to be preferred for hiding and resting. Uplands were primarily used for cross-country travel and for denning in winter. Denning usually occurred in alder patches on northeast-facing slopes at elevations of 483 m to 670 m. Home ranges of 7 males averaged 24.4 km
10.2307/3872799|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) have been observed in 5 of the 7 mountain areas that link the Northern Continental Divide (Glacier Park) and Yellowstone ecosystem grizzly bear populations in Montana. Thus these 2 populations, recognized by the Grizzly Bear Recovery Plan (U.S. Dep. Int. 1981) are possibly linked by a filter bridge. Portions of this bridge are not included in the Grizzly Bear Recovery Plan. Current data is analyzed to make specific estimates of the population potential of the bridge units. Each unit is evaluated with respect to extinction time, migration, and potential as a viable bridge link using methods based upon biogeographic theory. This analysis suggests that these scattered observations should not be routinely classed as accidental and ignored as is currently the case.
10.2307/3872879|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) inhabit the mainland of southeast Alaska and the islands north of Frederick Sound. Greatest numbers occur in Alaska Game Management Unit 4, the ABC (Admiralty, Baranof, and Chichagof) islands, where about 70 percent of the southeastern harvest is taken. Average sport harvests increased from 51 bears per year (1949-56) to 60 per year (1962-72) to 141 in 1975. Other pertinent harvest statistics have remained fairly consistent since 1949; average skin size (length plus width), 4.1 m; average skull size (length plus width), 54.6 cm. Based on dental annuli, ages of males have averaged 8.1 years since 1968. The highest mean annual age was 9.4 years in 1976. The goal of management is to maintain a high-quality hunting experience, which an annual harvest rate of 60-80 animals per year will do much to provide. Harvest statistics gathered over the past 30 years will provide guidelines to insure that management plans are biologically sound. Current regulations that should limit the harvest to desired levels are a $25 tag fee for resident hunters and a limit on the number of guides who can operate in Unit 4. If these fail, time-space zoning, further restrictions on guides, or ultimately permit-only hunting will be necessary. Transfer of nearly 151,760 ha to private land through the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act and continuing large-scale clearcut logging further cloud the management issue, but with prudent management policies, high-quality and reasonably high-quantity brown bear sport hunting should be possible for many years to come.
10.2307/3872542| An aerial survey program in 1977 and 1979 revealed that tracks of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were abundant from Svalbard to Northeast Greenland south of 81 north latitude. In order to obtain evidence on possible exchange of polar bears between Svalbard and Greenland, 4 bears were instrumented with satellite radio collars from the ice drift station FRAM I in the northern Greenland Sea. After 1 month, 2 bears had moved eastwards to Svalbard and Frans Josef Land, and 2, which were instrumented further south, had moved southwards with the East Greenland Current. At times, some of the instrumented bears must have moved more than 40 km per day. Polar bears are able to compensate for the ice drift current, and can move against it. Helicopter observations revealed that there is an influx of bears, and particularly females with cubs, from the pack ice area off Northeast Greenland to Svalbard and the Barents Sea in early spring. 
10.2307/3872667|An annual average of 77 claims for damages allegedly caused by brown bears (Ursus arctos) totaling 7,159,229 pesetas ($71,592 US) were reported in the 2 year period of 1989-90 in Spain. Of these claims, 97% were from the Cantabrian Mountains and 3% were from the Pyrenees, reflecting the different sizes of the 2 bear populations. Analysis of the 1,035 claims in Asturias (Cantabrian Mountains, northwest Spain) between 1973 and 1990 revealed more claims concerning cattle and horses than other livestock. Damage complaints peaked in September. Besides the local availability of anthropic food resources, interannual variations in the spacial distribution of claims appear to be due to particular and local bear population trends. These trends should be closely monitored because of the degree of threat to these populations. The bear recovery plans in Spain should consider compensating for damages caused by this species, as well as the damage problem caused by wolves (Canis lupus) and wild boar (Sus scrofa) because they indirectly affect brown bear conservation.
10.2307/3872533|Globe huckleberry (Vaccinium globulare) fruit is a major food source for the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) in northwestern Montana. A ranked-set sampling pattern was used to determine the effects of wildfires, timber harvest practices, and physical and vegetative site characteristics on globe huckleberry fruit production. Timber stands not disturbed within the last 60 years were among the least-productive sites sampled. Stands on mesic, northern or eastern aspects that were burned by wildfire 25-60 years ago, or clearcut and broadcast-burned 8-15 years ago, were the most productive sites. Wildfires or timber harvests on xeric, southern or western aspects reduced fruit production and percent cover of globe huckleberry plants, as did scarification of clearcuts on any aspect. The relationships between fruit production and vegetative site characteristics reflected the age and physical features of the stands, though fruit production was not related to the percent cover or height of the globe huckleberry plants. Crop failures were apparently related to meteorological events. Therefore, long-range planning to assure production of globe huckleberry fruit crops in the future is recommended for manipulation of grizzly bear habitat.
10.2307/3872825|Statistical Analysis System (SAS) was used to provide continuous inventory, manipulation, and analysis of a wide range of biological information for black bears (Ursus americanus). We developed a computer-formatted field capture sheet to reduce transcribing effort and encoding errors, and to expedite data access. The system was flexible, easy to use, and versatile, allowing one to (1) update the data base, (2) detect and allow error correction, (3) handle missing values, (4) sort and combine data into different formats, and (5) produce reports and color graphics. Programs to locate errors included sorting variables into a formatted output to facilitate visual detection. The data base can be interfaced with statistical programs (SAS, SPSS), analysis systems for mark-recapture data, and telemetry, habitat, and land-use planning systems. Using a standardized data system optimizes preproject planning, consistency, and experimental design considerations for long-term projects. The SAS format is widely used, readily available, and enhances interdisciplinary interactions. Computerized data systems facilitate integrated information management for a broad range of research and management objectives and maximum resource input to ensure comprehensive management decisions.
10.2307/3872945| We investigated the precision and accuracy of age estimation by cementum annuli counts for Maine black bears (Ursus americanus). Precision of age estimation was assessed by: 1) a repeated measures analysis of variance design to evaluate effects of reader, reader experience, bear sex, bear age class, and trial; and 2) pair-wise comparisons of estimated years of birth (YOB) from series of premolars removed from bears over periods ranging from 2 days to 12 years. Age estimation accuracy was assessed through pair-wise comparisons of cementum-assigned YOB to known YOB for known-age bears. Experienced readers assigned significantly (P = 0.0001) lower age estimates than inexperienced readers; greater differences in age estimates occurred in old bears. Least variation in age estimates occurred in experienced readers' estimates for young bears (SD = 1.08 yr). Experienced readers estimated age more precisely over 3 trials than inexperienced readers (P = 0.0051). YOB estimates from multiple teeth removed from individual bears showed decreasing agreement with increasing time between tooth removal (P = 0.002), and decreasing agreement with increasing age of bears (P < 0.001). Teeth removed later in life yielded later YOB estimates than teeth removed earlier. Cementum age estimates are accurate for bears 6 years of age, but may underestimate age in older bears. Managers using cementum age estimation should recognize the technique's limitations in precision and accuracy, and minimize changes in personnel and methodology to reduce variation in estimates over time. 
10.2307/3872553|The U.S. National Park Service employs a nationwide computer network to make reports of bear-related events available to managers in parks, regional, and national offices simultaneously. This is the Bear Information Management System, BIMS. It is operated by managers and technicians through use of interactive programs. A flexible structure enables each park to store data in up to 91 information categories, using a reporting form tailored for field use. Through database management programs, managers retrieve specific records or analyze large volumes of data to carry out effective day-to-day management and to plan for future needs. System support at the national level and commitment by the user parks to complete, accurate data reporting are essential for reliable operation.
10.2307/3872730|We used a distance-based test of independence to measure the association between concurrent distributions of radio-collared grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and calving caribou (Rangifer tarandus) of the Porcupine caribou herd (PCH) on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), Alaska. The analysis utilized 552 grizzly bear and 585 caribou radio relocations recorded during 5 consecutive time intervals between 29 May and 22 June, 1988-90. Correlation coefficients of bear and caribou distributions tended to be positive in 1988 and negative in 1990. Those trends corresponded with annual variations in snowmelt in the Alaska portion of the PCH calving grounds and mortality for calves of radio-collared PCH cows. Concurrent distributions of bears and caribou were positively correlated (P < 0.05) during time intervals 29 May-2 June and 8-12 June 1989. We hypothesize that positive correlations were the result of extensive overlap and a high degree of interspersion between bear and caribou distributions. The majority (13/15) of concurrent distributions of bears and calving caribou were not significantly correlated. We hypothesize this occurred because the ANWR bear population did not respond to the availability of calving caribou in a homogeneous manner. The distance-based test of independence appeared to be an acceptable technique for quantifying associations between discrete, but interacting, populations of wildlife.
10.2307/3872880|In Montana, the study of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and their habitat in areas proposed for oil and gas exploitation is in the beginning stages, with few base-line data available for predevelopment guidelines. A review of literature on grizzly bears indicates that exploration and development will be generally detrimental to the bears. Construction of roads into previously unroaded areas and increased use of the land by people appear to have the greatest impacts. Problems of man-bear confrontations in the Alaska pipeline experience include nonresidents' difficulties coping with resident wildlife species, illegal shooting of animals, attraction of animals to garbage at field camps, and harassment from aircraft and other motorized vehicles. Conflicts with grizzly bears prior to development of oil and gas must be determined in order to assess the effects of resource exploitation, including the cumulative influence of various land uses. Habitat essential for the survival of the grizzly bear must be identified and protected. If development occurs in areas of occupied grizzly bear habitat before adequate management data for grizzly bears are available, it should proceed cautiously, thus preventing irreversible damage to the habitat and the bear populations. If full development, is unavoidable, restrictions should be placed on road-building, exploration, wells, fuel production, and associated activities, especially at times when grizzly bears make heavy use of a locality.
10.2307/3872864|A study of the black bear (Ursus americanus) on a 100-km
10.2307/3872903|Black bear (Ursus americanus) in many U.S. and Canadian national parks become habituated to humans. They are often bold, frequent human use areas and are generally a nuisance. At Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, the antithesis of this behavior has been observed in the black bear population. A 4-year study using radio-telemetry and observation indicates that although many bears have home ranges in high human use areas, they are secretive and avoid humans and developed areas. The behavior of 2 of the park's radio-collared bears is documented and discussed.
10.2307/3872891|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) movement patterns were studied with the aid of 18 radio-instrumented grizzly bears in 1975 and 1976. Five bears gave minimal information because of death, transmitter failure, or loss of transmitters. Seasonal home range information is presented for 13 bears. Two bears, trapped inside Yellowstone National Park, included areas outside of the park in their home ranges. Twelve bears trapped outside included parts of the park in their home ranges. Three females with young gave no indication of having smaller home ranges than other individuals. Movement patterns prior to denning and dates of denning varied among individual bears.
10.2307/3872692|The population status of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Canada was evaluated within broad areas called grizzly bear zones. These zones are large, contiguous areas where the climate and landforms provide a common influence on vegetation and land-use activities, and thus on grizzly bear behavior and populations. Of the 14 grizzly bear zones that historically supported populations, 12 currently support populations. We describe past and current land-use activities that impact habitats and populations of grizzly bears and predict future impacts. Gross analyses at the level of the grizzly bear zone identified probable unsustainable annual kills and excessive female kills for many of the grizzly bear zones. Population status was evaluated by comparing an estimate of current numbers to the estimated potential of the land to support grizzly bears. Grizzly bears have been extirpated from 24% of their original range and 63% of the current range is designated at risk, either vulnerable or threatened. The 4 grizzly bear zones in which grizzly bears are not at risk face increased impacts from land-use practices within the next 5 years. We discuss the implications of the designation of population status and make recommendations to ensure the conservation of grizzly bears.
10.2307/3872539| Forty-one grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) dens were found in the Mission and Rattlesnake Mountains, Montana, from 1976 through 1979. Ten of these dens were used by transmitter-equipped grizzly bears. Thirty-nine dens were excavated in open, side-hill park habitat and 2 were under forest canopy. Two dens occurred at 1250 m while 39 were between 2050 and 2500 m. Slope angle of sites averaged 30 for 15 measured dens. Dens occurred on all aspects except northwest. Movement to the den site in the fall was independent of low-elevation weather conditions and occurred between 10 October and 20 November. Two adult females moved to their dens prior to any snow and may have displayed a period of pre-hibernation lethargy prior to final den entry. Final den entry was closely associated with severe snowstorms at the den site that apparently sealed the den entrance with snow. Final den entry dates varied from 2 November until after 21 November. Dates of emergence varied from prior to 31 March to 26 April. Adult females accompanied by young remained at the den site after emergence for 7 to 12 days. All other grizzly bears left the den and moved to lower elevations immediately after emergence. One transmitter-equipped grizzly bear used its winter den during August as a bedding site. This is the first verification of summer use of a den by a grizzly bear. Two adult male black bears (Ursus americanus) were radio-instrumented to determine their denning habits. Both denned below 1800 m under forest canopy. Significant differences (P < 0.001) between den entrance height of excavated black bear and grizzly bear dens indicate that this measurement may be a useful indicator of species. 
10.2307/3872654|The brown bear (Ursus arctos L.) from the western Pyrenees of Spain is a very endangered species, with only 2-3 individuals living in a 590 km
10.2307/3872538|Black bear (Ursus americanus), grizzly bear, (U. arctos), and domestic sheep interactions and competition were investigated using radiotelemetry on the Targhee National Forest in Idaho and Wyoming during 1976 and 1977. (Black and grizzly bear intra- and interspecific relationships are discussed in terms of habitat utilization.) Radio-monitored movements of 7 black bears and 1 grizzly were compared with movements of sheep herds on selected forest sheep allotments to investigate bear behavior near sheep herds and determine the extent of interspecific conflicts. Competition between bears and sheep occurred when they utilized the same plants (primarily grasses and forbs) that were limited by either abundance or seasonal availability. Additional conflict, resulting in losses of sheep to bear predation, occurred during concurrent habitat use by bears and sheep.
10.2307/3872617|ANURSUS estimates the mean and standard error of polar bear (Ursus maritimus) population parameters (i.e., cub survival rate, litter survival rate, subadult and adult survival rates, litter production rate, litter size, and mating and reproductive intervals) from age specific observations of litter size and family group status. The parameterization for recruitment estimates is unconventional so that the 3-year reproduction cycle of polar bears may be correctly described (Taylor et al. 1987). Previous estimates of annual polar bear cub survival rate considered only the loss of individual cubs; they did not consider abandonment of single cub litters or loss of entire litters. We provide an estimation procedure that accommodates all sources of cub mortality for arctic polar bear populations. Data required for the procedure include the female age structure; number of females with offspring; presence or absence of cubs-of-the-year, yearlings, or 2-year-olds; and observed litter size. The average age of 1st reproduction may be calculated by weighting each age by its probability of 1st reproduction and determining the weighted average. The probability of 1st reproduction at age x is determined from age specific litter production rates and the standing age distribution. The average age is for all females in the population during the census period. The mean interval between producing litters (litter recruitment interval) and the mean interval between mating availability (mating interval) are different for polar bears. The reciprocals of the 2 intervals, mean litter recruitment rate and mean mating rate, are useful to compare populations but should not be used for population projections. In addition to litter recruitment interval and mating interval, 2 measures of the expected number of litter recruitment events are also defined.
10.2307/3872732|We analyzed reproductive performance and litter survival for all Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE) grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) killed or radioinstrumented, 1969-91. Reproductive tracts of 48 female grizzly bears from Montana and Wyoming were described morphologically and examined for corpora lutea and graafian follicles to estimate reproductive potentials for bears in the conterminous United States. The average number of corpus lutea was 2.29. Average cub and yearling litter size was 2.14 and 2.34. Cub survival in the NCDE was 0.887 and yearling survival was 0.863. Sixteen reproductive intervals in the NCDE from 10 individual bears averaged 2.69 years. The minimum age of reproduction in the NCDE varied from 4 to 7 and averaged 5.7 years. Survival of known first litters was not less than survival for litters of experienced females.
10.2307/3872746|The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) is listed as a threatened species in the lower 48 states by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service under the Endangered Species Act. The purpose of that act is to provide for the conservation of both threatened and endangered species and the ecosystems upon which they depend. It is biological in its orientation. However, the act also has economic implications. Affording "threatened" status to grizzly bears implies the economic value of the bears is very high--society will do almost anything necessary to preserve and maintain grizzly bears in the 6 national forests and 2 national parks that comprise the Yellowstone Recovery Zone. The purpose of this paper is to explore the economic ramifications of the Endangered Species Act as it applies to grizzly bears in the Yellowstone Recovery Zone. The paper also explores how economic information can be used in management decisions that affect bears and people in this zone. To address these issues, this paper considers: (1) identification of the components of economic value as applied to grizzly bears in the Yellowstone Grizzly Bear Recovery Zone, (2) evidence of the potential magnitudes of those values, (3) their management implications, and (4) whether some components of economic value can be captured in the communities surrounding Yellowstone.
10.2307/3872547|The responses of free-ranging polar bears (Ursus maritimus) to acoustic and electrified-fence repellents, and to tripwire and proximity detection systems, were evaluated in a 4-year study. Natural and synthesized acoustic repellents deterred 69% (N = 71) of bears who attempted to enter a test perimeter. Position of speakers, sound amplitude, and the timing of presentations are important factors in the effectiveness of acoustic repellents. A 20-kV electrified fence repelled 35% (N = 52), and a 60-kV fence repelled 33% (N = 6) of intruding bears. Tests on a patch of polar bear fur indicated that a nominal 200 kV is required to reliably deliver an electric shock through the highly insulating hair of this species. Tests on single, double, and triple trip-wire fences yielded a 93% (N = 161) success rate for detecting intruding bears. A proximity (capacitance-sensing) detection system detected 100% (N = 13) of bear entries, but was too sensitive to stray electrical inputs. A modified system in the 2nd season detected 63% (N = 41) of intrusions. Refined versions of these devices could offer significant improvements in safety for personnel who must work in close proximity to free-ranging polar bears, black bears (U. americanus), or grizzly bears (U. arctos).
10.2307/3872835|The Endangered Species Act (1973) and the classification of the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) as "Threatened" (1 September 1975) directed the Forest Service to delineate critical habitat of the grizzly bear. Critical habitat is any area necessary for the maintenance and survival of a species during any part of its life cycle. Evaluation of resource programs in terms of their actual and potential impacts on the grizzly within its critical habitat boundaries is required, based on a good understanding of grizzly habitat components. Coordination among biologists, sociologists, and economists is a prerequisite to comprehensive grizzly management. The Forest Service believes that integration of grizzly habitat needs and resource programs is possible but that the final decision on a goal statement is societal.
10.2307/3872531|Developing on my earlier work (Stringham 1980) and that of McCullough (1981), influences of adult male abundance on rates of reproduction and subsequent attrition (mortality + net emigration) were evaluated for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) by analysis of the data of Craighead et al. from Yellowstone National Park 1959-70. Years when adult males were most abundant were also those in which (1) the litters conceived were smallest when censused at median age 0.5 year postpartum, and (2) the cohorts born were comprised of fewest litters at that age. Cohorts produced during years of peak adult male abundance were not only smallest at age 0.5, but showed the highest rates of attrition to at least age 2.5 years. Apparently adult male abundance and/or some closely linked factor, perhaps availability of food, governed not only abundance but quality of infants, which in turn governed survivorship and competitive ability for space and resources in Yellowstone National Park to age 2.5. That coincides generally with relationships between rates of reproduction and of attrition vs. abundances of adult males and of food observed by Rogers (1976, 1977) for black bear in Minnesota. McCullough (1981) reached some of these same conclusions.
10.2307/3872838|Trade-offs among backcountry management objectives were explored for the northern half of Glacier National Park, Montana. Parametric linear programming was employed to quantify the trade-offs among 5 objectives, consisting of 3 measures of trail-related contact between grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and humans (dangerous, nondangerous, total), a measure of solitude at the backcountry campsites, and the volume of backcountry overnight use. Contact indices were developed for these measures of contact for 3 time periods for each of 85 trail segments in the study area. Optimal patterns of backcountry overnight use were identified for various combinations of objectives within 2 management models. The first model minimizes all trail-related contacts between humans and grizzlies. The second model minimizes only dangerous contacts. Parametric linear programming is shown to be a powerful technique for dealing with multiobjective problems of the size and complexity considered in this study.
10.2307/3872897|The agencies responsible for the management of the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) have formed an interagency organization called the Interagency Grizzly Bear Committee (IGBC). The Committee has developed guidelines for management of bears and bear habitat that are being applied in 4 of the 5 ecosystems where populations of bears still exist in the contiguous 48 states. The Committee, through its members, has also endorsed and often funded research on habitat and grizzly bear populations. The Committee currently has a task force assisting the U.S. Forest Service in their development of a cumulative effects model (CEM) that will use existing data on habitat and bears to evaluate the additive as well as individual effects of various activities on bears. Research is needed to validate CEM components. Additional research is needed on social attitudes toward the grizzly bear, aversive conditioning, physiological effects of handling bears and population genetics. Some small populations may need periodic injection of new genetic material. A project evaluating population augmentation as a possible management tool to increase genetic diversity and population size is planned in the near future. The Northern Continental Divide and Yellowstone populations appear secure and the former appears to have reached a recovered level. It is important that the delisting process proceed in this population to confirm recovery, fulfill commitments to the public and assess our ability to manage grizzly bears without the protection of the Endangered Species Act. It is also important to focus more attention on areas where the bear is less secure. While past recovery efforts have concentrated on areas in the United States, it may be impossible to maintain a viable population in some border areas without including the bears and habitat provided by neighboring Canadian provinces. To aid in this cooperation, the IGBC recently was expanded to include British Columbia and Alberta.
10.2307/3872946|Fluctuating asymmetry of adult skulls was used to test the genetic isolation of the Yellowstone grizzly bear population from its nearest neighbor. An overall summary statistic was used in addition to 16 other parameters. Tests found the males of the Yellowstone population to be more variable than those of the North Continental Divide Ecosystem. Evidence for precipitation effects is also included. This test tends to support the existing management hypothesis that the Yellowstone population is isolated.
10.2307/3872943|Liberalized hunting regulations in a portion of southcentral Alaska resulted in an increased sport harvest of brown bears (Ursus arctos). A reduction in population density caused by increased hunter harvest was demonstrated using modified capture-recapture techniques. Density differences were documented between 2 areas of generally equivalent habitats but different patterns of hunter access as well as in the same area at 2 different times. Density estimates (for bears >2.0-years-old) were 6.7 bears/1,000 km
10.2307/3872807|Four radio-collared female black bears (Ursus americanus) were located 545 times during 1979 and 1980. We evaluated bear habitat use in relation to dominant vegetation, canopy closure, crown diameter, and rotten log density by comparing use to availability. Use of dominant vegetation types by bears was disproportionate to availability in all seasons, reflecting seasonal food availability. Wet meadows, hardwood, and manzanita habitats were seasonally preferred by bears, and we suggest that protection of these habitats is necessary to maintain the local bear population.
10.2307/3872866|Before 1973, the State of Washington had a spring black bear (Ursus americanus) season from 1 April to 30 June throughout most of the area west of the Cascades in an attempt to alleviate damage to forest tree reproduction. Extensive efforts by professional control hunters were still needed to keep damage at an acceptable level. Indications that sport hunting might be more effective in controlling damage resulted in an effort to concentrate sport hunting in problem damage areas. The general spring season was discontinued and a system of special hunts, by unit, was established. The extent of the area open to hunting was reduced by about 75 percent. Success of the program was evaluated by comparing 3 years' data collected under the unit system with 3 years' data from the general open season. The bear kill increased from an average of 503 per year in the general open season to 740 per year under the unit system. Bear tag sales increased by 81 percent during the same period.
10.2307/3872853|Analysis of the reproductive segment of the polar bear (Ursus maritimus) population on the study area in the Drem-Head Mountains of western Wrangel Island indicated that the distribution and, to some extent, the number of dens in specific areas of Wrangel Island are dependent on characteristics of the autumn snow accumulation which, in turn, is subject to the prevailing winds and amount of precipitation. With drastic changes in snow cover, females may change the location of their dens, particularly during years with little snow. One hundred thirty-one dens located in snow of the current winter were thoroughly examined and partly dug out. Some pregnant females had used dens preserved in the last season's snow. Bear families remained in the opened dens for 1 day to 2-3 weeks; dens with thin roofs were the first to be left. Occasionally, the female stayed near the den and made a temporary den. The number of temporary dens grew in years with little snow. Temporary dens were usually occupied only for several days, but in one case a female with cubs stayed in the temporary den for more than 30 days. Temperatures in the inhabited dens were found to fluctuate less than temperatures outside the dens, and the temperature inside the dens was 5-17C higher than that outside the dens. Average litter size at the end of the denning period was 1.80 (N = 136); this does not differ considerably from litter sizes in other parts of polar bear range. Twenty-eight percent of the litters had 1 cub, 68 percent had 2 cubs, and 4 percent had 3 cubs. The male:female ratio in litters in the western areas of Wrangel Island was 61:39; in eastern areas, it was 44:56. Average weights of females and cubs, den numbers, and average snow depth on the study area in 1973-76 were continually changing, indicating that the population goes through certain difficulties. This may be related to unknown changes in the distribution and number of seals, the main prey of the polar bear. Counts of dens opened in the springs of 1964, 1970, 1973, and 1976 indicate an increase in the number of breeding female polar bears in the Wrangel Island area.
10.2307/3872675|Because bears readily breed in captivity, the use of progeny of penned animals as a source for augmentation and reintroduction has been suggested. We radiotagged 6 pen-reared black bears (Ursus americanus; 4 male, 2 female) that were released in the wild between 2 February 1988 and 24 May 1988. We also collected release and recovery data from 17 other pen-reared black bears (7 male, 10 female) that were eartagged and released between 25 October 1982 and 22 August 1995; 1 of these also was radiotagged. Mean age of released bears was 2.5 years. Bears fitted with radiocollars were monitored from 6 to 484 days after release. Pen-reared bears exhibited poor adaptability and survival when released into the wild. At least 5 bears (21.7%) caused nuisance problems. Six bears died and 2 others were suspected of being killed illegally. Results of these findings suggest that more research is needed on proper management of captive animals to enhance their chances of survival in the wild. Recommendations are made to improve future releases of pen-reared animals.
10.2307/3872734|During 1986-89 nearly 27,000 ha of Shenandoah National Park (SNP) were defoliated by the gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar), inflicting wide-spread habitat alteration, overstory cover loss, and hard mast failure. Gypsy moth primary hosts were the oaks (Quercus spp.), which comprised 55% of the study area. We examined aspects of black bear (Ursus americanus) habitat use during years (1987-89) of extensive defoliation and compared the results to predefoliation years (Garner 1986). In all seasons, relative habitat use differed between the time periods. Females used cove hardwood and black locust more, especially in late summer and early fall, because of cherry abundance. Bears did not avoid defoliated habitat in summer during peak defoliation, nor did they increase use of gypsy moth nonhost stands (e.g., yellow poplar [Liriodendron tulipifera]). In fall, bears avoided defoliation and preferred chestnut oak (Quercus prinus) only in October, corresponding with fall excursions made by 21 of 50 females. Although oak habitats were preferred in fall prior to defoliation for acorn consumption, most bears in this study did not move away from defoliation to areas of abundant hard mast.
10.2307/3872705| Black bear (Ursus americanus) research was conducted from 1983 to 1992 in northwest Montana. During this period 319 individual black bears were captured, of which 177 were adults 5 years old. Forty-eight of the adult bears were fitted with radio transmitters. Capture information and radio monitoring indicated that the age of first successful reproduction was 6 years old, mean litter size was 1.75 cubs, and the mean interval between litters was 3.2 years. Based on this information, a minimum sustainable annual survival rate of 0.88 was estimated. Estimates of survival using the Kaplan-Meier procedure for adult bears 5 years old were 0.73 for males (n = 21) and 0.79 for females (n = 27). Hunting was the single largest source of mortality for males. Hunting and illegal mortality were equally high for females. Levels of mortality and potential sources of bias are discussed. 
10.2307/3872626|Food and habitat used by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Front Ranges of Banff National Park were studied during 1976-80 using fecal analysis, feeding site examination, direct observation, and radio-tracking. Important foods included pink hedysarum (Hedysarum alpinum) roots, yellow hedysarum (H. sulphurescens) roots, bearberries (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), graminoids, horsetails (Equisetum arvense), buffaloberries (Shepherdia canadensis), and Vaccinium spp. fruits. Most foods were eaten in dry meadows, shrubfields, or open forest. Horsetails were the only notable exception; many feeding sites occurred in mature forest. The alpine zone was unimportant as feeding habitat. Seasonal changes in diet and habitat use appeared to be related to plant phenology with bears eating plant parts which seemed to be at nutritious development stages. Hedysarum roots, the bears' major food, had significantly less crude protein and more fiber when plants were flowering than when they were in pre-leaf. Related to this, digging by bears was minimal during the mid-summer flowering period. Seasonal habitat use also appeared to be influenced by hedysarum phenology. As the spring digging season progressed, hedysarum diggings occurred more on north-facing slopes and at higher elevations, where phenology was retarded. Later-season root digging was inversely related to buffaloberry abundance: the volume of roots in feces during August-October was greater in 1976 and 1978, 2 years when buffaloberry abundance was significantly lower than in 1977 or 1979. We concluded that buffaloberries, known to be high in soluble carbohydrate, were preferred over hedysarum roots. During summer, grizzly bears ate horsetails in sites where the plants were in immature, nutritious development stages. The elevation of horsetail feeding sites was significantly higher in late July-August than in early July. Grizzly bears thus ate food high in soluble nutrients and low in fiber by making seasonal changes in both the food and habitat they selected.
10.2307/3872886|On the central Alaska Peninsula 344 different brown bears (Ursus arctos L.) were measured during 502 captures in 5 spring seasons, 1970-75. Height at shoulder, chest girth, total body length, body length, neck circumference, hind-foot length, zygomatic width, skull length, total skull size, and body weight were measured and classified by sex and cementum age. Growth rates were plotted. No morphometric differences were detected between sexes at 6 months of age, but sexual dimorphism was evident by 1.5 years of age and persisted through life. Except for zygomatic width, female bears attained at least 95 percent of ultimate body dimensions between ages 4 and 6 years and males between ages 6 and 8 years. Zygomatic width was the last dimension to attain ultimate size. Extensive size overlap was demonstrated among bears 1.5 years and older of the same sex. Superior size-weight correlations were derived from zygomatic width. It was demonstrated that the sex of bears over 9 years of age could be determined on the basis of total skull size. Serial measurements of adult bears were tested for accuracy of repetitive measurements. Skull dimensions were the least affected by inaccuracies in measuring technique. Correlations (r
10.2307/3872545|Use of habitat by polar bears (Ursus maritimus) on coastal sea ice was investigated through observation of undisturbed polar bears and their environment. Nearshore sea ice was kept under 24-hour surveillance from 4 field camps established successively from 19 May to 19 July 1979 on island coasts bordering Barrow Strait, Northwest Territories, Canada. Two of these study areas received relatively more use by polar bears than the other 2. Polar bears also exhibited selection of sea ice types within each study area. Recorded activities of the bears included travel, play, sleep, and several hunting behaviors.
10.2307/3872649|Field tests of potential repellents were made on free-ranging polar bears (Ursus maritimus) near Churchill, Manitoba, from 11 October through 12 November 1978. Polar bears were attracted to an observation/testing area with sardine baits at 11 sites. Commercial dog repellents and household chemicals were tested for their ability to keep bears from visiting baited sites, recorded sounds were tested for driving bears from a baited site, and a loud freon horn was tested in seminatural encounters with the observer. Bears made 294 visits to the chemical sites, 55 visits to the acoustic site, and the freon horn was tested 31 times. Most bears (81%) were repelled with the horn, but the behavioral reactions to the taped sounds varied. The chemical repellents did not prevent bears from visiting the baited sites, but bears spent significantly less time at the treated sites than at untreated controls. Bears stayed at the control sites for an average of 420 sec (SD = 335 sec), but left the treated sites after an average of 98-317 sec (SD = 87-370 sec) depending on the chemical.
10.2307/3872844|A population study of the Japanese black bears (Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus) harvested by the traditional hunting method was initiated in 1970 in Hakusan National Park and vicinity, central Japan. The hunting season lasts about 40 days from early April until early May during a time of heavy snow cover. A total of 265 bears were killed from 1970 to 1976 and 88 skulls were available for age determination. Their average age was 6.64 years (SD = 5.38 years), and younger bears (1-6 years old) made up approximately 65 percent of the sample. The sex ratio did not significantly differ from 50:50. Age structure and sex ratio are likely to be biased because of the lesser vulnerability of females with cubs to hunting.
10.2307/3872657|Slovenia is the northwestern edge of the Balcano-Dinaric brown bear (Ursus arctos) population area. A viable population of about 250 bears inhabits a core management area in southcentral Slovenia. A smaller population, established by bears emigrating from the core area toward the northwest, exists in adjacent border areas of Slovenia, Austria and Italy. Interstate cooperation is necessary to further increase brown bear numbers and range of this southeastern alpine population. Preserving main emigration corridors and improving the political habitat for the future welfare of bears in the Alps are among the most important tasks facing bear managers. The problems arising from increased sheep predation by bears in corridor areas, interstate highway construction, and other human influences affecting the spread of bears are discussed.
10.2307/3872697|The trade in bears and/or bear parts for use in traditional medicines, in cuisine, and as pets is widespread in Asia. The value of certain bear parts by weight, in some Asian countries, exceeds many times the price of gold, creating a market that effectively places a price on the head of every wild bear. The bile from bear gallbladders is an especially coveted medicine in China, Korea, Taiwan, and Japan, where it is used to treat a variety of serious ailments. Bear paws are considered both a "tonic" food and a gourmet delicacy in these populous and wealthy nations. Current levels of trade in bears and bear parts, coupled with ongoing habitat loss throughout Asia, suggests a continuing decline in the sun bear (Helarctos malayanus), the Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus), the brown bear (Ursus arctos), and the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus). To prevent the decline and possible extinction of Asian bear populations, management and education efforts must address this trade at both supply and demand levels.
10.2307/3872622|Habitat use and behavior of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) were studied in 3 areas of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, northeast Alaska, during 1982 and 1983. Scanning for bears resulted in 386 and 388 h of behavioral and habitat use information. Vegetation on 3,626 ha in the Caribou Pass-Kongakut River study area was mapped to Viereck-Dyrness (1980) level IV. Grizzly bears devoted most of their nonhibernating time to feeding and foraging. Food habits and habitat use were influenced by the phenological development of herbaceous plants and berry-producing plants and availability of animal food items.
10.2307/3872849|The reliability of counting cementum annulations in premolar sections was evaluated for age determination in live polar bears (Ursus maritimus). Structural irregularities in cementum deposits decreased accuracy of age assignments. Displacements of the neonatal line toward the exterior margin of cementum growth resulted in erroneous aging for young animals. Striated, wavered, and doubled growth layers affected accuracy for older animals. Sixty-eight unlabeled tooth slides representing 57 known-age bears, examined by 3 independent investigators, revealed that only 32-45 percent were correctly aged. Analysis of age-related body measurements of 46 male and 63 female polar bears of known age showed that morphometric regression equations could be used as an age indicator. Reproductive status, general body size, and tooth replacement or wear used as criteria to tentatively age animals in the field, combined with subsequent cementum counts and growth regression analyses, provided reliable age determinations.
10.2307/3872535|Seasonal weight change in the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) in two populations in northern Canada was studied by fitting growth curves to spring and fall weights. The spring weight of females levels off soon after the average age of first reproduction; that of males continues to increase through maturity and eventually reaches nearly twice that of females. Males lost in winter 22% of their fall weight, the fraction changing very little with age. The weight change in females is much larger, and continues to increase with age, the oldest females gaining in summer 70% of their spring weight and losing in winter 40% of their fall weight. Mature females gain and lose not only relatively, but absolutely, more weight than males.
10.2307/3872872| In early times, the brown bear (Ursus arctos L.) was preserved by law for royal hunts and occurred in large numbers in the extensive forests of Poland. From the 16th century on, its destruction became increasingly intensive, and by the end of World War I, only a few bears were left. Full legal protection was given the bear in 1952. Attempts to reintroduce the bear into the Bialowiea Primeval Forest were halted by World War II. At present, there is a western population (Tatra Mountains) and an eastern population (western Bieszczady Mountains) in Poland. Their combined numbers are estimated to be about 30, with a density of 0.02-0.33 animals per 1,000 ha. Because of increasing human activities and interference in the bear's range, preservation of the bear populations will soon require the establishment of extensive and less disturbed areas in which the brown bear can live in comparative security. 
10.2307/3872700|Until recently, the Vassfaret area has been the last well-documented area inhabited by brown bears (Ursus arctos) in central-south Norway. In an intensive bear survey during 1990-91 a total distance of 3,126 km of line transects was examined. No bear tracks or other signs of bears were discovered, and the Vassfaret area probably does not support a brown bear population any more. An 18-year-old female shot in 1956 was the last brown bear known to have been killed in this region of Norway. The distribution of bear reports from 1956 to 1988 support the hypothesis that the presence of bear may be explained by the continued presence of one or a few females born before 1956.
10.2307/3872892|Several techniques can be used to return captured orphaned bear cubs to the wild. They can be released immediately in suitable habitat, be adopted by another female with young, or be fattened and then released. The last technique was used successfully to return to the wild an orphaned cub obtained by the Border Grizzly Project of the University of Montana in 1975. The cub was fattened in captivity and released into an artificial den after being fitted with a radiocollar. She denned successfully nearby and survived the winter and early spring with no known problems.
10.2307/3872704|A population estimate of 141 (95% CI, 131-276) grizzly bears (>2 yrs old) was determined using a modified Lincoln-Petersen estimate. Reducing the number of marks available in the study area by 10%/year to compensate for lack of population closure resulted in a population estimate of 127 (95% CI, 118-248) bears (>2 yrs old). Bear densities in the study area were 9.1 bears/1,000 km
10.2307/3872710|Reproductive data collected during a period of 11 years are presented for a low-density black bear (Ursus americanus) population occupying marginal habitat along the Susitna River. These data are contrasted with data from higher-density populations on the Kenai Peninsula also in south-central Alaska (Schwartz and Franzmann 1991), thought to occupy better habitat. Low reproductive and recruitment rates and high cub mortality rates were found in the Susitna population. Mean litter size was 2.1 for newborn cubs (range = 1-4), and 1.9 for yearlings, and sex ratio for cubs or yearlings were not different from 50:50 (P > 0.10). Mean age of first reproduction was 5.9 years (range = 5-7), recruitment interval was 2.7 years (range = 2-5), birth interval was 2.03 years (range 1-4), and 59% of newborn cubs survived for 1 year (survivorship = 0.54, 95% CI = 0.42-0.66). A large proportion of adult females were without cubs following an apparent berry crop failure and again 5 years later. This generated pulses of cubs produced 2-3 years and 6-7 years after the berry crop failure. First year survivorship in the Susitna population was lower than in the 2 Kenai populations studied by Schwartz and Franzmann (1991) (P = 0.06 and < 0.01). The parameters in the 3 Alaskan populations that varied in response to different environmental conditions were first year survivorship, recruitment interval, and age at first reproduction; litter size was not responsive. For purposes of population modeling, recruitment interval will usually be a more useful statistic than birth interval because of early mortality of entire litters. In the Susitna area, black bear productivity and calculated consumption rates of moose calves were similar to findings in the least productive Kenai population. The Susitna data were consistent with the hypothesis of Schwartz and Franzmann (1991) that productivity in Kenai bears was dependent on calf consumption rates during spring.
10.2307/3872537|Thirty-seven grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) equipped with radio transmitters were monitored in and around Yellowstone National Park between 1974 and 1979. Ten of the bears were known or suspected to kill livestock; 3 preyed on cattle, 6 on sheep, and 1 on both. Bears that killed livestock ranged widely in and out of Yellowstone Park and normally exhibited foraging habits similar to those of other bears. All subadult and adult bears known to have the opportunity killed sheep. Most bears that came into contact with cattle did not make kills. All known cattle killers were adult bears, while 4 sheep killers were subadults. Sheep grazing should be reduced as much as possible on grizzly range, and cattle grazing allowed only if owners are willing to absorb predation losses.
10.2307/3872817|From 1979 to 1982, dormancy behaviors of black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in a bottomland hardwood forest in Arkansas, an area with relatively mild winters. Mean activity level of radio-collared bears declined from 53% to 29% between mid-October and early December, before the denning period began. In 40 of 42 (95%) cases, bears denned for extended periods, ranging from 37 to 141 days. The transition to dormancy began before den entry, and a shift in behavior toward activity commenced before den emergence. Mean level of activity of denned bears (5.5%) was significantly lower than that of bears before denning (37%) and following den emergence (34%). Most activities of denned bears were momentary movements. Activity bouts occurred at a mean rate of 1.8/hour, but short bouts often appeared in series and probably were parts of longer activity periods. Most bears observed in dens were in a hibernating posture and did not react to my presence. Nine of 14 cases of den abandonment were attributed to research activities, 4 to flooding, and 1 case was unexplained. The likelihood of den abandonment was related to the timing of disturbances in relation to den entry and to den type. Dormancy behaviors of black bears in Arkansas are similar to those reported in other portions of the species' range. Differential denning chronology and probability of den abandonment between geographic regions may be explained by phenological development and exposure of denned bears, respectively.
10.2307/3872922|Ten adult female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were fitted with satellite telemetry collars during March 1986 in the Kotzebue Sound area of the Chukchi Sea. During March-April 1987, 2 of these bears were refitted with satellite telemetry collars and an additional 10 adult females were collared in the northern Bering and eastern Chukchi seas. Data for 1,560 point locations recorded through May 1988 indicated that female polar bears in the Bering and Chukchi seas were resident in western Alaskan waters from November through March, then moved northward with the receding pack ice during April and May. They remained in the northern and northwestern Chukchi Sea during June through September, often adjacent to the Soviet coastline. Satellite telemetry data indicated that 4 females marked in Alaskan waters of the Chukchi Sea apparently denned in the vicinity of Wrangel Island during winter 1987/1988. Denning in American territory of bears marked in the Chukchi and Bering seas has not been documented using satellite telemetry data. Some polar bears moved from the Chukchi Sea into the western Beaufort Sea during summer and fall, then returned to the Chukchi and Bering seas the following winter. Movements of bears from the Chukchi Sea into the central or eastern Beaufort Sea were not documented through spring 1988. These data document that polar bears occuring in the Bering and Chukchi seas are shared internationally between the United States and the Soviet Union.
10.2307/3872685| I compared distribution and range of brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) with temporal and spatial distribution of Sitka black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus sitkensis) hunting activity on westside Kodiak Island, Alaska, to examine impacts of deer hunting on bears. Mean number of bears that annually ranged 5 km from the coast, >5 km inland from the coast, or in both areas was 10, 8, and 11, respectively. Bears that exclusively or seasonally occupied the coast zone were usually classed as having moderate or high potential to interact with hunters because most hunter access and effort (>95%) was via the coast. Bears that ranged exclusively inland were considered unlikely to encounter hunters. Animals that ranged in both zones often (39%) moved inland during fall (Oct-Dec) and most bears (70%) denned in the inland zone. Females that denned near the coast entered dens later (x = 22 Nov) than females that denned inland (x = 12 Nov). Two radio-collared bears were known to raid deer-hunting camps and 9 other marked bears were observed by hunters or were located <200 m from hunting camps. Deer-hunter surveys revealed that more than two-thirds of the deer harvest occurred during October-November. About half of the hunters observed at least 1 bear during their hunt. Seven to 21% of the respondents reported having a threatening encounter with a bear and 5-26% reported losing deer meat to bears. Human-induced mortality to radio-collared bears occurred more often near the coast (5) than inland (3); 7 bears were harvested by sport hunters and 1 was killed (nonsport) in a Native village. Deer hunters killed 2 unmarked females in defense of life or property situations in the study area. High bear densities and concentrated deer-hunting activity combine to make conflicts unavoidable. Adverse impacts to bears can be minimized by maintaining low levels of human activity in inland areas and improving hunter awareness of bear ecology and behavior. 
10.2307/3872928|Black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Sierra Nevada range of California do not reliably exhibit the classic pattern of compulsory winter dormancy generally reported for this species. Pregnant females and most other adults hibernate for approximately 3.5 months, but only 37% of males are winter dormant. Winter-active bears tend to use lower elevations where snow cover is sporadic, growth after autumn rains provides herbaceous foods, and acorns may remain on the ground. Warmer temperatures at these lower elevations also reduce energy costs for active bears. The absence of a single environmental or physiological factor that discriminates between winter-active and winter-dormant bears, however, suggests that a complex suite of factors affects a bear's decision to remain active or den.
10.2307/3872737|While past work concluded that thin-layer chromatography (TLC) was inadequate for the separation of grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis) and black bear (U. americanus) scats, our study found differences adequate for species separation. A key was constructed using 19 of 40 data points recorded on each (N = 356 profiles of 178) known-species scat. Accuracy was best for late summer scats (94%). Methods for specimen preparation, analysis, and reading the TLC profiles are discussed. Factors involved in scat variation were tested.
10.2307/3872852| During the period 1971-76, the number of dens of female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in the Drem-Head Mountains (25 km
10.2307/3872940|Population management for black bears (Ursus americanus), brown-grizzly bears (U. arctos) and polar bears (U. maritimus) in North America is reviewed. In different areas bear populations are managed to achieve goals of population control, conservation, or sustained yield. Most North American bears are managed for sustained yields and this topic is emphasized. The consequence of error in population management is high as bears reproduce slowly and reduced populations will require many years to recover. Simulation results where reproductive rates were generous, natural mortality rates were low, and harvests were 75% of maximum sustainable rates indicated that populations reduced by half will require >40 years to recover for brown (grizzly) bears and >17 years for black bears. Under optimal conditions for reproduction, natural mortality, and with males twice as vulnerable as females, maximal sustainable hunting mortality was estimated as 5.7% of total population for grizzly bears and 14.2% for black bears. In recent decades, all 3 species have obtained the status of game animals in most jurisdictions and management for control objectives is increasingly uncommon. Management for conservation requires primary emphasis on habitat protection and on minimizing mortalities from any source. Managers of hunted bear populations use information from hunters, from sex and age composition of killed bears, from research programs, and from computer simulation studies. Non-critical uses of data from any of these sources may lead to management error. Data on age-at-harvest is especially prone to misinterpretation. Techniques used to limit harvests by managers of hunted bear populations are reviewed. The primary constraints facing bear population management derive from inadequate habitat protection, political pressures, technological limitations of available population management techniques, and inadequate financial support for management.
10.2307/3872869|Conflicts between park visitors and the American black bear (Ursus americanus) in Yosemite National Park pose serious management problems for the National Park Service and often result in extreme inconvenience and monetary losses to park visitors. Food-reward associations with humans have resulted in the loss of the black bear's instinctive fear of people and in the development of highly sophisticated patterns of depredation. A management program consisting of 5 basic elements was implemented in the spring of 1975 to meet bear management objectives of the National Park Service. The effects of management on bears and park visitors were evaluated by monitoring the patterns of damage that bears displayed before and during the program. Analyses of data accrued from property damage, personal injuries, and control of problem bears were also made. The results of these analyses are discussed and their implications applied to management practices and research needs. Comparisons of data accrued before and through the first 2 years of the program appear to support the hypothesis that the program is achieving its stated objectives.
10.2307/3872616|We used simulated grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) harvest data to answer 2 questions: (1) can we use 2-group discriminant function analysis to distinguish harvest age structures from populations that have equilibrated from those beginning to decline from overharvest? and (2) how powerfully can it distinguish with small samples typical of grizzly bear data? Simulated populations were subjected to experimental harvests to determine the harvest level that caused chronic declines. For each run, statistics that described age structures were calculated. We constructed a linear discriminant function equation based on the descriptive statistics that separated declining from equilibrating populations, and estimated the power of the equation using decline as the null hypothesis. Accepting a 10% chance of failing to detect a decline (Type I error), the equation had little power to correctly classify equilibrated populations. With sample sizes from a 3-year period in the range 72-153 animals, estimated power was about 50%. With 3-year sample sizes in the range 24-51, power was roughly 20%-25%. Only when comparing severely overharvested populations with equilibrated populations could power be raised to >60%. We conclude that detecting grizzly bear population declines at their outset will be unreliable when based solely on harvest age structure data.
10.2307/3872859| Dens of black bears (Ursus americanus) were located in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park using radiotelemetry. Bears preferred cavities located high in large trees; 7 dens were 6-17 m aboveground. Dens were associated with northern hardwood and cove hardwood forest types. All but 2 of the 12 dens located were at elevations above 1,000 m. The average dbh of 7 den trees was 97.1 cm. Inside dimensions of 7 tree dens averaged 218.4  59.6  62.0 cm. Tree dens are of definite survival value to bears, particularly females and cubs. Such dens offer protection from precipitation, cold temperatures, and human activities. Perpetuation of tree dens outside protected areas such as national parks is unlikely under current forest management practices. 
10.2307/3872873|During the 19th century the brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Norway was reduced to remnant level. The population has since been restored and recently seems to be increasing. Concern is present for bear management in connection with sheep predation, as sheep husbandry is important throughout Norway, the stock in 1976 amounting to 1.6 million animals. The management technique now practiced combines selective hunting of troublemakers with monetary compensation for sheep killed. The number of sheep killed by bears is insignificant compared with the total sheep mortality, and bear predation is important only locally, primarily in areas in Hedmark, Hordaland, and Finnmark counties. Ethical arguments against bears are raised in connection with observations of overkill, and a research program has been initiated to analyze predation patterns in greater detail. Overkill by bears is not restricted to surplus killing. In most cases, small amounts are consumed from each carcass -- nutritionally valuable parts such as breast fat deposits and udders. This behavior may represent extreme food selection under plentiful prey conditions and should be compared with selective grazing among herbivores. The organization of behavior in predatory mammals relevant to livestock losses is discussed.
10.2307/3872628|Brown bear (Ursus arctos) food habits were determined by analyzing 95 scats and by investigating feeding sites in and around Plitvice Lakes National Park, Yugoslavia. Only plant material was found in 76% of the samples, whereas 24% contained both plant and animal (mostly insects) material. At least 28 different plant and animal food items were identified. Plant material consumption varied with phenology. Important food types by season were: spring--graminoids, forbs, and ferns; summer--oats, insects, fruits, and forbs; autumn--tree fruits, nuts, and insects; and winter--nuts, fruits, and mammals. Spring food was of low nutritional value, whereas summer food was rich in nitrogen-free extract and crude fiber. Predenning food was high in nitrogen-free extract and ether extract.
10.2307/3872719| We compared habitat use and movements of 82 radio-collared female black bears (Ursus americanus) at 3 dissimilar study areas in Maine during fall from 1986 to 1988. We focused on the use of northern hardwood forests containing American beech (Fagus grandifolia). Many beech forests in the northeastern United States have been infected with beech bark disease, which may limit beechnut availability. At the Spectacle Pond and Stacyville study areas, annual variation in habitat use was pronounced and was related to abundance of beechnuts. Bears used hardwood forests more when beechnuts were abundant (1986 and 1988) than when beechnuts were scarce (1987). At the Bradford study area, where habitat was more diverse and beech trees were less common, habitat use did not vary annually, and use of hardwoods and softwoods was proportional to availability. Maximum fall movements by bears, away from summer ranges, did not vary annually within areas. Fall movements were greater for bears at Stacyville (median = 7.3 km, n = 19 bear-years) than at Spectacle Pond (median = 1.3 km, n = 52) or at Bradford (median = 0.9 km, n = 28) and reflected distribution of food resources on a landscape scale. In all areas, most long movements (7.7-78.6 km) during fall were to hardwood forests when beechnuts were abundant. Bears usually denned within or near (1.0 km) their summer ranges despite long fall movements. We provide recommendations for managing northern hardwoods to maintain beechnut production. 
10.2307/3872627|Food habits of the brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) were studied from 1975 to 1984 in 4 diverse areas on Hokkaido Island. Foods of bears varied seasonally in each area and differed among areas largely because of differences in foods available. Bears ate mainly succulent herbs in spring and summer and fruits in the fall in northern Hokkaido. Hog's-fennel (Peucedanum multivittatum) dominated the bears' diet in August and September in the alpine areas of the Daisetsu Mountains. Foods of bears on the Shiretoko Peninsula included those from the sea, but were otherwise similar to northern Hokkaido. The diet of bears on the Oshimo Peninsula was dominated by beech (Fagus crenata) buds in the spring in terms of frequency of occurrence, and actinidia (Actinidia arguta) fruit in the fall.
10.2307/3872687|Ursidae is a young family, evolving from early canids during the late Oligocene and early Miocene, about 20-25 million years ago. The family has frequently been divided into subfamilies. Although debated, these often include: (1) Hemicyoninae, (2) Agriotheriinae, (3) Tremarctinae, (4) Ursinae, and (5) Ailuropodidae. Based on scattered literature published over the past century, we trace the evolutionary lineage of the various genera and species found in these subfamilies; most are extinct, 8 species remain. Many if not most of the relationships have been disputed for many years and we may be far from the definitive history. Speculated causes of extinction usually involved climate change and competition. Primitive man may have been the major competitor of some extinct species and modern man is definitely a major influence on bear evolution today.
10.2307/3872921|Between July 1979 and May 1982 movements of 23 radio-tagged black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in a remnant bottomland hardwood forest in eastern Arkansas. Estimates of annual and seasonal home range varied substantially within age-sex groups. Mean annual home ranges of males were significantly larger than those of females in adult and subadult age classes. Within sex classes, mean annual home ranges of adult and subadults were similar. The size of annual home range was inversely related to habitat diversity and, in adult males, to weight. Typically, bears used significantly larger ranges in summer, when their diets were complex and breeding occurred, than in spring or fall-winter, when their diets were simple. Home ranges of 4 neighboring males overlapped considerably. Among 2 groups of females, home range overlap varied and may have been related to reproductive condition or kinship. Radio-tagged bears did not disperse from the study area nor far from their natal ranges, indicating that this remnant population is closed.
10.2307/3872664|Twenty-eight dens of 15 different European brown bears (Ursus arctos) were located, monitored and measured during 1981-92. Ten of them were used by females with cubs, 9 by single females, 5 by males, and 4 by bears of unknown category. Occasionally bears used >1 den in the same winter (4 bears used 2-5 dens, mean = 3). Only 2 of these den changes were attributed to human disturbance. The local abundance of natural caves is probably the reason most dens (22) were built in rock cavities; 3 were ground nests under the canopy of conifers; 2 were excavated cavities under the roots of large standing trees, and 1 was in a horizontal hollow tree.
10.2307/3872610|From 1982 to 1985, 23 Arizona black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs were equipped with motion-sensitive, breakaway radiocollars while in winter dens. Eleven (48%) of these cubs died, but cause of death was determined in only 8 cases because of collar loss. Fifty percent of these deaths were the result of cannibalism by other bears. Other causes of mortality included other predation, disease, and hunting. The majority of cub deaths occurred within 60 days of den emergence; only 1 cub dying of natural causes lived beyond the end of the May-June breeding season. Seven of 13 individual litters (54%) containing radio-collared cubs experienced mortality, and in 6 of those cases (86%), the total litter died. In this population, hunter-caused mortality appeared to be additive rather than compensatory.
10.2307/3872745|We examined 7 variables from 103 translocations of nuisance grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to (1) describe the type of bears involved in conflicts, (2) determine factors affecting translocation success, and (3) test the hypothesis that translocation is a feasible method to control mortality of grizzly bears. Males comprised 58% of all translocated bears. The median age of all bears was 3.5 years. and the modal age was 2.5 years. Subadults comprised a significantly greater proportion of the nuisance bear population than the wild population. Residential, livestock, garbage, and apiary oriented offenses represented 46%, 30%, 20%, and 4% of the total, respectively. The success rate of bears > 1.5 years was 44% for first time translocations prior to 1990, and 15% for bears moved > 1 time. Sex was the only variable that significantly predicted success. Females were more likely to be successfully translocated than males except for bears associated with livestock damage. Thirty-eight percent of the translocated bears died within 2 years of translocation. The average cost of a capture and translocation was $1,038.00, not including personnel salaries and administrative costs. An aggressive program focused on preventive action is recommended.
10.2307/3872899|During 1983-1986 we conducted brown bear (Ursus arctos) surveys in Norway to determine bear distribution and abundance for comparison with similar work conducted in 1978-1982 by Kolstad et al. (1984, 1986). Minimum number of bears was evaluated for each area. The estimated Norwegian bear population was 102-153 bears, including at least 20 reproductive females. The distribution pattern in the northern counties of Norway was similar to that found earlier, with a stable or increasing population. The distribution pattern in southern counties sharply contrasted that of the 1978-1982 report, indicating either a decreasing population or 1978-1982 estimates that were too optimistic. Bear management plans were proposed in 1988 partly based on a definition of "viable population" as a population with a <15% chance of being reduced within 20 years. The viability of the different bear populations in Norway is discussed based on the minimum estimated number of females. No population fulfills the above definition. Future management should consequently be very restrictive to secure the small and scattered bear population in Norway for the future.
10.2307/3872660|This brief account summarizes information on the disappearance of the brown bear (Ursus arctos) from the central Pyrenees, 1 of 2 areas occupied by this species in France. This paper reviews the status and ecology of the species as determined since 1985.
10.2307/3872674|In this century, the brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in the Alps has declined; a few individuals survive in the Adamello-Brenta Natural Park in Trentino, Italy. This population is at high risk because it lives in one of the most highly populated and rapidly changing bear ranges in the world. Management of the bear and its environment presupposes a wide knowledge of the structure and dynamics of its population. We tested a monitoring technique using automatic stations installed near 2 feeding sites, subjecting the bears to minimal disturbance. These stations use infrared cameras, scales, and systems to record or transmit images and data. Results of our 4 years of experimentation include 21 hours of film, and show the method to be effective. Using these stations, we demonstrate the lack of bears in sites previously thought more frequented by bears.
10.2307/3872714| During 1984-86, we captured 457 different polar bears (Ursus maritimus) 536 times along the Ontario coast of southern Hudson Bay. The sex ratio of different bears captured (53 M:47 F) was similar (P = 0.30). The mean age of captured males and females was 6.9 and 5.5 years, respectively. The calculated mean annual survival rate for males and females was 0.89 and 0.85, respectively. The mean natality rate for females aged 5-21 was 0.85. Seventy-five percent of females 5 years were accompanied by young. Most females produced their first litters at age 5 or 6. There was no evidence of reproductive senescence in our samples as 4 of 6 females 19 years were accompanied by young. Mean summer litter sizes ranged from 1.4 to 1.8 and averaged 1.6. Weights of solitary females considered to be pregnant (338  43 kg, N = 20) were heavier than the non-pregnant group (283  47 kg, N = 14). When captured, 38% of the yearlings were alone, suggesting a 2-year breeding interval. We estimated a population of about 900 in southern Hudson Bay in 1985 and 1986. 
10.2307/3872900|We update or extend data presented by Herrero (1985). Injury rates were low, 1980-1985. The highest rates were 317,700 and 328,645 park visitors per injury inflicted by black or grizzly bear in Kluane and Denali National Parks. Injury rates calculated against number of backcountry user nights were significantly higher for all parks where injuries occurred, but this exaggerates the danger from bears in backcountry areas since day use is not included. In certain national parks such as Glacier (Montana) there appears to have been an increase in grizzly bear-inflicted injury to persons travelling off-trail. The potential danger from grizzly bears that are habituated to people and/or have learned to feed on people's food or garbage is stressed by focussing on 8 fatal, predatory attacks on people in Glacier (Montana), Yellowstone, and Banff National Parks between 1967-1986. Habituated grizzly bears may also attract photographers who may be injured or killed by such bears. Carrying dead ungulates or imitating the sounds of prey may attract grizzly bears and this may lead to human injury. Five cases of grizzly bear-inflicted injury (including 2 deaths) were identified in which this appeared to have been a common circumstance. Additional evidence is cited supporting the idea that grizzly bear injuries inflicted during sudden encounters are most likely to occur in habitat where grizzly bears have been attracted by natural foods during the time when the injury occurred. A through search for records dated between about 1965-1985 of polar bear-inflicted injury revealed only 20 injurious incidents. In 15 or 16 of these the bear's motivation appeared to have been predation. Six people were killed in such incidents. At least 251 polar bears were killed during aggressive encounters. Only 5 or 6 aggressive interactions (3 or 4 leading to human injury) were attributed to females apparently defending their young. Female polar bears appear to be less aggressive toward people in defense of young than are grizzly bears, but more aggressive than black bears.
10.2307/3872858|Between June 1969 and January 1972, 75 stomachs and 1,025 scats from black bears (Ursus americanus) were collected from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and vicinity for food content analysis. Grasses and the other herbaceous leaves and stems, squawroot (Conopholis americana), huckleberries (Gaylussacia spp.), black cherry (Prunus serotina), acorns from oaks (Quercus spp.), blackberries (Rubus spp.), and blueberries (Vaccinium spp.) composed 81 percent of the diet by volume. Eleven percent of the food consumed was animal matter, principally Coleoptera and Hymenoptera. Artificial food constituted 6 percent of the diet. The most critical season with regard to food availability appears to be late fall because mast (nuts) is the only preferred natural food source available and mast failures occur frequently. There is additional evidence that nutrition, productivity, movement, and bear/person incidents are also influenced by feeding ecology of the species.
10.2307/3872739|From 1988 to 1991 we observed the denning activity of 27 radio-collared black bears (Ursus americanus) at 57 dens on the Tanana River Flats, near Fairbanks, Alaska. This is the northernmost population of black bears studied using radio telemetry, and nears the northern extreme of their range. We compared differences in den chronology, morphology, and habitat use, among sex, age, and reproductive classes. All bears pooled across all years gave a mean den entry date of 1 October, a mean emergence date of 21 April, and a mean den period of 205 days. Females denned earlier (30 Sep vs. 4 Oct), emerged later (23 Apr vs. 15 Apr), and had longer den periods (208 days vs. 195 days) than males. No significant differences were observed in denning chronology between adults and subadults, or among female reproductive classes. Differences in den characteristics between sex, age, and female reproductive classes were generally insignificant, except that males had larger dens than females, and females denning with young had the largest dens among the female reproductive classes. Most dens were excavated (83%, n = 41), and all contained nesting material. Reuse was low (18%, n = 34) and 10 dens (29%) were flooded to varying levels. Bears significantly favored willow/alder and black spruce habitat types for den sites, avoiding marshland and heath meadow habitat types.
10.2307/3872646| From 1970 to 1984, 540 black bears (Ursus americanus) were trapped and released. Of the 540 bears captured, 240 were released at the trap site and 300 were translocated to different areas. A total of 186 bears were recovered, most of them legally harvested by hunters. Trap, release, and recovery sites were plotted on topographic maps and a computer program was used to calculate distances between map coordinates. Nonrelocated bears were recovered an average of 19.6 km from the area where they were trapped. Large males (> 136 kg) were recovered significantly farther from their capture locations (x = 38.6 km, P < 0.05) than other nonrelocated bears. Among translocated bears, females were recovered significantly farther (P < 0.05) from their capture site than were males. Translocated bears were recovered an average of 58.2 km from original capture site and 27.7 km from their release location. Bears translocated more than 80 km were recovered significantly farther from their capture site (x= 100.8 km, P < 0.05) than all other bears. Approximately 23% of the translocated bears were recovered within an angle defining the home direction. Twelve bears reached home before being recovered. All bears that returned home were males. Results of this study suggest that relocation distances of less than 80 km are effective for relocating Virginia black bears. 
10.2307/3872517|Annual legal harvests of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Pennsylvania during 61 hunting seasons from 1915 through 1979 ranged from 149 to 929 and averaged 424. Data for 1971-1977 showed high hunting pressure, with 95,000-250,000 hunters estimated active during 1-day bear seasons and success averaging 318-507 hunters per bear harvested. In 1971-1979 total known bear losses were 92-129 for years with no hunting and 297-1017 for years with bear seasons. In hunting years, legal kills accounted for 70-84% of all losses; other significant causes of loss were illegal kills (including cubs), road kills, and damage control. Increasing hunting pressure in 1976 and 1977 and a decline in the average age of harvested bears from 4.2 in 1967 to 2.8 in 1976 led to closed seasons in 1977 and 1978. In 1979, a 1-day season resulted in 736 legal kills and 120 cub kills; known losses totaled 1017. A high reproductive rate and good cub survival, probably related to good nutrition, have allowed the Pennsylvania black bear population to respond with sustained high productivity that has compensated for population losses in most years. Control of hunting pressure is the most important management need.
10.2307/3872682|Tree invasions into meadows near upper timberline reduce diversity of habitat and diminish high-elevation food sources for black (Ursus americanus) and grizzly (Ursus arctos) bears. How serious is this threat in view of future climate change? Tree invasions observed in the Pacific Northwest to New Mexico suggest that climatic restraints to forest expansion have relaxed since the end of the Little Ice Age. Because climate patterns are large-scale phenomena, geographic synchronicity in tree establishment might be expected if a warming trend began. When tree invasion chronologies from Canada to New Mexico were compared, 2 synchronicities of climate and tree invasions appeared, indicating a possible climatic influence. However, forest retreat and meadow advance are also commonly observed at high elevations. The mechanism of retreat is usually fire followed by slow or unsuccessful regeneration of forest. There is no clear evidence based upon tree seedling chronologies that meadows will continue to be lost on the basis of climate change alone. Climate warming may set the stage for forest advance, but tree invasions are highly sensitive to local conditions. Concentrated grazing by domestic or wild animals in high-elevation meadows may trigger tree invasion by reducing competition to tree seedlings from established meadow vegetation. Prescribed fires or natural fires allowed to burn within prescriptions can be used as a tool for maintaining meadows and bear habitat under some of the projected climate change scenarios for western North America.
10.2307/3872636| From fall 1981 through fall 1985, 58 radio-collared brown bears (Ursus arctos) were followed to winter dens on Admiralty and Chichagof islands in southeast Alaska. One hundred twenty-one dens were located and their site characteristics described. Mean dates of den entry and emergence, 30 October and 2 May, varied between sexes and among years. Mean elevation and slope of 121 dens were 640 m and 35, respectively. Dens were at higher elevations and on steeper slopes on Admiralty Island than on Chichagof Island. Females denned on higher and steeper slopes than males. Admiralty Island bears preferred subalpine and alpine/rock habitats and Chichagof Island bears preferred old-growth forest for denning. On Admiralty, rock caves were the most frequent den type; on Chichagof, bears excavated dens most frequently under large-diameter Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) or in the bases of large snags. Mine development on Admiralty Island may have caused bears to avoid certain denning areas. Industrial scale logging may reduce brown bear denning habitat in this region. Management recommendations for reducing the impact of human activity and resource development on denning brown bears are provided. 
10.2307/3872601|Until 1975, it was estimated that the brown bear (Ursus arctos L.) in Norway was restricted to 1 remnant southern population and a few small northern populations. In the last decade, it has been shown that small populations of very shy individuals exist in many parts of the country, including the fjord districts of the west. These secretive bears have escaped the notice of previous authors reporting on the occurrence of brown bears in this century. This development in our knowledge of Norwegian brown bears may be relevant to other European countries where similar conditions may prevail.
10.2307/3872802|Various interpretations of the Craighead team data on Yellowstone grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) are reviewed. The Craigheads continue to favor a noncompensatory model that gives the greatest likelihood of population extinction with an increased mortality rate. McCullough (1981) found that recruitment of cubs and survivorship of juveniles were influenced by adult population size. Stringham (1983) reached most of the same conclusions by different methods. McCullough (1981), Stringham (1983), and Shaffer (1978, 1983) all reported negative relationships between adult population size (or adult males only) and percent of females producing litters and mean litter size. Time lags in the density-dependent effect of adults on cub recruitment were treated by Avrin (1976) with slightly different results. All authors have emphasized the susceptibility of grizzly bear populations to overexploitation, although the impact varies with model assumptions. Shaffer (1978, 1983) examined stochastic variables as they influence minimum viable population size. A congruence analysis was done for the McCullough (1981) model in which parameters were run in model simulations to test model responses to observed results for the years of the Craighead study. This analysis reaffirmed the oscillatory behavior of the population and showed that oscillatory behavior decreased as the adult mortality rate increased. Great fluctuations in population parameters make assessment of the current status of the population difficult. An alternate strategy of long-term population monitoring and management based on a systematized aerial count of minimum unduplicated bears is proposed.
10.2307/3872534|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis), an important tree of high altitudes in the northern Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada, produces nuts eaten by bears. Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) and black bear (U. americanus) use of pine nuts was studied in Yellowstone National Park and adjacent areas during 1978 and 1979. Spring use appeared to be correlated with cone production in the preceding year, while fall use was correlated with the current crop. Most of the nuts eaten by bears came from cones cached by red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus). Pine nuts were a nutritious food which was often present in early spring and late fall when alternate foods were scarce or low in digestible energy and when nutritional requirements of bears were high. No evidence was found that bears ate the nuts of limber pine (P. flexilis).
10.2307/3872837|The use of computer simulation models as an aid to understanding of biological data was demonstrated using a number of simulated bear populations. Data from black (Ursus americanus), brown (U. arctos), and polar bear (U. maritimus) populations were employed. Population models without feedback were used to compute mortality isoclines as a function of reproductive measures and to document the unreliability of age structure as an indicator of population growth form. A simple Leslie matrix projection was modified to include the effects of population density and hunting. The resulting models provided a consistent explanation for some of the sex and age ratios reported in the literature. The importance of spatial and temporal distributions of hunting pressure were documented, and management implications of hunting patterns, population biology, and dispersion of bears were summarized.
10.2307/3872620|Ninety-four black bear (Ursus americanus) bedding sites were located between May 1982 and August 1984. Locations were identified by radiotracking 14 adult females. Sampling from sites of females with and without cubs showed both bedding and feeding activity at 39% of the sites. Multiple daybeds were found at 28% of the sites and all sites were within 0.8 km of water. Bedding sites occurred on canyon walls 81% of the time, the slopes of which averaged 39%. Daybeds were on the uphill side of a tree 74% of the time. Bed trees averaged 73 cm dbh. Chewing and scratching of daybed trees was recorded at 38% of the sites, and scats were found at 69% of the sites. Removal of vegetative cover and large trees in black bear bedding habitat could reduce overall habitat quality.
10.2307/3872871|A study was conducted during May-September 1974 as an integral part of a comprehensive population analysis of black bears (Ursus americanus Pallas) in Trinity County, California, by the California Department of Fish and Game. Habitat types on the study area were delineated and evaluated, and the selection and use of each type by black bears were estimated from all fresh bear sign encountered during trapping and radiotracking activities. Scats were collected and analyzed for frequency of occurrence and percentage volume of food items. Bear sign in wet meadows accounted for 55 percent of all sign found during May although wet meadows comprised less than 1 percent of the study area. Mixed conifer forest received heavy bear use during all periods except late August, when bears foraged for insects in decayed logs and stumps in high-elevation partial cuts. Black bears used manzanita (Arctostaphylos spp.) brush habitats extensively during late summer and fall to feed on manzanita berries. A failure of the manzanita berry crop in 1973 was believed to have caused a higher rate of subadult mortality and a lower rate of cub production in 1974.
10.2307/3872840|A total of 35 presumably distinct biochemical loci were analyzed in black bears (Ursus americanus) from Alaska, California, Maine, Montana, Tennessee, and Virginia by using starch-gel electrophoresis. Limited spatial subdivision of gene frequency was observed in Tennessee. Overall heterozygosity levels are lower in black bears than would generally be expected for mammalian species. Levels of interpopulation genetic similarity are extremely high for a species with such wide distribution, in contrast to the observed morphological variation.
10.2307/3872740|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) recovery in the western states has been hampered by poor interagency cooperation, minimal attention to habitat protection, and continuing degradation of habitat on both private and public lands. Some positive actions, such as increased research and agency focus on mortality reduction, have taken place. I advocate the adoption of mandatory standards for U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service land-management actions such as road building and cumulative effects analysis, and greater attention by both Forest Service and U.S. Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service to the Endangered Species Act mandate to develop programs to improve grizzly habitat.
10.2307/3872742|Landsat multispectral scanner (MSS) imagery and a ground-based vegetative inventory were used to develop a map of vegetation for the North Cascades Grizzly Bear Ecosystem (NCGBE). An assessment of the interpreted data showed a 95% accuracy level for the general vegetation types and 92% for detailed vegetation types. Additional data layers were developed in a geographic information system (GIS) to evaluate the availability and distribution of vegetation types on a seasonal basis, assess the impacts of human activities on the habitat, assess ungulate food sources, and estimate the abundance of bear foods in various vegetation types. These technologies proved useful in evaluating the suitability of the ecosystem to support grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis).
10.2307/3872523|In radio-telemetry studies of black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Catskill region of New York State during 1975-79, denning chronology was recorded for 62 den entries and 38 exits by 35 male and female bears 1 to 17 years of age. The median den entry date for female bears with cubs (22 November) was somewhat earlier than that for pregnant females (24 November) and barren females (30 November). Collectively, females denned significantly earlier than males (24 November versus 10 December). Median den emergence dates also varied with sex and reproductive status. Males were the first to leave their dens (26 March), followed by females with yearlings (5 April) and barren females (8 April). Females with cubs left their den site significantly later (15 April) than males and females with yearlings. Although autumn temperatures, snowfall, and snow depths differed significantly between years, they appeared unrelated to denning dates.
10.2307/3872548|Laboratory and field tests were conducted at Churchill, Manitoba, in 1978 and 1979 to determine whether human menstrual odors attract polar bears (Ursus maritimus). The polar bear was chosen because the odor of its primary prey, seals, could be used as a standard attractant against which the relative attractiveness of other scents could be measured. When 4 captive bears were presented with a series of different odors, a strong behavioral response was elicited only by seal scents and menstrual odors (used tampons). When these materials were arrayed in a location frequented by free-ranging bears, the bears detected and consumed, the food scent samples and used tampons, but ignored the non-food scents and human blood. The primary method of detection was by scent with a minority of the samples being detected visually or by other means. The lack of response to the other scents, combined with the fact that in the laboratory and field the bears' responses to seal scents demonstrated that menstrual odors attract polar bears. Comparing bear responses to human blood and menstrual blood indicates that it is not the blood that is acting as the attractant, but some property peculiar to the menstrual products.
10.2307/3872555|Black bear (Ursus americanus) incidents, defined as property damage or personal injury by bears, increased dramatically in recent years in the backcountry of Yosemite National Park, California. Since all backcountry zones do not receive the same level of visitor use, incidents could be compared between zones of various use levels. Data collected from 1976 through 1979 showed that as visitor density increased, reported bear incidents increased linearly. In order to reduce or maintain bear incidents at acceptable levels, managers of backcountry areas may have to reduce nonaversive bear/human encounters and the availability of human food items.
10.2307/3872550| Data compiled from parasite studies of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) in the Yellowstone and Glacier National Park populations and surrounding areas of Montana and Wyoming during 1969-79 are reviewed with reference to the possible influence of infection with the muscleworm Trichinella sp. on bear behavior. In grizzly bears, the high prevalence of this parasite (61% of 254 bears infected), the elevated larval concentrations in sensitive anatomical sites such as the tongue (average, 51 larvae per gram of tissue), and the chronic nature of bear infections as indicated by the tendency for highest infection rates to occur in older age classes ( 16 yrs.), suggest a potential behavior-modifying effect might exist. However, retrospective analysis of recent human attacks by 4 grizzlies and 2 black bears in the northern Rocky Mountain region failed to demonstrate a consistent connection between erratic conduct and levels of Trichinella larvae (trichinae) in bear tissues. Clinical similarities of trichinellosis in bears and humans are hypothesized, and possible behavioral effects of ursine trichinellosis are discussed. 
10.2307/3872813|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) scats were collected from 4 western Montana study areas from 1976 to 1979 to determine differences in food item selection. Fruit was important to grizzly bears in all areas although the species consumed and the apparent degree of use varied. Globe huckleberry (Vaccinium globulare) was important to grizzly bears in the North and South forks of the Flathead River but was rarely eaten in other areas. Domestic apples (Malus spp.) and plums (Prunus spp.) were eaten extensively by Mission Mountain grizzly bears. Grasses and sedges were a staple food to bears in all areas; variable use of Umbelliferae was found. The nuts of whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) were eaten extensively by East Front grizzly bears only, and biscuit-root (Lomatium spp.) roots were dug to varying degrees in all areas. Yellow hedysarum (Hedysarum sulphurescens) roots were an important spring and autumn food to North Fork grizzly bears only. Horsetails (Equisetum spp.), clover (Trifolium spp.), and dandelions (Taraxacum spp.) were important in all areas throughout the grizzly bears' active period. These data suggest that substantial local variation occurs in grizzly bear food habits in Montana. These differences should be considered in land management plans that call for maintenance or enhancement of grizzly bear habitat.
10.2307/3872723|Seven black bears (Ursus americanus) were radiomonitored during 1981-84 in conjunction with a long-term study of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). Grizzly and black bear food habits, home ranges, habitat use, and denning habits were compared within the composite home range of all radio-instrumented black bears. Trapping effort per capture for each species was compared in 6 bear management units for the period 1980-87. Differences in habitat use and denning habitat were evident. Black bears used the forested habitats more frequently than did grizzlies. Grizzly bears utilized riparian and open habitat components habitats more frequently than did black bears. Grizzly bear dens were on steeper slopes and at higher elevations than black bear dens. Subtle differences in food habits were detected. Less effort was necessary to capture black bears in bear management units with lower grizzly densities. Grizzly bears avoided habitats within 300 m of open roads while black bears avoided habitats within 100 m of open roads.
10.2307/3872638| I located 51 different black bear (Ursus americanus) den sites (28 of males, 23 of females) in Michigan's Northern Lower Peninsula between September 1977 and March 1980. During the 3-winter period, 10 radio-tagged males denned in swamp habitat 24 times, lowland habitat 2 times, and upland habitat 2 times; 7 females denned in swamp habitat 11 times, lowland habitat 5 times, and upland habitat 7 times. Habitat selection for den sites between sexes differed significantly (X
10.2307/3872701|Brown bear distribution range in Greece comprises 2 distinct nuclei of unequal size, covering a total of about 11,000 km
10.2307/3872671|During the 1930s the brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in the western Carpathians was endangered and numbered <60 animals. Following total protection during 1932-60 and harvest management since 1960, this population gradually increased in both number and range. Now, about 600 animals inhabit approximately 12,500 km
10.2307/3872867|Traditionally, black bear (Ursus americanus) management at Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks has consisted mainly of efforts to remove problem animals. In recent years, the ready availability of human food has been recognized as the real problem. The parks' current bear management program is aimed at eliminating all unnatural food sources in an effort to allow the bears to lead as natural a life as possible.
10.2307/3872726|Twenty-one female polar bears (Ursus maritimus) accompanied by cubs of the year were fitted with satellite transmitters upon emergence from maternal dens on Wrangel Island during spring 1990. Movements during the following year indicated no subsequent geographic segregation in the Chukchi or East Siberian seas of females that denned in various regions of Wrangel Island. Movements encompassed the eastern half of the East Siberian Sea, the entire Chukchi Sea, extreme western portions of the Beaufort Sea, and portions of the Bering Sea lying north of Saint Matthew Island. One-third of the marked females over-wintered in the active shear zone, which lies along the northern shoreline of the Chukotka Peninsula in Soviet territory.
10.2307/3872648|Human disturbance of brown bears (Ursus arctos) was studied in the Pack Creek area of Admiralty Island in Southeast Alaska during the summers of 1983 and 1984. The Pack Creek watershed has been closed to bear hunting since 1934, but use of the area by bear watchers and photographers is increasing. Instantaneous scan sampling and focal animal sampling techniques were used to observe bears and visitors at a control area with negligible human activity and at the popular Pack Creek area. Analysis of diel use of the 2 areas showed a crepuscular pattern for both the control and Pack Creek bears. Bears that are conditioned to human food or highly habituated to visitors tended to use the Pack Creek area during the midday periods of high visitor use more than other bears. Over 80% of the observations of Pack Creek bears were of female bears, suggesting that visitor use may differentially affect sexes. Bears that associated people with food showed levels of boldness that could lead to undesirable incidents.
10.2307/3872848|Aggressive sounds were recorded during a confrontation between 2 male polar bears (Ursus maritimus Phipps). These sounds were analyzed for frequency content, envelope, rhythmic patterns, and duration. Nine synthetic versions were generated to simplify, duplicate, or exaggerate components of the original sounds. The behavior of 5 captive polar bears, 2 captive brown bears (U. arctos L.), 13 wild black bears (U. americanus Pallas), and 18 wild polar bears was observed in response to these sounds. One or more of the variants produced a significant repellent effect in each bear tested. We defined a repellent effect as an immediate and rapid movement away from the speaker, with a continued retreat as long as the sound was produced. The effects of these sounds on the heart rate of captive polar bears were measured with an implanted heart-rate transmitter. The 4 sounds with the greatest apparent effect in the field also produced the greatest increases in heart rate in the captive implanted polar bear.
10.2307/3872554|The objective of black bear (Ursus americanus) management in Shenandoah National Park has been to minimize property damage and personal injury to Park visitors while maintaining the bear population as a part of the natural fauna. Past management attention has been directed at educating visitors; however, future efforts will incorporate more biologically oriented strategies, and will require new information on ecological matters such as bear habitat suitability, the location of areas of sensitive or critical habitat, and the impacts of proposed developments on bear habitat. A computer mapping system designed to assist in the bear management effort by meeting these types of information needs is described. Sample maps were prepared.
10.2307/3872804|A 5-year double-blind test was conducted to test the predictive capability of a previously published (Picton 1978) regression (Y = 2.01 + 0.042x), which described the relationship between the litter size of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) and an index of climate plus carrion availability (climate-carrion index). This regression showed an efficiency in excess of 99% in predicting the observed grizzly bear litter size. The predictions made using the climate-carrion index had a mean absolute error of less than 25% of forecasts using other methods. The updated climate-carrion index regression, which includes all of the 16 years for which data are available, is Y = 2.009 + 0.042x (r = 0.78; P < 0.01; N = 16). We concluded that the climate-carrion index can be a helpful tool in predicting grizzly bear litter size. The relation of this information to the effects of the closure of Yellowstone Park garbage dumps is discussed.
10.2307/3872618|This study was designed to determine if spectacled bears (Tremarctos ornatus) confine their activities to habitat units of vegetation within broad habitat types. Vegetation data were recorded in the Historical Sanctuary of Machu Picchu and adjacent valleys from 230 transects located in 143 regularly selected sites and in 87 sites that contained bear sign. Information on bear behavior was gathered from sign found at the 87 sites and in an additional 48 sites where vegetation studies along transects were not conducted. The data were analyzed using TWINSPAN, a classification program, and DECORANA, an ordination program, to describe 9 habitat types, 6 of which were occupied by bears. Seven vegetative units located in 4 habitat types contained 83% of the sites where evidence of bear presence was found. One such vegetative unit was found in both subalpine paramo (3,600-4,150 m) and rain paramo (3,400-4,000 m), 2 were found in steppe grasslands (3,050-3,650 m), and 3 were found in forests below 2,700 m. These spectacled bear habitat components were characterized by bear food species with relative abundance values greater than 5.0% and no human or livestock presence. Although minimum area requirements are not known for spectacled bears, the results of this study suggest that the Sanctuary of Machu Picchu is too small to protect spectacled bears without the protection of adjacent habitat.
10.2307/3872706|Requirements to comply with environmental laws require annual evaluation of the impacts of hunting on black bear (Ursus americanus) and the environment in California. Historical management was custodial and earlier investigations indicated that illegal kill was a major mortality factor. Since 1982, mandatory tag returns and presentation of skulls for aging have increased the amount and quality of data. The level of illegally killed bears has declined since dog training was prohibited in bear habitat during spring and summer. Hunting and harvest quotas have been established. Current harvest levels are thought to be about 8% of the population. Data indicate that hunting mortality has little negative effect on the population and hunting mortality is thought to be compensatory.
10.2307/3872877|Fossils of the brown bear (Ursus arctos L.) and the cave bear (U. spelaeus Blum.) from Bulgaria indicate that during the Diluvium the brown bear was rarer than the cave bear. About the end of the Diluvium and the beginning of the Aluvium, the cave bear became extinct and the brown bear spread through Bulgaria. According to Ruskov (1959), there were 450 brown bears in the mountains of Bulgaria in 1959. The low number of bears was because hunting laws dating from 1897 considered it a harmful animal; this law was repealed in 1941. Another reason for the low number is increasing economic development in the mountains. The number of brown bears is now satisfactory (about 520 individuals); hunting is forbidden and the species will not become extinct. Craniological and dentographic data from 7 crania (3 males and 4 females) of brown bears from the mountains of Rila and Pirin indicate that the condylobasal lengths are within the limits of 18 individuals of Ursus arctos arctos from the European part of the USSR (Ognev 1931). Precise subspecific determination of Bulgarian brown bears will be possible when more crania are available.
10.2307/3872669|Since 1987, the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries has translocated 221 nuisance black bears (Ursus americanus) from the periphery of Shenandoah National Park in northwestern Virginia to southwestern Virginia in an attempt to reestablish a viable bear population in southwestern Virginia. Forty-three bears released in 1990 and 1991 were radiocollared and monitored from June 1990 to March 1992 to determine the fates and demographic parameters of the translocated bears. Nineteen of the 43 bears died during the study, radio contact was lost with 10, 2 dropped their radiocollars, 1 resumed nuisance activity and was recaptured; the remaining 11 bears were alive when the study ended. Estimated survival was 0.23; male and female survival rates were similar (P = 0.385). Automobile collisions were the major cause of mortality for both male and female bears. Reproduction was observed in 1 den in the 1990-91 denning season and in 4 dens in the 1991-92 season. No translocated bears returned to the original capture sites.
10.2307/3872731|Data, with special reference to object manipulation, were collected on 14 polar bears (Ursus maritimus) held in 8 zoos in the British Isles. More than 1,200 hours of observations were collected from 1989 to 1991. Time scans were made at 5-minute intervals and focal event sampling provided information on object selection, bout length, and behavior on land and in water. Analyses included individual and sex differences in amount, frequency, and complexity of object manipulation. The male bears had higher levels of object manipulation overall, but 24% of the females' manipulative bouts were longer than those of the males. Bout frequencies indicated an organizational difference between the sexes with all but 1 of the females having fewer sessions per hour. Responses to a wide range of objects and food items were recorded and categorized. Findings indicated that the behavioral repertoire of polar bears was more diverse than expected and that bears of all ages and both sexes showed a high level of motivation, ability, and skill toward this kind of activity.
10.2307/3872549|Potential bear repellents were tested on 2 male grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) and 2 female polar bears (U. maritimus) at the Churchill Bear Laboratory, Churchill, Manitoba. Fifteen to 18 stimuli were tested on each bear. The stimuli were selected randomly from a list of possible repellents that included recorded bear and people sounds, bells, horns, chemicals, and others. Extremely loud, sharp sounds and most of the chemicals were consistently repellent. Although some of the stimuli were very effective, the effects on the bears were consistently short-lived. Laboratory tests on caged animals is a valid method for screening the effectiveness of a large number of stimuli in a short time, but the results of such tests must be verified by field tests.
