20794428|Orthotrichum scanicum Grnv. werd voor de eerste maal ingezameld in Belge, in het Ardens district. De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven; standplaats en verspreiding worden besproken. Orthotrichum scanicum Grnv. has been discovered for the first time in Belgium in the Ardenne district. A description and illustration of the material is provided. Features of its ecology and particulars of its distribution are given.
20794475|In Belgium as in the rest of north-western Europe, the restoration of heath-lands has become a major nature conservation priority. The target species for this restoration process may be present in the relict seed bank, which can be used to restore the ecological diversity of heathlands successfully. This study focuses on the consequences of a highly dynamic and complex historical land use pattern on the composition and heathland restoration potential of the soil seed bank of a sand stone hill in central Belgium. The presence of typical heathland species was negatively correlated with historical orchard land use. Former land use as orchard imposed both biotic (low seed densities of target species) and abiotic (high soil phosphate level) constraints in the restoration of heathland. Time since abandonment of the heathland and conifer land use negatively affected the presence of heathland species due to seed senescence in the heathland species seed bank. Especially more than 50 years after the reference land use, the number of heathland species has become very small and restoration is hardly possible. On parcels that had no historical orchard land use and having a current land use as oak-birch forest, the chance of successful restoration of heathland is greatest. Densities of heathland species in the seed bank of these parcels are relatively high and the densities of non-target, potentially competing, species are relatively low.
20794476|The Kansanshi copper outcrop (Zambia) has been very poorly investigated botanically. A recent survey has revealed much of floristic interest, in spite of mineral exploitation since the beginning of the XXth century. The various vegetation types still occurring there today indicate a former richness both in terms of flora and phytosociology as well as phytogeochemistry. Ecological units have been classified on the basis of the topography and vegetation composition. Several copper-accumulating taxa, including three new hyperaccumulators are reported. Various environmental management proposals are suggested with a view to preserving the existing biotopes in the face of the potential threats of further mineral extraction. Le gisement cuprifre de Kansanshi (Zambie), trs peu prospect jusqu prsent d'un point de vue botanique, recle un grand intrt, et ce, en dpit de l'exploitation minire dont il fit l'objet depuis le dbut du XXme sicle. En effet, les divers facis prsents aujourd'hui tmoignent de la richesse tant floristique et phytosociologique que phytogochimique existant par le pass. Un certain nombre d'units cologiques y ont t recenses sur base de la topographie et de la vgtation rencontre. Plusieurs taxons accumulateurs, voire hyperaccumulateurs, de cuivre s'y rvlent. Dans une perspective de prservation des biotopes prsents et d'une reprise ventuelle de l'activit minire, un certain nombre de propositions de gestion du milieu sont suggres.
20794474|A wide range of variation of Zn concentrations in leaves occurs between individuals within an Armeria maritima population growing on Zn-rich spoil heaps from an old Zn-Pb mine. Experiments on controlled soil conditions with a metallicolous A. maritima population show that there is a family (genotypical) component for Zn leaf concentrations. Specific Plumbaginaceae-excreting glands regulate to some extent the Zn concentrations in capitulum stalks and probably leaves. Under greenhouse culture conditions, a non-tolerant coastal population can grow reasonably well for several months on an highly toxic soil, accumulating two to four times more Zn in leaves and performing better in Zn accumulation per individual than mine populations. Additional examples from populations of Thlaspi caerulescens suggest the general assumption that search for genotypes efficient for phytoremediations must not be restricted to metallophyte populations.
43996253|A new genus of agarics, Heinemannomyces is described and assigned to the Agaricaceae ; the spore-print cast is lazuline blue. A single species is recognised, H. splendidissima Watl. sp. nov., with a known distribution in Malaysia and Thailand.
20794291|La rvision des taxons du genre Dioscorea L., section Enantiophyllum Uline, en Afrique centrale permet de distinguer 12 espces dont 2 avec 2 varits, ainsi que 4 cultivars. Une cl de dtermination est propose; la mise en synonymie de diffrentes espces est discute. This revision permitted to determine 12 species with 4 varieties and 4 cultivars. A determination key is proposed and the synonymy is discussed.
20794669|In this paper, results from an intensive two-year monitoring campaign of a wetland gradient are presented and analyzed. Two spatially adjacent sites along a wetland gradient are described by means of abiotic variables, groundwater level, and soil temperature and soil moisture at several depths throughout the vertical soil profile. The vegetation of the sites is described on the basis of a species cover inventory, and two different vegetation types are distinguished along the wetland gradient: Arrhenatheretum elatioris at the highest end of the gradient and Caricetum gracilis at the lowest end. Aboveground biomass and leaf area index of both Arrhenatheretum elatioris and Caricetum gracilis were measured on a monthly basis, and their seasonal variation could be related to specific site conditions. Furthermore, evidence was found that vegetation was not passive to the environmental site conditions but actively influenced them. The groundwater at the lower Caricetum gracilis site showed diurnal fluctuations with amplitudes up to 10 cm, which could be attributed to transpiration losses by phreatophytes.
20794625|In terms of phytosociology Nuphar lutea and Nymphaea alba are species characteristic of the same nymphaeid association. In many lakes, however, they develop separate communities. Habitat differences between patches of both species may thus be expected. The aim of this study was to find out if neighbouring patches of Nuphar lutea and Nymphaea alba were characterised by different water and substratum properties. Field investigations ware carried out in a shallow lake with well-developed macrophytic vegetation (Lake Jarosawieckie, Wielkopolski National Park, mid-Western Poland). An additional sampling site was located in the macrophyte-free mid-lake. Water and substratum samples were collected twelve times during a two-year study. Considering the whole data set, the water properties did not differentiate significantly the studied phytocoenoses and the open water. Temporal differences appeared to be more significant. In the case of substratum properties, habitat differentiation was found for organic matter content, which was significantly higher at the Nymphaea alba site, whereas total nitrogen content was higher at the mid-lake site. Seasonal dynamics of the habitats followed a similar pattern for the water properties, whereas differences in organic matter content were found for the substratum properties.
20794525|Les lichens constituent d'excellents bioindicateurs vgtaux de la pollution de l'air. L'tude effectue propose de montrer une rgression, tant qualitative que quantitative des lichens piphytes au fur et  mesure qu'on se rapproche d'une rgion fort pollue par l'acidification de l'atmosphre. Un transect est tabli, constitu de six zones o on a cartographi quatre mailles de 1 km, en adoptant la mthode de Kirschbaum & Wirth (1997). On recherche un Indice de Qualit de l'Air moyen (I.Q.A.m) pour chacune des zones tudies afin d'aboutir  trois niveaux de pollution diffrents. Les rsultats obtenus montrent effectivement une diminution de l'I.Q.A. moyen lorsqu'on se rapproche de la rgion industrialise de Charleroi. Lichens constitute excellent vegetal bioindicators of air pollution. The performed study proposes to show a regression of epiphytic lichens as much qualitative as well quantitative when one reaches progressively an important polluted area by acidification of the atmosphere. A transect is set up including six zones where four meshes of 1 km size are mapped, according to the method of Kirschbaum & Wirth (1997). An average Air Quality Index (A.Q.I.m) is calculated for each zone in order to lead to three different levels of pollution. The obtained results show indeed a decrease of the average A.Q.I. while approaching the industrialised region of Charleroi.
20794323|Much of the High Aterno Valley (Apennines of Abruzzo, Italy) is covered by reafforested areas with Pinus nigra Arn. These areas fall on both private and public lands. Scientific studies on the development of these forest ecosystems should point out their structural changes and regeneration. The present paper shows the results of the regeneration of nine sample areas representative of the reafforested territory. Une grande partie de la Haute Valle de l'Aterno (Apennin des Abruzzes) est couverte de zones reboises de Pinus nigra Arn. Ces zones se trouvent dans des territoires soit privs soit publics. Des tudes scientifiques devraient mettre en vidence des changements structuraux et rgnrateurs de ces forts. Ce travail montre les rsultats de la rgnration dans le sous-bois de neuf zones choisies comme chantillon, reprsentatives du territoire rebois.
20794352|Pour certaines catgories de projets de construction, d'exploitation et d'amnagement, la ralisation d'tudes d'incidences sur l'environnement est devenue obligatoire en Belgique depuis 1985. Jusqu' prsent, assez peu d'informations existaient sur la manire d'estimer les impacts des projets. Dans le cas de l'tude d'incidences du T.G.V. sur l'environnement sur la section frontire franaise-Ath, un modle d'estimation des impacts, valable pour toute une srie d'infrastructures linaires (routes, autoroutes, voies de chemin de fer, canaux, ) a t dvelopp. Les effets de la ralisation de telles infrastructures sur la vgtation forestire et les haies sont passs en revue dans une premire partie de l'article. Les critres d'impact chiffrs  appliquer aux diffrentes units vgtales et  introduire dans le modle sont ensuite dtaills. Un exemple, issu de l'tude d'incidences du T.G.V., illustre la manire de calculer l'impact global de chacune des units vgtales situes dans l'aire du projet. Since 1985, a law constrains most of the important building and development projects to be controlled by an impact study. But up to now, very few information about methods used to weigh up the impacts existed. We have taken advantage of a research carried out on the effects of T.G.V. plans between the French border and the city of Ath, to settle a method available for some linear basic equipements (road, speedway, railway, channel ). The effects on the forest vegetation and hedges of such basic equipments have been described in the first part of the paper. Thereafter the impact criteria to be used for each community type are analyzed. With the example of T.G.V., the paper shows the way to compute the global impact for each community in the area of the study.
20794377|A formal treatment of two taxonomic novelties in Coffea from southern Cameroon is given. In their habit the two species resemble the widespread C. brevipes in having mostly uniflorous inflorescences. The new species C. leonimontana is striking by its spathulate-acuminate leaf-tips. C. heterocalyx (C. brevipes var. heterocalyx, nomen) is unique in Coffea as the flowers possess a distinct calyx with unequal lobes which apparently develop postflorally. Un traitement formel de deux nouveauts taxonomiques du sud du Cameroun est donn. Dans leur port, notamment par leurs inflorescences gnralement uniflores, les deux espces ressemblent C. brevipes largement distribu. L'espce nouvelle C. leonimontana est remarquable par le sommet de ses feuilles spathul-acumin. C. heterocalyx (C. brevipes var. heterocalyx, nomen) est le seul Coffea  avoir un calice bien distinct dont les lobes ingaux se dveloppent apparemment surtout aprs la floraison.
20794523|Floristic ordination and classification of riparian forests in Benin were derived from a comprehensive floristic inventory. TWINSPAN classification and DCA analysis of a data set of 818 plant species and 180 relevs yielded 12 plant communities. Importance of waterways, relief, topography, latitude and longitude were the five major environmental gradients that best differentiated riparian plant communities. A syntaxonomic classification of the identified riparian forests plant communities is presented. Riparian forests in Benin belong to the Mitragynetea Schmitz 1963, which is the phytosociological class of hygrophile fresh water forests of tropical Africa. Based on similarities of ecological conditions and floristic composition, we classified the 12 plant communities into 3 orders: Alchornetalia cordifoliae Lebrun 1947, Lanneo-Pseudospondietalia Lebrun & Gilbert 1954 and Pterygotetalia Lebrun & Gilbert 1954.
20794261|Large databases containing hundreds of sequences are available for 5S ribosomal RNA, small ribosomal subunit RNA and large ribosomal subunit RNA. At the moment, small ribosomal subunit RNA is probably the most appropriate molecule for phylogenetic analysis, due to the large number of available sequences covering a wide range of different organisms, its large chain length and low evolutionary rate. Using this molecule, evolutionary relationships ranging from kingdom level to genus level can be studied. Different natural groups can be distinguished within the three domains Bacteria, Archaea and Eucarya. Comparison of evolutionary trees, constructed by means of small ribosomal subunit rRNA and the far smaller 5S rRNA for several eukaryotic groups of organisms, show congruencies as well as discrepancies. Although the same clusters can be distinguished, the observed branching order between these groups is different. Uitgebreide gegevensbanken zijn momenteel beschikbaar van zowel 5S ribosomaal RNA, als van het kleine ribosomale subeenheid RNA en het grote ribosomale subeenheid RNA. Op dit ogenblik is het kleine ribosomale subeenheid RNA een van de meest geschikte macromolecules voor fylogenetische studies. Dit komt ondermeer door het grote aantal beschikbare sequenties, afkomstig van een zeer breed spectrum van verschillende soorten organismen en organellen, door de lange ketenlengte en door de lage evolutiesnelheid. Op basis van dit molecule worden alle organismen momenteel opgedeeld in drie domeinen nl. Bacteria, Archaea en Eucarya, die op hun beurt verder opgedeeld zijn in verschillende natuurlijke groepen. Vergelijking van eukaryote evolutiebomen geconstrueerd op basis van het kleine ribosomale subeenheid RNA en het veel kleinere 5S ribosomaal RNA tonen zowel overeenkomsten als verschillen. Zo worden dezelfde groepen organismen teruggevonden, maar is de waargenomen vertakkingsorde tussen deze groepen verschillend.
20794528|Grimmia elongata Kaulf., a boreal-alpine species, was collected in 1870 near Willerzie (Namur province) at 400 m a.s.l. by F. Gravet. Although new to Belgium, the species was not recognised and published as G. montana var. epilosa Gravet & Delogne, and successively as G. trichophylla var. epilosa (Gravet & Delogne) J. L. De Sloover. In 1983, the species was recollected near Willerzie by A. Sotiaux but not named. In 2002, Sotiaux identified his material as G. elongata. H. C. Greven confirmed the identification. During a joint visit to the locality, in Nov. 2002, they found the species still present on damp acidic rock in a gulley in woodland south of Willerzie close to the French border, its only known locality in Belgium.
20794426|Physico-chemical parameters (pH, conductivity, NO, NO, NH, Ptotal, o-PO, BOD) and the development of aquatic macrophytes were monitored during one year at ten stations along the Alzette river on Luxembourgish territory. The river is characterised by a high organic pollution load in the first half of its course with a subsequent improvement downstream as well as by high nutrient inputs from waste water treatment plants. Potamogeton pectinatus is the dominant aquatic macrophyte in the upper parts of the river, whereas downstream it is progressively replaced by the green alga Cladophora glomerata. The highest standing crops occur from June to September. Les paramtres physico-chimiques (pH, conductivit, NO, NO, NH, Ptotal, o-PO, DBO) et le dveloppement des macrophytes aquatiques ont t suivis pendant un an en dix stations le long de l'Alzette sur le territoire luxembourgeois. La rivire est d'un ct caractrise par une pollution organique importante dans la premire partie et de l'autre ct par des apports levs en nutrients en provenance de stations d'puration. Potamogeton pectinatus domine la vgtation aquatique en amont alors qu'en aval c'est l'algue verte Cladophora glomerata qui devient progressivement dominante. Les biomasses les plus importantes sont observes de juin  septembre.
20794251|In young bud stage, the ovaries of Craterispermum are  semi-superior and have two symmetrically arranged locules of equal size, each containing a single pendulous, anatropous ovule. The orientation of the ovules is oblique to the septum rather than parallel to it. The vascular supply of the ovules comes from lateral carpel bundles rather than bundles running in the centre of the septum. Presumably subsequent to the fertilisation of one of the ovules, the second ovule (always?) aborts. The initially oblique orientation of the ovule is probably the reason that the growth of the seed takes place in a  horizontal and outward direction (i.e., away from the septum) and, to some extent, also  upwardly. The developing seed becomes curved and starts bending away from the aborted ovule/locule. The latter becomes squashed during further development and may be difficult to detect later on. The fertile seed and the endocarp immediately outside it eventually approach the shape of an asymmetrical, shallow bowl ( kidney-shaped in median longitudinal section). Its concavely depressed part is filled by a "plug" of loose parenchymatic tissue. The latter, mesocarpic in origin but differing from the remainder of the mesocarp in tissue structure, is held in place by a collar-like extension formed by the endocarp. During maturation, this loose tissue plug may disintegrate to a lesser or greater extent; a  complete obliteration may result in the formation of an air space above the endocarp. Mature seeds of Craterispermum are characterized by having a discontinuous exotesta comprised of  isolated cells with ring-like thickenings. Dilatation growth of the developing seeds causes the initially continuous exotesta to break up. This unusual situation is compared with that found in Coffea, and the probable causes for the misinterpretation of Craterispermum seeds as having no seed-coat are discussed. No significant differences were detected between Craterispermum laurinum and C. schweinfurthii, the two species investigated for this study. The findings obtained allow the conclusion that the monotypic tribe Craterispermeae is not closely allied to the Vanguerieae, but its relationships remain obscure. The tribe is considered to occupy a  isolated position in Rubiaceae subfam. Antirheoideae.
20794333|L'tude palynologique du sondage de Proyart retrace l'histoire de la vgtation dans la Haute Somme  l'Holocne moyen et suprieur. La prsence de Fagus relativement abondante pour la France septentrionale, est explique par la situation probable d'une htraie sur le versant. Les sdiments rencontrs (sable, travertin meuble, limon, tourbe) sont mis en relation avec l'volution de la dynamique fluviatile, tout d'abord vive, puis de plus en plus calme et enfin marcageuse. Quatre dates C encadrent les premires extensions importantes de Fagus et des crales. The palynological study of the Proyart boring reveals the middle and upper holocene vegetation history in the Haute Somme. Fagus pollen is more abundant in Proyart than in northern France, what may be explained by the likely presence of a beech-grove on one of the valley slopes. The various sediments (sand, gyttja, silt, peat) are related to the evolution of the fluvial dynamic, first rapid then slower and lastly marshy. Four C datations date the first considerable extensions of Fagus and cereals.
20794246|In the Shaba region of Zare, and in Zambia people use the roots of some Fabaceae in brewing the traditional Munkoyo beer. Six taxa are known for their amylolytic properties: Eminia holubii (Hemsley) Taub., E. harmsiana De Wild., E. antennulifera (Bak.) Taub., Rhynchosia insignis (Hoffm.) R. E. Fries subsp. insignis, Rhynchosia insignis (Hoffm.) R. E. Fries subsp. affinis (De Wild.) Pauwels and Vigna nuda N. E. Br.. The status of Rhynchosia affinis is discussed; the description and distribution of the six taxa are given together with the vernacular names and data on the distribution and the conservation of the roots.
20794514|The first record of the Podostemaceae for Benin is presented with findings of Tristicha trifaria. A new record of the same species in Burkina Faso is also included. Data on systematics, distribution and morphology of T. trifaria are summarized. Its habitats in Benin and Burkina Faso are wet, granitic or sandstone rocks in or near waterfalls of oligotrophic creeks, surrounded but normally not shaded by riparian forests. The species responds to environmental conditions with several growth forms: it reaches sizes up to 3 cm and develops elongated shoot systems or stays small and forms crustose plant bodies. It forms monospecific stands or is associated with red algae, mosses and sedges. It can be assumed whether T. trifaria has an amphibic life form and whether its life strategy is to keep as a "sitter" an once occupied site. Because of its rarity, T. trifaria should be strictly protected in these two countries.
20794304|Un peuplement naturel de Pinus nigra Arn.  l'ge de 70-80 ans est tudi. La phytomasse arienne de la strate arborescente atteint 278 t/ha. Elle augmente sa biomasse du bois des troncs de 23,6 t/ha de matire sche par tranche de 5 annes. L'apport de la litire a t valu  3,5 t/ha/an. La valeur moyenne de la production de la strate herbace atteint 897 kg/ha/an. La phytomasse arienne totale atteint 282,3 t/ha. A plant community of Pinus nigra Arn. with a 70-80 years old stand was investigated. The aboveground phytomass of the stand was 278 t/ha. The stem biomass was increased with 23,6 t/ha every 5 years (dry weight). The litter fall per year was 3,5 t/ha. The mean value of the ground layers production was reached to 897 kg/ha/y. The whole aboveground phytomass in the community was 282,3 t/ha.
20794192|Wheat crops are most likely to experience drought after anthesis under most growing conditions in the humid tropics. Nine spring wheat cultivars (seven from Nepal and two from the Philippines) grown in pots were exposed to 0, 4, 8, 12, and 16 days of water stress starting at 50% head emergence under glass house conditions. The experiment was conducted under dry tropical environment at Los Baos, Philippines. Concurrent measurement of leaf water potential (LWP), upper (Ru) and lower (Rl) leaf surface stomatal resistance on the flag leaf, soil water potential (SWP), nitrate reductase activity (NRA) and free proline determination were made at the end of the 4, 8, 12, and 16 days of withholding irrigation. NL 370, NL 496, NL 292 and Siddhartha exhibited a drought avoidance mechanism by maintaining relatively higher LWP under water stress. Stomatal resistance (Rs) increased more in the lower than in the upper leaf surface under drought stress. Lerma 52, Triveni, and Trigo 1 had sharp rise in their Rs even at mild stress in contrast to other cultivars which had a gradual increase in Rs as drought progressed. Early maturing cultivars, namely: NL 496, NL 370, Siddhartha and NL 292 had higher NRA than late maturing cultivars under stressed conditions. NRA decreased with increase in drought conditions. Leaf proline increased as the drought progressed. Leaf proline had significant correlation with LWP (r = 0.80), SWP (r = 0.48) and Rs (r = 0.56). NL 496, NL 370, NL 292 and Trigo 2 had higher SWP under different drought durations. Considering the responses under different drought durations, early maturing cultivars, namely: Siddhartha, NL 292, NL 370 and NL 496 are classified as drought resistant and mid as well as late maturing cultivars namely Trigo 1, UP 262, Lerma 52 and Triveni as drought susceptible cultivars. In vochtige tropische gebieden ondervindt tarwe vooral droogtestress na de bloei. Negen zomertarwe cultivars (zeven uit Nepal en twee uit de Filippijnen), gekweekt in potten in de serre, werden onderworpen aan een 0, 4, 8, 12 en 16 dagen durende waterstress, en dit vanaf het moment dat 50% van de aren verschijnt. Het experiment werd uitgevoerd onder droge tropische omstandigheden in Los Baos, Filippijnen. Meting van het waterpotentiaal van het blad (LWP), van de weerstand van de stomata van het bovenste (Ru) en het onderste bladoppervlak (R1) van het bovenste stengelblad, het waterpotentiaal in de bodem, nitraatreductase-activiteit en bepaling van het vrije prolinegehalte vonden plaats op dag 4, 8, 12 en 16 na het onderbreken van de watergift. De cultivars NL 370, NL 496, NL 292 an Siddhartha vertoonden een mechanisme om het effect van droogte te vermijden door het behoud van een hoge LWP bij droogtestress. Bij droogtestress neemt de weerstand van de stomata (Rs) meer toe in het onderste dan in het bovenste bladoppervlak. De cultivars Lerma 52, Triveni, and Trigo 1 vertoonden een plotselinge toename in Rs, zelfs bij geringe stress, terwijl de andere cultivars eerder een geleidelijke toename van Rs hebben. Vroeg rijpende cultivars, namelijk: NL 496, NL 370, Siddhartha en NL 292 hadden een hogere NRA dan laat rijpende cultivars onder stresscondities. NRA nam af bij toename van droogte-omstandigheden. De inhoud aan proline van het blad nam toe naarmate de droogte aanhield. Het prolinegehalte in het blad vertoont een significante correlatie met LWP (r = 0.80), SWP (r = 0.48) en Rs (r = 0.56). NL 496, NL 370, NL 292 en Trigo 2 hadden een hogere SWP bij de verschillende droogte-omstandigheden. Siddhartha, NL 292, NL 370 an NL 496 worden beschouwd als droogte-resistente cultivars en de gemiddeld tot laat rijpende Trigo 1, UP 262, Lerma 52 en Triveni worden daarentegen beschouwd als droogte-gevoelige cultivars.
20794674|Eleven new chromosome counts in 10 Turkish endemic Centaurea species in section Phalolepis are reported. The prevalence of the basic chromosome number of x = 9, together with a close correlation between karyological data and classification of the eastern sections of the Jacea group, is confirmed. According to our counts, polyploidy, and especially tetraploidy, occurs in Phalolepis section and seems to be an important factor for diversification in this section of the genus Centaurea.
20794231|La fort secondaire ge  Zanthoxylum gilletii a t tudie dans l'le Kongolo (Zare). Un tableau phytosociologique est prsent et interprt  l'aide de diffrents spectres cologiques (types biologiques, types de dimension foliaire, types de dissmination, types de distribution phytogographique et groupes cosociologiques). La production de litire en trois mois de rcolte est importante (2,5 t de matire sche/ha), soit relativement 10,1 t de matire sche/ha/an; pour la mme priode, la quantit moyenne de litire au sol est de 2,2 t de matire sche/ha. Le taux de dcomposition de cette litire ainsi que le recyclage des lments minraux ont t valus. The Zanthoxylum gilletii old secondary forest is studied in Kongolo island. A phytosociological table is presented and interpreted using various ecological spectra (biological, leaf size, dissemination types and phytogeographical distribution, as well as ecosociological groups). The litter production during three months is important (2,5 t dry matter/ha, relatively 10 t dry matter/ha/an) and the average of floor litter is 2,2 t dry matter/ha. The litter decomposition coefficient, as well as mineral nutrient restoration, are evaluated.
20794650|In order to determine water quality status in the Duero basin (NW Spain), epilithic diatom samples were collected and analyzed in 137 stations in August 2004 following normalized standard protocols. The floristic particularities of the diatom assemblages in the basin are discussed. A total of 429 diatom taxa were identified in the basin and 90 taxa (21%) were new for the Iberian Peninsula. Especially noticeable was the presence of Achnanthidium rivulare, only known until now from North America. Ordination revealed the existence of five species assemblages related to the following environmental factors: 5-Day Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), [PO], and conductivity. Light and scanning electron microscopy micrographs are provided for some common, infrequent or exotic diatom species present in the Duero basin. Three diatom indices (Specific Pollution Index SPI, European Index CEC and Biological Diatom Index BDI) were applied. All of them correlated significantly with water physical and chemical variables, but SPI achieved the best correlations, and is therefore recommended as the reference diatom index for this Mediterranean basin.
20794359|L'tat actuel de la bryoflore d'un milieu forestier dconnect du Rhin, la rserve naturelle d'Erstein, est esquiss au travers de son rapport avec le rseau hydrographique actuellement en place. Une valuation de la dynamique bryologique est prsente dans le cadre d'un projet de rinondation de la fort alluviale par les crues du Rhin en tenant compte d'observations ralises dans des massifs riverains toujours soumis  la dynamique fluviatile. The current state of the mossflora of an alluvial forest disconnected from the Rhine, the Erstein nature reserve, is described through its relationships with the existing hydrographic network. An assessment of the bryological dynamics is presented within the frame of a river flooding project by comparison with still connected Rhine areas.
20794577|We investigated the herbaceous layer in the Fathala Reserve, a fenced area in the Delta du Saloum National Park in Senegal, in order to determine the role of the under-growth vegetation in woody savanna. We recorded 53 plant species from 19 families in 30 herb layer relevs of 5  5 m. Fabaceae (22%), Convolvulaceae (13%), and Poaceae (11%) were the most frequent families. On the basis of a Detrended Correspondence Analysis and a cluster analysis we distinguished 4 vegetation units in the herbaceous layer. Andropogon gayanus var. bisquamulatus, Schizachyrium sanguineum, and Andropogon gayanus (beardless, non-tufty type) were dominant in units 1, 3, and 4, respectively. Unit 2 was composed of the most ubiquitous species. In a Canonical Correspondence Analysis, habitat type (well-drained sites, moist depressions, and seasonally inundated sites) only explained 15.9% of the undergrowth vegetation variability. We concluded that only woody plants and dominant grasses represent the forming element of woodland savanna. Herbaceous plants recorded in the Fathala Reserve do not manifest any specific requirements to environmental, and particularly soil, conditions.
20794288|Cette note concerne les recettes utilises en mdecine traditionnelle africaine dans le traitement de l'asthme au Kivu (Zare). Dans ces recettes interviennent 30 plantes appartenant  20 familles botaniques prsentes dans le tableau 1. Leurs noms vernaculaires ainsi que les modes de prparation et d'administration des recettes sont par ailleurs dtailles. In Kivu (Zaire), our ethnobotanical investigations led to the identification of 30 plants belonging to 20 families used in the treatment of asthma. They are listed with scientific names, but local names, preparation methods and direction for use are also detailed.
20794670|Wild apple (Malus sylvestris Mill.) is a woody species native to Europe. It is considered to be rare and potentially endangered in a significant part of its natural range. In order to evaluate its current geographic distribution in Belgium, an inventory was conducted throughout the country. The most important results related to habitat characteristics and tree and fruit phenotypic traits. The natural populations were identified using fruit diameter and leaf hairiness. The inventory indicated that, based on reference morphological characters, wild apple is indeed rare and endangered in the northern part of Belgium, but more common in the south. At the growth sites, trees identified as wild apple were mixed with varying proportions of hybrid or cultivated forms, depending on the habitat. This paper presents suggestions for the development of a genetic conservation strategy for wild apple.
20794651|Dispersion capacity of alien invasive plants is a key feature for understanding invasion processes and risks. Here, we present an experimental study focussing on the seed rain pattern of Senecio inaequidens, an African plant widespread throughout Europe, under common favourable dispersal conditions. One hundred achenes from two Belgian populations underwent a drop time in still air experiment in order to assess linear correlation between several morphological traits and terminal velocity. Variation in morphological traits was measured for 250 additional achenes per population. The trait best correlated to terminal velocity was the square root of the plume loading. We then used this trait to model terminal velocity using a linear regression (R of 79.7%). With this regression and imposing ecological parameters such as wind speed, turbulences and height of release to be representative of favourable dispersal conditions, we established a Gaussian tilted plume model to predict the seed rain pattern of the species. A wind tunnel experiment consequently permitted to validate the model. Under a wind speed of 5 m s with 2% turbulences along the vertical axis, and height of release of 0.40 m, 99.8% of achenes were dispersed within 100 meters, with a maximum deposition rate at 5.2 m from the parent plant. Uplifted achenes, not forecasted by the model, represent 6.25% of all achenes.
20794662|Five new taxa of the African genus Nemum (Cyperaceae) are recognised. The new combination Nemum angolense is made; three new species (Nemum atracuminatum, N. capitatum and N. raynalii) and a new subspecies (Nemum spadiceum subsp. spadolense) are described. The taxa are described and illustrated, and differences from their closest relatives are discussed. An identification key and commentaries on the interspecific affinities are included.
20794661|Uniflorous species are extremely rare within the large rain forest genus Ixora. On Madagascar, however, six uniflorous species occur. Five of these belong to section Microthamnus, which is revised here. A description and illustration is provided for all species, together with a determination key. Ixora bemangidiensis, I. reducta and I. sambiranensis were previously known to science, but two other species, I. clandestina and I. rakotonasoloi, are newly described here. The species of Microthamnus are special, not only because of their uniflorous inflorescences, but also because the ovary, calyx and base of the corolla tube of the single flower is enclosed within the stipular cone of the inflorescence-supporting leaf pair, a type of organization which is extremely rare in the Rubiaceae.
20794442|An allozyme analysis was conducted on 220 Arum maculatum L. plants in 11 subpopulations of the Sonian forest (Rood Klooster / Rouge Cloitre) and of the Terkamerenbos / Bois de la Cambre near the urban environment of Brussels. The 11 subpopulations could be pooled as 6 populations from 2 forests. Six loci out of twenty studied were found to be polymorphic (adh-1, adh-2, pgm-1, lap-1, 6pgd-1 and 6pgd-2). The mean percentage of polymorphic loci (P) was 30% for ten subpopulations and only one marginal population was found to have 25% (RC/RK5). The mean number of alleles per locus (A) was 1,3 for all populations and the mean observed heterozygosity ranged from 0,12 to 0,19. Analysis of fixation indices indicated that in general there is an excess of heterozygotes. Genetic distances ranged from 0.000 to 0.023. Overall results on the genetic structure of Arum maculatum populations suggested that there is a considerable interpopulational gene flow, which explains the maintenance of high levels of variability within populations and similarity among populations.
20794351|L'obligation de soumettre tous les projets de construction, d'exploitation ou d'amnagement d'une certaine ampleur  une tude d'incidences ncessite la mise en place d'un systme d'valuation des impacts sur l'environnement. Pour juger l'incidence d'un projet sur la vgtation, une connaissance de la qualit de celle-ci peut tre utile. Ainsi, au cours de l'tude d'incidences du T.G.V. sur l'environnement entre la frontire franaise et Ath, une mthode d'estimation de la valeur cologique des systmes biologiques a t dveloppe pour la vgtation forestire et les haies. Un travail sur carte et sur photographies ariennes prcde l'estimation chiffre d'indicateurs (structure, dveloppement des strates, diversit des espces, intgration et degr d'artificialisation des espces) sur le terrain. Une cote est attribue  chacune des units de vgtation, ce qui permet de les comparer entre elles. Lors de la ralisation de l'tude d'incidences  proprement parl, on dgagera ainsi les zones dont la protection est prioritaire. Environmental impact assessments on most of the important building and development projects have been set up due to the law. Therefore, one needs to install methods to quantify effects of the project on the environment. On a first stage, it is interesting to know the quality of the present stade of woods and hedges. The example mentioned here concerns the effects of T.G.V. plans between the French border and the town of Ath. A method of assessment of ecological value of woods and hedges has been worked out. First of all, maps and aerial photographies have been used to identify and locate each vegetation unit. After that, a ground survey allows to give a score on the structure, the development of each layer, the species diversity, the species integration and artificiality. A global score is attributed to each community. By comparing them, it is possible to delimit the areas which should be first protected.
20794347|Within the Hautes-Fagnes Nature Reserve (Belgium) acidic and oligotrophic biotopes are developing on very acidified stony silt raised bogs. However, they are locally dominated by mesotrophic species. Based on the fact that there are several outcrops of tonalite in the region and particularly one in the Nature Reserve, a hypothesis to explain these singularities of the vegetation implies discontinuities of the bedrock provoked by intrusions of this magmatic rock in the Revinian layer covering the region. Seventeen plots containing Phragmites australis were examined and vegetation was described. Silt and soil water were sampled and analyzed for mineral contents in 15 sites. The differences of mineral composition between the P. australis plots and their surrounding environment confirmed the more mesotrophic characteristics of these plots (i.e. higher pH, higher Ca and Mg contents, lower Al content). However, the lower Zn, Pb and Fe contents would lead to reject the hypothesis of intrusions of tonalite since these elements are more abundant in the tonalite and its mineralization than in the Revinian rock. Nevertheless, the overall ecological conditions of the examined plots and the differences of plant species composition suggested that the observed chemical environment could be evoked for explaining the distribution of the mesotrophic species in the oligotrophic environment of the Nature Reserve. Consequently, an alternative hypothesis is proposed.
20794614|Microsatellite loci were developed for Primula vulgaris, a distylous, insect-pollinated, long-lived perennial herb. Primula vulgaris is rare and declining in Belgium. Eighteen microsatellite primer pairs were tested on 267 P. vulgaris individuals and on 246 individuals of its common congener Primula elatior to test for cross-species amplification. Only three polymorphic microsatellite loci amplified successfully in P. vulgaris and only two in P. elatior. Between 4 and 11 alleles were found per locus in P. vulgaris and 8-11 alleles per locus in P. elatior. Expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.496-0.620 and from 0.830-0.880 for P. vulgaris and P. elatior, respectively.
20794431|Fatty acid hydroperoxide lyase (HPOL) is an enzyme that cleaves fatty acid hydroperoxides to form a short chain aldehyde and an oxo-acid. The enzyme is widely distributed in the plant kingdom. Because short chain aldehydes have fungicidal activity and can act as repellents of certain insects and attractants for insect predators, HPOL is thought to be involved in plant defense mechanisms. Recently, HPOL has been purified from several plants and its biochemical properties determined. Furthermore, molecular cloning of an HPOL gene from bell pepper has been accomplished. Determination of the primary amino acid sequence showed that HPOL defines a novel subfamily of cytochrome P450s.
20794214|De nombreux spcimens d'Oenanthe silaifolia Bieb. rcolts en Belgique au sicle dernier taient erronment identifis comme Oe. peucedanifolia Pollich. Ces deux espces ont, de longue date, t l'objet de confusions frquentes, notamment chez les auteurs franais. L'origine de ces confusions est explique et les caractres distinctifs entre les deux espces sont prciss et illustrs. Les cartes de distribution des deux espces en Belgique sont traces. Quelques notes taxonomiques et floristiques sont donnes  propos d'Oe. aquatica (L.) Poiret et d'Oe. lachenalii C. C. Gmel. Many specimens of Oe. silaifolia Bieb. collected in Belgium in the last century were misidentified as Oe. peucedanifolia Pollich. These two species were for a long time frequently confused in particular by the French authors. The origin of these confusions is explained and the distinctive characters between the two species are stated and illustrated. The distribution maps of the two species in Belgium are drawned. Some taxonomic and floristic notes about Oe. aquatica (L.) Poiret and Oe. lachenalii C. C. Gmel. are given.
20794335|Dans le prsent article sont prsents les teneurs, les minralomasses et les cycles biologiques des polylments de phytocnoses peupleraies d'ges diffrents (31 ans, 24 ans et 8 ans) dans la rgion limoneuse du Hainaut. Nos compltons ainsi la prsentation, dans ce volume, de la phytomasse et de la productivit primaire de cet cosystme. Les teneurs sont de manire gnrale leves, surtout en N, K et Ca. L'corce immobilise une grande partie de la minralomasse des organes ligneux. Les feuilles retiennent temporairement de 14  43% de la minralomasse totale des peupliers. Les minralomasses en polylments des phytocnoses sont de 2,5 t/ha pour la peupleraie de 31 ans, 1,0 t/ha de 24 ans et 0,5 t/ha de 8 ans. Il y a un brassage important d'lments biognes dans l'cosystme: les phytocnoses de 31, 24 et 8 ans absorbent annuellement respectivement, 36, 52 et 94% de l'quivalent de la minralomasse totale en polylments et la rtention dans les organes ligneux la fait accrotre de 14, 13 et 4%.. La restitution est proche dans les 3 cas (0,4-0,6 t/ha/an). Cependant l'apport des peupliers seuls est fort diffrent: 0,35 t  31 ans, 0,17 t  24 ans et 0,03 t/ha/an  8 ans. Cela provient de l'importance des diffrentes strates vgtales dans chaque plantation (dans celle de 8 ans, la strate herbace domine). In this paper are presented nutrients contents, mineralomasses (pool of total nutrients) and biological cycling of minerals in different aged (31, 24 and 8 years) poplar populations in the limoneous countryside of Hainaut (central Belgium). These results complete those on the phytomasses and primary productivities presented in this volume. Nutrients' concentrations are in generally high, especially in N, K and Ca. The bark of boles and branches immobilizes a great part of the wood's mineralomass. Leafs retain temporarily from 14 to 43% of poplars' total mineralomass. Nutrients' mineralomasses reach 2.5 t/ha in the 31 years old plantation, 1.0 t/ha in that of 24 years and 0.5 t/ha in that of 8 years. There is an important annual nutrient cycling in the ecosystem: annual absorption represents respectively 36, 52 and 94% of mineralomasses in the plantations of 31, 24 and 8 years old. Storage in wood phytomass increases them respectively for 14, 13 and 4%. Restitution is also similar in the three cases (0.4-0.6 t/ha/year). However, the part of poplar alone is quite different: 0.35 t for the 31 years old plantation, 0.17 for 24 years and 0.03 t/ha/year for 8 years. This is due to the different participation of poplars in each plantation (in that of 8 years, the herbaceous layer is dominant).
20794400|Studies of forest regrowth in Kikwit (Zare) and surroundings allowed us to describe a new association, Sapietum cornuti. In this association, we have identified two sub-associations: Sapietum cornuti typicum and Sapietum cornuti Bambuso-Pauridianthetosum. The phytosociological part of the study is discussed considering different spectra (live forms, chorology, liana sizes, seeds dispersal and ecosociological groups). The systematic position and the dynamics of the two sub-associations are also analysed.
20794572|Colchicum crocifolium Boiss. (Colchicaceae) is recorded for the first time (C7 anlurfa) for the Flora of Turkey. An expanded description of this species is provided, and a comparison is made between material from this new record in Turkey and data from material recorded in Iran, Iraq, Syria.
20794387|The recently developed molecular marker systems based on DNA amplification have facilitated and enhanced fundamental and applied biological studies. Among all established methods, AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms) has proven to be a highly reliable and reproducible technique that can easily be adapted and used for a variety of applications ranging from molecular biology studies to usage in crop improvement and breeding programs. In this overview, a brief comparison between the most commonly used molecular marker systems is made and several applications of the AFLP technique are described.
20794516|We investigated the vegetation composition of three inselbergs from continental Equatorial Guinea in relation to six environmental variables. The most influent factors on vegetation appeared to be soil depth, pH and the position relative to the upper or lower forest fringe. There was no effect of slope or aspect. Although the three inselbergs are very close to each other (100 to 500 m), they significantly differ in their vegetation (site effect). This effect could partly be explained by the insular property of inselberg vegetation surrounded by rainforest. The position of Afrotrilepis pilosa (W.C.Boeck) J.Raynal, the most characteristic species of West African inselberg grasslands, along the main ecological gradient is discussed.
20794273|The combination of electrophoresis and specific staining procedures makes it possible to distinguish particular enzymes among hundreds that are present in a crude tissue extract. Enzymes of broad specificity are often subject to post-translational modification but such physiological isozymes can be used as biomarkers of e.g. environmental stress to plant tissues. In contrast, other enzymes are specified by a single or few structural genes and are a direct expression of the genetic variation. Such genetically determined banding patterns are needed for biosystematic interpretation. Complex systems require formal genetic analysis before interpreting. This remains a problem for certain aquatic plant species that are inbred or reproduce through apomixis. Many properties of enzymes and of the electrophoretic technique render it extremely efficient for handling numerous samples. Measuring genetic variation and genetic distance is significant from the individual to the species level, but these values are largely influenced by the total number of loci scored; this implies that as many loci as possible should be scored. On the other hand, in the case of using enzymes as marker systems, some informative loci may already provide the resolving power to test reliable systematic hypotheses. This way, the kind and number of isozymes often provide a tool to distinguish the polyploids from the diploids, and sometimes also the allo- from the autopolyploids. Isozymes clearly can be used to check more deeply why certain plant groups present systematic problems (polyploidy, recently diverged, phenotypic plasticity, hybridization and introgression, autogamy and apomixis). Both polyploidy and uniparental reproduction are the most probable potential sources of systematic problems, but as well as of problems with interpretation of electrophoretic banding patterns. Such sources of problems afterwards often become the basis for understanding biogeographic variation, microgeographic substructuring, habitat preferences, inbreeding depression etc. Despite a number of limitations, isozymes remain a flexible, powerful and efficient tool at and below species level. These are precisely the levels which are most problematic for the systematist, ecologist, conservation biologist etc. Now the time has come to apply the isozymes in research on the conservation of genetic diversity and on their use as biomarkers of environmental stress to indicator organisms. De combinatie van electroforese en specifieke kleurreacties maken het mogelijk om welbepaalde enzymen te onderscheiden van de honderden die zich in een ruw extract bevinden. Enzymen met een brede specificiteit zijn dikwijls onderhevig aan wijzigingen na hun translatie, maar zulke fysiologische enzymen kunnen als biomerker gebruikt worden voor bvb. stress vanwege milieufactoren aan plantenweefsel. Andere enzymen zijn daarentegen gekenmerkt door n of enkele strukturele genen en zijn een onmiddelijke uitdrukking van de genetische variatie. Zulke genetisch bepaalde banden-patronen zijn nodig voor het geven van biosystematische interpretaties. Complexe systemen vragen formele genetische analyse alvorens interpretatie. Dit blijft echter een probleem voor bepaalde waterplanten die ingeteeld zijn of die zich reproduceren d.m.v. apomixis. Meerdere eigenschappen van de enzymen en de electroforetische techniek maken het manipuleren van een groot aantal stalen zeer efficint. Het berekenen van de genetische variatie en van de genetische afstand blijft betekenisvol voor het niveau van de individuen tot op de soort, maar deze waarden worden wel sterk beinvloed door het totaal aantal beschouwde genen; dit impliceert dat zo veel mogelijk genen moeten worden gescoord. Aan de andere kant, wanneer men enzymen als merker systemen wenst te gebruiken, kunnen enkele informatieve genen reeds genoeg oplossend vermogen bevatten om betrouwbare systematische hypothesen te testen. Zodoende zijn de aard en het aantal isozymen dikwijls een goed middel om polyploden te onderscheiden van diploden, soms ook de allo- van de autopolyploden. Isozymen kunnen duidelijk gebruikt worden om na te gaan waarom bepaalde plantegroepen systematische problemen stellen (polyplodie, recente divergentie, fenotypische plasticiteit, hybridizatie en introgressie, autogamie en apomixis). Polyplodie en vegetatieve vermeerdering zijn de twee meest potentile bronnen van systematische problemen, alsook van problemen met interpretatie van electroforetisch verkregen bandenpatronen. Zulke bronnen van problemen worden nadien dikwijls de basis voor het begrijpen van biogeografische variaties, substructurering op microgeografische schaal, habitat voorkeuren, inteelt depressies enz. Ondanks een aantal beperkingen blijft het gebruik van isozymen een flexibele, krachtige en efficinte methode voor het soortniveau en lager. Dit zijn precies de niveaus die het meeste problemen scheppen voor de systematicus, de ecoloog, de bioloog met natuurbehoud als onderzoeksdomein enz. Nu is de tijd gunstig om isozymen toe te passen in onderzoek naar het behoud van genetische diversiteit en naar hun gebruik als biomerkers voor omgevingsstress bij indicatorsoorten.
20794547|Triplostegia, a perennial herb from Southeast Asia with a distinctive double epicalyx, is controversial with respect to its rank and phylogenetic relationships. Since different lines of morphological evidence indicate that Triplostegia shows affinities to both Valerianaceae and Dipsacaceae, the genus has been included in either of the two families. In addition, some authors have accepted Triplostegiaceae as a distinct monogeneric family. Maximum parsimony analysis based on new ndhF sequences showed Triplostegia to be a relatively strongly supported sister to Dipsacaceae. Additionally, trees were constructed from available rbcL data separately and in combination with ndhF. The topology of the combined molecular cladogram is in agreement with the ndhF phylogeny. Analysis based on a morphological matrix was conducted and resulted in Triplostegia as a strongly supported sister of Valerianaceae; a similar position was obtained from the total combined analysis. Different scenarios for the origin of the double epicalyx are presented.
20794551|Micropropagation of the stress tolerant tree Populus euphratica was achieved via induction of adventitious shoots on calli of leaf explants. Callus was induced on half strength MS medium containing 1.0 M BAP and 2.5 M NAA. In darkness calli produced large numbers of adventitious shoots. Shoots were multiplied on media containing 2.5 mM BAP and elongated on WPM supplemented with 2.5 mM BAP and 0.05 M NAA. Efficient and fast rooting of the elongated shoots was obtained in medium with a NH:NO ratio of 1:4 with a total nitrogen concentration of 20 mM supplemented with 0.5 M IBA. This report provides a protocol for propagation of P. euphratica including transfer to the greenhouse.
20794391|The polyploid Salix alba  Salix fragilis hybrid complex is rather difficult to study when using only morphological characters. Most of the features have a low diagnostic value for identifying the hybrids, introgression patterns and population genetic structure. Molecular data from isozymes and random amplified polymorphic DNA's (RAPD) previously have been investigated in several case studies on willows from Belgium. A thorough screening with 16 decamer primers for PCR based polymorphism revealed 95 amplification products at the species level. On the basis of genetic distances, clustering and ordination analysis, a reference system for identification of clones has been established. The proposed reference system was previously checked against additional European samples of putative pure species to ensure its reliability and is currently applied to elucidate patterns of hybridization on a regional scale as well as on a local scale, this in the context of conservation genetics. The RAPD analysis suggests that hybridization is not a dominating process and that both species have kept their gene pools well separated.
20794305|La technique de mesure de l'absorption-translocation spcifique a t applique  des segments radiculaires de plants entiers de Fagus sylvatica L. et Picea abies Karst., issus de rgnration naturelle. Les auteurs ont mesur les quantits d'ions marqus Ca et POH transloqus du segment absorbant vers les divers organes. Malgr la variabilit des rsultats, on observe une courbe de distribution des flux d'absorption en fonction de la distance moyenne des segments absorbants  l'apex radiculaire. Dans tout essai de modlisation de l'absorption radiculaire des arbres forestiers, les flux totaux attribus aux radicelles entires peuvent tre partags et redistribus en fonction des distances  la pointe, ce qui peut mener  une valuation plus correcte des paramtres thoriques de la nutrition. I. Measurements of absorption-translocation.  The specific absorption-translocation technique of Clarkson and Sanderson was applied using root segments of whole seedlings of Fagus sylvatica L. and Picea abies Karst., from natural regeneration. The amounts of Ca and PH translocated form the absorbing segments to the various organs were measured. Notwithstanding the variability of the results, a distribution curve of absorption-translocation fluxes, depending on the mean distance of the absorbing segments to the root apex, was observed. In any modellisation of root absorption of forest trees, total absorption flux assigned to whole rootlets may be divided and redistributed according to segment distance to the tip, in order to give a better estimate of the theoretical parameters that characterize nutrient uptake.
41427180|In urban areas, wetland habitats consist of small isolated remnants, embedded in an inhospitable human-used matrix, and incurring strong anthropogenic pressures (e.g., artificialization, pollution, eutrophication, and exotic species invasions). These can lead to detrimental genetic and demographic consequences for the populations, even for common species. This study investigated genetic variation and structure for 12 allozyme loci and reproductive fitness in populations of Lychnis flos-cuculi (Caryophyllaceae), an insectpollinated perennial herb occurring in wetland fragments and along the Woluwe River, in Brussels urban zone (Belgium), in relation to population size. No effect of population size on genetic variation and usually low between-population genetic differentiation were found for urban populations of L. flos-cuculi. A significant pattern of isolation by distance indicated that beyond a certain distance, especially along the Woluwe, populations might still exchange genes. Floral display and fruit set increased with population size, but this relationship did not seem to be predominant. Significant differences found among populations suggest that other factors (e.g., plant density, neighbour competition and habitat quality) may have a stronger impact on reproductive fitness. Some of the small populations may also be still connected through pollen flow, increasing reproductive success and preventing inbreeding depression. The present findings suggest that populations of L. flos-cuculi in Brussels urban zone are not prone to the detrimental effects of habitat fragmentation, as we may have expected, despite the relative small size of the populations. These genetically diverse and productive populations can still be considered of conservation value, including the small ones, which within a certain spatial distance might be regarded as important connecting components of pollen-exchanging network of populations, buffering populations against the negative effects of small population size. The conservation of L. flos-cuculi in Brussels urban zone should favour the preservation of connected populations rather than only preserving isolated wetlands.
43996263|Recent studies of the genus Lactarius in Belgium are compared with the data published by Heinemann (1948, 1960). Typifications of Lactarius velutinus Bertillon and L. zonarius (Bull.) Fr. are proposed to solve some nomenclatural problems dealt with. Representatives of the section Plinthogali in the area are keyed out and discussed, including distribution maps of Lactarius acris (Bolton : Fr.) Gray and L. lignyotus Fr., and a typification of L. azonites (Bull.) Fr.
20794555|Alstroemeria graminea Phil. (Taltalia graminea according to Bayer 1998) is the only annual species described within the genus Alstroemeria L. and its cytogenetic relationship with the perennial species have not been described. In this work, an analysis of the karyotype and the C-banding pattern of Alstroemeria graminea are reported. A. graminea, with an asymmetric karyotype 2n = 2x = 16, shows similar chromosome morphology with respect to the perennial Alstroemeria species previously analysed. However, some differences in relative length and position of the C-bands were observed in A. graminea. These differences were the presence of a centromeric band and an interstitial band in the short arm of pair 1 and pericentromeric bands in the long arms of pairs 3 and 7, which have not been observed in the other species. The cytogenetic data of the present study on A. graminea are concurrent with other species within the genus Alstroemeria, and do not justify the separation of this species from the genus Alstroemeria and its inclusion in the new monotypic genus Taltalia.
20794459|Species richness, diversity and structure were studied in Bromus erectus grasslands on the top of biancana landforms of the Orcia Valley, Tuscany (central Italy). Three community types were recognized: uneven B. erectus grasslands on less stable morphologies, and compact B. erectus grasslands and B. erectus grasslands colonized by Spartium junceum scrub, both on more stable morphologies. The main difference between them was a dramatic decline in species richness and diversity from the former to the latter. The number and cover of annual herbs, many of which are low-growing species (e.g. legumes and graminoids), also decreased significantly in the same order. The frequency of B. erectus was constant (100%) in all three types of community, whereas percentage cover increased sharply (54.2 vs. 85.5%) between uneven and compact grasslands, remaining high in the scrub communities (83.8%). Cover of phanerophytes showed low values in the uneven and compact grasslands, but reached 80% in the scrub communities. The increase in cover of B. erectus caused the disapperance of species typical of the pioneer vegetation of Pliocene clay soils with Artemisia cretacea. Colonization of the compact grasslands by S. junceum induced a reduction in grassland species of the class Festuco-Brometea. The implications of these findings for the conservation of B. erectus grasslands and biancana badlands are discussed.
20794598|I investigated the relative importance of abiotic factors in species assemblage distribution in remnant calcareous grassland heavily grazed by sheep. A Twinspan classification recognized seven vegetation types. Direct gradient analysis (using CCA) revealed that the prevalent pattern in this grassland was represented by species-poor patches (grassland with Carduus pycnocephalus), versus species-rich patches (grassland with Cerastium ligusticum and grassland with Eryngium campestre). Species exclusive to dry grasslands and pastures, such as Carlina corymbosa, Anthemis tinctoria and Xeranthemum inapertum, were positively correlated with low nutrient availability, while species common to disturbed habitats, such as Hordeum murinum, Dasypyrum villosum and Bromus sterilis, were correlated with high nutrient availability and with deposition of dung and urine by grazing animals. The variations in environmental factors is only partially responsible for the spatial patterns in the species data. Open grassland in general agreed with the classification based on species data when considering environmental variables, while Prunus spinosa scrubland showed 65% of the samples misclassified and shrubby grassland with Cerastium arvense, as well as Juniperus communis scrubland did not show any sample classified in their own vegetation type. The results of the present study are discussed in the context of the conservation and restoration of this vegetation type.
20794375|Descriptions and illustrations are provided of one species of Boodleopsis, seven taxa of Bryopsis and one species of Trichosolen, based on specimens collected in Kenya, Tanzania and the Seychelles Archipelago from 1985 to 1996: Boodleopsis pusilla, Bryopsis hypnoides, B. indica, B. pennata var. pennata, B. pennata var. leprieurii, B. pennata var. secunda, B. plumosa, B. sp. and Trichosolen sp. Bryopsis indica is a new record for Tanzania, Bryopsis hypnoides is new for the Seychelles and Trichosolen sp. is new for Kenya. Les espces suivantes, rcoltes au Kenya, en Tanzanie et aux Seychelles entre 1985 et 1996, sont dcrites et illustres: Boodleopsis pusilla, Bryopsis hypnoides, B. indica, B. pennata var. pennata, B. pennata var. leprieurii, B. pennata var. secunda, B. plumosa, B. sp. et Trichosolen sp. Bryopsis indica est une nouvelle espce pour la Tanzanie, Bryopsis hypnoides est nouvelle pour les Seychelles et Trichosolen sp. est nouvelle pour le Kenya.
20794439|Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. cv. Girapac SH222) calli were induced and grown on modified Murashige & Skoog (1962) medium. Two-month-old calli were exposed for 15 minutes to four UV-C radiation treatments: one irradiance of 3.170 mW.cm for one day (treatment T1); one irradiance of 3.170 mW.cm every day for seven days (treatment T2); one irradiance of 5.350 mW.cm for one day (treatment T3) and one irradiance of 5.350 mW.cm for seven days (treatment T4). Control calli were maintained under white light conditions (treatment T0). Eight-day-old sunflower plants, grown under greenhouse conditions, were also exposed to UV-C radiation (T1 and T2). Irradiated calli soon became dark and with necrotic areas, but they were more tolerant to UV irradiation than plants, since they could sustain growth. Ca and K contents were not significantly affected in irradiated calli cells. On a calli fresh weight basis, T1 and T2 treatments resulted in a significant increase of soluble protein levels. Calli cells from UV treatments suffered a significant reduction in guaiacol peroxidase activity and an increase in -amylase activity. In control calli -amylase activity decreased with time. The present study shows that sunflower calli are more tolerant to UV rays than plants, and demonstrates interactions between UV-C radiation and peroxidase and -amylase activities.
20794339|Aan de hand van een aantal theoretische en concrete voorbeelden wordt een algemeen beeld geschetst van de cladistische methode. Hierbij ligt de nadruk niet zozeer op technische details of op practische aspecten, maar vooral op de algemene redeneringen die de grondslag vormen van de cladistische filosofie. Een degelijk inzicht in deze basisprincipes is onontbeerlijk om de waarde van het cladisme correct te kunnen inschatten. Based on some theoretical and concrete examples, the cladistic methodology is discussed. As a clear understanding of the basic principles of the cladistic philosophy is essential to appreciate the power of cladism, these general principles are emphasised rather than technical details or practical problems. Because the objective of this text is mainly educational, it is presented in Dutch.
20794372|Des plantules d'Artemisia annua L. cultives en champs ont t traites avec de l'acide gibbrellique (GA). La taille, le nombre de rameaux, la biomasse arienne et la teneur en artmisinine ont t dtermins pour ces plantes. Les rsultats obtenus montrent que ce traitement induit une stimulation de la croissance sans affecter le nombre de rameaux. Il semble, en effet, exister une relation dose-effet entre la taille et la dose de GA applique. La biomasse produite par les plantes dresses a tendance  augmenter quand celles-ci sont traites avec des solutions de 40 et 80 mg/l de GA. L'valuation de l'artmisinine a t effectue avec l'aide d'une mthode immuno-enzymatique (ELISA). La concentration en artmisinine ne semble pas tre directement correle avec les doses de GA appliques aux plantes. Toutefois, l'analyse des pousses d'A. annua montre que les faibles doses de GA semblent ne pas avoir d'effet, tandis que les doses plus leves sont stimulatrices. La teneur en artmisinine est presque le double de celle du tmoin dans les pousses des plantes traites avec une solution de 80 mg/l de GA (respectivement de 1,3 et de 0,77% par rapport  la matire sche). The effect of gibberellic acid (GA) treatment on biomass and artemisinin production by A. annua plants grown in field conditions was investigated. Height, branche number and artemisinin equivalent content were studied. An increased biomass was observed with plants treated with 40 and 80 mg/l of GA, but no effect on branche number was observed. The artemisinin equivalent content in both leaves and young buds was evaluated by an immunoassay procedure. The results show that the artemisinin equivalent content is not readily correlated with the GA concentrations applied. The strongest effect was observed with young buds of plants treated with 80 mg/l of GA. Hereby the artemisinin equivalent content was almost twice as high as the control (1.3 and 0.77% dry weight respectively).
20794307|Aprs avoir dfini la notion de dprissement, les causes de la perte de vitalit des chnes indignes sont passes en revue selon trois types de facteurs (prdisposants, incitants et contribuants). Les symptmes de dprissement aisment identifiables sont la dfoliation et la dcoloration prcoces, qui font d'ailleurs l'objet d'observations rgulires dans l'ensemble de la Communaut europenne. Divers autres symptmes ont pu tre nots au cours d'tudes entreprises en Belgique. Ils concernent la vitalit du houppier (mort ou chute de ramilles, dcurtation), la ramification (rabattement de la frondaison, entre-noeuds courts), l'corce (desquamation, galeries de coloptres, trous de pics, rhizomorphes et palmettes d'armillaire, dcollement, suintements noirs, chute), l'accroissement diamtral rduit et les racines (bris, noircissement). Ces symptmes sont dcrits et leurs origines possibles discutes. Loss of vitality symptoms.  Having defined the decline concept, the reasons of loss of vitality for indigenous oaks are reviewed according to three types of factors (predisposing, inciting and contributing). The easy identifiable symptoms are early defoliation and discolouration which are regularly watched everywhere in the European Community. Various other symptoms could be noticed during researches carried out in Belgium. They are in relation with the vitality of the crown (twigs dying or fall, one-year twigfall), the ramification (reduced ultimate ramification, short internodes), the bark (desquamation, beetles galleries, presence of Armillaria, loosening, black dripping and fall), the reduced diameter increment and the roots (breakage, darkening). These symptoms are described and their possible origins discussed.
43996260|A new species of the genus Peyritschiella Thaxter (Ascomycetes, Laboulbeniales), ectoparasitic on Xantholinus longiventris Heer (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae) is described and illustrated : Peyritschiella heinemanniana sp. nov. Peyritschiella heinemanniana sp. nov. (Ascomycetes, Laboulbeniales), une nouvelle espce ectoparasite de Xantholinus longiventris (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae).  Une nouvelle espce du genre Peyritschiella Thaxter (Ascomycetes, Laboulbeniales), ectoparasite de Xantholinus longiventris Heer (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae) est dcrite et illustre : Peyritschiella heinemanniana sp. nov.
20794287|The analysis of a population of Botrychium matricariifolium (Retz) A. Braun, over the 1986-90 period in an area in Bitcherland where it is well represented, demonstrates a relative stability of the numbers of fronds appearing annually  in the order of 20 over a test-area of 15 m. This stability stands in sharp contrast with the irregularity of appearance of this species observed with weakly represented populations. An investigation of the precise location of the fronds which appeared in the past five years on the test area revealed a sizeable rate of yearly renewal (about 50%) in the sporophytes that had produced fronds. It also showed that the number of sporophytes which might have developed fronds after the absence of production in one or more of the previous years, was rather low. These observations showed that "adult", i.e. frond-producing sporophytes, generally produce fronds on a yearly basis and have therefore a rather short lifespan  on average two years. This modest lifespan, when related to the long period (approx. 10 years) necessary for the development of the adult sporophytes from spores, could provide an acceptable explanation for the temporary absence of fronds in the lower numbered populations of this species. L'tude des fluctuations d'une population de Botrychium matricariifolium (Retz) A. Braun au cours de la priode 1986/90 dans la plus importante station de cette espce du Pays de Bitche montre une relative stabilit des effectifs de frondes apparues annuellement (de l'ordre de 20) sur une surface-test de 15 m. Cette constance contraste nettement avec l'irrgularit des apparitions de cette espce observe pour des populations  faible effectif. Un tel suivi de la localisation prcise des frondes apparues au cours des 5 annes sur la surface-test a rvl un renouvellement de l'ordre de 50% d'une anne  la suivante des sporophytes ayant produit des frondes, ainsi que le trs faible nombre des sporophytes qui pourraient avoir dvelopp des frondes aprs une absence de production de fronde d'une ou quelques annes. Ces observations conduisent  estimer que les sporophytes adultes, c'est--dire produisant des frondes, en laborent en gnral chaque anne et ont donc une dure de vie trs rduite, de l'ordre de deux ans en moyenne. Cette faible dure de vie, combine  la longue priode ( 10 ans) ncessaire au dveloppement de sporophytes adultes  partir des spores, pourrait ainsi expliquer le phnomne d'clipse observ pour les populations  faibles effectifs de cette espce.
20794190|The horticultural floras report a species of Tree of Heaven, Ailanthus vilmoriniana Dode, rarely cultivated, contrarely to A. altissima (Miller) Swingle. Especially the observation of the original tree of the first species establishes the synonymy of the two taxa as true. Les flores horticoles signalent une espce d'ailante, Ailanthus vilmoriniana Dode, rarement cultive, contrairement  A. altissima (Miller) Swingle. Notamment l'observation de l'arbre originel de la premire espce prouve que les deux taxons sont synonymes.
20794234|A complete list of floristic data on Belgian Laboulbeniales is given. 48 taxa are recognised. An alphabetical parasite-host and a phylogenetic host-parasite list is given. Eleven species are illustrated. Une liste floristique des Laboulbniales de Belgique est prsente; elle contient 48 espces. Une liste alphabtique des parasites avec leurs htes et une liste phylogntique des htes avec leurs parasites est prsente. Onze espces sont illustres.
20794478|Tree breeding is a slow process when compared to annual crop breeding because of the long generation times typical for trees and the fact that quality traits are only visible at maturity. Nowadays, molecular biology can significantly accelerate tree improvement by identifying genes responsible for desirable traits and by controlling their expression by gene engineering. Potential targets for tree improvement are wood quality, tree architecture and development, sterility, and resistance to pests, diseases and herbicides. The main achievements obtained in these different fields are presented.
20794510|We examined the ecological, demographic and genetic consequences of agricultural land use practices and fragmentation on the long-term persistence of P. vulgaris (primrose), a rare and declining perennial herb in Flanders (Belgium). Analysis of the demographic performance of all remaining populations (n = 89) revealed a large proportion of inviable populations characterized by small population sizes and limited seedling recruitment. To investigate to what extent demographic performance was related to genetic variation and structure, allelic richness, observed and expected heterozygosity, Wright's inbreeding coefficient and FST were compared among senescent, stable and dynamic populations. No difference in any of these measures among population types was found, indicating that factors other than genetic diversity and structure were involved in determining demographic performance of primrose populations. No significant relationship was found between individual multilocus heterozygosity and fitness components related to adult plant size and number of flowers. Reproductive success was positively correlated to population size and showed no temporal variation over two consecutive years. Examination of recruitment success (seedling survival) in natural and experimental populations revealed that habitat quality had a large impact on recruitment success. In particular, populations along arable fields showed decreased recruitment rates compared to populations located in forests or along grasslands, especially in the absence of disturbance. Our results indicate that P. vulgaris is vulnerable to habitat deterioration associated with changes in land use. They also suggest that the quality of the surrounding landscape matrix may be more important than within-habitat characteristics, demographic or genetic traits in determining population viability. Integration of the results of this study with previously reported data on historical changes in the distribution range of primrose in Flanders suggests that under prevailing environmental conditions there will be a continuous decline in both the number and size of populations.
20794196|Stipules of Mitragyna possess numerous finger-shaped colleters on their adaxial bases. Colleters are of standard type with a central core of parenchyma cells surrounded by radially elongated epithelial cells. Young colleters secrete a viscous fluid which accumulates in between the stipules and around the leaf primordium. Starch, protein and lipid are localized in the secretory stage of the colleter. Freshly harvested exudate of the colleter shows the sugar glucose. Major elements present in the exudate are Na and P. The appearance of deeply stained globular bodies in the epithelial cells of colleter tip is the beginning of the senescence, which later proceeds basipetally in the colleter. Les stipules de Mitragyna possdent de nombreux colltres digitiformes  leur base adaxiale. Ces colltres sont du type normal, avec un axe central de cellules parenchymateuses entour de cellules pithliales allonges radialement. Les colltres jeunes secrtent un fluide visqueux qui s'accumule entre les stipules et autour du primordium foliaire. De l'amidon, des protines et des lipides sont localiss dans le stade secrteur du colltre. L'exsudat frachement rcolt prsente du glucose. Les lments majeurs prsents dans l'exsudat sont le sodium et le phosphore. Le dbut de la snescence se marque par l'apparition de corps globuleux fortement colors dans les cellules pithliales du sommet du colltre; la snescence progresse ensuite vers la base du colltre.
20794600|We investigated the phytosociological structure of the Quercus pontica-Betula medwediewii community in the Artvin province in northeastern Anatolia (Turkey). The Querco ponticii-Betuletum medwediewii association was scattered at an altitude of 1300-1700 m on south, west, southwest, southeast and northwest facing slopes. The Geranio-Pinion alliance was characterized by Hypericum bithynicum. The main components of the Pino-Piceetalia orientalis were Picea orientalis and Abies nordmanniana subsp. nordmanniana. The components of the Geranio-Pinion alliance and the Pino-Piceetalia orientalis order were well represented in this association and should be considered within those syntaxa units. Northeastern Anatolia has a unique flora and is a relictual refuge for many plant species that are remnants of the ancient Mediterranean flora. Ten endemic taxa were found in the study area. According to a CCA ordination, pH and clay content are the most significant soil parameters determining community composition.
43996249|The Paul Heinemann mycological herbarium, an exceptional patrimony to valorize,  Paul Heinemann collected during his long career about 7000 samples of fungal fruitbodies, which are mainly preserved as exsiccata in the herbaria of the Faculty of Agriculture in Gembloux (FUSAG) and of the National botanic Garden of Belgium (BR), in Meise. The main interest of this collection lies in the high quality of related information. The article evaluates the importance of the collection and reveals Paul Heinemann's personal methodology of filing the observed data. Potential valorisation methods for the data are given. A concrete example, using Paul Heinemann's notes concerning the mycoflora of birches (Betula sp.), illustrates the importance as well as the limitations of these data. Finally, the author raises the problem of the future management of this scientific heritage and the present difficulties of data access. Paul Heinemann a rcolt au cours de sa longue carrire environ 7000 chantillons de sporophores de champignons qui sont conservs principalement sous forme d'exsiccata dans les herbiers mycologiques de la Facult universitaire des Sciences agronomiques de Gembloux (FUSAG) et du Jardin botanique national de Belgique (BR),  Meise. L'intrt principal de cette collection est la grande qualit des informations qui y sont lies. L'article value l'importance de la collection et met en vidence la mthodologie personnelle d'archivage des donnes d'observations utilise par Paul Heinemann. Des pistes potentielles de valorisation de ces donnes sont suggres. Un exemple concret, utilisant une partie des donnes et qui concerne la mycocnose de bouleaux (Betula sp.), illustre l'intrt mais aussi les limites de ces donnes. Enfin, l'auteur soulve le problme de la gestion future de ce patrimoine scientifique et des difficults actuelles d'accs aux donnes.
20794535|Because the germination of seeds shows a strong seasonal periodicity it can be expected that timing of seed bank sampling has a significant effect on the number and composition of emerging seedlings. To determine the influence of time of sampling on seedling emergence, we compared the composition and characteristics of seed bank samples collected during March and September. We sampled two extreme habitats in terms of dynamics (ancient deciduous forest and intensive arable field). Spring samples produced markedly more seedlings indicating the importance of a chilling period for germination of the majority of species. This was especially noticed for trample and pioneer species while less stringent for forest and shrub species. Presumably, seed size explains why these species germinate in spring, as seedlings of small-seeded species cannot rely on reserve compounds when germinating under suboptimal conditions. In the studied ecosystems, spring sampling proved to be most appropriate for the majority of species. Repeated sampling, however, increases the probability of finding species with different germination requirements.
20794413|Scapania gracilis Lindb. werd onlangs voor de eerste maal ingezameld in het massief van de Ardennen in Noord-Frankrijk. De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven, standplaats en verspreiding worden vermeld. Scapania gracilis Lindb. has been discovered for the first time in the Ardennes Massif (France). A description and illustration of the material is provided. Features of its ecology and particulars of its distribution are given.
20794649|Lagenaria siceraria (gourde) appartient  la famille des Cucurbitaceae qui regroupe plus de 825 espces rpertories de part le monde. C'est une espce  usages multiples dont les fruits sont utiliss comme aliment, ustensile de cuisine, instrument de musique, etc. Le manque d'information sur les gourdes de l'Afrique de l'Ouest et l'absence de stratgie adquate de conservation peut conduire  une rosion gntique des cultivars locaux. Dans cette tude, la variabilit morphologique au sein de Lagenaria siceraria a t dcrite et analyse. Soixante accessions provenant de 13 cultivars locaux collects au Bnin et au Togo ont t semes et dcrites. Des trente-deux caractres observs et mesurs sur toutes les accessions, douze se sont rvls discriminants. Il s'agit de la date  la floraison mle et femelle (50%), la longueur du pdoncule, la longueur et la largeur des fruits, le nombre de fruits par plante, la forme des fruits, la longueur et la largeur des graines, l'paisseur, la couleur et la duret des graines. L'Analyse en Composantes Principales (ACP) et la Classification Ascendante Hirarchique (CAH) ont permis de distinguer trois groupes de cultivars. Le premier est le groupe 'Savalou' qui runit les cultivars 34, 35, 37, 38, 40 et 54 collects au Centre et au Nord Togo. Le second groupe rassemble les 'Sogo' (cultivar 53 collect au Sud Togo) et les 'Tigo' (cultivars 47 et 51 du Sud Togo). Le troisime groupe est celui des 'Ka', cultivars 46 et 48 prospects au Sud et au Nord Togo et celui des 'Kplakata' et 'Go' du Centre Bnin. Lagenaria siceraria (bottle gourd) belongs to the Cucurbitaceae family for which more than 825 species have been recorded. It is a multipurpose species used for food, cultural purposes, kitchen utensils, decoration, music instruments, etc. Although the species has many uses, it is overlooked by scientists and development agents while genetic erosion is taking place. In this study we analysed and described the morphological variability of 60 accessions coming from 13 cultivars collected in Togo and Benin. We used in total 32 descriptors but only 12 of them contributed significantly to a good clustering of the accessions. These are: number of fruits per plant, average weight of fruit, date to flowering (male and female), peduncle length, fruit size and shape, seed length and width, seed thickness, seed colour and hardness. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Cluster Analysis allowed distinguishing three groups. The first group gathers together cultivars 34, 35, 37, 38, 40 and 54 collected in Central and Northern Togo and known as 'Savalou' by local people. The second group is made up of cultivar 53 known as 'Sogo' in Southern Togo and cultivars 47 and 51 from Southern Togo known as 'Tigo'. The third group includes two cultivars (46 and 48) from Southern and Northern Togo known as 'Ka' in Benin and cultivars 56 and 58 (known as 'Kplakata' or 'Go') collected in Central Benin.
20794652|A molecular phylogenetic analysis of Nartheciaceae is presented, with nine species of the family's five genera. The main phylogenetic findings are: (a) Nietneria and Narthecium are placed in a clade sister to Lophiola; (b) sister to the Lophiola-Narthecium-Nietneria clade is a clade formed by Aletris and the monospecific Metanarthecium; (c) the inclusion of Metanarthecium luteo-viride in Aletris, as proposed by several authors, is well supported. The pollen and orbicule morphology of representatives of five genera is described. The results underline a close relationship between Nietneria, Narthecium, and Lophiola and confirm the previously reported observations of Metanarthecium pollen and the types of sexine ornamentation in Aletris. Pollen grains of Nietneria are monosulcate with a microreticulate sexine, confirming a close relationship with Lophiola and Narthecium. Spherical smooth-surfaced orbicules were observed in all genera of Nartheciaceae and the presence of a circular perforation on the orbicule surface is potentially synapomorphic for the family.
20794477|After a short introduction to the main geographical, geological and climatic features of the Azores, an historical outline of the hepaticological research on these islands is given. Lists enumerate the 153 hepatics presently known with certitude on the Azores and 28 species erroneously recorded or not documented by original specimens. The species richness of the different islands is discussed briefly. The list of Azorean endemics is critically updated and reduced to 5 species, among which 3 are probably conspecific with Neotropical or African taxa. The tropical affinity of the Azorean hepatic flora is especially examined with a table including 41 species with neotropical, paleotropical or pantropical distribution or affinity, showing the dominance of the neotropical element among them (13.7% of the hepatics). Finally, some observations are made about the most original species of the Azorean hepatic flora, which seems today not to be severely threatened, thanks to recent conservation measures on most of the islands, although they should be seriously reinforced.
20794672|A study was conducted to develop a protocol for mass-propagation of an economically important rattan species [Laccosperma secundiflorun (P. Beauv.) Kuntze] using leaves, axillary bud, and apical meristem explants collected from natural stands. The explants were incubated on basal MS (Murashige & Skoog 1962) medium containing vitamins (MSV), supplemented with different concentrations and combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Best results (100% vigorous explants) from initiation phase were obtained after four weeks with axillary bud and apical meristem explants cultured in darkness at 28  2C on MSV supplemented with 30 g L sucrose and 0.65 mg L BAP. MSV containing 1 mg L BAP and 1 mg L NAA allowed highest rates of explants forming shoots (> 85%), with a mean of 3 shoots per explant after eight weeks. A high rate (> 95%) of shoots generated well-developed roots after two weeks on MSV containing 0.5 mg L 3-indoleacetic acid (IAA).
20794570|The monotypic genus Leontochir Phil. (Alstroemeriaceae Dumortier), represented by Leontochir ovallei, is endemic to Chile, and its geographical distribution is restricted to the coastal zone of the Atacama Desert (28S). In previous cytogenetic studies on L. ovallei a diploid karyotype 2n = 2x = 18 was described. In this work a first analysis of the C-banding pattern of L. ovallei is presented. L. ovallei showed large regions of constitutive heterochromatin within the karyotype, with C-bands on all chromosome pairs except 9. The relative length of the C-bands was 20.0% of the total haploid set length. The presence of large regions of constitutive heterochromatin on the chromosomes was concurrent with the presence of many conspicuous and large chromocenters in the interphase nuclei. According to these results, L. ovallei shows the largest value of relative C-band length so far described within the Alstroemeriaceae. These cytogenetic results on L. ovallei increase the available data on C-banding patterns in Alstroemeriaceae with an additional genus.
20794623|Potamogeton pectinatus L. is a submerged angiosperm with a cosmopolitan distribution, considered as a troublesome aquatic weed. It is prevalent in standing waters, with-stands fast currents and can occur in powered sections downstream from high hydroelectric dams. An increase of regulated flow from 0.1 to 0.8 m s was performed at the hydroelectric dam of Rabodanges (Normandy, France) for restoration ecology purposes, e.g. the rehabilitation of salmonids in the short-cut section. In order to assess the effect of this operational management of the hydroelectric dam, a macrophyte-based survey was done. Particular attention was paid to monotypic stands of P. pectinatus in the downstream channel of the dam since 1986. Continuous hydraulic and physicochemical data allowed the estimation of their effect on the stands of P. pectinatus. The importance of the changes of clumps of P. pectinatus at the level of the river Orne around the reservoir was compared to other macrophytes with a similar extend capacity: Cladophora sp.and Myriophyllum spicatum. P. pectinatus and M. spicatum showed a similar strategy. At a local scale, in a restitution channel, the variation of P. pectinatus cover was recorded in the context of the changing regulated regimes. After a decrease of the cover of clumps there was a progressive recovery to the initial stands cover. With observations over a twelve-year period, we confirmed the ecological plasticity of this plant in powered channels and highlighted the importance of long term survey in river restoration ecology.
20794191|Wheat plants are most sensitive to soil water conditions after anthesis. Under water stress, genotypic variability in grain set was noted. Drought enhanced maturity, lengthened grain filling duration and adversely affected the number of grains/spike and 100-grain weight of wheat cultivars from the Philippines and Nepal. Grain protein content increased with the increase in drought duration. Siddhartha, NL 292, NL 370, and NL 496 all from Nepal produced the maximum grain yield and also harvest index under stressed conditions. Tarweplanten zijn het gevoeligst voor waterbeschikbaarheid in de bodem na de bloei. Onder omstandigheden van waterstress werd een genotypisch gebonden respons van zaadontwikkeling vastgesteld. Droogte versnelde de rijping, verlengde de graanvullings-periode en verkleinde het aantal zaden per aar zowel als het gewicht van 100 zaden van cultivars uit de Filippijnen en Nepal. Het protenegehalte van de zaden verhoogde in functie van de lengte van de droogteperiode. Siddharta, NL 292, NL 370 en NL 496 vertoonden een maximale graanopbrengst en een maximale oogstindex onder stressomstandigheden.
20794322|A new species of Acanthaceae, Brachystephanus myrmecophilus, with two varieties, var. myrmecophilus and var. amphipuberulus, is described from tropical Africa. The species occurs within a small area in Eastern Zaire, on the foothills of the Zaire-Nile ridge, to the W and NW of lake Kivu. The species shows morphological features usually regarded as typical of myrmecophilous plants. The presence on the same plant of both extrafloral (= extranuptial) nectaries and cauline domatia has not been recorded so far in the Acanthaceae, at least in Africa. The inflorescence is basically a thyrsoid (determinate thyrse), i.e. a monotelic inflorescence, with facultative truncation. Reduction and assumed sterility phenomenons were noticed in the inflorescences.
20794461|The examination of the herbarium specimens collected in Benin and deposited in BENIN, P, BR and BRLU led us to the identification of 13 species of Eragrostis, for which short description, key, habitat and phytogeographical distribution are given.
20794308|Description of a new variety of Thaumatococcus danielli (Benn.) Benth.; a key is given to separate the two varieties and the distribution of the new variety is mapped.
20794271|The application of serological methods in plant systematic research is evaluated with reference to qualitative immunodiffusion techniques. As an example, results of an investigation of similarities of the legumin-like proteins in Asteraceae are discussed: Close serological relationships were detected between Arctotideae and Lactuceae, with the monotypical genus Gundelia as a link between both. The Cardueae s.str. proved to be a homogeneous group with similarities to the Arctotideae. The Carlineae were found to consist of two serologically diverging groups. Mutisieae and Vernonieae are only loosely connected to the other Cichorioideae tribes, with the Mutisieae representatives showing remarkable differences among individual genera. Es wird die Anwendung serologischer Methoden in der Pflanzensystematik diskutiert, insbesondere die der qualitativen Immunodiffusionstests. Beispielhaft werden die Ergebnisse einer Untersuchung der Legumin-hnlichkeiten bei Asteraceen diskutiert: Enge serologische Verbindungen wurden zwischen Arctotideen und Lactuceen festgestellt, wobei die monotypische Gattung Gundelia ein Bindeglied zwischen beiden darstellt. Die Cardueae s.str. erwiesen sich als homogene Gruppe mit hnlichkeiten zu den Arctotideen. Die Carlineae bestehen aus zwei serologisch divergenten Gruppen. Mutisieae und Vernonieae sind nur locker mit den anderen Cichorioideen-Triben verbunden, wobei die Mutisieen-Vertreter betrchtliche Unterschiede untereinander aufweisen.
20794579|In order to monitor atmospheric fluoride pollution, epiphytic lichens (Parmelia sulcata) were collected in a rural area and transplanted to two fluoride point sources (Genk and Beerse) and one reference location (Diepenbeek). In Genk and Beerse, lichens were installed at various distances from the source. In Diepenbeek, lichens were only transplanted to one station. Fluoride concentrations in ambient air were measured close to the lichen transplants placed closest to the fluoride source. Lichen vitality parameters (i.e., lichen colour and algal vitality) together with fluoride and trace element concentrations were measured just before transplantation, and 6 and 12 months after transplantation. Before transplantation no fluoride was detected in P. sulcata samples (< 5 mg F kg). In Genk fluoride concentrations in lichens gradually increased up to 134 mg kg after 12 months. In Beerse transplants contained 243 mg F kg; all transplants were killed close to the fluoride source after 6 months. Besides fluorides, increased Cu concentrations were found in these lichens. Furthermore, SO emission was substantially higher in Beerse compared to Genk and Diepenbeek, which makes it difficult to conclude whether lichens close to the source in Beerse were killed because of fluorides alone, or a combination of fluorides, Cu and/or SO. At both locations fluoride concentrations in lichens substantially decreased at 2 km distance from the source, confirming the relatively local character of atmospheric fluoride pollution.
43996252|Marasmius heinemannianus Antonn is described as a new species from the Atacora province in the north-west Benin, West Africa. It belongs to the sect. Globulares, and is characterized in having rather large, fleshy carpophores of the habitus of M. oreades, brightly orange-brown, reddish-brown to yellow-orange pileus, yellowish white spore print, by the presence of cheilocystidia, pleurocystidia, as well as caulocystidia, rather large spores, and it grows on open grassy places. Moreover, the presence of the thick-walled dextrinoid 'resting' spores and sclerobasidia is rather unique in the genus Marasmius. It represents an edible species known under the name 'bawafobi' to local people.
20794592|Loja Province (southern Ecuador) is generally acknowledged to be located in the centre of origin of cherimoya (Annona cherimola Mill.), a promising Andean fruit that is cultivated on an increasing scale, with Spain, Chile and United States showing growing interest in its commercialisation. A comprehensive study of cherimoya in Loja Province realised from January 1996 till September 1999 gave valuable information for future crop development. Although cherimoya is very common, well known and appreciated all over the province, commercial cultivation has not yet developed and the trees are found in the wild or tolerated in farmers' gardens. Several trees showed better fruit quality characteristics than those of 'Fino de Jete', 'Bays', 'White', 'Bronceada' and 'Concha Lisa', which are commercialised on large scale. It is concluded that Loja Province possesses interesting germplasm accessions which should be used to develop local cherimoya growing and in international cherimoya improvement programmes.
20794529|The genus Drepanocladus (C. Mll.) G. Roth. is revised for the Iberian Peninsula, based on specimens kept in the main Spanish, Portuguese, and French herbaria, as well as in several private collections. The presence of Drepanocladus aduncus (Hedw.) Warnst. and D. polygamus (Schimp.) Hedens is confirmed. Drepanocladus sendtneri (Schimp.) Warnst. is excluded from the Iberian Peninsula moss flora. All the Iberian specimens kept in herbaria as D. aduncus var. asturicus (Renauld) Riehm., D. aduncus var. falcatus (Renauld) Renauld, D. aduncus var. kneiffii (Schimp.) Mnk., D. aduncus fo. aquaticus (Sanio) Mnk. and D. aduncus fo. pseudofluitans (Sanio) Mnk. were re-identified as D. aduncus and these names are considered as synonyms of D. aduncus. Drepanocladus aduncus grows submerged in lagoons and streams or on wet soils throughout the mountains of the northern and central part of the Iberian Peninsula (Pyrenees, Cordillera Cantbrica, Maestrazgo, Sistema Central), being very rare in the south (Sierra Nevada, Granada). D. polygamus is restricted to coastal dunes of the north-western part of the Peninsula and four localities in the Tras-Os-Montes, Navarra, and Huesca provinces, with great Atlantic influence. A distribution map and iconography of both species are given.
20794334|La phytomasse et la productivit primaire nette de peupleraies d'ges diffrents (31, 24 et 8 ans) ont t tudies dans la rgion limoneuse du Hainaut. Les futaies quiennes ont des hauteurs moyennes de 28, 25 et 8,5 m, respectivement. Le taillis vgtal et le couvert herbac sont nitrophiles. La peupleraie de 31 ans a une phytomasse totale de 177 t/ha (159 t au-dessus du sol et 18 t d'organes souterrains) et une productivit primaire de 30,5 t/ha/an (28 t et 2,5 t); la peupleraie de 24 ans a respectivement 76,5 t/ha (68,5 t et 8 t) et 18 t/ha/an (16,5 t et 1,5 t); et celle de 8 ans, 11 t/ha (9 t et 2 t) et 8 t/ha/an (7,5 t et 0,5 t). La phytomasse des peupliers dans la phytocnose de 31 ans reprsente 96% du total et la productivit 86%, dans celle de 24 ans, 86% et 66% et dans celle de 8 ans, les peupliers ne reprsentent plus que 31% et 22%. L'incrment vrai de la peupleraie de 31 ans vaut 24 t/ha/an, de 24 ans 13 t/ha/an et de 8 ans 2 t/ha/an. L'efficacit photosynthtique de la phytocnose de 31 ans est de 1,8%. In this paper are presented the living vegetal biomasses (phytomasses) and primary productivities of different aged (31,24 and 8 years) poplar's plantations in the limoneous countryside of Hainaut (central Belgium). The mean heights of the plantations are respectively 28, 25 and 8.5 m. Shrubs and herbaceous layers are quite nitrophilous. The 31 years old poplar's plantation has a total phytomass (dry mass) of 177 t/ha (159 t aboveground and 18 t below ground) and a primary productivity of 30.5 t/ha/year (28 t and 2.5 t); the 24 years old plantation has respectively 76.5 t/ha (68.5 t and 8 t) and 18 t/ha/year (16.5 t and 1.5 t); and that of 8 years, 11 t/ha (9 t and 2 t) and 8 t/ha/year (7.5 t and 0.5 t). Phytomasses and primary productivities for the poplar alone are respectively about 96% and 86% of the total in the plantation of 31 years old, 86% and 66% in that of 24 years; and only 31% and 22% in that of 8 years. True increment reaches 24 t/ha/year for the 31 years old plantation, 13 t/ha/year for the 24 years and 2 t/ha/year for the 8 years. Photosynthetic efficacity of the oldest plantation (31 years) is 1.8%.
20794639|Lactarius subgenus Plinthogali is represented in Peninsular Malaysia by a striking group of species with bluing latex or context. Three new species with such color reaction are proposed and formally described here: Lactarius cyanescens, L. lazulinus and L. mirabilis. Two more species are described and illustrated because they show distinct differences in spore morphology, but no name is proposed because ofinsufficient macroscopic information. A blue discoloration is very rare in the whole genus Lactarius (only in the group of L. indigo) and was unknown for the subgenus Plinthogali until now. It is extraordinary that in Malaysia, to which this color reaction seems to be restricted, at least five different taxa share this character.
41427183|As part of a taxonomic revision of the Iberian and Balearic taxa of Ornithogalum, quantitative and qualitative characters are studied in detail in Ornithogalum subg. Beryllis (Salisb.) Baker, and they are evaluated for taxonomy of the two taxa: O. narbonense L. and O. pyrenaicum L. A complete description is presented for both species, and data on their biology, ecology, and distribution are also included. Moreover, a key is provided to facilitate identification. En el marco de una revisin de las especies ibricas y baleares de Ornithogalum, se estudia con detalle O. subg. Beryllis (Salisb.) Baker, y se evala cualitativa y cuantitativamente el valor taxonmico de los caracteres morfolgicos de los dos txones: O. narbonense L. y O. pyrenaicum L. Para cada especie se presenta una descripcin completa y datos sobre su biologa, ecologa y distribucin. Adems, se aporta una clave para facilitar la identificacin de los txones aceptados.
20794495|In late summer 1995, intertidal flats situated in the freshwater tidal and brackish reaches of the Schelde estuary were sampled to study the microphytobenthos in the upper estuarine reaches. Diatoms dominated the microphytobenthos community at all sites while coccoid green algae, flagellates or cyanobacteria never contributed significantly to total cell abundance. Epipelic and epipsammic diatoms were the dominant organisms at the brackish sites and disappeared in the oligohaline and freshwater sites, where planktonic diatoms dominated the microphytobenthos community. In oligohaline to freshwater tidal reaches, a turbidity maximum is present which is maintained by repeated resuspension and sedimentation of suspended matter from and to the intertidal areas. Probably, this intense reworking of the sediment surface prevents epipelic and epipsammic diatoms from colonising intertidal mudflats in this part of the estuary.
20794638|An amended checklist of the bryophytes of Belgium is presented. Although some taxonomic positions adopted in the most recent European checklist of mosses are discussed, the latter is used as a reference in an attempt to homogenize taxonomic concepts at a wide scale and enable comparisons across countries. Since the previous 2001 checklist of Belgian bryophytes, a total of 17 and 14 species must be added to the Belgian bryoflora owing to taxonomic changes and floristic discoveries, respectively. The report of Grimmia caespiticia, at an altitude of 500-600 m, is particularly noteworthy because this alpine species usually occurs above 2 000 m. Five additional taxa, Scapania cuspiduligera, Dialytrichia fragilifolia, Ephemerum cohaerens, Orthotrichum shawii and Tortella inclinata var. densa, are reported here as new to Belgium. Six species were previously erroneously reported from Belgium and are excluded. As a consequence, the bryophyte flora of Belgium consists of 748 species, including 5 hornworts, 173 liverworts, and 570 mosses whose occurrence in the three regions of Belgium, namely Flanders (5 hornworts, 122 liverworts, 399 mosses), Wallonia (3 hornworts, 169 liverworts, 546 mosses), and Brussels-Capital Region (46 liverworts, 196 mosses), is documented. Thirty-six species (6 liverworts and 30 mosses) have not been recorded since 1980 and are most probably extinct. The new checklist is used to update the list of European red list species that are present in Belgium, which now includes 49 species.
20794486|The structural study of chloroplasts has been considered as an important diagnostic tool for better understanding the photosynthetic process of wheat. In comparison with the available large number of electron micrographs of the chloroplasts in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) leaves, little is known about the chloroplasts of the non-leaf organs. Here we describe the number and ultrastructure of chloroplast in the non-leaf organs including lemmas, paleae, awns, glumes, culms and rachis. Chloroplasts of the non-leaf organs have lower number and smaller size as compared to those of leaves. The granal thylakoids of chloroplasts in the awns and glumes were highly stacked and the number of granal thylakoids in awns was even higher than that of the flag leaf, while the number of chloroplasts tended to be lower than that in the flag leaf. In lemmas and paleae, the number of grana stacks and layers of thylakoids was the lowest of all the non-leaf organs. Moreover, their granum structure resembled the characteristics of grana in C plants. These findings provided structural evidence for interpretation of the role of the non-leaf organs in the photosynthesis of wheat.
20794309|Three points are studied on some species of Marantaceae in Zaire, especially in Botsima region at North-Est of Salonga National Park: the climbing system of some species, the leave reactions to daylight of four species and the importance of some Marantaceae in the rural economy. The results show that the climbing species of Marantaceae use a system that is nearly like that of other climbing plants but just some differences are listed. Concerning the reaction to daylight, it shows that there are differences between climbing and other species. Many uses of plant parts have been observed: leaves are used in house roof covering and for packing food; the fruits and young leaves are eaten. Sometimes these materials are sold to town people.
20794224|The benthic diatom assemblages of the Westerschelde-estuary were studied by means of multivariate analysis. Two main groups and eight subgroups were distinguished. The relation with salinity and sediment composition was investigated. A clear relation between grain size and the distribution of the assemblages was found. De benthische diatomeengemeenschappen van het Westerschelde-estuarium werden onderzocht met behulp van multivariate technieken. In totaal werden twee hoofdgroepen en acht subgroepen onderscheiden. De relaties met de saliniteit en de sedimentsamenstelling werden onderzocht. Hierbij bleek een duidelijk verband te bestaan tussen de korrelgrootte van het sediment en de verspreiding van de gemeenschappen.
43996270|Provisional red data list of waxcaps in Flanders.  Waxcaps (Hygrocybe spp. ss. Boertman 1995 and Camarophyllopsis spp.) in Flanders (northern Belgium) are studied at the base of field work, herbaria, literature data and miscellaneous observations. At present, since 1970, only 24 Hygrocybe species, 4 varieties and 2 Camarophyllopsis spp. are known to occur in the studied area. In particular, waxcap grasslands with more then 10 species are very rare. A preliminary red data list of this group includes 21 species : 5 are considered as "critically endangered", 3 as "endangered", 7 as "vulnerable" and 6 as "susceptible". Furthermore, two species are considered as "probably extinct" in the area.
20794659|Cultivation of ornamental plant species has been recognized to foster plant naturalization of exotics by counteracting environmental stochasticity and continuously providing propagules. As a preliminary attempt to describe the invasion status of C. horizontalis, we gathered information on the occurrence of the species in Belgium by compiling various databases. We assessed the naturalization status of C. horizontalis in Belgian calcareous grasslands, high-value habitats recognized as biodiversity hotspots, by characterizing its occurrence, population status, preferred habitats, invaded communities, growth rate and fruiting capacity. We also assessed the impact of the species on calcareous grasslands communities and on individual species. Cotoneaster occurred in seven of the nine investigated sites, with densities varying from 0.34 to 10 individuals/ha. In the most invaded sites, the high proportion of small individuals suggests an important ongoing colonization process, emphasized by the fact that fruiting capacities were demonstrated for 3-year-old individuals. Invaded habitats were typically Mosan Xerobromion habitats, which are priority Natura 2000 habitats. The presence of C. horizontalis was associated with changes in both the structure and composition of the community by decreasing species richness and diversity, and affecting grassland specialist species. These impacts are expected to intensify over time with population age and increasing propagule pressure due to close urbanization.
20794515|As a result of ten years regular visiting a mountain village in the Apuseni Mountains, Western Carpathians in Romania, the author collected one liverwort and four mosses which are unreported for the country; four mosses recently deleted from the Romanian bryoflora were also found as well as one moss to be confirmed for Romania; five very rare taxa are mentioned. The specimens and their habitats are briefly described.
43996268|Mniaecia jungermanniae (Nees ex Fr.) Boud., recently found in the Brabantian phytogeographical District (Belgium), is described on the basis of the collected specimens. Its distribution in Belgium is mapped by considering all the localities mentioned in Belgian herbaria as well as in the literature. This tiny discomycete is strictly linked to leafy liverworts (Jungermanniales) : the hyphae of the fungus grow as parasites inside their rhizoids and do not seem associated  as in other symbioses between ascomycetes and bryophytes  to algae. Consequently, the association between Mniaecia and leafy liverworts looks like a biotrophic parasitism, and may be interpreted as the first step from a destructive parasitism towards a mutualistic symbiosis. Morphologie, cologie et chorologie de Mniaecia jungermanniae (Ascomyctes) en Belgique et nature de son association avec les hpatiques  feuilles (Jungermanniales).  Rcemment dcouvert dans le district brabanon (Belgique), Mniaecia jungermanniae (Nees ex Fr.) Boud. est tudi en dtail et dcrit sur base du matriel rcolt. Sa distribution en Belgique est prcise grce au collationnement des mentions de l'espce dans la littrature et les herbiers belges. Ce minuscule discomycte est strictement infod  quelques espces d'hpatiques  feuilles (Jungermanniales) ; en fait, les hyphes de l'ascomycte sont endoparasites des rhizodes de l'hpatique et ne semblent pas associs  comme dans d'autres symbioses entre ascomyctes et bryophytes   des algues. L'association entre Mniaecia et certaines Jungermanniales se prsente donc comme un cas de biotrophisme parasitaire, relation non destructive susceptible d'tre interprte comme la premire tape menant du parasitisme  la symbiose mutualiste.
20794332|Des prospections rcentes dans la rgion Nord-Pas-de-Calais, situe tout au nord de la France, ont permis de mettre en vidence l'existence du Ranunculo-Myosuretum minimi dans plusieurs cultures ou moissons dans des stations relativement distantes les unes des autres. Onze relevs  Myosurus minimus ont t effectus dans les cultures de cette rgion, puis compars au moyen d'un tableau permettant de dgager deux entits phytosociologiquement distinctes. Les relevs sont ensuite compars aux travaux antrieurs, puis les aspects phnologiques, cologiques et chorologiques de cette association sont exposs. Recent prospection in Nord-Pas-de-Calais region revealed the existence of the Ranunculo-Myosuretum minimi in several crop-fields on wet soils, from locations fairly remote from each other. Eleven relevs are arranged in a table; it allows to distinguish two phytosociological groups. The results are compared with other relevs from European phytosociological literature. Phenological, ecological and chorological aspects of this association are discussed.
20794512|Foliar N and P concentrations (on a leaf mass basis), N and P absolute and proportional resorption in different strata of a Fagus orientalis Lipsky forest in Central Black Sea region, in the north of Turkey were studied. N (mg/g) and C (%) concentrations significantly changed with respect to leaf growth stage and species. However, P (mg/g) concentration did not significantly change. In addition to this, absolute N resorption significantly differed among canopy and subcanopy species although absolute P and proportional N and P resorption did not vary significantly. Proportional N and P resorption rates were usually higher than in other temperate deciduous and evergreen species and varied between 28.5-73.4% and 50.8-79.7%, respectively.
20794249|Dans le mesocolpium des jeunes grains de pollen, on observe les dpts de l'endexine autour des microcanaux. Par la dimension et le contraste aux lectrons, les microcanaux ressemblent  ceux de la membrane plasmique.  la maturit des grains de pollen, ils sont moins visibles dans l'endexine homogne. Les microcanaux du mesocolpium se prolongent dans l'endoaperture et progressivement forment un rseau irrgulier. De part et d'autre du trac, il y a accumulation des amas de l'endexine d'importance variable. Suivant l'aspect de la structure, on peut distinguer dans l'endexine endoaperturale trois zones. Une externe, contre l'ecto-aperture, est constitue de microcanaux serrs entours d'importants dpts de l'endexine. Dans une zone mdiane, les microcanaux sont moins serrs et les amas de l'endexine plus espacs. Et enfin, une zone interne, vers le cytoplasme, est forme de cordons de dimensions irrgulires, chacun contenant un microcanal. La fusion frquente des units de l'endexine donne, ici,  la structure un aspect plus homogne. The deposition of endexine in the mesocolpium of immature pollen grains is observed around microchannels. The dimension and electron density of these microchannels are similar to those of the plasma membrane. In the mature state of the pollen grains, they are less visible in the homogeneous endexine. The microchannels extend from the mesocolpium to the endo-aperture where they form an irregular network. Units of endexine of variable sizes, grow around the microchannels. Endoapertural endexine may be divided into three areas. In the region near the ectoaperture, many microchannels can be seen. The endexine units here are numerous and high. In the middle area, the microchannels and endexine units are more widely spaced. In the inside area near the cytoplasm, the more developed rods of the endexine are seen. Their sizes are irregular and each rods has a microchannel. Many fusions of the endexine units give a more homogeneous structure to these rods.
20794576|Alpine meadows, Xilingol grasslands and Mu Us sandy grasslands were historically among top quality grasslands in China and over the world. However, Mu Us sandy grasslands currently suffer from serious desertification. Xilingol grasslands are also threatened by desertification while alpine meadows are currently undergoing overgrazing. Measures to guide vegetation rehabilitation, such as appropriate vegetation coverage are urgently needed for restoring locally degraded ecosystems. Based on ecophysiological processes of the plant communities and their water and thermal balance, an ecophysiology-based plant community model was developed to simulate several parameters of the three grassland ecosystems. With input data collected from long-term meteorological stations, the model performance was promising. As illustrated by the simulation results, the model parameters, including evaporative coefficient (k), foliage projective cover and net primary productivity (NPP), decrease from alpine meadows over Xilingol grasslands, to Mu Us sandy grasslands. These parameters can be used as reference criteria for resource management: the foliage projective cover could serve as a guide for restoring degraded ecosystem, and the NPP could be the basis for livestock number adjustment.
20794518|Based on sequences of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA, the origin and evolution of the putative hybrid species H. goniocarpa was investigated. The ITS sequences of 8 samples from the putative hybrid species and its possible and sympatrically distributed parental species H. rhamnoides subsp. sinensis and H. neurocarpa have 58 variable sites among these three species, and these variable sites are all different between H. rhamnoides subsp. sinensis and H. neurocarpa. In the four samples of H. goniocarpa, 91.4% of the variable sites showed perfect nucleotide additivity of the parental species and the remaining 5 sites showed concerted evolution to some degree. ITS sequencing results strongly support that H. goniocarpa was derived through hybridization between H. rhamnoides subsp. sinensis and H. neurocarpa. The vegetative reproduction and/or relatively recent origin may be responsible for event of concerted evolution between repeats having not operated in the hybrid species. Distributional pattern and relatively recent origin of this hybrid indicate that this species may have occurred several times.
20794194|Le 26 juin 1988, une herborisation a t organise dans les pelouses calcaires thermophiles du sud de l'Entre-Sambre-et-Meuse: bois Cumont  Roly; tienne de Flimoye  Olloy-sur-Viroin; coteau situ  Treignes, au nord de la route de Vierves; Roche Troue  Nismes; Montagne-aux-Buis  Dourbes. Il s'agit de pelouses qui ont t gres par le Centre Marie-Victorin (Vierves-sur-Viroin). Les nombreux problmes poss par la gestion des pelouses calcaires ont t discuts en fonction de l'exprience acquise. Op 26 juni 1988, werd een excursie georganiseerd naar de kalkgraslanden gelegen in het zuiden van de streek Tussen-Samber-en-Maas. Achtervolgens werden bezocht Bois Cumont te Roly; Tienne de Flimoye te Olloy-sur-Viroin; zuidhelling te Treignes ten noorden van de weg naar Vierves; Roche Troue te Nismes; Montagne-aux-Buis te Dourbes. Het betreft kalkgraslanden die worden beheerd door het Centre Marie-Victorin (Vierves-sur-Viroin). De vele problemen die zich voordoen bij het beheer van kalkgraslanden worden besproken in functie van de opgedane ervaring. On June 26th, 1988, a herborization has been organized in the south of the region Entre-Sambre-et-Meuse. The following sites were visited: Bois Cumont at Roly; Tienne de Flimoye at Olloy-sur-Viroin; a slope at Treignes, north of the road to Vierves-sur-Viroin; Roche Troue at Nismes; Montagne-aux-Buis at Dourbes. It concerns chalk grasslands which are managed by the Centre Marie-Victorin (Vierves-sur-Viroin). Different problems concerning the management of chalk grasslands have been discussed in relation to the acquired experience.
20794485|La bryoflore belge se compose de 732 espces: 170 hpatiques, 5 anthocrotes, 31 sphaignes et 526 mousses. 69 espces supplmentaires sont signales par rapport  la liste prcdente de Schumacker et al. (1985), 17 ont t retrouves, 7 ont t erronment signales et 33 n'ont pas t revues depuis au moins 50 ans. Un index synonymique des changements nomenclaturaux intervenus depuis la check-list prcite accompagne le travail. The Belgian bryoflora includes 732 species (170 liverworts, 5 hornworts, 31 sphagna, and 526 mosses). 69 additional species are reported since the previous check-list by Schumacker et al. (1985), 17 have been rediscovered, 7 have been erroneously reported, and 33 have not been reported for at least 50 years. A list of nomenclatural changes that have occurred since the previous check-list is provided.
20794320|Le territoire cologique de la Calestienne, bien contrast, permet l'observation des diffrents stades de la srie volutive de la vgtation calcicole dont la frutice, fourr recolonisateur des pelouses est un stade mconnu. L'tude de la phnologie des principales espces de la frutice en souligne l'intrt biologique. La dissmination sur de longues distances de ces espces est assure essentiellement par endozoochorie et la propagation de proche en proche est le fait d'un drageonnement vigoureux. La biomasse ligneuse arienne du fourr de Prunus spinosa est aborde en tablissant la relation liant cette caractristique au diamtre de la tige  10 cm de hauteur. Les valeurs obtenues peuvent atteindre 80 t/ha pour des fourrs d'une vingtaine d'annes. La biomasse racinaire de ces mmes fourrs est de l'ordre de 35 t/ha, soit une valeur analogue  celle des arbres en chnaie calcicole. Les plantules des espces ligneuses du fourr peuvent aisment tre distingues, une clef d'identification est fournie. L'apport de matriel foliaire  la litire de la frutice a pu tre estim  environ 3,8 t/ha/an. Une premire anne d'observations semble indiquer que la fauche fin juin est la plus approprie en vue du contrle en hauteur des rejets des 3 principaux arbustes de la frutice, ceci dans une optique de gestion des pelouses envahies par ces espces. The Calestienne ecological sector, allows the observation of the different succession stages characteristic of calcareous soils. The thicket succeeding the grassland stage is poorly known from an ecological point of view. The phenological study of the main species of this thicket underlines its biological interest. Long distance dissemination of those species depends mainly on endozoochory, while step by step spreading results from vigorous vegetative suckers. The Prunus spinosa thicket's woody aboveground biomass was estimated in regard of the 10 cm height diameter. Values obtained were about 80 t/ha for a 20 years old thicket. Root biomass is about 35 t/ha, a value of the same order as the one observed for trees on calcareous oakwood. Seedlings of the shrubby species are easily distinguished; an identification key is provided. Thicket leaffall amounts to some 3.8 t/ha/year. According to a first year of observations, height control of the 3 main shrubs shoots seems to be best controlled by a reaping at the end of June.
20794235|Dans ce travail sont prsents les rsultats sur la biomasse et la minralomasse de quelques associations aquatiques et semi-aquatiques. Il s'agit de l'association  Hydrocharis chevalieri (6,8 t/ha de matire sche) et de celle  Nymphaea lotus et Utricularia gibba subsp. exoleta (5,2 t/ha de MS), ainsi que du groupement  Hydrolea glabra (8,7 t/ha de MS). Les teneurs en lments biognes et les quantits d'lments immobilises dans la biomasse sont aussi tudies. The authors had studied biomass of aquatic and semi-aquatic plant communities with Hydrocharis chevalieri (6,8 t/ha dry weight), with Nymphaea lotus and Utricularia gibba subsp. exoleta (5,2 t/ha) and of the Hydrolea glabra community (8,7 t/ha). The nutrients content and mineral immobilization are also presented.
20794390|Spatial structure of Calluna vulgaris populations was investigated at various scales using autocorrelation statistical techniques. Intrapopulation structure has been studied by recording the genotypes at four polymorphic loci of 41 individual plants of Calluna vulgaris within a grid of 16  60 m, from the site of Sacraw (High Ardenne, Belgium). The spatial correlograms gave no significant results of autocorrelation of genotypes within the grid. It is therefore concluded that at this scale there is panmictic mixing of genotypes. A short review of other similar studies show that patterns vary greatly between species. Interpopulation analyses were carried out by recording the allele frequencies of 18 populations from North Spain to Belgium in relation to their geographic position. This revealed different patterns for the different alleles studied including clines of frequencies, autocorrelation at regional scale or no detectable trends. It is concluded that autocorrelation usefully supplement other statistical methods, such a Wright's FST, by giving information on the scales and processes involved in intra- and inter-population spatial structuring.
20794356|Cumulative distribution maps have been used to study the spread of Orthodontium lineare (first collected in 1945) and Campylopus introflexus (first collected in 1967) in Belgium. The pronounced lag phase in the spread of O. lineare may be artificial, caused by the low bryological activity in Belgium prior to 1970. Campylopus introflexus has been more successful because of both vegetative and sexual propagation and because of its tolerance to desiccation and broader habitat preferences. It is suggested that the rate of spread of Lophocolea semiteres will approach more the rate of spread of O. lineare than that of C. introflexus. L'extension d'Orthodontium lineare, trouv pour la premire fois en 1945, et de Campylopus introflexus, trouv pour la premire fois en 1967, a t tudie  l'aide de cartes de rpartition cumulatives. La phase de latence prononce de O. lineare est probablement artificielle,  cause de l'activit bryologique rduite avant 1970. A cause de sa propagation vgtative ainsi que sexuelle, sa tolrance  la dessiccation et son cologie plus large, C. introflexus a t l'espce la plus envahissante. Il est suggr que la vitesse d'extension de Lophocolea semiteres va plutt s'approcher de celle de O. lineare que de celle de C. introflexus.
20794336|In order to clarify the possible relationship between Adoxa and Sambucus, we studied the floral ontogeny of Adoxa moschatellina L. and Sambucus ebulus L. The following ontogenetical differences could be observed between both species: (1) a retardation in the development of the abaxial side of the lateral flowers of A. moschatellina; (2) the initiation of the corolla lobes of S. ebulus upon a ring-like extension and not directly on a flattened floral apex as in A. moschatellina; (3) the formation of a depression in the floral apex as the first step of the gynoecial development in S. ebulus, which was not observed in A. moschatellina. These differences are interpreted as variations of a same basic developmental pattern. Therefore, it is concluded that Adoxa evolved from an ancestor shared with Sambucus (or another Dipsacalean taxon). However, the possibility that the observed differences are the reflection of two different developmental patterns, is not completely ruled out. Pour mieux comprendre la relation possible entre Adoxa et Sambucus, nous avons entrepris une tude comparative de l'ontognie florale d'Adoxa moschatellina L. et de Sambucus ebulus L. Nous avons pu observer les diffrences ontogniques suivantes entre les deux espces: (1) un retard du dveloppement de la partie abaxiale des fleurs latrales d'A. moschatellina; (2) la formation des lobes corollaires de S. ebulus  partir d'une extension annulaire et non directement sur l'apex floral aplati comme c'est le cas dans A. moschatellina; (3) la formation d'une dpression sur l'apex floral chez S. ebulus durant les premires tapes du dveloppement du gynce, ce qui ne fut pas observ chez Adoxa. Ces diffrences ontogniques sont interprtes comme des variations d'un mode de dveloppement fondamentalement similaire. Ainsi, nous concluons qu'Adoxa et Sambucus sont drivs du mme anctre (ou un autre taxon des Dipsacales). Pourtant, la possibilit n'est toujours pas exclue que les diffrences observes refltent l'existence de deux modes de dveloppement diffrents.
20794399|In order to determine the most important environmental conditions for the micropropagation of the ornamental Otacanthus coeruleus, the effects of some macro and micro environmental factors on in vitro growth and morphogenesis were analysed. The growth increased both with higher temperature (day/night 25/20C) and irradiance (55 mole.m.s), and it was found to be the highest in the medium containing 6 g.l agar, 30 g.l sucrose and 10.7 g.l mannitol, with a macronutrient concentration equal to that of Murashige and Skoog's medium. The morphology of the explants was not so influenced by the tested temperature and irradiance levels, but by the agar and sucrose concentration, and especially by the macronutrient concentration.
20794552|In this study, possible effects of Roman agricultural land-use on the present-day vegetation in the Meerdaal Forest (Belgium) were examined. Based on geomorphological and archaeological indicators, spatially distributed probabilities for the occurrence of agricultural activity during Roman times were calculated. Analysis of the vegetation in 31 carefully selected plots revealed persistent effects of Roman land-use at the individual plant species level, at the species group level and at the community level. Based on Ellenberg indicator values and Grime plant strategies, indications were found that the vegetation on formerly cultivated and fertilised sites still had a more eutrophic character and hence, contained more typical forest species. However, although the trends are clear, more detailed analyses are needed to strengthen the observed patterns.
20794502|The hexaploid Asplenium cyprium Viane et Van den heede sp. nov. and its pentaploid hybrid, A. xtroodeum Viane et Van den heede hybr. nov., with A. ceterach are described as new taxa for Cyprus. Both are similar in gross morphology to diploid A. javorkeanum and to tetraploid A. ceterach, and can best be differentiated cytologically by counting chromosomes. If this is impossible (e.g., for herbarium material) the exospore and stomatal guard cell size also allow reliable identification. Isozyme analysis is used to prove that A. cyprium is different from the Madeiran hexaploid A. lolegnamense. Identical or very similar arrays of allozymes for A. javorkeanum, A. ceterach, and A. cyprium, confirm the autopolyploidy of A. ceterach and A. cyprium. Many of the heterozygous tetraploid and hexaploid plants exhibit unbalanced staining activity, implying tetrasomic and hexasomic inheritance. In contrast, five loci (Aat, Skdh, Pgi-2, Tpi-1 and Tpi-2) show fixed heterozygosity for the Madeiran A. lolegnamense and confirm its allohexaploid origin. The Pgi-2 zymograms indicate a multiple and local origin of autohexaploid A. cyprium. The observed patterns are consistent with those expected under the hypothesis that A. cyprium originated directly via hybridization between a normal and an unreduced gamete of A. ceterach. The fact that A. javorkeanum and A. xmantoniae were not found on the Island (110 plants were cytologically checked) forms an additional argument to adopt this hypothesis
20794539|Pollen morphology of 29 Mediterranean species, belonging to seven sections of the genus Teucrium L., has been investigated by scanning electron and light microscopy. The exine is tectate-perforate, but variations in exine sculpturing make it possible to distinguish four pollen types; verrucate, granulate, suprareticulate and pollen grains with an intermediate sculpturing composed of short, discontinuous supratectal ridges. Exine sculpturing type, pollen size and the density of supratectal elements seem to have a systematic value. Verrucate sculpturing is found in the basal groups of Teucrium, such as sections Teucrium and Teucropsis. This sculpturing type is associated with large sparsely verrucate pollen grains, particularly in section Teucrium subsection Teucrium. The section Scorodonia subsection Stachyobotrys can be distinguished by its suprareticulate sculpturing, a character that is clearly associated with the bilabiate or pseudo-bilabiate species. The intermediate sculpturing is found mainly in the unilabiate sections with subactinomorphic calyx such as Polium, Chamaedrys and Montanum. Spinularia is characterised by medium to large pollen grains with a low granule density.
20794606|In the summer of 1996, a detailed survey of natural phytoplankton samples from the freshwater part of the Schelde estuary was carried out to check for the occurrence of poorly studied heterotrophic protists, the herbivorous amoeba Asterocaelum algophilum and chytrid parasites. The plankton community during the summer bloom was dominated by centric diatoms (Cyclotella scaldensis, C. atomus). Fungal infestations of these bloom-forming species were not observed in fixed samples, although severe infections were frequently observed in net samples which were maintained in the laboratory for a few days. The chytrid infecting the diatom Actinocyclus normanii was identified as Podochytrium cornutum. Four morphologically distinct chytrids resembling the genus Podochytrium parasitized cells of C. scaldensis. In contrast to the populations of centric diatoms, infection of the riverine Scenedesmus population by the chytrid Rhizophydium scenedesmi occurred in situ. The infection prevalence was maximum ca. 24%, leading to a twofold reduction in the biomass of Scenedesmus. It is hypothesized that the condition of the host population is a discriminating factor since only the allochtonous phytoplankton populations get infected, when entering the estuary. On the other hand, Asterocaelum algophilum was shown to feed voraciously on centric diatom cells. Cyclotella atomus, C. scaldensis and Stephanodiscus hantzschii were its main prey; infrequently, some green algae (Crucigenia) were found ingested too. At times, the amoeba was capable of grazing away ca. 25% of the diatoms per day. On average, larger diatom cells were found relatively more frequently inside 'feeding cysts' of this unusual amoeba when compared to the undigested centric diatom populations, which suggests the occurrence of some size-selectivity in the feeding behaviour of A. algophilum. Since some-times more than 70% of the C. scaldensis cells and more than 50% of the S. hantzschii cells were found ingested, the impact of grazing by A. algophilum on the populations of the larger diatom species in the estuary can be significant. As a result, more attention should be paid to the presence and role of these organisms in aquatic food web studies.
20794406|Cette revue de la distribution de P. lunatus L. en Amrique latine, ralise pays par pays, met en vidence les connaissances actuelles sur la rpartition gographique des trois formes botaniques (sauvage, sauvageode et cultive) selon les deux pools gniques de cette espce (andin et mso-amricain). Diverses disparits existent entre le nombre de chacune des diffrentes formes botaniques et la distribution gographique des introductions aux niveaux du continent, d'une rgion ou d'un pays. Il existe des changes de gnes entre les races locales appartenant aux deux pools gniques dans les zones de contact situes dans les Andes du nord et dans le sud du Brsil. Des changes gniques dans un mme pool gnique ont galement lieu lorsque la forme sauvage est en sympatrie avec la forme cultive aboutissant  la formation d'un complexe sauvage - sauvageode - cultive. Le haricot de Lima a pu coloniser de nombreux milieux cologiques en s'adaptant  de nombreuses altitudes (0-2 500 m), tempratures moyennes (14-30C) et pluviomtries annuelles (500-2 500 mm). Cependant, les risques d'rosion gntique sont rels et des suggestions sont mises pour de nouvelles prospections ainsi que pour la conservation de l'espce. A review of distributional data for Latin America, realised country per country, reveals the actual knowledge on the different geographic distributions of the three botanical forms (wild, weedy, and cultivated) considering the two gene pools of P. lunatus L. (Andean and Mesoamerican). Disparities were pointed out between the frequency of each botanical form and their distribution at different levels: continental, regional or national. A gene flow is acting between the landraces belonging to the two gene pools when they come into contact such as in the northern Andes or in the southern Brazil. Another gene flow exists when the wild and the cultivated forms are sympatric and so results in a wild - weed - crop complex. Lima bean has colonised various ecological sites adapting to a large range of altitudes (0-2,500 m.a.s.l.), mean temperatures (14-30C) and annual rainfall (500-2,500 mm). Nonetheless, a genetic erosion is occuring and some suggestions are made for new prospections and for the conservation of this species.
20794208|Populations of Bryum capillare Hedw. with a very wide leaf border have been described as B. platyloma Schwaegr. or B. capillare var. rufifolium (Dix.) Podp. They belong to one taxon of varietal rank: Bryum capillare Hedw. var. platyloma (Schwaegr.) Schimper. Les populations de Bryum capillare Hedw. avec des feuilles largement bordes de cellules paissies, ont t dcrites comme B. platyloma Schwaegr. ou B. capillare var. rufifolium (Dix.) Podp. Elles forment un seul taxon de rang varital: Bryum capillare Hedw. var. platyloma (Schwaegr.) Schimper.
20794286|Sont mentionns pour la premire fois en Belgique: Coix lacryma-jobi, Crypsis aculeata, C. alopecuroides, C. schoenoides, Echinochloa frumentacea (taxon discut par rapport  E. utilis, dont le nom correct serait E. esculenta), E. microstachya, Eragrostis (= Thellungia) advena, E. ciliaris, E. confertiflora, Miscanthus sinensis et Piptatherum miliaceum subsp. thomasii. Les rcoltes correspondantes sont anciennes, sauf celles d'Echinochloa microstachya, de Miscanthus sinensis ainsi que la plupart de celles d'Echinochloa frumentacea et d'E. utilis, trouvs essentiellement en Flandre. La mention, passe inaperue, de Bromus danthoniae est rappele et de brefs commentaires taxonomiques ou nomenclaturaux sont faits  propos de quelques autres espces. The following taxa are mentioned for the first time in Belgium: Coix lacryma-jobi, Crypsis aculeata, C. alopecuroides, C. schoenoides, Echinochloa frumentacea (taxon discussed in comparison to E. utilis, the correct name of which may be E. esculenta), E. microstachya, Eragrostis (= Thellungia) advena, E. ciliaris, E. confertiflora, Miscanthus sinensis and Piptatherum miliaceum subsp. thomasii. These collections have been made a considerable time ago, except those of Echinochloa microstachya, Miscanthus sinensis and most of Echinochloa frumentacea and E. utilis, found essentially in Flanders. The neglected record of Bromus danthoniae is recalled and brief taxonomical or nomenclatural comments concerning some other species are added.
20794294|L'analyse factorielle des correspondances et la classification automatique de 93 relevs phytosociologiques effectus dans les forts msophiles du Rwanda occidental met en vidence 40 relevs propres aux forts primaires. L'tude approfondie de cellesci permet de distinguer 3 phytocnoses qui diffrent  la fois par leur composition floristique et par leur cologie:  Le Psychotrio-Chrysophylletum gorungosani ass. nov. occupe la tranche altitudinale comprise entre 1850 et 1950 m, associe aux pentes faibles (environ 7);  Le Parinaro-Ocotetum michelsonii ass. nov. est localis entre 1950 et 2190 m sur des versants ou vallons aux pentes variant entre 3 et 20;  Le Carapo-Beilschmidietum rwandensis ass. nov. s'tend de 2080  2600 m d'altitude. Factor and cluster analyses were applied on 93 "relevs" of the mesophilous forests of Western Rwanda. It allowed to separate a cluster of 40 "relevs" belonging to the primary forests. Phytosociological analysis performed on these regrouped vegetations enables to obtain 3 plant communities that differ from each other both by floristical composition and ecological factors:  The Psychotrio-Chrysophylletum gorungosani ass. nov. is located between 1850-1950 m of altitude on soft slopes (about 7);  The Parinaro-Ocotetum michelsonii ass. nov. is found between 1950-2190 m of altitude with variable slopes (3-20);  The Carapo-Beilschmiedietum rwandensis ass. nov. lies from 2080 up to 2600 m.
20794629|Adaptation to survival under drought stress was studied in two weedy Bolboschoenus species, Bolboschoenus laticarpus and B. planiculmis. Sprouting ability and viability/mortality ratio of underground tubers were studied in experimental cultivation at different burial depths. Drought strongly limited tuber sprouting. A considerable proportion of living dormant tubers was found to be stored in the soil especially at deeper soil depths. This may prevent the decay of aboveground shoots during dry periods and enable the renewal of the whole population after an unfavourable period. No strong differences in the response to dry conditions appeared between both studied species. Tubers of B. planiculmis appeared to be somewhat less viable compared to B. laticarpus.
20794198|La biomasse a t dtermine pour une jachre de deux ans aprs coupe de la fort. La strate arbustive a une biomasse de 6,8 t/ha de matire sche (M.S.). Elle est essentiellement compose de Trema orientalis (Ulmaceae) et de Caloncoba subtomentosa (Flacourtiaceae), qui sont des arbres  croissance rapide. Le sous-bois est domin par diverses mgagophytes (Commelinaceae, Marantaceae, Zingiberaceae) dont la biomasse globale s'lve  47,0 t/ha de M.S. Les minralomasses des macrolments (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na) dans la jachre ont t calcules aprs analyses chimiques des chantillons des plantes. Elles sont les plus importantes pour le potassium (1010 kg/ha), l'azote (487 kg/ha) et le calcium (298 kg/ha). Ces biolments sont davantage stocks dans la strate herbace que dans la strate ligneuse. Biomass for a two year fallow is established after a clear-felling of the forest. The shrub layer has a biomass of 6,8 t/ha (dry weight). It is essentially composed of Trema orientalis (Ulmaceae) and Caloncoba subtomentosa (Flacourtiaceae), those being rapid growing trees. Various megageophyts (Commelinaceae, Marantaceae, Zingiberaceae) occupy most of the underwood, which global biomass is 47,0 t/ha. Mineralomass of macroelements (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na) in this fallow are estimated from chemical analysis of vegetation. The most abundant elements are K (1010 kg/ha), N (487 kg/ha), Ca (298 kg/ha). The herbaceous layer contains more bioelements than the tree layer.
20794583|In this study we investigated the genetic structure and diversity of jack pine populations in Quebec using chloroplast microsatellite markers. Six cpSSR loci were used to screen 15 Pinus banksiana populations from an economically important region of the boreal zone. The main objective was to quantify the variation within and among populations and to relate this to their geographic pattern. From 3 to 6 size variants were identified at each locus. A total of 29 size variants at the six loci were identified and 5 of the size variants occurred infrequently. The size variants were combined into 87 different haplotypes, of which 49 were unique. The AMOVA analysis revealed that 10.96% of the variation was distributed between populations and 89.04% within populations. Cluster analysis divided the studied populations into two large groups, one from north-western Quebec and the second from eastern Quebec. These results suggest that the genetic structure of the studied jack pine populations is the result of interactions between historical post-glacial migrations and climate-disturbance structuring factors.
20794675|Picea omorika (Pan.) Purk. is a relict and an endemic species found exclusively in the Balkan, within an area of ca. 10 000 km. Marker-based genetic diversity data in this conifer are very limited and partially contradictory. Therefore, twelve nuclear markers (ten EST-SSRs and two genomic SSRs) were tested for cross-species amplification in P. omorika. Five EST-SSRs amplified successfully and a very high number of alleles per locus was found in 50 trees originating from two natural populations (7 to 18 alleles per locus), with a total of 61 alleles. Furthermore, a high number of private alleles were detected  13 and 14 per population, respectively. Rare alleles, i.e., alleles whose frequency was lower than 0.05, were not observed. Markers were selectively neutral, no linkage disequilibrium was detected and the genotype frequencies fitted HardyWeinberg proportions. Expected heterozygosity per locus ranged from 0.64 to 0.91 in both populations, with an overall mean of 0.83. Considering the small remnant population sizes of P. omorika, these values are unexpectedly high and comparable to values in P. glauca (Moench) Voss., P. sitchensis (Bong.) Carr. and P. mariana (Mill.) B.S.P. detected with an identical set of markers in samples of similar sizes.
20794274|Isozyme variation has been studied at the populational level in Armeria maritima in order to investigate the taxonomic status of heavy-metal tolerant populations. Although metallicolous populations show lower intrapopulational variation and higher interpopulational genetic differentiation than non-tolerant populations, most of the genetic variation seems to occur within populations. This indicates that large sample sizes per population are necessary in order to study the taxonomy of these populations. A comparison of electrophoretic and morphological data gives concordant as well as divergent results but seems to confirm the independent origin of different metallicolous populations. La taxonomie des populations tolrantes aux mtaux lourds chez A. maritima a t aborde par une tude de la variation isoenzymatique au niveau populationnel. Bien que les populations mtallicoles montrent une plus faible variabilit intra-populationnelle et une plus forte diffrentiation inter-populationnelle que les populations non-tolrantes, la plus grande partie de la diversit gntique semble exister  l'intrieur des populations. Ceci indique qu'une tude taxonomique de ces populations doit se baser sur des chantillons d'effectif important. Une comparaison des donnes lectrophortiques et morphologiques semble confirmer l'origine indpendante des diffrentes populations mtallicoles.
20794660|Les effets du type d'exploitation agricole sur les capacits d'invasion des espces exotiques sont rarement tudis. La prsente tude a pour objectif d'analyser les capacits d'invasion de deux espces exotiques, Chromolaena odorata et Hyptis suaveolens, en relation avec l'exploitation des terres dans la zone de transition guino-congolaise/soudanaise du Bnin. Les rsultats indiquent que la production annuelle des graines de C. odorata (45 151 graines/individu) est plus leve que celle de H. suaveolens (1 782 graines/individu). En revanche, le taux de germination de H. suaveolens (70%) est plus lev que celui de C. odorata (30%). La production de graines et la densit des individus de C. odorata sont plus leves dans les jachres et les savanes arbustives-arbores ptures que dans les savanes dboises et champs de culture. Celles de H. suaveolens sont plus leves dans les jachres et les savanes dboises. Le feu de vgtation a contribu au ralentissement du dveloppement de leurs plants et  la rduction de leur production de graines et de leur taux de germination. L'tude rvle que le degr d'invasion est li aux perturbations anthropiques des types de formations vgtales. Hyptis suaveolens prsente une capacit d'invasion plus leve que C. odorata. Les deux plantes exotiques modifient la structure des formations vgtales dans un sens dfavorable  l'levage en induisant l'installation des espces non apptes par le btail. Very few studies have been conducted on the effects of farming systems on the invasive capacity of exotic species. This study fills this gap by analysing the invasive capacity of two exotic species, Chromolaena odorata and Hyptis suaveolens, in farming systems in the Guineo-Congolian/Sudanian transition zone of Benin. The findings show that the annual seed yield of C. odorata (45 151 seeds/plant) is significantly higher than that of H. suaveolens (1 782 seeds/plant). On the other hand, seed germination rate of H. suaveolens (70%) was higher than that of C. odorata (30%). Seed production and population density of C. odorata were higher in fallows and tree-savannah than in deforested savannah and croplands. H. suaveolens seed production and population density were higher in fallows and degraded savannahs. Bush fire reduced plant growth, the amount of seeds annually produced, and the seed germination rate. This study shows that the invasion intensity is related to the farming system. These two exotic species unfavourably altered the vegetation structure available to livestock by favouring the establishment non-forage species.
20794268|We have studied different genera and species of filamentous fungi and yeasts (e.g. Aspergillus, Penicillium, Phoma, Trichoderma, Arxula, Candida, Kluyveromyces, Saccharomyces) by DNA fingerprinting and the random amplified polymorphic DNA method. We were able to differentiate species, strains and pathotypes of the investigated filamentous fungi and yeasts, respectively. DNA fingerprints obtained from the phytopathogenic fungus Phoma lingam allowed to distinguish aggressive from non-aggressive isolates. Phylogenetic relationships within the Trichoderma aggregate were investigated by means of DNA fingerprinting and RAPD. The results suggested a re-classification of this group. Yeasts analyzed by DNA fingerprinting showed prominent bands characteristic for each investigated species, in addition to the general strain-specific hybridization pattern. In our opinion, DNA fingerprinting and RAPD could be helpful tools to solve problems of fungal taxonomy and phylogeny at the level of related species and strains if combined with other molecular methods in addition to morphological and biochemical investigations. An verschiedenen Gattungen und Arten filamentser Pilze und Hefen (u.a. Aspergillus, Penicillium, Phoma, Trichoderma, Arxula, Candida, Kluyveromyces, Saccharomyces) wurden Untersuchungen zum DNA-Fingerprinting und zum Nachweis von "random amplified polymorphic DNA" (RAPD) durchgefhrt. Diese Analyse polymorpher DNA-Sequenzen machte eine Unterscheidung von Arten, Stmmen bzw. Pathotypen der untersuchten filamentsen Pilze und Hefen mglich. DNA-Fingerprintmuster verschiedener Isolate des phytopathogenen Pilzes Phoma lingam erlaubten die Identifizierung aller untersuchten Isolate sowie deren Zuordnung zum aggressiven bzw. nicht-aggressiven Pathotyp. Phylogenetische Beziehungen innerhalb des Trichoderma-Aggregates wurden in DNA-Fingerprint- und RAPD-Experimenten untersucht. Die Ergebnisse deuten auf eine Neuordnung innerhalb der bestehenden Trichoderma-Klassifikation auf der Basis molekularer Daten hin. Die DNA-Fingerprintanalyse von 34 Hefestmmen ergab fr jeden untersuchten Stamm ein individuelles Bandenmuster. Darber hinaus war ber charakteristische Banden eine deutliche Abgrenzung von Stmmen verschiedener Arten mglich. Nach unserer Erfahrung stellen das DNA-Fingerprinting und die RAPD-Methode in Kombination mit anderen molekularen, morphologischen und biochemischen Untersuchungen geeignete Methoden zur Lsung von taxonomischen und phylogenetischen Fragestellungen insbesondere auf der Ebene verwandter Arten und Stmme dar.
20794326|Le traitement par la technique de l'analyse factorielle des correspondances et la classification hirarchique de 118 relevs phytosociologiques ont permis l'individualisation de dix associations nouvelles communment rencontres dans le nord Bnin. Trois associations ont t ainsi dfinies dans les formations anthropognes (champs et jachres), six associations dans les formations savanicoles et une association rudrale des parcours de bovins. Les diffrentes associations individualises ont t hirarchises sur base de considrations co-sociologiques, ce qui entrane la cration de quelques syntaxons nouveaux aux rangs d'alliance et d'ordre. Factor analysis and clustering method were applied to 118 phytosociological relevs collected in the Sudanian zone in northern Benin. Ten new associations were identified among which three associations of fields and fallow lands, six associations of savanna and one association that relied on herds of cattle impacts. All these associations were classified at different hierarchical levels according to ecosociological bases, which involves the proposal of some new alliances and orders.
20794640|Mangroves are known to stabilise coastal sediments through their above-ground aerial root complex. The results presented in this paper suggest that the grey mangrove Avicennia marina has the ability to adapt its pneumatophores to micro-topographical irregularities in the otherwise regularly sloping intertidal zone. The difference in height above datum (and thus in hydrological regime) in this study was as little as 15 cm higher as opposed to that for the surrounding mangrove soil. Significantly higher pneumatophore densities and total pneumatophore lengths were observed in the centre of the landward depression, and significantly lower below-ground pneumatophore length in the centre of the seaward depression. The mangrove's adaptations to these localised topographic differences are important in view of changes in intertidal hydrology, the latter being linked to changes in topography. We emphasize the need to consider the effect of topography in the intertidal environment of mangroves more closely in the future on different ecological scales (individual adaptation  regeneration of the entire population) and under different scenarios of change (direct anthropogenic impact  changes in sea level).
20794361|Dans le but d'tudier les proprits bronchomotrices de 15 plantes utilises dans les maladies respiratoires au Kivu/Zare et prsentes dans le tableau 1, nous avons utilis comme modle, la trache isole de cobaye et comme molcules de rfrence, la thophylline et l'actylcholine. Dans un premier screening, nous avons recherch l'existence d'activits de relaxation et/ou de contraction par des extraits mthanoliques de ces plantes. Celles dont les extraits entranent au moins 50 p. 100 de relaxation des anneaux de trache ont t retenues pour une exploration ultrieure. Il s'agit de six extraits mthanoliques de Drymaria cordata (L.) Wild., Leucas martinicencis (Jacq.) R.Br., Lantana trifolia L., Cassia didymobotrya Fresen., Coleus barbatus Andrews, Vernonia amygdalina Del. Dans un second screening, sept extraits mthanoliques des six plantes mentionnes ci-haut et d'Embelia schimperi Vatke ont t explores pour leurs proprits bronchorelaxantes. Quatre de ces extraits (Cassia didymobotrya Fresen., Coleus barbatus Andrews, Lantana trifolia L., Vernonia amygdalina Del.) ont entran au moins 70 p. 100 de relaxation des anneaux de trache isole de cobaye et ont t slectionns pour des tudes plus approfondies. L'indication en cas d'asthme de Coleus barbatus par les tradipraticiens du Kivu est probablement justifie par la forskoline, un diterpne  proprits bronchodilatatrices qui a t antrieurement isol de cette plante. A first screening of 15 methanolic plant extracts (see table 1) for their relaxation or contraction properties on isolated guinea pigs rings trachea lead to the selection of six of these extracts viz. Drymaria cordata (L.) Willd., Leucas martinicencis (Jacq.) R.Br., Lantana trifolia L., Cassia didymobotrya Fresen., Coleus barbatus Andrews, Vernonia amygdalina Del. because they decrease contractions induced by acetylcholine and this decrease is more than half of the relaxation induced by theophylline. A second screening of 6 standardized methanolic plant extracts mentioned above and Embelia schimperi Vatke showed that four of these extracts viz. Cassia didymobotrya Fresen., Coleus barbatus Andrews, Lantana trifolia L., Vernonia amygdalina Del.) showed strong relaxation activity on tracheal smooth muscle. They were selected for further investigation, on their activity at least comparable to 70 p. 100 of that found for theophylline. The use in Kivu folk medicine of Coleus barbatus in asthma is probably justified by the presence of forskolin, a diterpene with bronchodilatory activity, previously isolated from Coleus barbatus [C. forskohlii].
20794430|This paper deals with routine techniques for preparation of wood specimens for light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy as executed at Tervuren and Leuven. In addition to the preparation of macerations, topics covered include: procedures for softening, cutting, clearing, staining, dehydrating, and mounting of the sections. Cet article dcrit en dtail le procd suivi  Tervuren et Louvain pour la prparation de coupes de bois  l'usage du microscope optique et du microscope lectronique  balayage. En plus du procd de macration, les aspects suivants sont inclus: imbibition et ramollissement du bois, excution des coupes, traitement, coloration, dessiccation et montage des coupes.
20794556|Glaucocystis nostochinearum (Glaucophyta) is recorded for the third time for Belgium. The new finding is described and illustrated.
20794581|The morphological plasticity of Laboulbenia flagellata Peyr., obtained from Agonum spp. (Pterostichini, Carabidae) and Loricera pilicornis (Fabricius) (Loricerini, Carabidae), was studied using multiple thallus measurements and statistical analysis. All variables were highly inter-correlated with thallus length. There was no complex polymorphism as the proportions of thalli were stable. Thallus length was statistically different in relation to host species, habitat type and growth position. The results suggest that environmental factors affect thallus growth and final size of mature thalli. The smallest mature thalli of L. flagellata come from Loricera pilicornis, their thallus length was remarkably constant.
20794260|The amino-acid sequences of glycolytic enzymes were used to determine the evolutionary relationships between organisms. Glycolytic enzymes are suitable evolutionary chronometers, because they are ubiquitously present. Moreover, their evolution rate is sufficiently slow to enable their use for tracing overall patterns of evolution, but still fast enough to use them for the precise classification of closely related organisms. Our analysis has revealed several examples of horizontal gene transfer between organisms. Some of these transfers can be attributed to the endosymbiotic origin of plastids in plants and the subsequent migration of DNA from the prokaryotic genome of the organelle to the plant nucleus. However, other examples of putative gene transfer involve non-phototrophic organisms; in these latter cases other transfer mechanisms should be invoked. Some anomalies in phylogenetic trees remain so far unexplained. Metabolic constraints or additional functions for glycolytic enzymes may have influenced the direction and rate of evolution of glycolytic enzymes in some organisms. Les squences d'acides amins des enzymes glycolytiques ont t utilises pour tablir une relation phylogntique entre organismes. Les enzymes de la glycolyse sont de bons chronomtres de l'volution, car elles sont omniprsentes. De plus, elles ont une vitesse d'volution suffisamment lente pour tre utilises dans l'tablissement d'un modle global de l'volution, mais cependant assez rapide pour permettre une classification prcise d'organismes apparents. Notre analyse a rvl plusieurs exemples de transfert horizontal de gnes entre organismes. Certains de ces transferts peuvent tre attribus  l'origine endosymbiotique des plastides dans les plantes, suivis de la migration de l'ADN du gnome procaryote de l'organelle vers le noyau de la plante. Cependant, d'autres exemples possibles de transfert de gnes impliquent des organismes non-photosynthtiques; dans ces derniers cas, d'autres mcanismes de transfert peuvent tre invoqus. Certaines anomalies dans les arbres phylogntiques demeurent cependant inexpliques. Des contraintes mtaboliques ou d'autres fonctions pour les enzymes glycolytiques peuvent avoir influenc la direction et la vitesse d'volution des enzymes de la glycolyse chez certains organismes.
20794252|Starting from own relevs, the surveys of Sougnez (1975) and Godderis (1976) and a multivariate analysis of the data matrices, the Quercion-woodlands of the low and middle part of Belgium are divided in two groups of vicariant associations: a Quercus robur group (particularly in the lower part of Belgium) and a Quercus petraea and Fagus sylvatica group (particularly in the middle part of Belgium). Both groups are divided in two associations on the basis of taxa which are associated with soil richness: Querco roboris-Betuletum and Violo-Quercetum roboris vs. Maianthemo-Quercetum petraeae ass. nov. and Deschampsio-Quercetum petraeae ass. nov. The distribution of these communities is described as well as the relationships with surrounding Quercion communities. Apart from these saturated forest communities, some basal communities have been distinguished following the system of Kopechy & Hejny. The latter mainly occur on recent woodland sites or on strongly influenced ancient woodland sites and are often dominated in the field layer by a few taxa e.g. Rubus fruticosus coll. The relation between species richness and former land use is analysed.
20794293|Morphometric and multivariate analyses on 17 populations of D. praetermissa in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany show considerable interpopulation variability that is here resolved as ten variants. Three of these are referable to typical D. praetermissa, one to subsp. integrata, and two trend towards the related species D. elata. The last four variants (corresponding to six of the initial populations) are remarkably homogeneous, and are probably recently established, clonal populations. They should be observed over the next few years to check whether they develop into new populations of the typical species. A few populations, resembling D. praetermissa but growing in the French Alps, far outside the normal distribution area, may have arisen through hybridizations similar to those that we regard as responsible for the origination of D. praetermissa. However, they show considerable morphological differences from D. praetermissa and are not referable to it. They are given provisional, informal names after the localities where they grow. Des analyses morphomtriques et multivariables sur 17 populations de D. praetermissa en France, en Belgique, aux Pays-Bas et en Allemagne mettent en vidence une variabilit inter-populations considrable, que nous ramenons ici  dix variantes. Trois d'entre elles peuvent tre rapportes  D. praetermissa typique; une autre  la subsp. integrata; deux autres dnotent une tendance vers l'espce voisine D. elata. Les quatre dernires variantes (correspondant  six des populations de dpart) sont remarquablement homognes; il s'agit probablement de populations clonales, rcemment tablies. Elles devraient faire l'objet d'observations au cours des prochaines annes pour vrifier si elles donnent bien naissance  des nouvelles populations de l'espce typique. Quelques populations, ressemblant  D. praetermissa, mais originaires des Alpes franaises, loin de l'aire normale de rpartition, peuvent tre apparues suite  des hybridations similaires  celles qui ont pu donner naissance  D. praetermissa. Par rapport  ce dernier, elles montrent des diffrences morphologiques considrables et ne peuvent y tre rattaches. Elles reoivent ici des dnominations provisoires, non scientifiques, bases sur leur localit d'origine.
20794259|Macromolecules can be used to derive evolutionary relationships. This discovery has led to the development of a new discipline in biology, molecular evolution. A brief survey of several aspects of this new field of investigation is presented, together with references to historical and more recent literature. Macromoleculen kunnen gebruikt worden om evolutionaire verwant-schappen af te leiden. Deze ontdekking heeft geleid tot de ontwikkeling van een nieuw vakgebied in de biologie: moleculaire evolutie. Een kort overzicht van verscheidene aspecten van dit nieuwe onderzkgebied wordt gegeven met verwijzingen naar historische en meer recente literatuur.
20794416|Compte rendu de l'excursion annuelle, organise fin mai 1993 dans les dpartements franais de la Marne (F-51)  l'est de Chlons-sur-Marne et de la Meuse (F-55) dans un rayon de 30 km autour de Bar-le-Duc. Trois grandes rgions naturelles sont visites: la Champagne crayeuse, la Champagne humide argileuse et les premiers contreforts calcaires de Lorraine: les plateaux du Barrois. La gestion des milieux est voque, notamment le problme de conservation des pelouses sur calcaires marneux du Barrois, confrontes  un vieillissement rapide et gnralis. Account of the annual field meeting organized at the end of May 1993 in the French departements of Marne (F-51) east of Chlons-sur-Marne, and of Meuse (F-55) 30 km around Bar-le-Duc. Three large natural areas have been visited: chalk Champagne, wet clayey Champagne, and the first calcareous foot-hills of Lorraine: the Barrois tablelands. Management of natural environnements is discussed, especially the problem of preservation of grassland on marl-limestone of Barrois which are subjected to a quick and widespread evolution.
20794511|This study aimed at evaluating the potential role of persistent soil seedbanks in restoring grassland and heathland communities in sites that have been afforested or are currently cultivated. To do so, we used the results of 16 case studies and an analysis of the database of Thompson et al. (1997). Generally, there is a decrease in total seed density with increasing age since abandonment or transformation. This decline is much faster for species of calcareous or alluvial grasslands than for heathland and grassheath species. During succession, seeds of target species disappear from the seedbank, owing to seed senescence. In many cases, the seed density of nontarget species increases with time. These species are often ruderal or competitive species, typical of arable land and other disturbed sites, with long-term persistent seeds. Grassland species have a low seed longevity index and low densities in the soil. Moreover, a few years after abandonment, almost all species have disappeared from the soil seedbank. Hence, restoration of species-rich grasslands cannot rely on the seedbank. Where the colonization by target species is hampered because of the isolation of the site, seed introduction is necessary. Heathland species, especially Calluna vulgaris, and grassheath species have a higher seed longevity index and can survive for a long period in the soil. However, the density of their seeds also declines with time and restoration of heathland on sites abandoned or forested for longer than 40 years is also seed limited. If the former heathland was converted to arable land, the decline of heathland species in the seedbank is much faster owing to ploughing. Moreover, high nutrient levels in the soil favour competition from nontarget species after germination. In that case, restoration of heathland or grassheath is expected to be problematic.
20794306|L'anatomie des radicelles d'pica  structures secondaires pourrait expliquer probablement l'intensit notable des flux d'absorption des lments nutritifs dans le sens basal. La couche priphrique du lige cortical comporte des cellules  parois paissies lignifies, traverses de nombreuses ponctuations. Dans le cas du htre, il existe une certaine discordance entre les mesures physiologiques et les observations anatomiques. Il semble qu'il faille admettre que les parois subrises des cellules de lige, disposes en plusieurs assises, soient plus permables aux solutions du sol que prvu. II. Anatomical structure of the cortex of rootlets.  The relative high absorption flux of the nutrients of spruce rootlets with secondary structures, in the basal direction, can be partly explained by anatomical consideration. Cells with thick lignified walls are included in the peripheral cortical layer. These cells are crossed by many pits. In the case of beech, physiological measurements and anatomical observations do not agree completely. One has to hypothesize that the suberin walls of the cork cells, several layers thick, are more conductive to soil solution than previously thought.
20794568|Treatment with sodium naphthenate (10 M), an important organic contaminant, significantly increased concentrations of Mn, Fe, Zn and Ni, but decreased K and Na contents in roots of young soybean plants. On the other hand, only increases in Fe and Mn were observed in stems and leaves, respectively. In roots, Mn content was four times higher, whereas contents of Fe, Zn and Ni increased by 17%, 60% and 68%, respectively. The root concentration of K and Na decreased by 41% and 66%, comparatively to controls. Our results confirm that the impact of naphthenate on mineral nutrition depend on the considered element.
20794566|A palynological study of Middle Weichselian fluviatile deposits, lying at the base of a bipartite loam cover at Soignies and Courcelles, revealed an open landscape with some scattered trees or shrubs of Pinus, Betula and Salix except for the lowermost channel at Soignies, where a boreal forest composed of Alnus, Pinus, Betula and Salix could be reconstructed. The diaspores appear to have been derived from plant communities representing a diversity of habitats, i.e., fully aquatic communities (Charetea, Potametea), swamps and mires (Phragmitetea, Parvocaricetea, Molinio-Arrhenatheretea) and pioneers of bare ground (Bidentetea). The abundance of leaves from Salix herbacea, retrieved from both sites, confirms the arctic climatic conditions.
20794597|This study tests the hypothesis that silica accumulation in grasses is an inducible response to grazing. It also examines if silica concentration is correlated to other leaf structural and chemical parameters. To that end, five tropical grass species (Andropogon gayanus var. bisquamulatus, Elymandra androphila, Hyparrhenia subplumosa, Panicum maximum var. C1 and Panicum maximum var. local) were subjected to various clipping treatments in cultivation. Clipping was found to increase silica concentration in three of five species (blades and sheaths), but this response was rarely strong and varied with clipping frequency. Defoliation also caused other changes in leaf structure, i.e. production of leaves with juvenile characters including higher Specific Leaf Area (SLA), higher Relative Water Content (RWC), and lower carbon concentration. This suggests that enhanced silica accumulation is not a very specific response to defoliation. Silica concentration also varied among species and was correlated to leaf structure and chemical composition. Andropogon gayanus var. bisquamulatus had the lowest silica concentration and the highest carbon concentration, while Panicum maximum showed the opposite combination of traits, suggesting that species with more sclerified leaves might be less silicified. Positive correlations between silica content and RWC, soluble ash, and SLA suggest that variation in silica accumulation among species and treatments might be related to transpiration rate.
20794554|Micromorphological information on Iberian Epipactis species is very limited. Using scanning electron microscopy, we examined the differences in leaf border denticulation and rachis, as well as floral pedicel hairs in six populations of Epipactis (E. helleborine, E. lusitanica and E. tremolsii) from the Central-Western Iberian Peninsula. These taxa showed important differences in these characteristics, some of which seem to correspond to the different habitats occupied. Some taxonomic and phytosociological comments are made on these species. Les informations micromorphologiques sur les espces ibriques d'Epipactis sont trs limites. En utilisant le microscope lectronique  balayage, ce travail examine les diffrences dans la denticulation du bord des feuilles, ainsi que dans la pilosit de la tige et des pdicelles floraux, pour six populations d'Epipactis (E. helleborine, E. lusitanica et E. tremolsii) du Centre-ouest de la Pninsule ibrique. Ces taxons montrent d'importantes diffrences dans ces caractres, dont certaines semblent lies aux diffrents habitats occups. Quelques commentaires taxonomiques et phytosociologiques sont effectus sur ces espces.
20794624|A classical example of petal-to-stamen transition is the flower of white water lily (Nymphaea alba s.l., Nymphaeaceae). The description in terms of classical plant morphology cannot reveal all morphological variation of transitional organs. Our aim was to describe transitional structures of Nymphaea flower using an integrated approach, which could adequately reflect the nature of transitional structures. We collected 25 water lily flowers from four regions of European Russia. All the organs of the flowers were measured (2479 organs in total). Our data were analysed graphically and by various methods of multivariate statistics. To reduce the influence of size we computed two integrated "hybrid" morphological indices. The Euclidean distances from "typical stamen" and membership coefficients of fuzzy clustering were also calculated. In addition, we tested the descriptive ability of landmark-based geometric morphometrics. Besides traditional petal-to-stamen transition in Nymphaea flowers, we documented intermediate organs between sepals and petals, which were close to sepals by their morphology. Traditionally gradual petal-to-stamen shifts were postulated for Nymphaea flower. In spite of this postulate, our application of computing Euclidean distances method, of "hybrid" indices and of cluster membership of fuzzy clustering revealed that petals, stamens and transitional structures could be efficiently separated by their characters. The analysis of these characters shows diversity in morphology of flowers, collected from distinct regions of European Russia, which could be of taxonomic importance. It is remarkable that different morphological feature shifts, leading to substitution of sepals by petals and of petals by stamens, occur asynchronously. Flowers were investigated as "populations", where any separate organ represents a single "individual". Thus methods, used in plant population biology, may be applied to flower organs. Morphological nature of these organs is better revealed via integral characteristics such as "hybrid" indices, distances and cluster membership.
20794435|Une rvision du matriel belge d'Amblystegium fluviatile et d'A. tenax a t entreprise. Une cl de dtermination et la carte de rpartition en Belgique de ces deux espces sont prsentes. A. fluviatile a t observ dans 158 carrs IFBL, A. tenax dans 87. La plus importante aire de distribution d'A. fluviatile se trouve dans les districts phytogographiques Ardennais et Mosan, celle d'A. tenax dans le Mosan. Les deux espces sont rares dans les autres districts et absentes du Maritime. Environ 3/4 des observations de ces deux espces ont t ralises aprs 1980. A. fluviatile pousse dans des eaux moins minralises (mdiane des observations de duret totale de ca 30F chez A. tenax et de 10F chez A. fluviatile), de niveau trophique infrieur (mdiane des observations des concentrations en N-NH de ca 0,25 mg/l chez A. tenax et de ca. 0,09 mg/l chez A. fluviatile) et moins charges en mtaux lourds (mdiane des observations des concentrations en Zn de ca. 100 g/l chez A. tenax et de ca. 25 g/l chez A. fluviatile). Les deux espces prsentent des populations trs tolrantes  la pollution des eaux. A. tenax et A. fluviatile tolrent respectivement des concentrations allant jusqu' 9 et 6 mg/l de N-NH. La tolrance  la pollution chez ces deux espces et leur expansion en Belgique sont discutes. A revision of the Belgian material of Amblystegium fluviatile and A. tenax was undertaken. A determination key and distribution maps are provided. A. fluviatile was observed in 158 IFBL squares, A. tenax in 87. The most important distribution area of A. fluviatile are the phytogeographical districts "Ardennais" and "Mosan", that of A. tenax is the "Mosan". Both are rare in the other districts and absent from the "Maritime". 3/4 of the observations of these two species were made after 1980. A. fluviatile grows in waters less rich in dissolved minerals (median of the observations of total hardness of about 30F in A. tenax and 10F in A. fluviatile), of lower trophic level (median of the observations of N-NH concentrations of ca 0.25 mg/l in A. tenax and of about 0.09 mg/l in A. fluviatile) and less loaded in heavy metals (median of the observations of Zn concentrations of about 100 g/l in A. tenax and of about 25 g/l in A. fluviatile). Both species include populations exhibiting a large tolerance to water pollution. A. texax and A. fluviatile were found in rivers with maxima of N-NH up to 9 and 6 mg/l, respectively. The polluo-tolerance of these species and their spread in Belgium are discussed.
43996255|Tropical Africa has about 400 species and 70 genera of poroid fungi. There are three endemic genera and 46 endemic species (excluding Ganodermataceae) in Africa which gives an endemism of about 11.5 % at specific level ; the reason for this is discussed. The number of brown rotting species is low, only 3%, compared with about 25% in the boreal conifer zone ; this difference is discussed. Amauroderma (Ganodermataceae) has an endemism of about 90%, which is also the case in tropical America ; this situation strikingly differs from all other groups of polypores ; parasitism of the genus is suggested as the cause. In Africa Phellinus is represented by about 30 species of which only one is endemic, while the corresponding number for tropical America is 60 species of which about 60% are endemic. It is suggested that the reason for this difference is the isolated position of tropical America while Africa has been connected to tropical Asia in previous geological periods through more or less continuous forests. Planted Pinus species in Africa have a remarkable high number of brown rotting species, apparently imported with seedlings when planting started in the end of last century. Abundisporus gen nov. is proposed with Polyporus fuscopurpureus Pers. as type species and the following new combinations are proposed A. fuscopurpureus (Pers.) Ryv., A. roseoalbus (Jungh.) Ryv. and A. violaceus (Wakef.) Ryv.
20794494|The occurrence, distribution and anatomy of resin canals in different tissues or organs were examined in 11 genera and 44 species of Pinaceae. The principal sources of anatomical variation of this diagnostic feature were (i) the presence of normal canals versus resin cavities, (ii) the presence of both vertical and horizontal canals versus only vertical canals, (iii) the lignification of epithelium cell walls and (iv) the location of resin canals. (1) Normal resin canals are present in seed coats, while horizontal resin canals are lacking in both secondary xylem and secondary phloem in six genera: Abies, Cedrus, Keteleeria, Nothotsuga, Pseudolarix, Tsuga. (2) Normal resin canals are lacking in seed coats, whereas horizontal resin canals are present in both secondary xylem and secondary phloem in five genera Cathaya, Larix, Picea, Pinus and Pseudotsuga. Further, on the basis of the thick-walled or thin-walled epithelial cells surrounding the resin canals in organs, the latter group can be further separated into two lineages: the epithelial cells have thin walls in Pinus, and the epithelial cells have thick walls in the other genera. This classification of resin canals agrees well with the two-subfamily division of Price et al. (1987), and is similar to the three-subfamily division of Pilger (1926) and Melchior & Werdermaan (1954), but it differs from Frankis (1988) four-subfamily division since resin canal attributes in Picea are not different from other genera in Abietoideae. In addition, the systematic position of Nothotsuga, Keteleeria and Cathaya is discussed in relation to the anatomical features of their resin canals.
20794517|Une rvision de Pauridiantha paucinervis et des espces apparentes, toutes d'Afrique tropicale, a t effectue. La dlimitation floue de Pauridiantha paucinervis est discute en dtail en mettant en valeur quelques caractres qui pourraient jouer un rle cl dans la dlimitation des espces de Pauridiantha, comme le calice, la morphologie et l'anatomie des graines ainsi que les domaties foliaires. Il a t dmontr que Pauridiantha bequaertii, P. dewevrei et P. pyramidata mritent une reconnaissance au niveau spcifique. Par contre, Pauridiantha claessensii, P. butaguensis, P. holstii et P. lyallii sont considrs comme synonymes de P. paucinervis; on ne peut mme pas leur attribuer un rang subspcifique comme cela a t propos par le pass pour les trois dernires. Une cl de dtermination ainsi que des cartes de distribution des espces tudies sont prsentes. The problematic delimitation of the tropical African Pauridiantha paucinervis is discussed in detail. In order to unravel the identity of the species, a complex of closely related species and subspecies has been revised with special attention to otherwise often overlooked characters such as calyx and seed morphology, seed anatomy, and types of domatia. It is demonstrated that Pauridiantha bequaertii, P. dewevrei and P. pyramidata, all three often confused with P. paucinervis, are well delimited, and hence deserve the specific rank. On the contrary, Pauridiantha claessensii, P. butaguensis, P. holstii and P. lyallii are reduced to the synonymy of P. paucinervis and it is shown that it is inappropriate to treat them as subspecies as proposed in the literature. A key to the species discussed, as well as detailed distribution maps are provided.
20794527|A variety of floral traits likely to be associated with the reproductive system of seven Belgian Ericaceae species (four Vaccinium species: V. myrtillus, V. oxycoccos, V. uliginosum and V. vitis-idaea, as well as Andromeda polifolia, Calluna vulgaris and Erica tetralix) were quantified. These traits included the size of the flower, the number of pollen tetrads and ovules, the distance between the stigma and the anthers, and the exsertion of the style. Pollen-ovule ratios suggested a more or less mixed mating system in all species. Floral traits (greater pollen-ovule ratio, style highly exserted, higher stigma-anther distance) in V. vitis-idaea suggested that it functioned more as an outcrosser than its congeners. On the opposite, floral traits suggested that E. tetralix and V. uliginosum appeared to be more selfing than the other species.
20794321|Dans le cadre d'une tude sur l'cologie des champignons lignicoles de l'le de Laing (Papouasie Nouvelle-Guine), les espces les plus frquemment rencontres (en particulier: Schizophyllum commune, Daldinia eschscholzii et Trametes scabrosa) ont t cartographies. Les rsultats montrent qu'il existe une bonne corrlation entre le type de rpartition des champignons et le degr de couverture vgtale. In the framework of a study of the ecology of wood-inhabiting fungi on Laing Island (Papua New-Guinea), the most frequently occurring species (namely Schizophyllum commune, Daldinia eschscholzii and Trametes scabrosa) were mapped. The results show a good correlation between the distribution of the fungi and the degree of vegetation cover.
20794331|Vaccinium myrtillus (bilberry) is an important component of temperate heathland vegetation in Northern Europe, yet little is known concerning basic aspects related to its breeding system and genetic variability. In this study, one metapopulation of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) was studied in the Upper Ardennes, Belgium, over a period of 3 years in order to estimate outcrossing rates by means of isozyme starch gel electrophoresis. Moreover, this population, along with nine other Belgian populations (in 1992) and three other European populations (in 1993) were sampled for their genetic variability, still by isozyme techniques. The results show that bilberry has a mixed-mating system and levels of genetic variation equivalent to that in other clonal species with sexual reproduction. Vaccinium myrtillus (la myrtille) est une espce importante de la vgtation des landes tempres d'Europe du nord. Le systme reproducteur et la diversit gntique de cette espce sont peu connus. Dans cette tude, une mtapopulation de myrtilles (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) de Haute Ardenne, Belgique, a t suivie durant trois annes pour estimer son taux d'allogamie grce  des lectrophorses d'isozymes en gel d'amidon. D'autre part, 9 populations situes en Belgique (en 1992) et trois autres situes en Europe (en 1993) ont t tudies quant  leur variabilit gntique, toujours par le biais des isozymes. Les rsultats montrent que la myrtille possde un systme de reproduction mixte et que le niveau de variation gntique est quivalent  celui des espces clonales  reproduction sexue.
20794463|Les donnes floristiques relatives  Elodea callitrichoides en Belgique et dans le nord de la France ont t revues. Celui-ci est facilement reconnaissable d'E. nuttallii en prsence de fleurs, mais celles-ci n'ont jamais t observes dans le territoire tudi. A l'tat vgtatif, ses feuilles sont en gnral plus longues que celles d'E. nuttallii et toujours planes. Sur cette base morphologique, une partie des collections dtermines comme E. callitrichoides se rapportent  E. nuttallii. E. nuttallii est cependant tellement polymorphe que certaines plantes striles peuvent difficilement tre dtermines avec certitude. Sur un mme individu, des tiges ou portions de tiges  feuilles courtes et rcurves et d'autres  feuilles longues et planes ou tirebouchonnes peuvent tre observes. Des marqueurs molculaires ont t utiliss pour dterminer des populations du nord de la France prsentant de longues feuilles planes ou tirebouchonnes, en comparant leur polymorphisme de longueur des fragments amplifis (AFLP) avec celui d'autres populations d'E. nuttallii, d' E. callitrichoides florifre d' Alsace et d' E. canadensis. Les deux couples d'amorces AFLP Eco-AGG/Mse-CAT et Eco-ACA/Mse-CAG ont produit 103 fragments amplifis comptables, qui permettent la dtermination des Elodea striles. D'aprs ces donnes morphologiques et gntiques, les populations du nord de la France rapportes  E. callitrichoides appartiennent  E. nuttallii. E. callitrichoides devrait donc tre supprim de la flore rgionale. Les cls de dtermination utilises pour distinguer vgtativement E. nuttallii d'E. callitrichoides devraient attirer l'attention sur le fait que l'identification des plantes  longues feuilles planes est dlicate en l'absence d' organes floraux. Le polymorphisme gntique important observ chez E. nuttallii appelle de nouvelles investigations en relation avec sa variabilit cytologique et morphologique ainsi que des possibilits d'introgression avec E. canadensis. The floristic data concerning Elodea callitrichoides in Belgium and Northern France were checked. E. callitrichoides is easily distinguished from E. nuttallii when flowering, however flowering plants have never been observed in the study area. Vegetatively, the leaves of E. callitrichoides are always plane and usually longer than those of E. nuttallii. On this basis, certain collections formerly determined as E. callitrichoides belong morphologically to E. nuttallii. E. nuttallii however displays such a polymorphism, that certain plants with plane leaves can hardly be definitely named. On the same plant, shoots or shoot segments with short recurved leaves and others with long plane or twisted leaves can be observed. Molecular markers were used to determine dubious populations from Northern France exhibiting long plane or twisted leaves by comparing their Amplified Fragments Length Polymorphism (AFLP) to that of other populations of E. nuttallii, genuine flowered E. callitrichoides from Alsace and E. canadensis. The two couple of primers Eco-AGG/Mse-CAT and Eco-ACA/Mse-CAG provided 103 scorable fragments. These allow the determination of sterile Elodea. Based on these morphological and genetic data, the populations formerly referred as E. callitrichoides from Northern France belong to E. nuttallii. E. callitrichoides should be deleted from the regional flora. The determination keys should emphasize the difficulties to distinguish vegetatively plants with long plane leaves. The investigated populations of E. nuttallii exhibited a high level of genetic polymorphism which needs further investigations in relationship with its cytological and morphological variability and the possible introgression with E. canadensis.
20794389|Populus nigra L. is a native European tree species, once widespread, but now under threat of gradual extinction, at least in parts of its distribution range. Conversion of natural flood plain forests is the greatest problem in Central Europe. Riverside forests are often planted with hybrid poplars, mainly P. deltoides Marsh.  P. nigra clones. This practice introduces genes of a foreign species, the American black cottonwood (P. deltoides), within the gene pool of P. nigra as there are no apparent crossing barriers between hybrids and native poplars. Effective gene conservation requires reliable genetic markers for introgression. Based on a genetic marker in an American hybrid poplar (P. deltoides  P. trichocarpa Torr. and Gray) F2-pedigree linkage map (Bradshaw et al. 1994), a simple assay was developed that detects a P. deltoides-specific allele in hybrids with P. nigra. The patterns of inter- and intra-specific polymorphism were investigated by analysing controlled-cross and open-pollinated seeds, and P. nigra trees from native stands. Evidence for the presence of the P. deltoides allele was found in seeds collected in a hybrid plantation, however surprisingly low levels of this allele were detected in areas with native P. nigra trees, though hybrid plantations occur at some distance.
20794228|Ecosytemic balance sheet of proton efflux consists of calculating the difference of  cations   anions absorbed by roots, expressed in keq.ha.yr. The drawing up of such a balance sheet was applied to abeech stand and a spruce stand on acid soil in the Eastern ardennes. As the proton balance depends to large extent on the ratio of $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}$ / $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{+}$ + $\text{N}-\text{NH}_{4}^{+}$ absorbed, an experiment was carried out, in hydroponic culture, with spruce and beech seedlings, using tagged ${}^{15}\text{NO}{}_{3}^{-}$, and a nutrient solution at low pH (3.8) including 0.5 eq/ml AlCl. Results were expressed as per cent $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}/\text{N}_{\text{mineral}}$ abs. as a function of the same ratio in the nutrient solution. As a result of preliminary experimentation, we chose a value $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}/\text{N}_{\text{mineral}}$ abs. of 5 per cent for beech, and 10 per cent for spruce for balance sheet estimation. Proton efflux was estimated at 11.5 keq.ha.y for beech and 8.0 keq. ha.yr for spruce. These are comletely neutralized for spruce and partly for beech by the forest returns, leaf fall and dead rootlets turnover, but not simultaneously in time and space. Le bilan cosystmique de l'effux protonique comprend le calcul de la diffrence ( cations   anions) absorbs par les racines et exprim en keq. ha.an. De tels bilans furent tablis dans une htraie et une passire des Ardennes orientales. Comme ces estimation dpendent essentiellement du rapport $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}$ / $\text{N}-\text{NH}_{4}^{+}+\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}$ abs., nous avons effectu une culture hydropinique, avec des plants de htre et d'pica,  l'aide de ${}^{15}\text{NO}{}_{3}^{-}$ marqu et d'une solution nutritive  pH bas (3,8) comprenant 0,5 eq/ml de AlCl. Les rsultats furent exprims en $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}/\text{N}_{\text{min}}$ pour-cent absorb en fonction du mme rapport dans la solution nutritive. Nous avons choisi des rapports $\text{N}-\text{NO}_{3}^{-}/\text{N}_{\text{min}}$ abs. pour-cent de 5 et de 10 pour-cent respectivement pour le htre et l'pica, en vue du bilan cosystmique. Les efflux protoniques furent estims  11,5 kg. ha.an pour le htre et 8,0 kg.ha.an pour l'pica. Ces quantits sont compltement neutralises pour l'pica et partiellement pour le htre, par les retours, chute des feuilles et renouvellement des radicelles mortes, mais pas simultanment dans l'espace et dans le temps.
20794513|A study on variation in energy exchange characteristics and their relation with total leave dry weight was conducted in sixteen Himalayan tree species grown under identical natural environmental conditions at 550 m altitude in Central Himalayas. The study revealed a highly positive correlation in all the species between the total energy absorbed by their leaves and leaf dry weight, which is directly correlated with total plant biomass. Therefore, the possibility of using leaf energy exchange characteristics as a means of predicting the biomass production potential is proposed.
20794213|Dans cette note, nous prsentons 21 plantes mdicinales utilises comme vulnraires et 15 plantes employes dans le traitement de diverses inflammations telles que abcs, arthrite, conjonctivite, myosite, otite, parotidite, urthrite chez les animaux. Leurs noms vernaculaires ainsi que les divers modes de confection des recettes et d'administration sont repris dans les tableaux no 1 et no 2. Our ethnobotanical investigations led to the identification of 21 plants used to cure wounds and to cicatrize, and of 15 plants capable of curing diverse inflammations such as abscess, arthritis, conjunctivitis, myositis, otitis, parotiditis in animals. Local names, preparation methods and directions for use are given in tables 1 and 2.
20794245|The effect of naturally caught insects, measured as the number of prey caught over the whole growing season, on growth and flowering of the carnivorous plant Drosera intermedia Hayne was investigated in four populations in two different heathland habitats: (1) a path through the wet heath where the plants root in a podzol, (2) a seepage area where plants root in a peaty soil or among Sphagnum. There was a positive correlation between vegetative growth during the growing season 1987 and the number of prey caught that season in all populations. No relationship between prey number and next year's vegetative growth was found. The number of prey caught in May and June 1987 was positively related to the probability to flower that year in the path populations (trend in the seepage area). The number of prey caught between May and August 1987 was positively related to flowering the following year in the seepage area, but not in the path populations. Overall, the data show that D. intermedia in the two contrasting habitats, benefits from insect prey both in terms of vegetative growth and flowering. Het effekt van onder natuurlijke omstandigheden gevangen insekten (het aantal prooien gevangen gedurende het volledige groeiseizoen) op vegetatieve groei en bloei van de carnivore plant Drosera intermedia Hayne werd onderzocht in twee verschillende heidemilieus: (1) een oud pad door de natte heide waar de planten in een podzol wortelen, (2) een kwelzone waar de planten in een venige bodem of tussen veenmossen groeien. In alle populaties bestond er een positieve correlatie tussen de vegetatieve groei in 1987 an het aantal prooien dat gevangen werd. Er was geen verband tussen het aantal prooien gevangen in 1987 en de groei in 1988. Bij planten op het pad bestond er een positief verband tussen het aantal prooien dat in mei en juni 1987 gevangen werd en de bloeikans in dat jaar (enkel een trend in de kwelzone). In de kwelzone vonden we een positieve relatie tussen het aantal gevangen insekten in 1987 en de bloeikans in 1988, wat niet het geval was op het pad. Onze gegevens tonen aan dat in beide onderzochte groeiplaatsen carnivorie zowel groei als bloei bewordert bij D. intermedia.
20794418|Identification keys, descriptions and illustrations are provided for the genera and species of Anadyomene (3 spp.), Microdictyon (3 spp.), Boergesenia (1 sp.), Boodlea (2 spp.), Struvea (1 sp.), Phyllodictyon (2spp.), Dictyosphaeria (3 spp.), Valonia (4 spp.) and Ventricaria (1 sp.) based on the specimens collected in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia from 1980 to 1994. Four new records for the region were found: Microdictyon okamurae (collected in the Banda and Flores Sea, Indonesia), Microdictyon palmeri and Phyllodictyon gardineri (collected along the N coast of Papua New Guinea), and Dictyosphaeria ocellata (collected along the S coast of Papua New Guinea). Des clefs d'identification, des descriptions et des illustrations sont donnes pour les espces appartenant aux genres Anadyomene (3 spp.), Microdictyon (3 spp.), Boergesenia (1 sp.), Boodlea (2 spp.), Struvea (1 sp.), Phyllodictyon (2 spp.), Dictyosphaeria (3 spp.), Valonia (4 spp.) et Ventricaria (1 sp.), bases sur les spcimens rcolts en Papouasie Nouvelle-Guine et en Indonsie de 1980  1994. Quatre nouvelles espces sont mentionnes pour la rgion: Microdictyon okamurae (dans les mers de Banda et de Flores, Indonsie), Microdictyon palmeri et Phyllodictyon gardineri (le long de la cte Nord de la Papouasie Nouvelle-Guine) et Dictyosphaeria ocellata (le long de la cte Sud de la Papouasie Nouvelle-Guine).
20794526|Molecular data confirm that Arcangeliella borziana Cavara (syn. nov.: Arcangeliella volemoides K. Mader & A. Mader) and Zelleromyces stephensii (Berk.) A.H. Sm. are two distinct Lactarius species. The taxonomic value of several morphological characters previously used in the systematics of Russulaceae (syn.: Elasmomycetaceae) is discussed. The new combinations Lactarius borzianus (Cavara) Verbeken & Nuytinck and Lactarius stephensii (Berk.) Verbeken & Walleyn are proposed. A lectotype is designated for Hydnangium monosporum Boud. & Pat. Its synonymy with Lactarius stephensii, suggested by Gross (1990), is confirmed.
20794358|General attitude, perception, identification and preparation of edible fungi in the Bujumbura - Rumonge area of Burundi, Central Africa, are discussed. A first list of 32 edible mushrooms belonging to Aphyllophorales, Agaricales, Russulales and Boletales is given with citation of available vernacular names. L'attitude gnrale, la perception, l'identification et la prparation des champignons comestibles dans la rgion de Bujumbura  Rumonge au Burundi, Afrique centrale, sont discutes. Une premire liste de 32 champignons comestibles appartenant aux Aphyllophorales, aux Agaricales, aux Russulales et aux Boletales est fournie avec citation des noms vernaculaires nots.
20794311|L'essentiel de ces notes est un relev justificatif des modifications, essentiellement chorologiques, apportes  la quatrime dition de la Nouvelle Flore de la Belgique et des rgions voisines, par rapport  la version de 1983, en ce qui concerne le nord-ouest de la France. Quelques donnes nouvelles sont ajoutes, dont devra tenir compte la prochaine dition de l'ouvrage. D'autres informations indites relatives  cette dition sont aussi fournies, le plus souvent en complment au Catalogue floristique rgional de la Rgion Nord/Pas-de-Calais paru en 1986. Deux taxons sont signals pour la premire fois en France: Senecio  subnebrodensis (= S.  londinensis) et Juncus tenuis var. uniflorus (= J. dudleyi). These notes essentially consist in a survey, with justification, of the modifications, mostly chorological, concerning the North-West of France, with regard to the edition of 1983 of this flora of Belgium, North France and neighbouring countries. Some new data are added in prospect of a future issue of this book. Other inedited informations relating to this area are also given, most frequently as a complement to the Catalogue floristique rgional of the Region Nord/Pas-de-Calais published in 1986. Two taxa are mentioned for the first time in France: Senecio  subnebrodensis (= S.  londinensis) and Juncus tenuis var. uniflorus (= J. dudleyi).
43996254|Les holotypes des espces africaines Cantharellus symoensii Heinem., C. platyphyllus Heinem. et C. floridulus Heinem. sont rviss. Des rcoltes rcentes de C. symoensii et C. floridulus, provenant de Zambie et du Burundi, sont aussi dcrites. C. heinemannianus Eyssartier & Buyck sp. nov. et C. platyphyllus f. cyanescens (Buyck) Eyssartier & Buyck comb, et stat. nov. sont proposs. Contribution to the systematics of the genus Cantharellus in tropical Africa : study of some red-pigmented species.  The type specimens of the African species Cantharellus symoensii Heinem., C. platyphyllus Heinem. and C. floridulus Heinem. are revised. Recent collections of C. symoensii and C. floridulus, from Zambia and Burundi, are described also. C. heinemannianus Eyssartier & Buyck sp. nov. and platyphyllus f. cyanescens (Buyck) Eyssartier & Buyck comb, et stat. nov. are proposed.
43996251|Un bref aperu de l'historique de la sect. Archaeinae du genre Russula est suivi d'une discussion sommaire de l'ensemble des espces attribues aux Archaeinae dans le pass. La section est redfinie. A critical review of Russula sect. Archaeinae (Russulales).  A short history of Russula sect. Archaeinae is given and all of the species previously attributed to this section are shortly discussed. Section Archaeinae is redefined.
20794369|Since the publication of the Orchid family in the "Flore d'Afrique centrale" 17 species are newly recorded from Rwanda, among which Diaphananthe microphylla (Summerh.) Summerh. is also a new record for this flora and Habenaria defleurii Geerinck is new for science. Stolzia diffusa Summerh. is separated again from Stolzia peperomioides (Kraenzl.) Summerh. Sedert de publicatie van de orchideenfamilie in Flore d'Afrique centrale werden in Rwanda 17 soorten ontdekt waaronder Diaphananthe microphylla (Summerh.) Summerh. ook nieuw is voor het areaal van deze flora en Habenaria defleurii Geerinck nieuw voor de wetenschap. Stolzia diffusa Summerh. werd opnieuw afgeplitst van S. peperomioides (Kraenl.) Summerh.
20794292|Salix aurita prsente une dynamique trs active dans la Rserve naturelle des Hautes-Fagnes (Belgique): cette espce colonise autant les sols limono-argileux que les sols tourbeux,  condition que ces derniers ne soient pas saturs en eau. Les groupements vgtaux qui ctoient ou ceinturent les fourrs  Salix aurita influencent fortement l'tablissement et la croissance des plantules. Il est en effet apparu, sur le terrain et en laboratoire, que les plantules sont souvent confrontes  une importante comptition herbace,  une litire trop humide ou dveloppant une activit alllopathique. The growth of Salix aurita is particularly active in the nature reserve of the Hautes-Fagnes: this species is colonising as well dry moorlands as drained peat-bogs only if those are not saturated with water. The plant communities occurring around the bushes of Salix aurita, considerably influence the maintenance of the young seedlings. Indeed, several field observations and an experimental approach, show that young seedlings can be often confronted with herbaceous competition, and too humid or allelopathic litter.
20794611|The aim of this study was to evaluate the importance of the variation of environmental variables (geomorphological, topographical and climatic factors) along the longitudinal profile of a braided stream for the distribution of plant species and communities at a local scale. This was achieved by means of a case study in central Italy. Vegetation data from the river bed were grouped according to floristic and ecological affinities as follows: semiaquatic, helophytic, hygrophilous pioneer grasses, synantropical grasses, mesohygrophilous and pioneer grasses, garigues, hygrophilous shrubs, thermophilous shrubs, xerothermophilous shrubs and grasses, hygrophilous forest and thermophilous forest. A clear division between herbaceous and woody communities was observed along the first DCA axis and was interpreted as a transversal gradient of the stream due to decreasing flooding. Canonical Correspondence Analysis suggested that altitude, distance from sea and bed width are the most important environmental variables explaining community distribution along the longitudinal profile. However, on this local scale, partial CCA showed that the abiotic variables explained 49.6% of the species data variation. This result, together with the lack of a correlation between environmental factors and DCA axes 1 and 2, suggests that factors other than those included in the analysis, and probably only marginally linked to the longitudinal gradient, influenced the distribution of communities as well. On a local scale, we observed that there was no variation in the floristic composition of the coenoses along the longitudinal gradient. Consequently there is no vicariance of communities in terms of climate and/or biogeographic region. Along the longitudinal profile we found, however, the presence of coenoses that were ecologically (hard wood and soft wood) or structurally (dominance of woods, garigues, or pioneer coenoses) different in terms of geomorphological and topographical variables.
20794593|Depuis plusieurs annes, de nombreux cours d'eau europens dont ceux du Luxembourg sont contrls du point de vue de leur qualit biologique  l'aide des bioindicateurs que sont les diatomes pilithiques. L'Indice de Polluosensibilit Spcifique IPS est frquemment utilis au Luxembourg. Cependant, dans la pratique, de l'piphyton est parfois aussi rcolt sur le terrain, faute de pouvoir trouver de l'pilithon. Cette tude montre que selon l'espce d'algue filamenteuse hte rcolte, les rsultats de l'IPS peuvent tre diffrents par rapport aux rsultats des IPS calculs avec les diatomes pilithiques. En particulier, l'algue verte Cladophora glomerata, qui est fortement colonise par les diatomes, donne des rsultats d'indice diffrents de ceux calculs avec des communauts pilithiques. Toutefois, cette tude illustre bien que l'IPS calcul sur l'pilithon et l'IPS calcul sur l'piphyton sont bien corrls. The biological quality of many European rivers including Luxembourg's ones is routinely monitored using epilithic diatoms as bioindicators. The Specific Pollution sensitivity Index SPI is commonly used in Luxembourg. However, in practice, epiphyton is sometimes sampled in the field instead of epilithon when the latter is absent. This study shows that the results of the SPI can vary with the host species of filamentous algae. In particular, the green alga Cladophora glomerata, which is heavily colonised by diatoms, can give different results for the SPI than those calculated on the basis of true epilithic communities. Nevertheless this study shows that the SPI calculated with epilithon and the SPI calculated whit epiphyton have a very high correlation.
20794582|The effects of salt on growth, ion and proline accumulation were investigated in vitro in two sugarcane cultivars: NCo310 (salt-resistant) and CP65-357 (salt-sensitive). Leaf explant-derived calli obtained from the two sugarcane (Saccharum sp.) cultivars were exposed to four concentrations of NaCl (0, 34, 68 and 102 mM). Relative growth rate, ion concentrations and proline accumulation were quantified after 4 weeks of stress. NaCl inhibited growth in the two cultivars but to a lower extent in calli issued from NCo310 comparatively to calli obtained from CP65-357. In response to salinity, Na, Cl and proline concentrations increased significantly in calli of both cultivars while K concentration decreased. The two cultivars accumulated similar quantities of Na; the highest accumulation of Cl occurred in calli of salt-tolerant NCo310 coupled with the lowest decrease in K concentration. Calli issued from CP65-357 accumulated more proline than those of NCo310. These results suggested an implication of Cl and K in salt resistance at cellular level in these genotypes and that proline is a symptom of injury in stressed sugarcane calli rather than an indicator of resistance.
20794479|Les forts daphiques lies aux sols hydromorphes du Bnin ont t tudies sur la base des relevs phytosociologiques excuts dans des placeaux rectangulaires de 500 ou de 1000 m installs suivant des transects levs  pas rguliers dans le sens de la ligne de plus grande pente. L'individualisation des groupements vgtaux sur la base de la partition des relevs par l'analyse factorielle des correspondances a donn quatre groupes qui sont: les forts marcageuses, les forts riveraines, les forts priodiquement inondes et les forts galeries. La variation du plan d'eau, le drainage ou le ressuyement, la priode d'inondation ou d'exondaison constituent les facteurs qui discriminent au mieux les diffrentes formations. Les caractristiques structurales (richesse spcifique, diversit, surface terrire et diamtre moyen) varient trs peu d'une formation  l'autre mais elles varient trs fort au sein des formations en fonction des zones climatiques surtout au niveau des forts riveraines. Wetland forests of Benin were studied using phytosociological relevs done in rectangular plots of 500 m or 1000 m. Factorial analysis of correspondance of the relevs shows four plant communities which are: swamp forests, riparian forests, gallery and periodically flooded forests. Latitude, drainage and flooding duration are the best wetland forests discriminant factors. Structural characteristics (species richness, species diversity, stand basal area and mean diameter) merely vary between these wetland forest types but greatly vary within them according to climatic zones, specially with riparian forests.
20794225|104 diatom taxa were observed on thrombolitic reefs of Lake Tanganyika in the South of Burundi. Among them 23 are tropical African taxa, 9 African, 3 tropical and 69 cosmopolitan taxa. Amphora tanganyikae Caljon, recently described for Lake Tanganyika, was once more observed. A new species, Amphora thromboliticola, is described and illustrated in LM and SEM. 104 taxons de diatomes ont t recenss d'un rcif thrombolitique du lac Tanganyika, dans le sud du Burundi. Vingt-trois sont des taxons d'Afrique tropicale, 9 des taxons africains, 3 sont tropicaux et 69 cosmopolites. Amphora tanganyikae, l'espce dcrite rcemment du lac Tanganyika, y a t observe. Une nouvelle espce, Amphora thromboliticola, est dcrite et illustre au microscope lectronique  balayage et au microscope optique.
20794279|Different Branchiopod hemoglobins were found to have a heterogeneous globin chain composition. Amino terminal sequencing and peptide mapping were used to compare different globin chains. Two-domain globin chains (Cladocera and Conchostraca) do not form a homogeneous group, opposing the nine-domain globin chains (Anostraca). In the subgenus Ctenodaphnia two types of globin chains occur. De hemoglobines van verschillende Branchiopoda bezitten een heterogene globineketensamenstelling. Verschillende globineketens werden vergeleken door aminoterminale sekwentiebepaling en peptide mapping. Globineketens opgebouwd uit twee domeinen (Cladocera en Conchostraca) vormen geen homogene groep t.o.v. de globineketens opgebouwd uit negen domeinen (Anostraca). In het subgenus Ctenodaphnia komen twee types van globineketens voor.
20794501|Scapania calcicola (Arnell & J. Perss.) Ingham, een boreo-montaan levermos werd voor de eerste maal gevonden in Belgi, in het Maasdistrict. De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven; standplaats en verspreiding worden besproken. Scapania calcicola (Arnell & J. Perss.) Ingham, a boreal-montane liverwort, has been discovered for the first time in Belgium in the Mosan district. A description and illustration of the Belgian material are provided. Ecology and distribution are discussed.
20794337|The plasma membrane of higher plants contains a specific b-type cytochrome. This major component has a high standard redox potential (average E' of + 140 mV) and an -band absorption maximum near 561 nm. Ascorbic acid rapidly reduces the cytochrome but NADH or NADPH are ineffective as a reductant. The redox protein has been detected in purified plasma membranes of a variety of plant species and tissues and it appears to be a common plasma membrane component. Specific concentrations range from 20 to 400 pmol per mg protein. Initial attempts to purify the protein indicated a molecular weight of 31 kDa and suggest that the cytochrome may be a glycoprotein. The current hypotheses on the physiological importance of the plant plasma membrane cytochrome are focused on ascorbate-mediated transmembrane electron transport and blue light photoperception. De plasmamembraan van hogere planten bevat een specifiek b-type cytochroom. Dit belangrijke bestanddeel heeft een hoge standaard redox potentiaal (gemiddelde E' van + 140 mV) en een -band absorptie maximum rond 561 nm. Ascorbinezuur reduceert dit cytochroom efficient, terwijl NADH en NADPH in dit opzicht ineffectief zijn. Het redox-eiwit is teruggevonden in gezuiverde plasmamembranen van verscheidene planten en weefsels en het lijkt een algemeen voorkomend membraanbestanddeel te zijn. Specifieke concentraties situeren zich tussen 20 en 400 pmol.mg protene. Uit een eerste benadering tot zuivering van het eiwit, bleek dat het gaat om een bestanddeel met moleculair gewicht 31 kDa en doet vermoeden dat het een glycoprotene betreft. De gangbare hypothesen over de fysiologische betekenis van het plasmamembraan-cytochroom betreffen een ascorbaat-afhankelijke transmembranair electronentransport-systeem zowel als een rol in blauw licht-perceptie.
20794319|Three experiments in which the effect of a soil conditioning mixture on plant growth is studied are described. In each of the experiments the beneficial effect of the mixture on dry matter production, water consumption and water use efficiency is demonstrated. The most positive effect on dry matter production occurs when dune sand is used as a substrate and the concentration of TerraCottem is between 3 and 5 g/l. The three species tested (Red pepper, Bean and Corn) react positively to the presence of TerraCottem to more or less the same degree. Drie experimenten waarin de invloed van dit middel op plantengroei bestudeerd werd, worden beschreven. Bij elk van deze experimenten kon het positieve effect ervan op droge stof-productie, waterverbruik en "water use efficiency" aangetoond worden. Het effect op droge stof productie is het grootst op duinzand en de optimale concentratie van TerraCottem ligt tussen de 3 en 5 g/l. De drie geteste soorten (Spaanse peper, Boon en Mas) reageren min of meer in dezelfde mate positief op de aanwezigheid van TerraCottem.
20794567|Juniperus phoenicea L. occurs in the Mediterranean region in the southern part of Turkey and has been widely used in landscape planning to stabilise coastal dunes. In this study, seasonal nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and calcium (Ca) concentrations and foliar resorption were investigated in J. phoenicea. The concentrations of N, P and K declined in senescent leaves, while that of Ca increased. N, P and K were subject to high remobilization, whereas Ca was accumulated in senescent leaves. N, P, K and Ca concentrations in young and fallen leaves were significantly different.
43996266|Dans le cadre de l'tude des champignons lignicoles de l'le de Laing, petit lot corallien situ sur la cte nord de la Papouasie Nouvelle-Guine, nous avons tabli un tableau phnologique des 96 taxons de Basidiomyctes rencontrs. Six espces prsentent une amplitude phnologique trs large et se rpartissent en deux groupes. D'une part un groupe d'espces de faible amplitude cologique confines sous couvert vgtal dense donc en milieu bien tamponn contre la dessiccation (Hexagonia tenuis, Polyporus philippinensis et Microporus xanthopus) et d'autre part un groupe d'espces  amplitude cologique trs large (Pycnoporus sanguineus, Schizophyllum commune et Trametes scabrosa) extrmement rsistantes  la dessiccation. Par ailleurs, un grand nombre d'espces sont rencontres trop occasionnellement pour que des conclusions sres soient tires concernant leur phnologie. Phenology of lignicolous Basidiomycetes from Laing Island (Papua New Guinea).  In the framework of a study of wood-inhabiting fungi on Laing Island, a small coral island located on the northern coast of Papua New Guinea, we have established a phenological table of the 96 taxa of encountered Basidiomyctes. Within six species presenting large phenological amplitude, two groups can be distinguished. On the one hand a group of species (Hexagonia tenuis, Polyporus philippinensis and Microporus xanthopus) with narrow ecological amplitude restricted to dense vegetation cover and thus growing in an environment buffered against desiccation and on the other hand a group of species (Pycnoporus sanguineus, Schizophyllum commune and Trametes scabrosa) with a very large ecological amplitude very resistant to desiccation. Furthermore, a large number of species are found too sporadically in order to draw some conclusions concerning their phenology.
20794392|The spatial distribution of genotypes within three wild Lima bean populations was investigated using three enzyme loci (Adh-2, Mdh-2, and Pgm-2). The analysed plant genotypes as well as the multilocus inbreeding parameters (t and F) were determined. Results showed a spatial genotypic subdivision in two populations. This genotypic structure is consistent with the estimated inbreeding parameters (t = 0.066-0.112 and F = 0.365-0.634). We attributed the observed structuration to demographic phenomena rather than to two neighbourhoods that would have diverged by genetic drift: the two structured populations have probably been founded by a junction of two subpopulations presenting different allele frequencies. The lack of an obvious structure in the third population was more likely due to the small sampled area size. La distribution spatiale des gnotypes  l'intrieur de trois populations sauvages du haricot de Lima a t tudie  partir de trois loci enzymatiques (Adh-2, Mdh-2, and Pgm-2). Les gnotypes des plantes analyses, de mme que les paramtres de consanguinit (t et F) ont t dtermins. Les rsultats montrent une aggrgation spatiale des gnotypes  l'intrieur de deux populations. Cette structuration gnotypique est cohrente avec les valeurs estimes des paramtres de consanguinit (t = 0,066-0,112 et F = 0,365-0,634). Nous avons attribu la structuration observe dans deux des populations tudies  un phnomne dmographique plutt qu' la diffrenciation par la drive gntique, d'une population initiale: ces deux populations structures rsulteraient probablement de la jonction rcente de deux sous-populations prsentant diffrentes frquences allliques. L'absence d'une structuration gnotypique distincte dans la troisime population a t attribue  la petite taille de la surface chantillonne.
20794265|In this study, the 16S rRNA sequences of five filamentous cyanobacteria (Cyanophyceae) have been determined. These sequences were used to construct, by a distance matrix method, a tree topology to depict the phylogenetic relationships among cyanobacteria. In deze studie werden de 16S rRNA-sequenties bepaald van vijf filamenteuse cyanobacterin (Cyanophyceae). Deze sequenties werden gebruikt om een boom-topologie te construeren met een distance matrix methode, om de fylogenetische verwantschappen binnen de cyanobacterin weer te geven.
20794536|Restoration of floodplain forests has become a primary aim of sustainable forestry in Europe. Although several studies have investigated the conversion of coniferous stands outside of their biogeographical area and on unsuitable sites, none focused specifically on alluvial areas. We surveyed 208 riverine stands, distributed homogeneously throughout the Grand-duch de Luxembourg (western-central Europe) for the abundance of woody forest species (trees, saplings, seedlings and shrubs). The influence of both the canopy nature (Norway spruce or deciduous) and the biogeographical region (Oesling or Gutland) on the understorey regeneration were tested. The mean species richness was 10.5 woody plants per stand. Correspondence analyses showed that canopy tree regeneration was not different between the two forest types. Following an analysis of variance, we found that functional species group distribution (regarding mode of dispersal, type of seed bank and establishment strategy) was more determined by the biogeographical variable than by the canopy variable. Most woody species were significantly more abundant in deciduous forests and in the Gutland area. Only Rubus idaeus, Sambucus racemosa and Sorbus aucuparia were strongly associated with Norway spruce stands or the Oesling region. The differences between deciduous forests and coniferous stands are mainly due to shrub abundance and not to the canopy tree regeneration. In conclusion, Norway spruce plantations act as nurseries for late-successional riverine species like Fraxinus excelsior, Acer pseudoplatanus and Quercus robur.
41427187|Eight nuclear microsatellite loci were identified using the method of microsatellite-enriched libraries in the glasswort genus Salicornia. These markers yield specific alleles for discriminating diploid and tetraploid lineages and thus provide a reliable and efficient tool for routine determination of ploidy level in the genus. Within both the diploid and tetraploid lineages, the microsatellites further display a clear biogeographic signal. A significant partitioning of genetic differentiation was found between the diploid populations (F<sup>st</sup> = 0.31; p < 0.001). The new microsatellite markers described here thus offer the appropriate amount of variation to address issues of species delimitation and biogeographic history in the genus.
20794580|La recherche a port sur les proprits physique et chimique et la composition algale de 13 sources thermales situes au Burundi, en Afrique centrale, entre les altitudes 773 et 2550 m. Les eaux de ces sources sont principalement de type bicarbonat, certaines sources tant trs riches en chlorures; leur temprature varie de 29C  57.5C. Au total, 92 taxons appartenant aux groupes des Cyanobacteria, Chlorophyta et Bacillariophyta ont t observs dans 13 chantillons, 80 taxons appartenant  ce dernier groupe. Les espces des sources thermales ne diffrent pas de celles des autres eaux du Burundi dj tudies et peuvent tre considres comme des espces thermo-tolrantes. Une analyse canonique des correspondances applique aux espces de diatomes ainsi qu'aux variables physiques et chimiques a permis de reprer les taxons associs aux sources thermales faiblement minralises et ceux associs aux sources fortement minralises et indique que leur sparation est principalement due  la conductivit, aux bicarbonates et aux chlorures. We studied the physical and chemical characteristics and algal composition of 13 hot springs of Burundi, Central Africa, situated between 773 and 2550 m above sea level. The waters studied mostly belong to the bicarbonate type, some hot springs being rich in chlorides; their temperature varied between 29 C and 57.5 C. In total 92 taxa of algae belonging to the Cyanobacteria, Chlorophyta and Bacillariophyta have been identified from 13 samples and the diatoms comprised 80 taxa. The species recorded from the hot springs are not different from those observed from other water bodies of Burundi; they are considered as thermo-tolerant species. A canonical correspondence analysis based on the diatom species, physical and chemical variables separated the hot springs with low mineralisation from the springs with high mineralisation and showed that the conductivity, bicarbonates and chlorides seem to be more important in their separation.
20794227|List of new localities of rare or noteworthy plants observed by the authors in Belgium during their botanical prospections in 1990, including, among others, Barbarea stricta, Blackstonia perfoliata, Cicuta virosa, Eragrostis pilosa, Pentaglottis sempervirens, Trifolium hybridum subsp. elegans, Schkuhria abrotanoides, Xanthium spinosum, etc. Liste de nouvelles stations de plantes rares ou intressantes, notes par les auteurs en Belgiquer au cours de l'anne 1990  l'occasion de leurs prospections I.F.B.L. Il s'agit entre autres des taxons suivants: Barbarea stricta, Blackstonia perfoliata, Cicuta virosa, Eragrostis pilosa, Pentaglottis sempervirens, Trifolium hybridum subsp. elegans, Schkuhria abrotanoides, Xanthium spinosum, etc.
20794199|For each of the four studied forests, at least seven trees corresponding to the main classes of the bole diameters at 1.30 m above ground, were cut down, cut up in categories (leaves, twigs, branches, trunk, bark and wood) and weighted. The subalpine Larix forest with Ranunculus nemorosus and Trollius europaeus has a phytomass of 93 t/ha and an annual net primary productivity of 15.2 t/ha. The Pinus sylvestris forest on calcareous soils with Lavandula angustifolia yields a phytomass of 125 t/ha and an annual productivity of 17 t/ha. The phytomass of the beech-grove amounts to 210 t/ha; its annual productivity is 16.9 t/ha. The oak-grove with Buxus sempervirens has a phytomass of 91 t/ha and a productivity of 9.2 t/ha/year.
20794417|Compte rendu de l'herborisation annuelle de la Socit royale de Botanique de Belgique, ralise en juin 1995, dans les dpartements de la Meuse et de la Meurtheet-Moselle. Observation de sites remarquables,  gestion conservatoire. Impact sur la flore et la vgtation. Donnes floristiques. Observation d'une station d'un taxon obsidional (Sisyrinchium montanum), dcouverte d'une nouvelle station de Crepis praemorsa (figurant dans la liste lorraine des espces vgtales protges),  Commercy (Meuse). Report of the annual field meeting organized in June 1995 in the French departments of "Meuse" and "Meurthe-et-Moselle". Survey of some remarkable sites and observations on their conservation management. Effects on flora and vegetation. Floristical data. Observation of a station of Sisyrinchium montanum, small Iridaceae brought in the area by American soldiers during World War I (1914-18); discovery, in Commercy (Meuse dept.), of a new station of Crepis praemorsa, already included in the list of protected plants species in Lorraine.
20794277|Diagnosis of gastrointestinal nematode infections in cattle still remains a problem. Detection of antibodies with an enzyme immuno assay provides little genus specificity when using crude parasite extracts. In an attempt to identify genus specific antigens, Cooperia oncophora third stage larvae (L3) were analysed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. For immunodetection sera were used from mono infected C. oncophora and Ostertagia ostertagi calves, sera from naturally infected first year grazing calves and negative sera from helminth free raised animals. Two antigens were recognized which were species specific. A C. oncophora L3 36 kDa antigen was identified by C. oncophora anti serum and a C. oncophora L3 22 kDa antigen was only recognized by O. ostertagi anti serum. The partial purification of both antigens was achieved by ion exchange chromatography on a QAE-Sephadex A-50, followed by gelfiltration on a Sephadex G-75. The possible use of these antigens in the diagnosis of parasitic gastroenteritis in cattle is discussed. De diagnose van gastrointestinale nematoden infecties blijft een probleem. De detectie van antilichamen met een enzyme immuno test, op basis van ruw parasair extract, vertoont weinig genus-specificiteit. Derde larvale stadia (L3) van Cooperia oncophora werden geanalyseerd door SDS-PAGE en Western blotting, om genusspecifieke antigenen te identificeren. Voor de immunodetectie werd gebruik gemaakt van sera van C. oncophora en Ostertagia ostertagi mono genfecteerde kalveren, sera van natuurlijk genfecteerde kalveren tijdens hun eerste weideseizoen en negatieve sera van wormvrij opgegroeide dieren. Twee soort-specifieke antigenen werden herkend. Een 36 kDa C. oncophora L3 antigeen werd gedentificeerd door C. oncophora antiserum en een 22 kDa C. oncophora L3 antigeen werd enkel herkend door O. ostertagi antiserum. De partile zuivering werd bekomen door ionenuitwisseling op een QAE-Sephadex A-50, gevolgd door gelfiltratie op een Sephadex G-75. Het mogelijke gebruik van deze antigenen voor de diagnose van parasitaire gastroenteritis bij kalveren wordt besproken.
20794578|In this paper, we analyse the relationship between meteorology and Castanea airborne pollen. Chestnut is a tree broadly represented in the north of Spain. In view of its abundant pollen production and the high dispersal capacity of its pollen grains, atmospheric levels of Castanea airborne pollen (daily and hourly) in two localities in northwest Spain (Santiago de Compostela and Ourense) were studied from 1993 to 2001. The obtained results indicate the onset of flowering in the second fortnight in June, with the flowering maximum in July. Temperature was used as a predictive variable for predicting the onset of the pollen season and pollen concentrations. The forecast capacity of the sum temperature method in order to predict the onset of the pollen season was good, with a difference of 2-5 days between the real and the predicted onset dates in the year 2002. The time series regression lines well fitted the observed values during the year 2002. The proposed models are especially suitable for evaluating short-term effects of time-varying pollen appearance in the atmosphere. The obtained models of the hourly distribution did not reflect the hourly rhythm of pollen dispersion but rather the rhythm of pollen capture from the trees located at different distances and in different directions from the pollen trap.
20794290|Taxonomic revision of the genus Eragrostis (Poacae) has been carried out for Congo specimens from BR, BRLU, IEC, P. 17 taxa (16 species and 1 variety) have been identified. Key and phytogeographical distribution are given.
20794325|The marine taxa belonging to the genus Lyngbya s.l. were studied in collections made in Papua New Guinea. Twelve taxa, of which one, L. demoulinii L. Hoffmann, is new to science, are described and illustrated. Les taxons marins appartenant au genre Lyngbya s.l. ont t tudis dans des collections ralises en Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. Douze taxons, parmi lesquels un (L. demoulinii L. Hoffmann) est nouveau pour la science, sont dcrits et illustrs.
20794209|Un premier inventaire des diatomes benthiques ralis dans sept cours d'eau de Kisangani (Zare) a permis de recenser prs de 133 taxons de rang spcifique et varital. Du point de vue de l'cologie, la liste floristique comprend surtout des taxons cosmopolites des eaux peu minralises et/ou acides. Le traitement des donnes par le programme TWINSPAN conduit  distinguer deux groupes principaux de taxons: un premier, prsent dans les prlvements du fleuve Zare, de la Lindi, de la Tshopo, des ruisseaux Makiso et Kitenge, aux eaux voisines de la neutralit (pH 6,8-7,3) et  conductivit modre (43-172 S.cm); un deuxime, prsent dans le Kibibi et le Masindula, aux eaux plus acides (pH 5,9-6,5) et  conductivit plus faible (18,5-22,8 S.cm). About 133 species and varieties of benthic diatoms were identified in seven watercourses of Kisangani (Zaire). From an ecological point of view, the list includes chiefly cosmopolitan taxa found in waters with low mineral contents and/or of acid waters. Data treatment (TWISPAN program) lead to distinguish two main groups of taxa. A first group includes taxa found in the Zaire river, Lindi and Tshopo streams, Makiso and Kitenge streamlets, characterized by nearly neutral waters (pH 6.8-7.3) and a moderate conductivity (43-172 S.cm). A second group includes taxa from the Kibibi and Masindula streamlets, characterized by more acid waters (pH 5.9-6.5) and a low conductivity (18.5-22.8 S.cm).
20794250|Revision of the seven species of the genus Whitfieldia occurring in the area of the Flore de l'Afrique Centrale. Keys are provided together with both morphological and palynological descriptions as well as geographical distributions.
20794436|Deux stations (Mortinsart et Muno) de Pulmonaria montana Lej. ont t inventories en Gaume, Lorraine belge. Une srie de mesures a t effectue sur les individus rencontrs: longueur et largeur de deux feuilles basales, longueur des calices, des corolles, des styles et des tamines, ainsi que taille des grains de pollen. Les proportions des deux morphes floraux ont galement t estimes. Par ailleurs, la quantit d'aknes produits par fleur a t compte. Les buts poursuivis sont (1) d'valuer la pertinence de certains critres de dtermination dans le cas de cette espce et (2) de documenter quelques paramtres floraux chez cette espce distyle peu tudie. Two populations of Pulmonaria montana Lej. have been observed in Gaume (Mortinsart and Muno), South Belgium. The length and width of two basal leaves, length of the calyx, corolla, style and stamen, as well as the dimensions of the pollen grains were measured. The morph ratio was also estimated in this heterostylous species. Moreover, the amount of seeds per flower was counted. Our aims are: (1) investigate the adequacy of the parameters chosen in species determination and (2) give some data on this poorly investigated heterostylous species. Twee groeiplaatsen (Mortinsart en Muno) van Pulmonaria montana Lej. werden genventariseerd in de Gaume. Een aantal kenmerken werden gemeten: lengte en breedte van twee wortelstandige bladen, lengte van de kelk, bloemkroon, meeldraad, stijl en de grootte van de stuifmeelkorrels. De verhouding tussen langstijlige en kortstijlige bloemvormen en het aantal vruchten per bloem werden bepaald. Doel van dit onderzoek was: (1) de waarde van bepaalde gebruikte determinatiekenmerken nagaan en (2) enkele bloemkenmerken van deze ongelijkstijlige soort te beschrijven.
20794269|In this article the purification of the haemoglobin of the yeast Candida norvegensis is described. The characterisation as well as our results of the amino acid sequence are given and interpreted. Het hemoglobine van Candida norvegensis werd gesoleerd en gezuiverd waarna de cofactoren, heem en FAD, gekarak-teriseerd konden worden. Het moleculair gewicht werd a.h.v. verscheidene PAGE's bepaald. Om de sequentie te kunnen bepalen werd het Hb afgebroken op de volgende wijzen: een chemische klieving met CNBr en een enzymatische klieving met trypsine, na modificatie van het eiwit met maleinezuuranhydride. De aldus bekomen peptiden werden gescheiden door respectievelijk tweedimensionale gelelektroforese en omgekeerde fase hoge druk vloeistof chromatografie (RP HPLC). Van de zuivere peptiden werd de aminozuur sequentie bepaald. Een aantal van deze sequenties konden gealigneerd worden met globines, n ander peptide kon gealigneerd worden met het nucleotide bindend domein van de nucleotide bindende eiwitten; een aantal van bekomen peptide-sequenties kan voorlopig nog niet gelokaliseerd worden.
20794226|Gymnodinium helveticum is present all over the year in the plankton of the reservoir of Esch-sur-Sre (G.-D. of Luxembourg), but it presents its maximum development in spring, during the decline of the diatom bloom. In summer the species is almost completely absent from the epilimnion and occupies the meta- and hypolimnion. Gymnodinium helveticum est prsent pendant toute l'anne dans le rservoir d'Esch-sur-Sre (G.-D. de Luxembourg); il prsente son dveloppement maximal au printemps pendant le dclin de la pousse printanire des diatomes. En t l'espce est pratiquement absente de l'pilimnion et occupe le mta-et l'hypolimnion.
20794247|List of new localities of rare or noteworthy plants observed by the authors in Belgium during their IFBL prospections in 1991, including among others Bunias orientalis, Centaurea microptilon, Filago minima, Lemna minuta, Origanum vulgare var. prismaticum, Polystichum setiferum var. hastulatum, Ribes alpinum, Sisymbrium loeselii, Xanthium spinosum, etc. Liste de nouvelles stations de plantes rares ou intressantes, notes par les auteurs en Belgique au cours de l'anne 1991  l'occasion de leurs prospections IFBL. Il s'agit entre autres des taxons suivants: Bunias orientalis, Centaurea microptilon, Filago minima, Lemna minuta, Origanum vulgare var. prismaticum, Polystichum setiferum var. hastulatum, Ribes alpinum, Sisymbrium loeselii, Xanthium spinosum, etc.
20794281|The technique of Isoelectric Focusing was used to compare five populations belonging to three different Phyllotreta (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae) species. Both esterase and silver staining (general proteins) gave similar results. Cinq populations de trois espces diffrentes du genre Phyllotreta (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae) sont compares avec la technique de "Isoelectric Focusing". Les rsultats des colorations avec l'esterase et avec l'argent sont comparables.
41427184|In the present study we tested the suitability of classification trees for plant identification purposes. A Classification And Regression Tree (CART) analysis was performed on a combination of dimension and shape parameters of 613 endocarps belonging to five closely related Eurasian plum taxa (Prunus cerasifera, P domestica, P insititia, P spinosa, and P xfruticans). The classification tree, obtained on 408 randomly chosen training samples, yielded high (> 85%) classification accuracy for all taxa studied. The overall high classification probability of the 205 remaining test samples (89.9%) confirmed the applicability of the constructed classification tree to separate the Eurasian plum taxa studied based on endocarp morphometrics only. Similarly to the findings of Lindbladh et al. (2002), the present study demonstrated the applicability of CART for the separation of morphologically very similar Prunus taxa based on a limited number of characters. Therefore, we recommend this technique for future identification objectives and taxonomic purposes of closely related taxa with subtle morphological differences.
43996265|L'influence de la nature du couvert vgtal sur la composition de la mycoflore a t tudie dans trois peuplements de conifres situs au Bois de Lauzelle (Ottignies - Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgique) : Picea abies, Pinus nigra var. calabrica cultivar Koekelaere et Pinus sylvestris. Ces peuplements se situent sur des plateaux sableux acides. Deux carrs permanents de 400 m ont t installs sur chacun de ces trois peuplements. La mycoflore y a t suivie durant 15 mois, grce  des relevs mycocoenologiques priodiques. Le traitement des donnes obtenues, par l'analyse factorielle des correspondances (AFC) et la mthode de groupement selon l'association moyenne (UPGMA), a montr que les carrs permanents situs dans un mme peuplement prsentent une mycoflore plus semblable que ceux situs dans des peuplements diffrents. L'tude des rsultats fournis par l'AFC a permis d'identifier les espces caractristiques des peuplements tudis. Aucune influence statistiquement significative de la pluviosit et de la temprature de l'air sur la production de sporophores n'a pu tre mise en vidence. Mycocoenological research in the Bois de Lauzelle (Ottignies - Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium).  The influence of the plant cover type on the mycoflora was studied in three different conifer plantations at the Bois de Lauzelle (Ottignies - Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium) : Picea abies, Pinus nigra var. calabrica cultivar Koekelaere and Pinus sylvestris. These plantations are situated on a plateau with acid sandy soils. In each stand, two permanent 400 m square plots were marked out and studied by mycocoenological relevs, during 15 months. Correspondence analysis (CA) and unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) showed that the mycoflora of the plots from the same stands were more alike than those situated in different stands. Correspondence analysis gave a list of characteristic species for each stand. No statistically significant correlation was found between air temperature and rainfall and fruit body production.
20794601|Valonia cladophora Ktzing was described from New Caledonia in the 1860s, on the basis of a single specimen, but has not since been observed or studied. Preliminary observations of the type specimen led to its transfer to the genus Cladophora and because of ICBN regulations the species required a new name, C. mamillata Leliaert in Millar & Prud'homme van Reine. In this paper, a detailed description of this poorly known taxon is provided. Cladophora mamillata is characterized by mamillate elevations on the cross-walls, a unique feature in the genus. Morphologically, C. mamillata falls into the Cladophora section Aegagropila, where it closely resembles C. catenata (Linnaeus) Ktzing, a widespread species in the Indo-Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.
20794350|La teneur en glucides du Topinambour (Helianthus tuberosus L.), est variable en fonction de la taille des tubercules, la teneur la plus leve a t rencontre chez les petits tubercules; Ceci est fondamental pour la production d'un sirop de fructose de haute qualit. Chez le Topinambour, en plus du saccharose, glucose et fructose, des glucofructosanes ont t dtectes pendant les diffrents stades du dveloppement des tubercules. Les glucides reprsentent 55  75% de la matire sche soit une production de 6,5 T/ha (5,9-7,2). Les tubercules perdent une fraction de leurs glucides en hiver, 32,3% pour le Kharkov et 45,1% pour le cultivar Violet de Rennes. Carbohydrate contents of Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus L.) changed with the size of tubers, the highest content being found in small tubers. This would be an important factor in the production of a high quality fructose syrup. In the Jerusalem artichoke, besides sucrose, glucose and fructose, glucofructosans have been detected at all stages of development of the tubers. The carbohydrate contents averages 55 to 75% of the dry matter, that is to say a production amounting to 6,5 T/ha (5,9-7,2). The tubers lose a fraction of their carbohydrates in winter: 32,3% for the Kharkov and 45,1% for the Violet de Rennes cultivar.
20794193|31 varits de riz ont t testes pour leur aptitude  la culture in vitro. Pour chacune d'elles, diffrents paramtres ont t pris en considration: le taux de callogense, la qualit des cals obtenus, la croissance pondrale des cals et leur aptitude  rgnrer des plantes par embryogense somatique. Le milieu d'induction des cals est celui de Linsmaier & Skoog (1965) additionn de BAP, de 2,4-D et d'ANA. Les explants sont des embryons mrs et la rgnration est effectue sur milieux LS modifis. Les rsultats obtenus indiquent une diffrence de comportement entre les diffrentes varits et parmi les 31 gnotypes de dpart, 7 seulement ont montr des taux de callogense, de croissance et de rgnration suffisants pour tre utiliss dans des programmes de slection in vitro ultrieurs. 31 rice varieties have been tested for their response to in vitro culture. Some parameters were considered: rate of callogenesis, growth of the calli and plant regeneration through somatic embryogenesis. Linsmaier & Skoog (1965) medium supplemented by BAP, 2,4-D and NAA has been used for callus induction. Explants were mature embryos and regeneration was obtained on modified LS media. Differences have been observed between varieties and 7 out of the 31 tested genotypes showed good growth and differentiation levels: they could be used for in vitro selection.
20794466|In the absence of management and with sustained non-point source pollution, the diversity of European low productive herbaceous vegetation is under threat. In many cases dominant grasses exclude other species. Molinia caerulea is such a potential dominant species. In a Campine rich fen near Mol, aerial photos show progressive invasion by M. caerulea tussocks. Marginal zones are completely closed by M. caerulea, while in ground water discharge zones open low growing vegetation persists mixed with small M. caerulea tussocks or non-tussock individuals. During the tussock development process, M. caerulea shows a preference for the slightly drier marginal sites, contrary to the wettest ground-water discharge flushes where it is present as non-tussock individual shoots. This contrast was used to make a comparative study between zones and growth form of M. caerulea and its relation with neighbouring species. We investigate the hypothesis that differential M. caerulea performance is caused by differences in nutrient availability. Biomass and nutrient concentrations of M. caerulea shoots were investigated in relation to their location (marginal / ground-water discharge) and in relation to their growth form (spread non-tussock individual shoots / tussock shoots). M. caerulea shoots from marginal sites grew larger than shoots from central sites and tussock shoots proved superior to individual shoots. From the nutrient concentrations and the known P-limitation of the site, it is concluded that the P-availability is responsible. It appears that M. caerulea tussocks set up an efficient retranslocation of P. The mechanism is also present in non-tussock individuals, where it proved more efficient in the marginal sites. The biomass and N- and P-concentration in M. caerulea leaves from non-tussock individuals and tussocks of increasing height in the ground-water discharge sites were investigated. June leaf P-concentrations were unexpectedly low in shoots from small (10-30 cm) tussocks as compared to non-tussock shoots. This invalidates a straightforward relation between P-availability and M. caerulea development in the wettest sites. Possible explanations are discussed. Overall the set-up of an efficient retranslocation of P seems crucial in the development of M. caerulea dominance in this type of fens.
20794262|Globin molecules have a very conservative secondary and tertiary structure, whereas their amino acid sequences are rather variable. To determine the residue restrictions imposed on certain sites of the sequence of non-vertebrate globins (i.e. invertebrate globins and leghemoglobins) to retain the three-dimensional structure, templates were built according to the principles of Bashford et al. (1987). A comparison was afterwards made between the templates for non-vertebrate globins and the ones Bashford et al. constructed for mainly vertebrates. We constructed evolutionary trees (phenograms) on the basis of the amino acid sequences for different non-vertebrate phyla by two distance matrix methods: neighbor-joining and UPGMA. Trees made by the latter method were compared with trees based on the amino acid composition of globins. Globine moleculen worden gekenmerkt door een zeer conservatieve secundaire en tertiare structuur, ondanks een aanzienlijke variabiliteit in aminozuursequentie. Op een aantal posities in de eiwitketen komen echter enkel residu's voor die aan de voor die bepaalde positie specifieke eigenschappen voldoen. Om deze residu restrictie na te gaan in niet-vertebraten globines (= invertebraten globines en leghemoglobines), hebben we templates opgesteld volgens de principes van Bashford et al. (1987). De bekomen templates werden vergeleken met de analoge templates die Bashford et al. opstelden hoofdzakelijk op basis van vertebraten globines. Tevens werden evolutiebomen opgesteld via twee verschillende matrixafstandsmethoden, nl. neighbor-joining en UPGMA. De evolutiebomen bekomen via deze laatste methode werden vergeleken met bomen opgesteld via UPGMA op basis van de aminozuursamenstelling.
20794415|Ancient-forest plant species are well known indicators of the ecological value of forests. We statistically derived a list of 66 forest plant species which are associated with ancient forest habitat in Western Belgium. Most of these species are so called true forest species. Within our study area we found no subregional differences in affinity for ancient forest. In order to identify the ecological mechanisms responsible for the phenomenon of ancient-forest species, we compared their Ellenberg indicator values to those of other forest plant species. Compared to other forest species, ancient-forest species are preferring more acid soils and deeper shadow. There is no significant difference in soil moisture or soil nitrogen preference, neither in dispersal modus between the ancient-forest species and other species. We suggest that the main factor inhibiting the colonization of newly established forests is the high soil phosphate level, characteristic for former arable land. Soil phosphate strongly stimulates the growth of highly competitive species, obstructing the development of ancient-forest plants. Finally an evaluation for nature conservation of the studied forests is made on the basis of the ancient-plant species and their indicator value is assessed.
20794565|This study was carried out in the Sudanian (945'-12 N), Sudano-Guinean (730'-945' N) and Guinean (625' - 730' N) zones of Benin. The distribution and relative abundance of the baobab was studied by means of megatransects and by surveying a number of selected sites. In each zone, an estimate was made of pulp, seed and kernel production from 1200 fruits harvested from 30 individuals. In the Sudanian zone and in some regions of the Dahomey-Gap in the Guinean zone, a population density of 5 baobabs per km was recorded. In the Guinean zone, a density of only 1 baobab per km was recorded. The baobab population's occurred on sandy soils in the Sudanian and Guinean zones and on sandyclayey soils in the Sudano-Guinean zone. Flowering and fruiting of the baobab is seasonal. The morphology and productivity of individual baobabs varied significantly from one zone to another. The zones with high values of potential evaporation, rainfall, relative humidity, temperature, pHwater and percentage of fine silt are associated with a low seed and fruit pulp production. The higher the pHKCl, the percentage of total nitrogen, organic carbon and organic matter, the higher the number of seeds produced by an individual baobab. The higher the clay and crude silt content of the soil, the better the productivity.
20794464|Depuis ses sources prs de Chimay (Belgique) jusqu' ce qu'elle atteigne les collines de la Thirache (Aisne, France), l'Oise s'est taill une troite valle dans les assises schisto-grseuses du socle primaire ardennais, presque entirement occupe par la fort. La vgtation forestire de cet ensemble hydro-gomorphologique a fait l'objet d'une analyse phytosociologique tenant compte de ses diffrents niveaux d'organisation spatiale et temporelle (phytosociologie synusiale intgre): 1) synusies: respectivement 6, 6 et 10 associations vgtales arborescentes, arbustives et herbaces ont t identifies; 2) phytocoenoses: 11 coenassociations ont t dcrites  titre provisoire; 3) tselas: 3 sigmassociations ont t provisoirement distingues; 4) catnas: le complexe forestier tudi semble correspondre  une seule et mme gosigmassociation. Les rsultats de cette typologie montrent l'importante diversit floristique et phytosociologique existant au sein de la haute valle de l'Oise, ainsi que son agencement spatial, depuis le niveau stationnel (synusies et phytocoenoses) jusqu' une chelle rgionale (tselas et catnas). La position de carrefour phytogographique de cette rgion est argumente. From its springhead close to Chimay (Belgium) until it reachs the Thirache hills (department Aisne, France), the Oise river has carved its course through the primary mounts of Ardennes, where the substrate composed by schists and sand-stones is almost covered by forests. Forest vegetation of this hydrological geomorphological complex is studied according to a phytosociological method that integrates different spatiotemporal organization levels ("integrated" synusial phytosociology): 1) synusiae: arborescent, shrubby and herbaceous synusiae were respectively distributed into 6, 6 and 10 synusial associations; 2) phytocoenoses: 11 coenassociations were provisionally recognized; 3) teselas: 3 sigmassociations were provisionally distinguished; 4) catenas: the whole forest complex seems to belong to a same geosigmassociation. Our results show the high floristical and phytosociological diversity of the upper Oise valley, as well as its spatial arrangement from a local scale (synusiae and phytocoenoses) to a regional one (teselas and catenas). The position of this region as a phytogeographical junction is emphasized.
20794348|Dans le cadre de l'tude du dprissement du chne et du htre en fort de Soignes, nous avons compar la vitalit et l'intensit de mycorhization de 14 chnes et 12 htres, sains ou dprissants. Sur la base de critres morphologiques, 31 types mycorhiziens ont t distingus chez le chne et 47 types chez le htre. D'un point de vue quantitatif, les arbres malades prsentent une intensit de mycorhization et un pourcentage de racines vivantes plus faibles que les arbres sains. Au niveau qualitatif, chez les chnes, certains types mycorhiziens  manteau laineux et myclium rayonnant abondant (types C6, C10, C20, ) semblent se retrouver prfrentiellement sur les racines des arbres sains. In order to compare the intensity and the vitality of mycorrhizal infection on healthy and declining trees, we have examined the mycotrophy of 14 Quercus robur and 12 Fagus sylvatica (healthy or declining) in the forest of Soignes. On the basis of their morphological characteristics, 31 mycorrhizal types were distinguished on the oaks and 47 mycorrhizal types on the beeches. In the quantitative side of the study, it was discovered that the percentage of living roots and the intensity of mycorrhization were relatively lower on declining trees than on healthy ones. Moreover, for the oaks, some mycorrhizal types with a wooly fungal mantle and many emanating hyphae seem to be more frequent on the roots of healthy trees.
20794663|The first procedures have been established for in vitro micropropagation, plant regeneration, and protoplast transformation of the desiccation-tolerant resurrection plant, Ramonda serbica Pan. An integrated optimization of salt and growth regulator composition, and different culture temperatures resulted in an effective tissue culture system, which also prevented the undesirable hyperhydricity and tissue necrosis typical of Ramonda tissue cultures. De novo regenerated plants developed at high frequencies, which is a precondition for gene transfer and offer a good opportunity to optimize genetic transformation of R. serbica. Using leaf blades of in vitro propagated plants as donor tissue for protoplast isolation and GFP reporter gene as visually selectable marker gene, PEG-mediated protoplast transfection was also performed. This provides a new tool for studying cellular-level stress responses like stress associated membrane degradation, deficiencies in membrane transport processes (patch clamp technique), or cell cycling abnormalities.
20794357|Experiments were carried out with Laboulbenia slackensis Cpde & Picard, an ectoparasitic fungus of Pogonus chalceus (Marsham) (Coleoptera, Carabidae). The transmission of L. slackensis occurs mainly by direct contact, i.e. by auto-infection and contact between infected hosts. Spores ooze out of the perithecium and form adherent thread-like structures which favours direct transmission. The difference between direct and indirect transmission in L. slackensis is primarily due to the low output of spores towards the environment. Substrate infection is characterized by a low and extremely variable transmission efficiency. In natural conditions it is directly affected by the short life-span of the spores and probably also indirectly by the soil characteristics which affect the behaviour of the hosts. A direct effect of the soil characteristics on the spore-survival, fertility and pick-up probability was not found. Des expriences ont t effectues avec Laboulbenia slackensis Cpde & Picard, ectoparasite du carabe Pogonus chalceus (Marsham) (Coleoptera, Carabidae). La transmission de L. slackensis s'effectue surtout par contact direct, c'est--dire par auto-infection et par le contact entre htes infects. Les spores forment, en sortant du prithce, des filaments adhsifs qui favorisent l'infection directe. La diffrence entre la transmission directe et indirecte est principalement due au petit nombre de spores qui arrivent dans l'environnement. L'infection par le substrat est caractrise par une efficience rduite et extrmement variable. En conditions naturelles elle est directement affecte par la courte dure de vie des spores et indirectement par les caractristiques du sol qui affectent le comportement de l'hte. Un impact direct du sol sur la survie, la fertilit et la probabilit des spores d'tre reprises n'a pas pu tre dmontr.
20794626|A 4-year monitoring of 16 eutrophic peri-urban ponds located in the south-eastern periphery of Brussels has shown that different aquatic plants have different interrelationship with phytoplankton. Extensive submerged macrophytic vegetation has shown the strongest effect on phytoplankton biomass and composition and seems to be crucial for the maintenance of the clear-water state through its capacity to buffer the effects of nutrient enrichment. Restoration of submerged macrophytes seems to be essential for successful biomanipulation of eutrophic ponds. Biomanipulation induced revegetation with submerged macrophytes resulted in the restoration of the clear-water state in the two biomanipulated ponds. Fish removal not accompanied with the restoration of submerged macrophytes in the third biomanipulated pond did not lead to the decrease in phytoplankton biomass. The removal of submerged macrophytes from a clear-water pond invariably led to a shift towards the turbid state often accompanied with cyanobacterial bloom formation. Profuse growth of filamentous green algae also had a negative effect on phytoplankton growth, albeit less strong than that of submerged macrophytes. Floating-leaved plants did not show a significant effect on phytoplankton biomass outside their stands.
20794349|Festuca filiformis and Agrostis capillaris, two low productivity grass species, were sown at low density on new bare verges along the straightened Ghent-Ostend (Prov. of West-Flanders, Belgium) canal, to investigate their influence on the spontaneous establishment of herbaceous vegetation. The results were evaluated by systematic sampling, a TWINSPAN-classification, DCA- and DCCA-ordinations, Spearman rank correlation coefficients and characteristic and average indicator values, calculated from indicator values. Agrostis capillaris and Festuca filiformis prevented erosion in a satisfactory way, and became the dominants on all soil types, except the hivestones, where a 100% spontaneous vegetation established. Considering the sowing ratio Agrostis capillaris was the more successful of the two species, but after four years there was no significant difference in mean cover. Agrostis was the more successful species on the sandy soils, the most important soil type in the new verges. Many species successfully regenerated, but the rarer and therefore often more appreciated species did not appear. A switch from annual to perennial vegetation occured, mainly within three years. The species composition of new sown verges and old, unaltered, natural verges was quite different. Nevertheless, the vegetation types ressemble each other quite well, mainly by the sown grasses. Differences in slope were important for the differentiation of sown species, as well as for differentiation in the spontaneously settled vegetation. Differences in aspect were mainly important for the sown species. Moisture and nutrient status of the soil played a detectable part in the vegetation differentiation; influence of light, temperature and soil acidity were not (yet?) detectable. The dispersion strategies by which the new flora arrived, did not correspond to the expected ones. The lack of suitable management after sowing reduced the chance of establishing a more valuable verge vegetation. Les nouveaux bords du canal de Bruges  Gand (Flandre occidentale, Belgique), redresss sur une longueur de quatre km, ont t ensemencs de Festuca filiformis et Agrostis capillaris, en concentrations basses, pour vrifier la possibilit d'tablissement d'une vgtation spontane. Les rsultats sont valus par des relevs, chantillons de manire systmatique, par une classification TWINSPAN, par des ordinations DCA et DCCA, par correlations Spearman et par characteristic et average indicator values', calcules  base de numros indicateurs. L'rosion tait freine de manire satisfaisante, par l'ensemencement d'Agrostis capillaris et Festuca filiformis, devenant les espces dominantes sur tous les types de sols, sauf sur les empierrements, o une vgtation compltement spontane s'est tablie. Vu le ratio d'ensemencement, Agrostis capillaris tait l'espce s'adaptant le mieux. Aprs quatre annes, la couverture moyenne des deux espces n'tait plus significativement diffrente. Agrostis avait une meilleure couverture sur les sols sableux, qui sont les plus importants, le long des nouveaux bords du canal. Pas mal d'espces ont russi  s'tablir spontanment, mais les espces les plus rares et donc plus apprcies manquaient. Un changement d'une vgtation d'espces annuelles vers des espces prennes s'est ralis en trois annes. La composition spcifique des nouveaux bords du canal et des vieux bords de la rserve naturelle, qui n'ont pas t ensemencs, est relativement diffrente. Pourtant, les vgtations se ressemblent bien par les espces ensemences. L'inclinaison est importante pour les diffrences de dveloppement des espces ensemences, ainsi que pour la diffrentiation dans la vgtation spontane. L'exposition a surtout une influence sur les espces ensemences. L'humidit et la richesse du sol jouent un rle manifeste dans la diffrentiation de la vgtation. L'effet de la lumire, de la temprature et de l'acidit du sol n'est pas (encore) vident. Les stratgies de dispersion de la nouvelle flore ne correspondent pas  ce qu'on en attendait. La gestion des bords du canal aprs l'ensemencement n'est pas prvue et signifie sans doute une barrire pour le dveloppement ultrieur d'une vgtation plus intressante.
20794562|A checklist of the Mimosoideae (Leguminosae) of Equatorial Guinea comprising 21 genera and 40 taxa is presented. Two species are known from Annobn, 18 from Bioko and 37 from Ro Muni. The best represented genera are Albizia and Newtonia with five species each. In addition, bibliographic references for Mimosoideae (Leguminosae) from Equatorial Guinea have been gathered and checked. Fourteen taxa are recorded for the first time from the country. A statistical summary is presented at the end of the checklist.
20794608|Because Flanders (Belgium) has a very dense network of roads and a strict law on road verge management, the annual cost for processing litter from road verges is very high. Therefore, methods are being sought to prevent high road verge above-ground biomass production. A solution could be offered by the use of hemiparasitic plants like Rhinanthus angustifolius and R. minor. We performed sowing experiments with these species in verge banks along two motorways (E 40 and E 314) in 2004 and 2005. In the first year, the number of adult hemiparasites (ca. 11 plants m) was not sufficient to decrease above-ground biomass. This low establishment may be the consequence of the severe drought in spring 2004. After re-sowing, we found a relatively good establishment of R. minor in 2005, up to 270 adult plants m, but R. angustifolius did not perform well, probably because of bad seed quality. In 2005, both parasites had the lowest performance in very productive road verges with high nitrogen availability, high pH and high above-ground biomass. Above-ground biomass, in turn, decreased significantly with the number of hemiparasites per plot. In general, our results demonstrate that Rhinanthus may be effective in reducing above-ground biomass of verge banks, but only when parasitic pressure is large enough. The best strategy may be the introduction of seed in favourable sites (e.g. with relatively low biomass, on flat surfaces, etc.), from where it could migrate to adjacent target sites.
20794447|This paper tests the hypothesis that Mg-deficient spruce suffers higher leaching loss rates of mineral elements due to increased cuticular permeability. To that end, it compares healthy looking and Mg-deficient declining adult spruce in the Ardennes and young healthy and Mg-deficient spruce grown under controlled conditions. In the field, measured throughfall deposits and calculated needle excretions were lower under healthy than under Mg-deficient declining spruce showing abnormal needle loss, eroded epicuticular wax structures of their needles and higher wettability. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that leaching and absorption intensities were higher for Mg-deficient needles than for healthy needles. These differences were adequately explained by a well structured epicuticular wax layer of healthy needles and malformed wax agglomerates of Mg-deficient needles. It was concluded that Mg-deficiency can explain high needle permeability as a result of malformed epicuticular wax structures. Enhanced throughfall and needle excretion of declining spruce in the field appeared to have at least partly the same origin.
20794607|Etiolated wheat coleoptiles (Triticum aestivum L.) elongated slowly (0.29 mm h) before their length reached 9 mm, then elongated quickly (1.12 mm h) during the next 16 h. Afterwards, their elongation slowed and finally ceased when coleoptiles were about 42.70 mm long and primary leaves protruded from their tips. As coleoptiles grew, cells in the base elongated first (in coleoptiles 3-9 mm in length); gradually the region of fastest cell elongation moved toward the middle region (in 25 mm long coleoptiles), and then the subapical region. Correspondingly, cells in the base first reached the maximum length (282.31 m) and first ceased elongation (in 25 mm long coleoptiles). Finally, all cells (excluding cells in the tip) reached almost the same length. Despite all cells in coleoptiles having elongated to the maximum had reached their the maximum length, this length was only 9.59 times the length of the original cells, thus far lower than the 42.70-fold increase in coleoptile length (from 1 mm to 42.70 mm maximum length). Therefore, the increase in length of the cells alone cannot explain the increase in length of coleoptiles, and coleoptiles must have produced new cells to realize the increase in length observed. Dividing cells are reported for the first time in this paper and they were scattered throughout every region (excluding the tip) but were most frequent in the middle region of 7mm long coleoptiles, and disappeared when coleoptiles exceeded 9 mm. Therefore, coleoptile elongation was the result of both cell division and cell elongation when coleoptiles were shorter than 9 mm. When over 9 mm it was exclusively dependent on cell elongation. Cell length from the tip increased relatively little, only about 1.58 times that in 1 mm long coleoptiles. The different growth patterns between cells from the tip and cells from other regions may result from their differing functions.
20794376|The second author collected since a few years many orchids in Burundi. Twenty new taxa are recorded from this country among which two are new for Central Africa (Zare, Rwanda and Burundi) and two are new for science: Polystachia couloniana Geerinck & Arbonnier and P. walravensiana Geerinck & Arbonnier.
20794609|En Tunisie prsaharienne les consquences de la dsertification sont progressivement devenues, au cours des dernires dcennies, un problme environnemental majeur. On assiste  la dgradation continue du couvert vgtal naturel, sous l'effet de diverses activits humaines. Ces activits mnent souvent au surpturage, du fait de la rgression de la superficie des parcours (suite  la mise en culture) et de l'augmentation de la pression pastorale, manifeste par la dgradation de la couverture vgtale. Une telle dgradation quantitative et/ou qualitative s'accompagne de changements irrversibles de la flore et, en consquence, des physionomies vgtales marques par la dominance des espces dlaisses par les animaux. Afin d'tudier les effets de l'interaction de la scheresse saisonnire et du pturage sur le recouvrement de la vgtation et la diversit floristique, plusieurs transects permanents ont t installs  des distances variables autour de trois points d'eau situs en zone aride tunisienne. Le recouvrement et la richesse spcifique ont t mesurs durant deux saisons (automne et printemps) avec le recours  la mthode des points quadrats. Les principaux rsultats de cette tude dmontrent que l'effet du pturage dans le sens d'une rduction du couvert vgtal est plus remarquable au cours de l'automne. Le recouvrement global de la vgtation peut tre considr comme un bon indicateur structural de l'tat de l'cosystme. Les diversits alpha et bta constituent  leur tour des bons indicateurs de structure de l'cosystme qui mritent d'tre suivi dans des tudes similaires. In Presaharian Tunisia desertification has progressively become the major environmental problem during the last decades. Because of various human activities the natural vegetation is continuously degraded. These activities lead to overgrazing and decreasing plant cover, because of the regression of rangeland area (cropland extension) and the increase of the number of grazing animals. Such quantitative and/or qualitative degradation comes with irreversible changes of flora and, consequently, of the vegetation physiognomy marked by the dominance of unpalatable species. In order to study the interaction between seasonal drought and grazing on plant cover and diversity, many permanent transects were established at different distances around three watering points situated in the Tunisian arid zone. Plant cover and species richness dynamics were assessed and monitored during two seasons (fall and spring) using the quadrat  point method. The main results show that the impact of grazing in terms of reduction of the vegetation cover is more important during the fall. The vegetation cover can be considered to be a good structural indicator of the studied ecosystem. The alpha and beta diversities constitute good indictors for the ecosystem structure and are recommended to be estimated in future studies.
20794451|Morphometric examination and multivariate statistical analyses have been applied for the study of five populations of Dactylorhiza occitanica Geniez, Melki, Pain & Socca, a recently described taxon from lowland areas in southern France, as well as four critical Dactylorhiza populations from mountainous regions in eastern France. The homogeneity of D. occitanica as an independent species within the D. majalis group was substantiated, although one of the samples showed some divergence, probably induced by isolation and ecological conditions. The resemblance and segregation of D. occitanica from allied species such as D. praetermissa and D. elata is discussed, as well as the probable hybridogenous influences that characterize all members of the group. The four critical populations are discussed in the same perspective. Although they show some resemblance with either D. praetermissa or D. occitanica, they are not attributable to them and probably resulted from independent hybridization events under peculiar conditions of isolation. Especially in one case (Chaffois, Doubs), these populations may be the departure point for the establishment of separate, well defined species. Un examen morphomtrique et des analyses statistiques multivariables ont t appliqus  l'tude de cinq populations de Dactylorhiza occitanica Geniez, Melki, Pain & Socca, taxon rcemment dcrit de rgions de basse altitude du Midi de la France, ainsi que de quatre populations critiques de Dactylorhiza de zones montagneuses de l'est de la France. L'homognit de D. occitanica en tant qu'espce indpendante dans le groupe de D. majalis a pu tre corrobore, bien qu'un des chantillons dnote une certaine divergence, probablement induite par l'isolement et les conditions cologiques. La ressemblance et la sparation de D. occitanica par rapport  des espces voisines comme D. praetermissa et D. elata est discute, de mme que les influences hybridognes probables qui caractrisent tous les membres du groupe. Les quatre populations critiques sont discutes dans la mme perspective. Bien qu'elles montrent une certaine ressemblance avec D. praetermissa ou D. occitanica, elles ne peuvent tre identifies  cellesci et rsultent probablement d'vnements d'hybridation indpendants, survenus dans des conditions particulires d'isolement. Spcialement dans un des cas (Chaffois, Doubs), ces populations pourraient tre le point de dpart de la constitution d'espces spares et bien dfinies.
20794654|Gentiana straminea Maxim. is an outcrossing perennial from the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP) that undergoes some selfing. This species has become threatened in recent years because of over-collection for medicinal use. A complete understanding of the partitioning of genetic variation between populations is needed to establish effective conservation measures for this species. In this study, we used RAPDs to quantify the genetic diversity of seven populations in the core distribution of G. straminea. Of the 78 primers screened, 15 produced highly reproducible bands. Using these primers, 127 discernible DNA fragments were generated, of which 110 (86.61%) were polymorphic, indicating considerable genetic variation at the species level. However, there were relatively low levels of polymorphism at the population level, with the percentage of polymorphic bands and the average gene diversity ranging from 43.31% to 51.18% and from 0.175 to 0.200, respectively. The correlation between gene diversity and population size was only marginally significant. High genetic differentiation was found between populations (Nei's genetic diversity analysis: GST = 0.408; AMOVA analysis: ST = 0.413). These differentiation measures were higher than that expected for an outbreeding species and the higher level of genetic partitioning between G. straminea populations may be a result of the combined effects of geitonogamous selfing, complex geography and past climatic oscillations. The high genetic differentiation detected between populations suggests that as many populations as possible should be included in any in situ or ex situ conservation program for this species.
20794324|The author reminds of some models of classification systems proposed for the class Potametea Txen & Preising 1942 in Zaire and the different conceptions of numerous phytosociologists in Europe about fresh water aquatic vegetation. A synsystematic scheme is proposed for Zaire as a whole, from the factorial analysis of correspondences (F.A.C.) and the hierarchical ascending classification (H.A.C.). It comprises 17 aquatic associations, 4 sub-associations, 10 variants, 2 sub-variants and 22 facies belonging to 6 alliances and 3 orders, regrouped in 2 classes. L'auteur rappelle quelques modles de systmes de classification phytosociologique adopts jusqu'ici pour la classe des Potametea Txen & Preising 1942 au Zare et les diffrentes conceptions de nombreux phytosociologues en Europe concement les classes de vgtation aquatique des eaux douces. Un schma synsystmatique est propos pour l'ensemble du Zare,  partir de l'analyse factorielle des correspondances (A.F.C.) et de la classification ascendante hirarchique (C.A.H.) des relevs. Ces techniques ont permis de mettre en vidence 17 associations aquatiques, 4 sous-associations, 10 variantes, 2 sousvariantes et 22 facis rpartis en 6 alliances et 2 ordres, regroups dans 2 classes.
20794215|Dans cette tude on a test les extraits  l'ther de ptrole (ou hexane), au chloroforme et au mthanol de quelques espces d'Acanthaceae, d'Asteraceae, de Meliaceae et de Passifloraceae pour leur action rpulsive sur les larves et les imagos de quelques insectes ravageurs des denres alimentaires. On a appliqu le test de comportement: test discriminatif (choice test) et non-discriminatif (no-choice test) de nourriture. La plus forte activit est obtenue  partir des extraits chloroformiques de feuilles de Thomandersia hensii (score IV de rpulsion alimentaire), de Passiflora foetida (score III), de Synedrella nodiflora (score III) et de Carapa procera (score III). En revanche l'extrait  l'ther de ptrole des folioles de la dernire espce s'est montr comme attractif alimentaire. The paper refers to a series of data on petrole ether (or hexane), chloroform and methanol extracts obtained from plants belonging to the Acanthaceae, Asteraceae, Meliaceae and Passifloraceae. The deterrent activity of above mentioned plant extracts was checked on larvae and adults of selected insects infesting stored products. The standard, behavioral test has been used with possibility of choice (choice test) and without choice (no-choice test) of food. The following chloroform extracts have shown the highest deterrent activity (= the most effective deterrents): leaves of Thomandersia hensii (score IV of deterrency), Passiflora foetida, Synedrella nodiflora and Carapa procera (score III of deterrency) respectively. On the contrary, the petrole ether extract obtained from leaves of the last mentioned species has acted as food attractant to insect storage pests.
20794414|Two new species from Rwanda are described: Bolusiella lebeliana Delepierre & Geerinck and Diaphananthe delepierreana Lebel & Geerinck. Some observations on Polystachya are also made. Twee nieuwe soorten van Rwanda worden beschreven: Bolusiella lebeliana Delepierre & Geerinck en Diaphananthe delepierreana Lebel & Geerinck. Enkele opmerkingen met betrekking op Polystachya werden eveneens gemaakt.
43996261|The characters of Agaricus geesterani Bas & Heinemann are discussed and compared with other genera in the tribus Agariceae. Some chemical tests on context and lamellae stress the isolated position of A. geesterani in the genus Agaricus. As a result the new genus Allopsalliota is described with the one species Allopsalliota geesterani (Bas & Heinemann) Nauta & Bas.
20794487|A new lichenicolous coelomycete is described as Cladoniicola staurospora gen. et sp. nov. It has immersed pycnidia in which hyaline, branched, transversally septate conidia are produced holoblastically from ampulliform conidiogenous cells. The new fungus is confined to squamules of the primary thallus of terricolous Cladonia species, which become decolourized. It is currently known from the Netherlands and northern France.
20794217|A new marine blue-green alga, Lyngbya bouillonii Hoffmann et Demoulin, is described from Papua New Guinea. The alga is mainly found in coral reefs where it forms dark reddish, non gelatinous, tenacious plant masses, strongly attached to madrepores in the infralittoral. Une nouvelle algue bleue marine, Lyngbya bouillonii Hoffmann et Demoulin, est dcrite de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine. L'algue est surtout trouve dans les rcifs coralliens o elle se prsente sous forme de touffes rouge fonc, tenaces, non glatineuses, fermement attaches aux madrpores dans l'infralittoral.
20794584|A new record of the genus Astragalus L. (A. wagneri Bunge) is given from East Anatolia; it is compared with the related species A. dictyophysus Reuter ex Bunge. On the other hand, a taxon previously considered in Turkish Flora as a synonym, A. lycaonicus Hub.-Mor. & Reese is reevaluated as a distinct species; a discussion of the taxonomy of this species and the related A. mesogitanus Boiss. is provided. A full description and an illustration of A. wagneri and a description of A. lycaonicus are given. A distribution map of the four species in Turkey is produced.
20794229|The authors review the main results relative to aluminium effects on forest trees growing on acid soils, including original data concerning soil stress factors, or indirect air pollution effects acting on soil acidification and nutrient leaching, and tree response at the root level. The main conclusion is that the aluminium effect per se is less evident than its hindrance on magnesium and calcium uptake. Les auteurs passent en revue les rsultats principaux concernant les effets de l'aluminium sur les arbres forestiers croissant sur sol acide. Le texte comporte des donnes originales concernant d'une part les facteurs de stress du sol ou les effets indirects de la pollution atmosphrique agissant sur l'acidification du sol et le lessivage des lments nutritifs, et d'autre part la rponse de l'arbre au niveau radiculaire. La conclusion principale  tirer de cette revue, nous amne  considrer que l'effet per se de l'aluminium est moins vident que l'obstruction qu'il cre  l'absorption du calcium et du magnsium.
20794497|Three pairs of universal primers were used for PCR amplification of three non-coding regions of chloroplast DNA, followed by restriction fragment analysis of amplified fragments in order to study the variation among eight species and two subspecies of the genus Fagopyrum. Three length mutations were identified, which divided the analysed species into two distinct groups. Subsequent restriction fragment analysis revealed 15 different restriction patterns, which allowed further differentiation among some species. Phenetic analysis of the length and restriction pattern variation revealed genetic relationships that are consistent with the previous taxonomic arrangements of these species. The present study demonstrates the usefulness of this simple and low-cost technique for resolving genetic relationships in Fagopyrum.
20794378|A new saxicolous species of Rinodina (R. brandii sp. nov.) is described from Belgium, where it grows on schistose rocks. It is mainly characterized by the presence of pannarin, located only in the epihymenium, its thallus containing atranorin and zeorin and its large Physcia-type ascospores. It is compared with Rinodina confragosa, morphologically very similar, and with R. murrayi and R. santorinensis, chemically very close.
43996262|A key and a checklist of the European species of Lepiota section Lilaceae M. Bon and section Integrellae (Khner ex M. Bon) M. Bon are given. ITS1- and ITS2-sequences are used to show that Lepiota cristata (Bolt. : Fr.) Kumm., with its spurred spores and hymeniform pileus covering, is more closely related to species with ellipsoid spores and a hymeniform pileus covering than to species with spurred spores and a different kind of pileus covering. The problems concerning the interpretation of Lepiota cristatoides Einh. are discussed. Lepiota apatelia Vellinga & Huijser and L. psalion Huijser & Vellinga are described as new. Une cl de dtermination et une "checklist" des espces europennes de Lepiota section Lilaceae M. Bon et section Integrellae (Khner ex M. Bon) M. Bon sont proposes. Les ITS1- et ITS2-squences sont utilises pour montrer que Lepiota cristata (Boit.: Fr.) Kumm., avec ses spores peronnes et son revtement pilique hymniforme, est plus proche d'espces  spores ellipsodes et revtement pilique hymniforme que d'espces  spores peronnes et revtement pilique diffrent. Les problmes concernant l'interprtation de Lepiota cristatoides Einh. sont discuts. Lepiota apatelia Vellinga & Huijser and L. psalion Huijser & Vellinga sont dcrites comme nouvelles.
20794473|The species composition and ecology of the seagrass epiphytes of Zanzibar Island (Tanzania) are discussed. Thalassodendron ciliatum, a subtidal seagrass species, had the highest epiphyte cover, followed by Enhalus acoroides, Halodule uninervis, Cymodocea rotundata and Thalassia hemprichill. A total of 49 taxa of macroalgae (5 of which are new records for the East African coast) was recorded as epiphytes on seagrasses; the Rhodophyta form the largest fraction, exceeding the Chloro- and Phaeophyta both in species number and abundance. The preference of the epiphytes for certain host plants was mainly related to the ecological parameters of the habitat of the hosts such as tidal level, depth and relative rate of water flow. Epiphytes were most abundant in the subtidal zone where they were best developed on the perennial stems rather than on the ephemeral leaves. Differences in species composition and abundance were also observed between different parts of the stems and leaf tufts. Distinctive species compositions characterize these different habitats and plant parts. The zonation of seagrasses and their associated epiphytes along transects through a tide channel in Chwaka Bay is also described.
20794595|The ecology and distribution of Poaceae species found on 12 inselbergs embedded in savannah and woodland (Benin) and on 25 inselbergs enclosed in rain forest (CEG: Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon) are described. A total of 77 species were observed, 46 in Benin and 36 in CEG. Five species were strictly saxicolous in Benin and three in CEG, but most species (83%) were also present in the vegetation surrounding the inselbergs (the matrix). In Benin, 46% of the species were present on half of the inselbergs, while only one species did so in CEG. This unequal distribution of the species amongst sites in CEG could originate from dispersal limitation due to the strong ecological contrast between the inselberg biotope and the rain forest. Ecological conditions on the inselbergs are more similar to that of a savannah and woodland matrix, which could explain the homogeneity of inselberg vegetation in Benin. In CEG, four species were mainly distributed outside the lowland rain forest region: two in savannah and woodland, and two in mountainous vegetation. The discontinuous distribution of these species with inselberg satellite populations in the lowland rainforest is probably related to Quaternary vegetation changes. Inselberg in both study area contribute significantly to the regional species diversity by the presence of strictly saxicolous species or of species from other phytochoria. The inselberg habitat should therefore be considered in conservation policies.
20794564|Plant pollination mode is not only related to floral morphology, but also responses to variation in the surrounding biotic and abiotic environments. A mature flower of Kosteletzkya virginica has a monadelphous androecium that bears 20-30 anthers and surrounds an exserted five-branched style with synstylous base. We observed sex dimorphism in K. virginica, androeciums being vestigial in female flowers. Stylar movements occurred if stigmas had not received pollen by insect pollinators, and stigmas could or could not contact with the anthers at the end of the anthersis day. Our observations and measurements indicated that pollination in K. virginica is achieved in two ways: insect-pollination and self-pollination by stylar movements. The latter includes direct stylar movements (stigmas contacted with the anthers at the end of the anthesis day) and a combination of stylar movements and corolla closure (stigma did not contact with the anthers at the end of the anthesis day), and there was a significant difference in style exsertion between the flowers whose stigmas contacted with the anthers at the end of the anthesis day and the flowers whose stigmas did not contact with the anthers. A field study demonstrated that ratios of flowers pollinated by stylar movements to insect-pollinated flowers were 0.154 and 0.162 in the studied population in 2002 and 2003, respectively. There was also a significant difference in this ratio between sunny and cloudy or rainy days.
20794499|This paper presents a survey of the lichen flora of the Boulonnais (France, dpt. Pas-de-Calais). A total of 278 taxa are accepted, including 25 lichenicolous fungi and 3 non lichenized species. The area covered by the checklist of lichens and lichenicolous fungi of Belgium, Luxembourg and N France is enlarged to include also the Boulonnais area. The following species are additions to the checklist: Bacidia laurocerasi, Caloplaca cerinelloides, C. marina, C. microthallina, C. thallincola, Chrysothrix flavovirens, Cliostomum flavidulum, Cryptolechia carneolutea, Didymellopsis collematum, Gyalidea minuta, Lecania atrynoides, Lecanora jamesii, Lichina confinis, Mycomicrothelia confusa, Opegrapha sorediifera, Verrucaria erichsenii, V. halizoa, V. maura and V. sandstedei. The author citation of the name Caloplaca maritima is discussed. Le prsent article donne un aperu de la flore lichnique du Boulonnais (France, dpt. Pas-de-Calais). Un total de 278 taxons est accept, parmi lesquels 25 espces de champignons lichnicoles et 3 espces non lichnises. Le territoire couvert par la checklist des lichens de Belgique, du Luxembourg et du nord de la France est tendu pour comprendre galement le Boulonnais. Les espces suivantes sont ajoutes  cette liste: Bacidia laurocerasi, Caloplaca cerinelloides, C. marina, C. microthallina, C. thallincola, Chrysothrix flavovirens, Cliostomum flavidulum, Cryptolechia carneolutea, Didymellopsis collematum, Gyalidea minuta, Lecania atrynoides, Lecanora jamesii, Lichina confinis, Mycomicrothelia confusa, O. sorediifera, Verrucaria erichsenii, V. halizoa, V. maura et V. sandstedei. La citation des auteurs du nom Caloplaca maritima est discute.
20794402|Hairy root cultures from diploid and haploid Atropa belladonna plants were established by co-culture method, using the Ri plasmid of Agrobacterium rhizogenes (strain A4) and its insertion and deletion mutants. The hairy roots integrated -glucuonidase and neomycin phosphotransferase genes were also established by binary vector method. Diploid hairy roots grew well in phytohormone-free Murashige and Skoog (HF MS) liquid medium, especially those induced from the bacterium with the insertion mutation at rol c. Haploid hairy roots could be maintained in HF MS liquid medium though their growth was inferior to that of diploids. Both, diploid and haploid hairy roots, contained hyoscyamine (ca 0.2-0.6% dry weight) as the main alkaloid. A higher yield of hyoscyamine was obtained in the diploid hairy roots (400-1300 g/100 ml flask for diploids against 200-400 g/100 ml flask for haploids). Transgenic plantlets were regenerated on MS solid medium with or without phytohormones at 25C under 16 h day light. Except for the rol b and rol c insertion mutants, the diploid plantlets showed the typical hairy root syndrome, while the haploids exhibited much more dwarf features. The co-existence of the two rol loci b and c determined the hairy root syndrome expression. Alkaloid concentrations in roots and leaves of normal and transgenic plantlets were much lower than those of the corresponding hairy roots (less than 0.09% dry weight hyoscyamine), and no relationship in alkaloid concentration was found between the regenerated plantlets and the original hairy roots.
20794549|The life history traits of a clonal plant species, such as growth form and seedling recruitment pattern, influence the clonal diversity and structure within populations. Using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA markers, we investigated the variation in clonal diversity and in spatial structure of clones in Vaccinium myrtillus populations from different habitats (mineral heath, peaty heath and beech grove). The partitioning of the genetic variability within and between populations was also studied. A total of 95 clones were identified among the 586 samples analysed. Despite an intra-population variability in the clonal diversity and in spatial structure of clones, no difference was detected between the different studied habitats. Although there was some variation in growth strategy, V. myrtillus exhibited a more typical phalanx growth form. Our results supported the hypothesis that the "recruitment at windows of opportunity" (RWO) is the most appropriate description of seedling recruitment in this species. In accordance with the life history traits of V. myrtillus (long-lived species with a mixed breeding system and potentially high seed dispersal), a high proportion of the genetic variation was observed within populations (86%) and only a low proportion of the genetic variation was distributed between populations (14%).
20794612|We studied the infraspecific variation in the widespread geofrutescent species Leptactina benguelensis (Welw. ex Benth. & Hook.f.) R.D.Good. Although morphological variation (habit, leaf shape and pubescence, inflorescence structure, external pubescence of the corolla, etc.) is complex, it is only weakly polytypic and partly correlated with geography and ecology. We therefore conclude that L. benguelensis is an ochlospecies and suppress the hitherto recognized subspecies benguelensis and pubescens. We also performed a habitat suitability study using Ecological Niche Factor Analysis to determine the ecological preferences of the species.
20794210|The taxonomy and nomenclature of some species of Batrachospermum, B. gelatinosum, B. stagnale, B. confusum, B. turfosum, B. vogesiacum and B. sirodotii have been reviewed with the help of the original material of Bory, Dillenius and Sirodot. Two new combinations are proposed for forms of B. gelatinosum. The nomenclature of the sections recognized by Sirodot is also discussed. L'examen du matriel original de Bory, Dillenius et Sirodot a permis de mettre au point la systmatique et la nomenclature de quelques espces de Batrachospermum: B. gelatinosum, B. stagnale, B. confusum, B. turfosum, B. vogesiacum et B. sirodotii. Deux nouvelles combinaisons sont proposes pour des formes de B. gelatinosum. La nomenclature des sections reconnues par Sirodot est aussi discute.
20794197|Des ectomycorhizes associes aux carpophores de Cortinarius armillatus, Dermocybe phoenicea et Amanita muscaria, ont t prleves  intervalles rguliers dans deux btulaies pures au cours de l'automne 1987. Aprs observation in situ, un fragment de chaque chantillon est fix sur le terrain en vue de la prparation de coupes semi-fines. La majeure partie du prlvement est rserve aux tudes macro- et microscopiques sur matriel frais. Ce travail dcrit les trois mycorhizes et dfinit des critres permettant leur identification en l'absence de fructifications. Ectomycorrhizae grown under fruitbodies of Cortinarius armillatus, Dermocybe phoeniceae and Amanita muscaria were regularly collected in two birch forests during the autumn 1987. After in situ observation, a part of each sample was fixed on the field for the preparation of semi-thin sections. The remaining part of the sample was preserved for further macro- and microscopic studies on fresh material. The three mycorrhizae are described and distinctive features are defined to allow their identification in absence of fruitbodies.
20794641|The current natural distribution of Taxus baccata L. in Belgium is limited to a few localities in the southern part of the country. In these localities, Taxus is predominantly growing on steep, calcareous slopes, which is believed to be its natural habitat in this part of the world. In Flanders, the northern part of Belgium, Taxus is considered not to be native and Taxus stands are interpreted there as being planted by humans or as garden escapes. The Holocene pollen and macrofossil data for Taxus, however, show a very different picture regarding abundance and geographical distribution, as well as habitat. It appears that during the Sub-boreal, Taxus grew in the coastal plain and the lower Scheldt valley, where it was part of the carr vegetation on peat. Before the end of the Sub-boreal, Taxus seems to have disappeared from this region, most probably because of the transition from the carr vegetation to (raised) bogs. Belgium is not the only case where such observations have been made. In other areas of northwestern Europe, Taxus also seems to have had a completely different distribution and ecology in the past, especially during the Sub-boreal. An overview of the palaeobotanical finds of Taxus baccata from Belgium is here given, supplemented with finds from neighbouring regions. The Holocene distribution and palaeoecology of Taxus baccata are discussed in a broader northwest European context.
20794467|Aprs une prsentation des principales caractristiques naturelles de la valle de la Loire bourbonnaise (situation gographique, climat, flore et vgtation), les auteurs se sont intresss  la mosaque vgtale du site de l'le de la Creve (Nivre) y relevant 15 units de vgtation principales. Ces dernires illustrent les deux sries volutives prsentes en Loire bourguignonne allant des groupements pionniers de grves jusqu'aux stades climaciques tels que celui de la frnaie-ormaie. Une reprsentation cartograpique de ces diverses units a t ralise. Par ailleurs, l'intrt du site a pu tre dmontr par la prsence de nombreux taxons rares voire protgs ainsi qu'au travers de la valeur patrimoniale de plusieurs units de vgtation approches. D'autre part, une analyse cartographique comparative de la vgtation a permis de mettre en vidence un ralentissement de l'activit fluviale, force gnratrice des cosystmes ligriens. After a presentation of the main natural features of the Bourbonnais Loire valley (geographical situation, climate, flora and vegetation), authors looked into the vegetal mosaic of the site "le de la Creve" (Nivre). They noticed 15 main vegetation units. These ones illustrate both evolutionary series existing in Burgundian Loire going from sandbanks' pioneer formations to climax vegetation stage such as ash-elm grove. A cartographic representation of these diverse units has been done. In other respects, the site's interest has been demonstrated by the presence of several rare and even protected taxa and by the heritage value of different vegetation units. Moreover a vegetation comparative cartographic analysis showed a slowing down of the fluvial activity, generative force of ligerian ecosystems.
20794441|L'exploitation de la craie phosphate dans le nord de la France a donn lieu  la cration de vastes carrires  ciel ouvert, pour la plupart abandonnes  la fin des annes 1930 et aujourd'hui recolonises par la vgtation. Nous avons entrepris une analyse phytosociologique des groupements impliqus dans cette recolonisation et tent d'en reconstituer les grandes tapes, grce  une approche systmique. Le stade initial est reprsent par une mosaque de communauts throphytiques d'une part et hmicryptophytiques d'autre part, ces dernires tant caractrises par une comptition entre plusieurs classes phytosociologiques. L'orientation de la dynamique est alors dtermine par la nature des facteurs biotiques entrant en jeu, avec des cheminements diffrents entre fonds de carrire, versants et plateaux, mais qui finissent par converger. Cette tude a permis, outre de caractriser les groupements vgtaux impliqus dans la recolonisation, de prciser leur organisation spatio-temporelle et les facteurs rgissant le complexe phytodynamique initial. The winning of the phosphated chalk in northern France has led to the creation of vast opencast quarries, for the most part abandoned at the end of the thirties and now recolonized by the vegetation. We have undertaken a phytosociological analysis of the communities involved in this recolonization and attempted in a reconstruction of its main stages thanks to a systemic approach. The initial stage consists in a mosaic of therophytic and hemicryptophytic communities, these last being characterized by a competition between several phytosociological classes. The orientation of the dynamics is then determined by the nature of biotic factors, with different but convergent ways between bottoms, slopes and plateau of quarries. This study has allowed 1) to characterize vegetal communities involved in the recolonization, 2) to clarify their spatio-temporal organization and the factors governing the initial "phytodynamical complex".
41427186|During a survey of a small freshwater pond enclosed by the Herbarium building of the National Botanic Garden of Belgium, two new species belonging to the genera Eunotia and Encyonopsis have been found. The morphology of both species is discussed using both light and scanning electron microscopical observations and compared with similar species. Eunotia blgica is similar to E. glacialifalsa but can be separated based on its valve dimensions (larger valve width), number of striae, the absence of the characteristic longer cell cycle stages of E. glacialifalsa and a different striation pattern. Encyonopsis hortcola belongs to the E. microcephala complex but can be differentiated from other members of this complex by a combination of valve outline, striation pattern and areolae structure.
20794449|Le sud du Togo prsente des zones inondables qui ont fait l'objet d'analyses paysagres (transects) et phytosociologiques fines (approche synusiale). Elles ont permis de mettre en vidence les units suivantes: groupements  Zanthoxylum zanthoxyloides, fourrs  Machaerium lunatum, peuplement de Rhizophora racemosa, prairies flottantes diverses, prairies marcageuses  Cyperus articulatus, savane  Vetiveria nigritana. Cette tude constitue un apport  la connaissance d'un environnement particulirement intressant et menac. A phytosociological study of Southern Togo swampy vegetation reveals Zanthoxylum zanthoxyloides communities, Machaerium lunatum thickets, Rhizophora racemosa community, Echinochloetum pyramidalis, Cyperus laxus and Sphenoclea zeylanica - Leersia hexandra grass-lands, Cyperus articulatus and Vetiveria nigritana savannas. This study provides a contribution to the knowledge of a very interesting and threatened environment.
20794243|Dans des travaux prcdents, 8 groupes d'espces fongiques saprophytes se succdant au cours du processus de dcomposition de la litire de htre (Fagus sylvatica L.) ont t dgags dans un mull oligotrophe et dans un moder. Ce travail porte sur l'aspect nutritionnel de ces espces. Celles-ci ont t testes in vitro pour l'utilisation du glucose, de la cellulose, de l'hmicellulose (xylane), de la pectine, d'un constituant de la lignine (acide ferrulique), des hydrosolubles de feuilles et des produits bruns intracellulaires se formant au cours de la snescence des feuilles. Le rle des nitrates a galement t abord. In previous works, saprophytic fungi were classified in 8 successional groups having dealings with the litter of Fagus sylvatica L. decomposition process, in an oligotrophic mull and in a moder. In this study, these species were tested in vitro to know their ability to use glucose, cellulose, hemicellulose (xylan), pectin, a lignin component (ferrulic acid), leaves hydrosolubles, and senescent intracellular brown products. The role of nitrates was also considered.
20794216|Compte rendu de l'excursion annuelle organise en juin 1990 dans les deux dpartements de la Moselle et Meurthe-et-Moselle (France), au sud et au sud-ouest de Metz. Prsentation des observations floristiques et phytosociologiques. Considrations relatives  l'volution rcente de la flore et de la vgtation en Lorraine franaise et aux problmes de la conservation de la nature dans cette rgion. Prsence  Arnaville (Meurthe-et-Moselle) de deux espces introduites nouvelles pour la Lorraine: Nigella damascena et Malcolmia maritima. Verslag van de jaarlijkse excursie, die gepland was in juni 1990 in de twee departementen Moselle en Meurthe-et-Moselle (Frankrijk), ten zuiden en ten zuidwesten van Metz. Voorlegging van floristische en fytosociologische waarnemingen. Bemerkingen in verband met de recente evolutie van de flora en de plantengroei in Frans-Lotharingen, en met de natuurbescherming in dit gebied. Aanwezigheid te Arnaville (Meurthe-et-Moselle) van twee ingevoerde soorten, die nieuw zijn voor Lotharingen: Nigella damascena en Malcolmia maritima. Report of the annual field meeting organized in June 1990 in the two Departements of the Moselle and the Meurthe-et-Moselle (France), to south and south-west of Metz. Presentation of floristic and phytosociological observations. Considerations about the recent evolution of the flora and vegetation in the French Lorraine and about nature preservation in this region. Presence at Arnaville (Meurthe-et-Moselle) of two introduced species new to Lorraine: Nigella damascena and Malcolmia maritima.
20794371|A locality with foliicolous lichens (growing on living leaves of Buxus sempervirens) has been found in the Belgian "Haute-Meuse" valley. Although none of the species present (Arthonia muscigena, Bacidia arnoldiana, B. chloroticula, Fellhanera bouteillei, F. subtilis, Fellhaneropsis myrtillicola, Porina aenea and P. leptalea) belongs to the "true" foliicolous ecological group, their discovery is of high ecogeographical interest. The site vegetation belongs to a Buxus-rich variant of the Primulo-Carpinetum. The occurrence in Belgium of Arthonia elegans is confirmed and Lecania cyrtellina is reported for the first time from the country. Une station de lichens foliicoles (croissant sur les feuilles vivantes de Buxus sempervirens) a t dcouverte dans la valle de la Haute-Meuse belge. Bien qu'aucune des espces prsentes (Arthonia muscigena, Bacidia arnoldiana, B. chloroticula, Fellhanera bouteillei, F. subtilis, Fellhaneropsis myrtillicola, Porina aenea et P. leptalea) n'appartienne au groupe cologique des eu-foliicoles, cette dcouverte est d'un grand intrt cogographique. La vgtation du site relve d'une variante riche en Buxus du Primulo-Carpinetum. La prsence en Belgique de Arthonia elegans est confirme et Lecania cyrtellina est mentionn pour la premire fois de ce pays. In de Belgische vallei van de Haute-Meuse is een lokatie gevonden met foliicole lichenen (groeiend op de levende bladeren van Buxus sempervirens). Ofschoon geen van de aangetroffen soorten (Arthonia muscigena, Bacidia arnoldiana, B. chloroticula, Fellhanera bouteillei, F. subtilis, Fellhaneropsis myrtillicola, Porina aenea en P. leptalea) behoort tot de obligaat foliicole ecologische groep, is deze ontdekking van grote ecogeografische betekenis. De vegetatie van de genoemde lokatie behoort tot het Primulo-Carpinetum met Buxus. Het voorkomen van Arthonia elegans in Belgi wordt hier bevestigd en Lecania cyrtellina is voor het eerst gevonden in Belgi.
20794599|Persian leek (Allium sp.) is a cultivated food species, native to the Middle East, which is important economically but its taxonomic identity and relationship to other relative species remain unclear. Vegetative and floral morphology of different specimens of the Persian leek was studied in order to define its taxonomical position. The results support a close relationship to A. ampeloprasum L. derivatives. Mitotic studies of meristematic root cells in Persian leek specimens, showed the chromosome number to be consistently 2n = 4x = 32. However, the specimens differed in chromosome morphology and their karyograms were classified into two groups. Because of doubts regarding taxonomic identity of Persian leek with its nearest wild form, A. iranicum (Wendelbo) Wendelbo, a morphological comparison was made with respect to presence and shape of bulblets exterior to the main bulb, structure of the stamens, etc. and confirmed the Persian leek as a separate entity. There was no evidence for its presence in the wild and may thus be considered as a cultigen. Our analysis suggests that the Persian leek is a distinct subordinate group of A. ampeloprasum.
41427182|The seed morphometry of 19 orchid species of from Turkey was studied using scanning electron microscopy. The morphometric characteristics of examined orchid seeds and embryos were recorded and compared statistically. Morphometric analysis of orchid seeds indicated that testa and embryo dimensions and morphology as well as the presence, absence or nature of reticulation on seed coat walls are of diagnostic value. In general, higher taxonomic levels such as subfamilies could be separated according to seed length. Maximum seed volumes were found in Limodorum abortivum (L.) Swartz. Based on our observations, differences in seed and embryo dimensions and percent air space exist among the different taxa of orchids. Seeds with the highest air space percentages were found in Dactylorhiza ibrica (Bieb. ex Willd) So.
20794550|In Western Europe and North America Echinochloa muricata (P. Beauv.) Fernald (native in North America) has long been confused with Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) P. Beauv. (native in Europe). After its introduction in Europe, it took a long time before it was recognised, and later confusion lingered on, in part because the variability of E. muricata was not sufficiently taken into account in keys and descriptions. In the present paper, the difference between E. crus-galli and E. muricata is discussed, and the variability of E. muricata is illustrated. Belgian herbarium specimens labelled E. crus-galli and E. muricata have been revised. Since 1887 (year of the first collection) E. muricata var. microstachya Wiegand has gradually spread and is now locally naturalised and abundant, whereas var. muricata is only known as a rare casual.
20794631|River macrophytes are frequently studied at fundamental or applied levels, such as water quality assessment and management. Though some effects of river flow regulation on aquatic plants have been documented for temperate rivers, few studies have addressed regulation in Mediterranean-type rivers. We compared the flora from regulated sites and reference sites located upstream from southern Iberian reservoirs. Contrary to other situations, species richness downstream the reservoirs did not present an increase related to flow regulation. Species richness was relatively similar on sites located downstream from the dam and on reference sites, but variability among sites was smaller for the former. Furthermore, the sites closer to the dam were the driest and developed a floristic composition typical of intermittent rivers when the latter presented sufficient flow to develop an aquatic vegetation. In many cases, this water availability is related to the influence of the hydropeaking discharges located a few kilometres downstream from the dam. The newly created habitats favour opportunistic species, which expand rapidly and modify the habitat.
20794374|Un inventaire limit des macrolichens corticoles a t ralis en 1995 dans la Rgion de Bruxelles-Capitale considre depuis plus d'un sicle comme un semi-dsert lichnique. Contre toute attente, les 26 sites d'chantillonnage rpartis dans les diffrents sous-systmes urbains ont livr 18 espces dont la majeure partie est lie aux saules blancs, peupliers du Canada et rables sycomores des milieux humides. Toutefois, mme en dehors de ces derniers, ces trois espces et une vingtaine d'autres ne sont pas dpourvues de macrolichens. Le phnomne pourrait correspondre  une recolonisation en relation avec la dpollution au SO. Cependant, la teneur croissante de l'air en oxydes d'azote explique probablement que les espces les plus frquentes soient des nitrophiles. In 1995, a survey of the corticolous macrolichens has been carried out in the Brussels-Capital Region considered for more than one century as a "lichen semi-desert". Contrary to all expectations, the 26 sampling sites distributed throughout the urban area have yielded 18 species most of which are associated with white willow, sycamore and hybrid black poplar growing in humid areas. But even in drier sites, all of the 25 examined tree species, except beech, are not devoid of epiphytic macrolichens. This observation might be interpreted as a progressive phenomenon and a consequence of SO depollution.
20794538|Over the past 100 years, the global average temperature has increased by approximately 0.6C and is expected to increase by 1.4 to 5.8C in the 21st century. This climate warming is expected to alter distribution ranges and boundaries of many plant and animal species, including forest plant species. We used 677 existing vegetation relevs, recorded in Querco-Fagetea forests in France, Belgium and the Netherlands on the one hand, and temperature and precipitation data of 150 meteorological stations distributed throughout the study area on the other hand, for a correlational analysis. The current plant species distributions in relation to present-day climate are used to make predictions about possible climate-induced range-boundary changes in the future. Analysis of climatic gradients showed that the expected increase of 3C in the northern part of the study area will result there in a climate very similar to the climate nowadays in the center of the study area. Several forest plant species can be expected to move several hundreds of kilometers northward and to thereby change present-day community structures. Based on the species attribute results, we can expect species with higher Ellenberg-T values, scleromorphic species, hemicryptophytes and stress-tolerant species to become relatively more abundant in the northern regions of the study area. Four phytoclimatic groups, i.e., groups of species with similar responses to climatic variables, were identified based on the species' climate optima within the study area. The results of this analysis suggest that more than 50% of the total number of species occurring in the study area might have a chance to become vulnerable to extinction after climate warming.
20794272|One natural population of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) was sampled in the Ardennes, Belgium, for starch gel electrophoresis. Analyses were based on seedlingtissues. Fifteen enzyme systems coding for 37 loci were assayed using different buffer systems. Eleven loci were polymorphic but only five could be scored consistently. The genetic variability was low: the mean number of alleles per locus was only 1.37, the percentage of polymorphic loci 30% and the mean heterozygosity observed 0.072. Une population naturelle de myrtille (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) de Haute Ardenne, Belgique, a t chantillonne en vue de son analyse par lectrophorse de gels d'amidon. Les analyses ont t ralises  partir de tissus de plantules. Quinze systmes enzymatiques codant pour 37 loci ont t tests en utilisant diffrents systmes de tampons. Onze loci se sont rvls tre polymorphiques mais seuls cinq d'entre eux ont t enregistrs de faon constante. La variabilit gntique est asssez faible: le nombre moyen d'allles par locus est de 1,37, la proportion de loci polymorphes de 30% et l'htrozygotie moyenne observe de 0,072.
20794585|This study reports on the growth sites of Ulmus laevis Pallas in Flanders, Northern Belgium. The sites reported by former authors were reviewed and six newly discovered sites in Flanders are described, including population size and habitus. All together, a summarising picture of the distribution of this rare tree species in Northern Belgium is drawn. Gene conservation strategies are discussed.
20794232|Quatre stades de la srie volutive de la fort dense humide quatoriale ont t tudis dans l'le Kongolo (Zare): la jachre prforestire  Caloncoba subtomentosa, la fort secondaire jeune  Musanga cecropioides, la fort secondaire ge  Zanthoxylum gilletii et la fort primaire  Piptadeniastrum africanum et Celtis mildbraedii. Le nombre d'espces (de 207  322) et de strates (de 2  5), la densit des arbres  l'hectare (de 440  553) et la surface terrire (de 10  45 m/ha) augmentent avec l'volution de la vgtation. La production annuelle de litire est gnralement trs importante (de 8  14 t de matire sche/ha/an) mais sa dcomposition est trs rapide. Le cycle biologique annuel des lments nutritifs est marqu par un flux trs intense entre la vgtation et le sol, surtout pour le potassium et le manganse. Four stages of equatorial rain forest have been studied in Kongolo island (Zaire): the Caloncoba subtomentosa preforested fallow, the Musanga cecropioides young secondary forest, the Zanthoxylum gilletii old secondary forest and the Piptadeniastrum africanum and Celtis milbraedii primary forest. The number of species (from 207 to 322) and of strata (from 2 to 5), the tree density (from 440 to 553/ha) and the basal area (from 10 to 45 m/ha) increase with the vegetation evolution. The annual litter fall is generally important (from 8 to 14 t dry matter/ha) but its decay is very fast. The mineral annual biological cycling is important between vegetation and soil, particularly for potassium and manganese.
20794498|Epiphytic diatoms were studied on herbarium material collected in Lake Naivasha and Lake Sonachi during the 20th century. Nine specimens of aquatic plants were investigated: eight from Lake Naivasha, belonging to the genera Nymphaea, Potamogeton and Najas, and one specimen of Cyperus laevigatus collected in Lake Sonachi. Forty-seven diatom taxa were observed. Gomphonema gracile and Rhopalodia gibberula were the most abundant diatoms on the Lake Naivasha material; only two diatom taxa, Craticula elkab and Rhopalodia gibberula, were present on the Lake Sonachi material. Changes in relative abundance of Gomphonema gracile, epiphytic on Nymphaea caerulea, could be observed during the 20th century. The relative importance of Rhopalodia gibberula increased from 1% in 1909 up to 18% in 1999. Changes in the epiphytic diatom communities can provide information on changing water chemistry and nutrients in the lake and help to verify the chronology of lake sediments, based on datings. The available herbarium specimens, however, were too few to provide additional information on the history of Lake Navaisha.
20794310|Les systmes aquatiques et amphibies du Nord de la France offrent une grande diversit typologique et floristique; ils comptent parmi les plus prcieux du patrimoine naturel rgional. L'excursion de septembre 1991 est l'occasion d'en dcouvrir diffrents aspects classiques (plateau d'Helfaut, fort de Nieppe, littoral boulonnais) ou peu connus (plaine de la Lys, plaine maritime flamande, Flandre intrieure). La priode est galement favorable  l'observation des floraisons tardiestivales (Gentianella, Euphrasia) des pelouses du Mont Dubert (massif du Blanc-Nez). The aquatic and amphibious systems of the North of France show a large typologic and floristic diversity; they are among the more valuable natural habitats of the region. This excursion permits to discover different aspects of these, classic (plateau of Helfaut, Nieppe's forest, coast of Boulonnais) or less known (plain of the Lys, Flemish maritime plain, interior Flanders). This time of the year is also favourable to observe the late estival flowerings (Gentianella, Euphrasia) in chalk grasslands of the Mont Dubert (neighbouring the cape Blanc-Nez).
20794642|Little is known about presence, use, cultivation and potential of Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa and Passiflora ligularis in the Yungas of La Paz in Bolivia. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 307 respondents in Nor Yungas and Sur Yungas. Interviewees were asked about local name(s), use(s) and preference of Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa over Passiflora ligularis. Interviewees who grew one or both species were also asked about their cultivation practices and commercialisation of passion fruits. Results show that Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa was most frequently used to prepare juices, whereas Passiflora ligularis fruits were most often used for fresh consumption. The majority of farmers owned less than five plants. Transplanting was the only cropping practice the majority applied. This low input cultivation system resulted in fruits that were well filled but under standard calibre for export. Average annual yield of 35 kg Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa fruits per plant, however, was high.
20794605|The taxonomy of the five Crataegus taxa indigenous in Flanders was studied through a morphometric analysis. The applicability of the taxonomic treatments of Christensen, the botanical authority on Crataegus in Europe, was evaluated. Leaf and fruit characteristics were analysed for a total of 186 individuals. The results show that C. monogyna and C. laevigata can easily be differentiated. The putative hybrids C. media, C. subsphaerica and C. macrocarpa are more difficult to delineate. C. media, the putative hybrid between C. monogyna and C. laevigata, shows a remarkably large range and overlap with both parental species for most of the characters studied. This phenotypic variation could be due to a shift in morphological characters through several generations of backcrossing with the parental species. Although C. rhipidophylla was not yet found in Flanders, populations of both putative hybrids with C. monogyna (C. subsphaerica) and C. laevigata (C. macrocarpa) were recently inventoried. The individuals identified as C. subsphaerica are hardly distinguishable from C. monogyna. Introgression with the C. monogyna parent may have obscured the diagnostic characters. Therefore, the presence of a typical population of C. subsphaerica in Flanders is questionable. On the contrary, the few individuals of C. macrocarpa form a distinct group.
20794610|A detailed phytosociological analysis of seasonally inundated grasslands with Echinochloa colona in semi-arid and sub-humid tropical West Africa is presented. Such grasslands are flooded during the rainy season and dry up during the rest of the year. E. colona is a thermo-cosmopolitan, annual and hydrophilous grass species. In West Africa, it is widely distributed and highly appreciated as a fodder plant for livestock. Our study area comprised subareas in Burkina Faso, Niger and Mali, covering two bioclimatic zones. The floristic structure of the vegetation was documented with 114 relevs, which were classified manually, and with a cluster analysis. Additionally, they were ordinated to characterize main floristic gradients. We describe a new alliance, the Panico laeti-Echinochloion colonae. It consists of five new associations (Panicetum laeti, Eragrostietum pilosae, Dicliptero verticillatae-Echinochloetum colonae, Tephrosio pedicellatae-Echinochloetum colonae, and Crinetum zeylanici). These plant communities show high cover values and colonize sandy, sandy-loamy or loamy to clayey soils that can be water-saturated or repeatedly inundated only during the rainy season. Soil type and topographical situation with duration of flooding were the most important differentiating factors, whereas precipitation was a secondary one. The predominant life-form was annual grasses. The results of the manual classification are largely congruent with the results of the multivariate techniques. In some cases, the floristic turnover between the plant communities has a continuum character. In particular, stands of Panicetum laeti are often intermixed with other associations. Four communities are documented for Burkina Faso, two for Niger and only one for Mali. Larger distribution areas of the newly described syntaxa beyond the study area can be assumed. Echinochloa colona is documented in other plant communities in various regions of tropical West and Central Africa, and colonizes not only inundated grasslands but also water meadows.
20794590|Representatives of the Trebouxiophyceae genus Eremosphaera (with the exception of E. viridis) show great variation in their morphology, and some of the described species, varieties and forms are still of uncertain taxonomic position. Recent material from the phytoplankton of the large, deep, alkaline, ancient, tropical Lake Tanganyika was compared with the formerly described taxa and was found to be peculiar by the ellipsoidal cells with lamellate cell walls, commonly equipped with polar nodules consisting of two parts, by the numerous (30-60) parietal wedge-shaped chloroplasts densely pressed to each other and arranged in (2)-3-4 circles (each chloroplast bearing 1-2 distinct pyrenoids covered by bipartite starch sheath), as well by its ecological requirements. Therefore, a new species, E. tanganyikae sp. nov., is erected.
20794370|In Belgium, Silene nutans has evolved very distinct populations in relation to the nature of the bedrock, calcareous or siliceous: striking divergences occur in flower, infrutescence, fruit, and seeds features as well as in allozyme markers. This paper shows that barriers to crossing were strong between the two types of populations both at the prezygotic (pollen-stigma incompatibility) and postzygotic (F1 hybrids sterility) stages. Calcicolous (Ca-) and silicicolous (Si-) populations from Belgium have reached an advanced stage in the sympatric differentiation process. Such a level of differentiation is not found in other parts of Europe. En Belgique, les populations de Silene nutans sont trs diffrentes selon qu'elles se trouvent sur terrain calcaire ou siliceux. Cette divergence se marque au niveau de caractres morphologiques (fleur, infrutescence, fruit et graine) ainsi qu'au niveau des marqueurs allozymiques. Cet article montre qu'en outre, des barrires  l'hybridation se sont dveloppes entre les deux types: elles sont przygotiques (incompatiblit pollen-stigmate) et postzygotiques (inviabilit et / ou strilit des hybrides F1). Les populations calcicoles et silicicoles de Belgique ont donc atteint un stade avanc dans le processus de diffrenciation sympatrique. Cette situation n'existe pas  un niveau aussi prononc chez les populations d'autres rgions d'Europe.
20794338|La taxonomie, la distribution, et l'cologie du genre Peltigera en Belgique et au Grand-Duch de Luxembourg ont t revues sur base de l'examen de 1272 chantillons d'herbier et de prospections rcentes. Une cl de dtermination des 17 espces reconnues est prsente. Les rsultats les plus intressants concernent la taxonomie des groupes de P. canina qui comprend huit espces dans ce territoire, et de P. polydactyla qui y compte cinq espces, ainsi que la dmonstration de la persistance de petites populations de P. venosa jusqu'au dbut des annes 70, et de P. malacea, prcdemment considrs comme teints depuis longtemps dans le territoire tudi. La rgression spectaculaire du genre est principalement attribue  la pollution atmosphrique, en particulier par les nitrates, et aux techniques modernes d'exploitation forestire. Les champignons lichnicoles Arthonia fuscopurpurea (Tul.) R.Sant. et Pronectria ornamentata (D. Hawksw.) Lowen sont mentionns pour la premire fois du territoire tudi. The taxonomy, the distribution and the ecology of the genus Peltigera in Belgium and Grand Duchy of Luxembourg have been revised based on the study of 1272 herbarium specimens and on field work. An identification key for the 17 recognized species is provided. Of special interest are the results on the taxonomy of the P. canina group which contains eight species in the studied area, and of the P. polydactyla group which is represented by five species. Further, P. malacea and P. venosa, two species believed to have become extinct a long time ago in the studied area, are shown to have survived as small populations (until the seventies for the latter). The spectacular decline of the genus is mainly ascribed to air pollution, especially by nitrates, and to modern techniques of forest exploitation. The lichenicolous fungi Arthonia fuscopurpurea (Tul.) R. Sant. and Pronectria ornamentata (D. Hawksw.) Lowen are reported for the first time from the studied area.
20794673|Genetic diversity of ulluco (Ullucus tuberosus), maintained ex situ and originating from Peru and North Bolivia, has been analysed using morphological traits and inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers, along with passport data. With regard to morphological and ISSR variation, our study revealed a high number of morphotypes and genotypes. Morphological and molecular results were congruent and both correlated with geographical distribution. Moreover, comparison of molecular and morphological characterisation of accessions indicated the existence of intra-morphotype heterogeneity. We discuss the genetic structure of ulluco in relation to characteristics of the species and of the Andean agricultural system. Patterns of diversity probably have a geographical origin and have been modified for centuries by Andean farmers, at small and large scales. The fact that both morphological and molecular markers correlate with geographic distribution is of high interest for genetic diversity studies and for genetic resource conservation of Andean tubers and of other vegetatively propagated crop species.
20794360|Cette premire tude de la mycorhization vsiculo-arbusculaire au Niger concerne 41 espces de Spermatophytes prleves dans les cosystmes les plus reprsentatifs de la partie sud-ouest du pays. La rgion prospecte est situe le long d'un transect qui part du parc W situ  150 km au Sud de Niamey et qui se termine  150 km au nord de la capitale nigrienne. Le gradient climatique y est considrable puisque l'on passe de 800 mm de prcipitations annuelles au Sud  150 mm au Nord. L'unique saison des pluies se manifeste entre juin et septembre; elle est extrmement variable d'une anne  l'autre. Nonante pour cent des plantes prleves taient mycorhizes  des degrs divers en janvier (avec une intensit d'infection moyenne de 4,8%) et quatre-vingt cinq pour cent en aot (avec 1,7% d'intensit d'infection moyenne). Six types de spores appartenant aux genres Glomus, Gigaspora et Scutellospora ont t observs. Le nombre de spores pour 100 g de sol variait entre 96 et 716 en janvier et entre 360 et 2120 en aot. Les types dominants de spores diffraient selon les saisons. Les ordres de frquence taient T3 > T2 > T4 > T5 > T1 > T6 en janvier et T2 > T1 > T5 > T3 > T6 > T4 en aot. This first study of vesiculo-arbuscular mycorrhizas in Niger concerns 41 species of Spermatophytes species collected in the most representative ecosystems of the South-West of the country. The prospected region is localized along a transect from "W" parc, 150 km south of Niamey to 150 km north of the Niger capital. The climatic gradient is considerable since rainfall ranges from 800 mm annual precipitation in the South to 150 mm in the North. The rain season occurs between June and September and is extremely variable from year to year. Ninety per cent of the sampled plants were mycorrhizal at different degrees in January (the mean infection level is 4.8%) and eighty five per cent in August (with 1.7% mean infection level). Six spores types, belonging to the genera Glomus, Gigaspora and Scutellospora, were observed. The number of spores extracted from 100 g of soil, varied from 96 to 716 in January and from 360 to 2120 in August. The dominant types of spores differed according to the season of sampling. The frequency was T3 > T2 > T4 > T5 > T1 > T6 in January and T2 > T1 > T5 > T3 > T6 > T4 in August.
20794496|Orthotrichum rogeri Brid., een epiphytische soort werd voor de eerste maal gevonden in Belgi, in het Ardens district. De soort wordt beschreven en de standplaats en verspreiding worden besproken. Een sleutel van de Belgische Orthotrichum soorten wordt gegeven. Orthotrichum rogeri Brid., an epiphytic species has been discovered for the first time in Belgium in the Ardenne district. A description of the material is provided. Features of its ecology and particulars of its distribution are given. A key of the Orthotrichum species occurring in Belgium is provided.
20794620|This study evaluates the impact of the 2002 extreme flood on the aquatic vegetation in a former Danube side channel called "Mitterwasser" in Linz (Upper Austria). The Mitterwasser is connected to the main river channel only at its lower end and is influenced by backflow of Danube River water in periods of higher discharge. From 2001 to 2003 the macrophyte abundance was assessed in contiguous survey units following the European Standard EN 14184 (Anonymous 2003). The two survey units located next to the confluence of the side channel with the Danube River were most affected by the flood and showed a significant decrease in plant abundance, most probably caused by the strong erosive effect of the backflow from the River Danube into the Mitterwasser. A pronounced change in species composition was noticed in these hydrologically most disturbed survey units. In contrast, macrophyte abundance in the upstream part of the Mitterwasser was not significantly impacted by the flood.
20794295|A set of 79 Nardetea relevs from lowland Belgium has been analyzed using TWINSPAN and DECORANA. The main floristic variation is correlated with a complex gradient of soil humidity and texture. Four clusters were recognized in the vegetation table, probably at the association level. A TWINSPAN-clustering of a published data set of Nardus grasslands, mainly from high Belgium, also suggested a strong correlation with soil texture and humidity. However, when both sets were pooled in a synoptic table, the main floristic variation appeared to be correlated with a phytogeographic gradient, opposing grassheaths from the valleys in the Ardennes to grassheaths of lowland Belgium and the Ardennes plateaux. As a result, four associations have been distinguished in Belgium: the Festuco rubrae-Genistelletum sagittalis Issler 1929, the Galio hercynici-Festucetum ovinae Rasch ex Stieperaere 1969, the Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi Bker ex P. Duvigneaud 1949 and the Carici binervis-Nardetum Braun-Blanquet & Txen 1952. The latter association in an impoverished form and at the very margin of its distribution. Un ensemble de 79 relevs des Nardetea de la basse Belgique a t analys avec TWINSPAN et DECORANA. La variation floristique la plus importante est lie  un gradient pdologique, surtout d'humidit et de texture. Dans le tableau phytosociologique, quatre groupes au niveau de l'association ont pu tre reconnus. Un groupage avec TWINSPAN d'un ensemble de relevs publis, surtout de la Haute Belgique, suggre aussi une corrlation troite de la variation floristique et de la pdologie, surtout l'humidit. L'analyse des deux ensembles runis dans un tableau synoptique rvle par contre une corrlation avec un gradient phytogographique, opposant les nardaies des valles de l'Ardenne  celle de la basse et moyenne Belgique et des plateaux ardennais. Quatre associations ont t retenues: le Festuco rubrae-Genistelletum sagittalis Issler 1929, le Galio hercynici-Festucetum ovinae Rasch ex Stieperaere 1969, le Nardo-Juncetum squarrosi Bker ex P. Duvigneaud 1949 et le Carici binervis-Nardetum Braun-Blanquet & Txen 1952. Cette dernire association se trouve  la limite de son aire et dans une forme appauvrie.
41427185|Four new Pauridiantha species are described and illustrated. Pauridiantha longistipula Ntore & Dessein is found in the northern part of the Crystal Mountains of Gabon and the neighboring region of Equatorial Guinea, and is easily characterized by its very long stipules. Pauridantha barbata Ntore & Dessein, collected from the southern sector of the Moukalaba-Doudou National Park in Gabon and the Kouilou department in the Republic of the Congo, resembles P. mayumbensis, but differs inter alia in the absence of leaf domatia and barbate corolla buds. The two other new species are endemic to Gabon. Pauridiantha triflora Ntore & Dessein, from the Doudou Mountains and the Chaillu Massif, is somewhat similar to P. smetsiana, but differs in the hairy stems, leaves and inflorescences, the smaller green-drying leaves and the narrowly triangular stipules. Pauridiantha uniflora Ntore & Dessein, only known from the Crystal Mountains area, is easily confused with P. talbotii, but differs in the smaller, ovate leaves with short acumen, the less ascending secondary veins, and the mid-vein hairy above. Apart from the descriptions, a key to all Pauridiantha species from Gabon is provided and a conservation status of the new species following the IUCN criteria is given.
20794200|Pour mieux comprendre le rle de la microfonge saprophyte dans le processus de dcomposition des feuilles de htre (Fagus sylvatica L.) dans la litire, des prlvements  diffrents niveaux du Ao ont t raliss dans deux stations forestires choisies dans les environs de Mons: une chnaie-htraie subhumide  Molinia sur (hydro)moder pais  Pommeroeul, et une htraie  Endymion et Convallaria sur mull oligotrophe  Bois Brl  Ghlin. Les rsultats obtenus ont permis une classification provisoire des espces dominantes en plusieurs groupes cologiques. Sampling of the Ao horizon of two forests surrounding Mons (Belgium), gives a more comprehensive approach of the role of saprophytic microfungi in the beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) leaves decomposition process. Pommeroeul station is a mixed subhumid forest with oak, beech and Molinia established on a thick (hydro)moder. Bois Brl station is a beech forest with Endymion and Convallaria grown on an oligotrophic mull. Our results allow us to make a preclassification of dominant species in several ecological groups.
43996258|The taxonomic position of Agaricus heinemannianus sp. nov. and its relationships with taxa of section Minores are discussed. A comparison with A. singeri and A. nothofagorum has been made, based on the study of both holotypes. Line-drawings of the microscopic characters of the three species are added. Agaricus heinemannianus, una nueva especie en el seccin Minores.  Agaricus heinemannianus es descrito corno nueva especie. Se discute su posicin taxonmica y sus relaciones con txones prximos de la seccin Minores. Se ha comparado la nueva especie con las especies prximas A. singeri y A. nothofagorum, basndonos en el estudio de los holtipos. Se aportan ilustraciones de los caracteres microscpicos de las trs especies.
20794195|List of new localities of rare or noteworthy plants observed by the authors in Belgium during their botanical prospections in 1989, including, among others, Bromus diandrus, Carex vulpina, Clematis viticella, Dipsacus pilosus, Heracleum mantegazzianum, Lactuca virosa, Lemna minuscula, Lunaria rediviva, Malva pusilla, Sedum telephium subsp. fabaria, etc. Liste de nouvelles stations de plantes rares ou intressantes, notes par les auteurs en Belgique au cours de l'anne 1989  l'occasion de leurs prospections I.F.B.L. Il s'agit entre autres des taxons suivants: Bromus diandrus, Carex vulpina, Clematis viticella, Dipsacus pilosus, Heracleum mantegazzianum, Lactuca virosa, Lemna minuscula, Lunaria rediviva, Malva pusilla, Sedum telephium subsp. fabaria, etc. Verzeichnis der von den Verfassern im Laufe des Jahres 1989 bei ihrer floristischen Kartierungsarbeit in Belgien beobachteten neuen Fundstellen seltener bzw. interessanter Farn- und Bltenpflanzen. Es handelt sich beispielsweise um die folgenden Sippen: Bromus diandrus, Carex vulpina, Clematis viticella, Dipsacus pilosus, Heracleum mantegazzianum, Lactuca virosa, Lemna minuscula, Lunaria rediviva, Malva pusilla, Sedum telephium subsp. fabaria, usw.
20794448|Attempts to get an insight in the major physical processes which lie at the basis of the recent plant species diversity decline in Flanders are mostly based on a black-box analysis of species lists. We argue that plant diversity monitoring programs should be based on a geographically explicit vegetation description approach. In this paper we present a phytosociological analysis and subsequent vegetation mapping of the Demer valley between Diest and Werchter. We used G.I.S. analysis tools to compare the derived vegetation map with a vegetation map of the same area made in the 50's. Land use changed dramatically and a clear dichotomy could be noticed between land use changes on dry versus wet sites. Most ecologically valuable grasslands seriously declined or disappeared as a result of urbanization, poplar plantation and intensive drainage and fertilization. Besides the total area of these grasslands, also the mean patch area decreased leading to smaller, spatially isolated communities. This development threatens the long term species survival within these remnants.
20794591|Sugarcane, Saccharum officinarum L., is a C4 plant whose leaves show a typical Kranz anatomy which is often altered by pathogens. Leaf scald is produced by Xanthomonas albilineans, a yellow-pigmented, Gram-negative, and plant pathogenic bacterium member of Pseudomonaceae. This microorganism produces a xanthan-like polysaccharide which occludes both xylem and phloem, resulting in the desiccation of leaves. Some stomata of scalded leaves from cv. C973 73 appeared occluded by plugging material and trichomes seemed to be empty. The action of the pathogen seemed to be confined to the vascular bundles, particularly the large xylem vessels, which were often occluded with a plugging material. Stomata of yellow leaf syndrome (YLS)-diseased leaves were surrounded by a dense population of crystalline material. Bundle sheath cells surrounding both xylem and phloem elements were separated from the conducting tissues by a large layer of a wax-like substance. Sugarcane smut is caused by the dimorphic basidiomycete Ustilago scitaminea. Some fungal hyphae appeared on the abaxial epidermis of smut-infected leaves from cv. Barbados. Hyphae really penetrated through open stomata. Many parenchymatous cells were invaded by smut and their cell walls were broken by actively progressing hyphae. The production of mucilage was evident in parallel to a complete destruction of parenchymatous cells by fungal hyphae whereas many spores occurred inside the parenchymatous cells.
43996256|The state of knowledge of the genus Amanita Pers. in tropical and southern Africa is reviewed and discussed. It is concluded that the tropical representatives are in great need of critical revision. One of the most common species, Amanita loosii Beeli (accepted syn. : A. zambiana) is lectotypified and its distribution is given.
20794522|We studied the effect of disruption of alluvial forests from natural river flooding on their vascular plant diversity in the river Meuse floodplain in Belgium. The river Meuse is a rain-fed river, originating at an altitude of 409 m above sea level and discharging into the North Sea some 900 km further downstream. The Meuse river was channelized for most of its course in Belgium and The Netherlands during the last two centuries. In the study area a continuous embankment was gradually realised with a system of winter dykes. This enabled us to sample forests along a gradient of isolation from the river and flooding frequency. Flooding frequency was the most important correlate of community composition of the forests. Forests still under influence of the river were significantly richer in river species and significantly poorer in woody species than forests disconnected from the river. They also had a higher beta species diversity and tended to have a higher alpha diversity. Disconnected forests seem to loose species but they do not gain species at the same rate. We suggest that the two most important ecological processes behind this are 1) the poor colonisation capacity of typical forest plant species, which is mainly due to dispersal limitation and 2) the absence of natural disturbance events, which stimulates the dominance of certain competitive species in these forests. Only the re-establishment of lateral river connectivity and natural dynamics can stop this process.
20794489|A check-list of the Pteridophytes of Equatorial Guinea is presented, with 226 species. Forty one species are known from Annobn, 203 species from Bioko, and 118 species from Ro Muni. Two species are newly recorded for Annobn, 60 for Ro Muni. Davallia repens, Diplazium sammatii, Elaphoglossum barteri, Lycopodiella affinis, Pellaea holstii, Selaginella grallipes, Trichomanes ballardianum, T. liberiense, and Vittaria schaeferi, are recorded from Equatorial Guinea for the first time. Additionally, Selaginella kivuensis is also recorded as new to West Tropical Africa. The best represented genera are: Asplenium (34 species), Trichomanes (16 species), Pteris (14 species), and Selaginella (13 species).
20794211|Two new diatoms, Pinnularia sakulensis and Rhopalodia tholulata are described from Papua New Guinea. A revised key to the identification of the Rhopalodia taxa is given. Deux nouveaux taxons de diatomes, Pinnularia sakulensis et Rhopalodia tholulata sont dcrits de la Nouvelle-Guine-Papouasie. Une cl revise pour la dtermination des Rhopalodia est propose.
20794619|The aim of the study was to estimate the reliability of ecological status classification with the use of macrophytes for lowland rivers with different habitat conditions, corresponding to the requirements of the European Water Framework Directive (WFD). Surveys were carried out on 267 river sites representing five lowland river types in Poland. The reliability of four macrophyte-based assessment systems was quantified for five river types (i.e., small siliceous with sandy substrate, medium siliceous with sandy substrate, large siliceous with sandy substrate, medium siliceous with stony substrate and medium organic). A variable effect of river type on particular assessment systems may be explained in the context of indicative species pool, abundance scales and weighting species importance. Additionally, new class limits for the Ecological Quality Ratios (EQRs) are proposed for the purpose of macrophyte-based classification for the WFD. The estimated range of uncertainty was used to calculate the probability of misclassification of a site within a five-class system of river quality. Large differences between methods were found. It was revealed that certain assessment systems may have adequate sampling precision to be applied in monitoring for a majority of lowland river types. The ecological status of large with sandy substrate rivers appeared difficult to assess using macrophyte-based systems.
20794303|Experiments were carried out with Laboulbenia slackensis Cpde & Picard, an ectoparasitic fungus of Pogonus chalceus (Marsham) (Coleoptera, Carabidae). Infested beetles were kept at three population density levels. Thalli develop within three weeks. They have a life-span of at most ten weeks. Spore transmission is achieved mainly by direct contact between hosts. Auto-infection and probably substrate-infection are, under the studied conditions, of minor importance. The sustainability of the fungus population accounts on a minimal host population density. We assume that host population density and infection- size are directly proportional. Paired beetles with unequal initial infection-sizes show a different growth of their individual parasite population. This differential growth is caused by cross-infection and reduces the relative difference in infection-size between cohabitants. A quantitative method was used to determine the infection-size of a Laboulbeniales population on its host. Des expriences ont t effectus avec Laboulbenia slackensis Cpde & Picard, parasite du carabe Pogonus chalceus (Marsham) (Coleoptera, Carabidae). Les htes taient gards  trois niveaux de densit diffrents. Les rsultats montrent que les thalles de L. slackensis ont une dure de vie n'excdant pas les dix semaines. La maturation s'accomplie habituellement en trois semaines. La transmission des spores entres htes s'effectue principalement par l'infection directe. L'auto infection et probablement l'infection par le substrat sont, dans les conditions cres, d'une importance marginale. La survie d'une population de Laboulbeniales dpend d'une densit minimale de la population de l'hte. Dans ce contexte nous supposons que la densit de la population de l'hte influence directement le taux d'infection. L'infection directe provoque une croissance diffrentielle chez des couples dont l'infection initiale est diffrente. Cet aspect de l'infection directe a comme rsultat qu'il rduit la diffrence relative entre le taux d'infection des deux cohabitants. Une mthode quantitative est utilise pour dterminer les taux d'infection des Laboulbeniales.
20794655|Successful restoration of vegetation in dry valleys under strong anthropogenic disturbance in southwestern China is limited by lack of information on the germination requirements of many native plants, including some rose species. Effects of post-dispersal factors (temperature, moisture and light) on Rosa soulieana seed dormancy and germination were examined in order to predict the rate and timing of germination in the field. Dry storage, cold stratification, and warm plus cold stratification increased both germination percentages and germination rates. Warm plus cold stratification was most effective in breaking achene dormancy, followed by cold stratification and dry storage. Light during cold stratification had no effect on dormancy break. Germination occurred from 5C to 30C. At low temperature, diurnal alternating temperature (5/15C) was more effective than constant temperature (5C) in stimulating germination. Water stress significantly led to a decrease in germination percentage and rate. Significant differences under various photon irradiances were observed neither in germination percentages nor in germination rates. Temperature and moisture, but not light, appeared to play important roles in regulating dormancy and germination. Our results suggest that R. soulieana seeds may germinate sporadically from early spring to summer when soil moisture is sufficient for them to initiate this process. However, most achenes should normally germinate in the spring, which is a general phenomenon in plants. For effective restoration of degraded vegetation in dry valleys, it would be recommended to sow fresh achenes in autumn or achenes with dormancy broken in laboratory in early spring and relatively deep in the soil.
20794412|When making an inventory of the cultivated trees in the Brussels area, some nomenclatural problems appeared. Plants often named as cultivars by horticulturists occur subspontaneously and are natural genetic variations. In this paper the validity of the names is controlled for a few well known cultivated and naturalized trees. A key to the variations of Acer platanoides is proposed. Tijdens het opmaken van de inventaris van de gekweekte bomen in het Brussels Gewest doken een aantal nomenclatorische problemen op. Sommige door kwekers als cultivars beschouwde planten treden min of meer spontaan op en zijn natuurlijke genetische afwijkingen. In deze bijdrage wordt de geldigheid van de namen van enkele goed bekende gekweekte en verwilderde bomen nagegaan. Met betrekking tot de varianten van Acer platanoides wordt een sleutel gegeven.
20794671|Glutathione is an important antioxidant that plays key roles in plants through the activation of defense genes and redox buffering of the cells, by sensing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and by participating in ROS-signaling pathways that control the fate of plants. In the present study we investigated intracellular differences in contents of glutathione and of one of its precursors, cysteine, in leaves of sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) in response to black bean aphid (Aphis fabae) infestation, within mesophyll cells as close as possible to the stylet penetration site (< 0.05 mm) and within cells further away from the stylet penetration site (> 1 cm). When compared to cells from uninfested plants glutathione content was much higher in all cell compartments (by up to 156% in nuclei) at the stylet penetration site. Glutathione content was also higher (by up to 66% in nuclei) in cells further away from the stylet penetration site, where the induction of oxidative stress by the penetration and feeding process seems to be unlikely. These results indicate that glutathione could be involved both in the direct protection against oxidative stress possibly induced by the penetration of the stylet through the tissue or by the injection of saliva, and in signaling processes that might be related to the activation of defense genes. Cysteine, the rate-limiting factor for glutathione synthesis, was higher in most cell compartments close to the stylet penetration site (by up to 37% in nuclei) and much lower in cells further away from the stylet penetration site (by up to 54% in nuclei) indicating possible important roles of cysteine for glutathione synthesis at the stylet penetration site. Possible implications of our results in relation to glutathione synthesis are discussed.
43996259|Les auteurs donnent de ces deux espces, macroscopiquement semblables, la description des caractres macro- et microscopiques, ainsi que des planches de la microscopie et des photos en couleurs. Ils discutent les diffrences qui sparent les deux espces et justifient leur classement dans deux genres distincts. Comparison between Leucocoprinus heinemannii and Leucoagaricus melanotrichus (Agaricales, Fungi).  The authors give, for those two macroscopically very similar species, the description of the macro- and microscopical characters, as well as plates of the microscopy and colour pictures. They discuss the differences separating the two species and justify their position in two distinct genera.
20794524|Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of light intensity on seed germination of nine species, which are most important in natural succession and are widely used in vegetation restoration. It was found that final germination percentage and germination rate were significantly different among nine species under different light intensities including 400, 100, 25 mol m s and in the dark. Germination of six species (Hedysarum fruticosum, Caragana korshinskii, Caragana intermedia, Glycyrrhiza uralensis, Medicago sativa and Astragalus adsurgens) was independent of light, while germination of three species (Agriophyllum squarrosum, Artemisia sphaerocephala, Artemisia ordosica) was significantly inhibited by light. Compared with the high final germination percentage (92.7%) of Agriophyllum squarrosum in the dark, even weak light intensities severely inhibited its germination and resulted in very low final germination percentage (12.9%). Strong light intensity also inhibited germination of Artemisia sphaerocephala and Artemisia ordosica. Low light intensity, however, had no significant effect on their germination, with a final germination of 93%. According to the germination requirements of these species with respect to light conditions, it is recommended that the seeds are dispersed in early or middle spring to enable them to become buried by sand under prevailing wind. This may lead to a higher germination rate and a longer seedling growth period.
20794637|Calcareous grasslands are biodiversity hotspots in Western Europe. In Belgium, a number of phytosociological surveys have been realized in these habitats, but none covers the whole range of calcareous grasslands at the regional scale. The aim of this study was (i) to provide a synthesis of the floristic variation of calcareous grasslands of the Calestienne natural region using a uniform methodology; (ii) to relate floristic variation to environmental variables, and (iii) to characterize the specific diversity of the different grassland communities that occur in the study region. Seven different communities were identified with the TWINSPAN method. The originality of the grasslands on calcareous and calcareo-siliceous rocks was statistically confirmed. Significant differences for environmental variables were identified among the seven communities by a MANOVA. Main differences between communities were related to xericity and pH, although a north-south gradient was also identified. More xeric grasslands were located in the southern part of the study region while northern part was occupied by more mesophilous grasslands. Multiple regressions were used to describe the influence of the environmental conditions on plant species richness. The most mesophilous grasslands appeared to be the most species-rich while soil acidity negatively affected species richness.
20794403|Wood samples of Coffea, Psilanthus (Coffeeae), Argocoffeopsis and Calycosiphonia (Gardenieae-Diplosporinae) are studied with LM and SEM. Wood of the four genera is characterised by exclusively solitary vessels, fibre-tracheids and axial parenchyma ranging from diffuse to diffuse-in-aggregates. In Coffea and Psilanthus many prismatic crystals are conspicuously present in the ray cells; only this character confirms the earlier segregation of Argocoffeopsis and Calycosiphonia from the genus Coffea. The wood anatomical differences found between Coffea and Psilanthus are mainly quantitative and there are little or no characters with diagnostic significance. Due to inter- and intraspecific uniformity, wood anatomy is not informative at the specific level within the Coffeeae. However, wood of Coffea arabica and C. liberica can be distinguished on the basis of their ray composition. Little variation is observed in the micromorphology of vestures. Aluminium accumulation is absent from the wood of all species studied. Des chantillons de bois de Coffea, Psilanthus (Coffeeae), Argocoffeopsis et Calycosiphonia (Gardenieae-Diplosporinae) ont t observs au microscope optique et au MEB. Le bois de ces quatre genres est caractris par des vaisseaux exclusivement solitaires, des fibres-trachides et la prsence de parenchyme axial dispers ou en chanettes. Chez Coffea et Psilanthus, de trs nombreuses cellules des rayons renferment des cristaux prismatiques. C'est le seul caractre qui confirme la sparation des genres Argocoffeopsis et Calycosiphonia faite antrieurement. Les diffrences anatomiques entre Coffea et Psilanthus sont surtout quantitatives et ont peu de signification taxonomique. L'uniformit inter- et intraspcifique rend l'anatomie du bois sans valeur pour la dlimitation des espces. Nanmoins on peut distinguer le bois de Coffea arabica et C. liberica sur base de la composition des rayons. Trs peu de variation est observe dans la morphologie des ponctuations ornes. Il n'y a pas d'accumulation d'aluminium dans le bois des espces tudies.
20794488|Effect of supra-optimal levels of N on growth, water relations and photosynthetic capacity in pearl millet under severe water deficit conditions was assessed in a pot experiment under glasshouse conditions and some parallels between growth and physiological attributes were drawn. Thirty four-days-old plants of two lines, ICMV-94133 and WCA-78 were subjected for 30 days to 224, 336, and 448 mg N kg soil and two water regimes (100 percent field capacity and 30 percent field capacity). Increasing soil N supply proved to be detrimental under water deficit conditions on the growth of two lines of pearl millet. Watering regimes had a significant effect on net CO assimilation rate (Pn) and stomatal conductance of both pearl millet lines, but in contrast, there was no significant effect of varying soil N levels on these two variables. Transpiration rate (E) was significantly affected due to watering regimes and external N levels. Neither watering regimes nor N levels had significant effect on water use efficiency (WUE) of both lines of pearl millet. Watering regimes had significant effect on both chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b contents of both lines of pearl millet. In contrast, neither watering treatments nor soil N levels had significant effect on chlorophyll a/b ratios, although a slight increase in chlorophyll a/b ratio was observed under water deficit conditions. A slight increase in chlorophyll a was observed under water deficit conditions, whereas the reverse was true for chlorophyll b. Leaf turgor potential in both lines increased with increase in soil N level under water limiting conditions. Soluble sugars, soluble proteins, and total free amino acids in the leaves of both lines of pearl millet increased significantly due to water limiting treatment. From these results it is possible to conclude that supra-optimal levels of N were detrimental to the growth of pearl millet under severe water deficit conditions. In addition, the growth of pearl millet under drought stress and high N regimes was strongly associated with net CO assimilation rate (Pn), net assimilation rate (NAR) and relative growth rate (RGR). Considerable osmotic adjustment occurred in pearl millet plants experiencing water deficit and high N regimes.
20794450|Ulota rehmannii Jur. werd voor de eerste maal ingezameld in Belgi, in het Ardens massief. De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven; standplaats en verspreiding worden gegeven. Deze Europese endeem is overal in Europa zeer zeldzaam. Ulota rehmannii Jur. has been discovered for the first time in Belgium in the Ardenne massif. A description and illustration of the Belgian material is provided. Features of its ecology and peculiarities of its distribution are given. This European endemic is very rare everywhere.
20794438|Habrodon perpusillus (De Not.) Lindb., een soort van het Middellandse Zeegebied en West-Europa werd voor de eerste maal gevonden in Belgi, in het Ardens district. De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven; standplaats en verspreiding worden besproken. Habrodon perpusillus (De Not.) Lindb., a Mediterranean-Atlantic species, has been discovered for the first time in Belgium in the Ardennes district. A description and illustration of the material is provided. Features of its ecology and particulars of its distribution are given.
20794401|After the rediscovery in Flanders (northern Belgium) of Chaenotheca ferruginea in 1990, an intensive and specific search for lichens with stalked apothecia was started. Five species of Caliciales were found, two of which appear to be rather common (Chaenotheca ferruginea and C. trichialis), while three appear to be rare (Chaenotheca chlorella, C. brachypoda and Calicium viride). Chaenotheca brachypoda is mentioned for the first time in Flanders. The Flemish Caliciales flora is compared with that of other parts of the Benelux. Aprs la redcouverte en Flandre de Chaenotheca ferruginea en 1990 une recherche intensive et spcifique des lichens  apothcies pdicelles a t mene. Ainsi, cinq espces de Caliciales ont t trouves, dont deux assez communes (Chaenotheca ferruginea et C. trichialis) et trois rares (Chaenotheca chlorella, C. brachypoda et Calicium viride). Chaenotheca brachypoda est signale pour la premire fois en Flandre. Les Caliciales trouves en Flandre sont compares avec celles des autres parties du Benelux. Na de herontdekking in Vlaanderen van Chaenotheca ferruginea in 1990 werd intensief en gericht gezocht naar lichenen met gesteelde apothecia. Sindsdien werden vijf soorten Caliciales gevonden, waarvan twee vrij algemeen (Chaenotheca ferruginea en C. trichialis) en drie zeldzaam (Chaenotheca chlorella, C. brachypoda en Calicium viride). Chaenotheca brachypoda wordt voor het eerst vermeld voor Vlaanderen. De Caliciales flora van Vlaanderen wordt vergeleken met deze van andere delen van de Benelux.
20794264|Polyamines are chemotaxonomic markers of high value for those Gram-negative aerobic bacteria belonging to the class Proteobacteria in the new phylogenetic system of bacterial classification. Due to their specificity, polyamine patterns may be used either to allocate bacterial isolates to a certain taxon or to rapidly exclude misnamed bacteria from a purported genus. Case studies on physiologically defined bacterial groups, on xenobiotics-degrading isolates or on phytopathogenic strains are discussed. The polyamine patterns of certain genera are so characteristic that they allow in-situ-estimation of these taxa thereby avoiding troublesome isolation procedures. Polyamine sind nieder-molekulare Substanzen mit hohem Zeigerwert fr diejenigen Gram-negativen Bakterien, die im neuen phylogenetischem System der Bakterienklassifikation zur Klasse der Proteobacteria gerechnet werden. Wegen ihrer Spezifitt knnen Polyaminmuster dazu dienen, Neuisolate einem bestimmten Taxon zuzuordnen oder falsch benannte Bakterien rasch von der vermeintlichen Gattung auszuschlieen. Fallstudien mit physiologisch definierten Bakteriengruppen, mit Schadstoffe abbauenden Isolaten oder auch mit pflanzenpathogenen Stmmen werden diskutiert. Die Polyaminmuster bestimmter Gattungen sind so charakteristisch, da sie deren in-situ Bestimmung erlauben, wodurch eine mhsame Isolierungsprozedur berflssig wird.
20794420|A new species, Justicia violaceotincta, belonging to section Tyloglossa (Hochst.) Lindau, is described from eastern Congo, Rwanda and Burundi where it grows in rain forests at altitudes between 1200 and 2000 m. Besides the triaperturate pollen grains typical of the section, the new species shows some biaperturate grains. Biaperturate pollen from other Justicia species of the same area is also studied. Special attention is given to a particular type of secretory hairs ("moniliform hairs"). SEM observations of the seeds are made.
20794386|Allozyme variation in Belgian populations of Helianthemum nummularium (L.) Mill., growing on calcareous or siliceous bedrocks has been investigated. High levels of intrapopulation variation but very low levels of differentiation among populations were observed. It is suggested that important gene flow occurs among populations or that the sampled populations of H. nummularium have been recently derived from a common ancestor. No significant difference between calcicolous and silicicolous populations in genetic variation within populations was found, whereas low, but significant, differentiation between the two groups was present.
43996269|L'extension rcente, aprs 1960, de Pycnoporus cinnabarinus, en Belgique, au Grand-Duch de Luxembourg et dans les rgions limitrophes est analyse  l'aide d'une srie chronologique de cartes de distribution. La propagation du champignon semble s'tre effectue  deux "vitesses" : par bonds, sur des distances de plusieurs dizaines de kilomtres, et de proche en proche, au dpart de populations voisines. L'analyse de la frquence et de la frquence cumule des rcoltes montre deux grandes "vagues" successives d'expansion du champignon. La liste des arbres htes est tablie ainsi que la frquence relative du champignon en fonction des htes. Les htes les plus frquents sont les bouleaux (Betula alba et B. pendula), le htre (Fagus sylvatica), le sorbier des oiseleurs (Sorbus aucuparia) et les chnes (Quercus robur et Q. petraea). Les causes de l'extension et des fluctuations des populations du champignon ne sont pas connues avec certitude. Il semble cependant que des facteurs climatiques et le fait que de plus grandes quantits de bois pourrissant soient abandonnes sur les coupes puissent tre impliqus. Chorology and ecology of Pycnoporus cinnabarinus (Polyporaceae) in Belgium, the G.-D. of Luxembourg and surrounding regions.  The recent extension, after 1960, of Pycnoporus cinnabarinus, in Belgium, Luxembourg and bordering regions, is analyzed by means of chronological distribution maps. The fungus seems to spread at two "speed" levels : spreading on long distances or step by step, starting then from neighbouring populations. The frequence and cumulated frequence curves of P. cinnabarinus data show two big "waves" of invasion by the fungus. The tree host list was established as well as the frequence of the fungus on each host. The most frequent hosts are Betula, Fagus, Sorbus and Quercus. The reasons of the extension and of the fluctuations of P. cinnabarinus populations are not yet clearly understood. However, climatic factors and increased amounts of decaying wood left on the ground, after the cuttings, seem to be involved.
20794548|This paper examines the spatial distribution of riparian plant communities in a pre-Pyrenean braided river floodplain from three perspectives: floristical, environmental and seral. Fourteen plant-community types and 4 soil texture classes were recognised. Shrublands of Salix purpurea, Salix elaeagnos, Coriaria myrtifolia, Populus nigra, Tamarix gallica and Tamarix canariensis are widespread in the banks and floodplain. These shrublands are the climax vegetation in areas with more intense river disturbance or, in areas with less intense river disturbance they represent an intermediate step towards arboreal climax vegetation. Forests of black poplar (Populus nigra) and white willow (Salix neotricha) are the climax vegetation on silty clay and sandy loam soils. Saltcedar (Tamarix gallica, Tamarix canariensis) copses appear to constitute the climax vegetation on sandy loam that has less moisture effectiveness.
20794452|A new section in the genus Lactarius, Edules Verbeken sect. nov., is proposed for the African species Lactarius aureifolius Verbeken, L. densifolius Verbeken & Karhula, L. edulis Verbeken & Buyck, L. inversus Gooss.-Font & R. Heim, L. latifolius Gooss.-Font & R. Heim (syn.: L. cinnamomeus Gooss.-Font. & R. Heim) and L. phlebophyllus R. Heim. A check-list of the species is given, together with descriptions of Lactarius aureifolius, L. densifolius and L. latifolius. In addition, an updated list is given of all tropical African Lactarius species reported to be eaten by local populations.
20794427|Cette esquisse de l'volution rcente de la fort sur un site du Moyen Atlas occidental est base sur deux sries de photographies ariennes disponibles  grande chelle datant respectivement de 1962 et de 1987. La comparaison par photogrammtrie des deux clichs et l'talonnage de la dernire mission par la vrit terrain en 1990, nous ont permis de suivre l'volution des stades physionomiques des diffrentes formations vgtales caractristiques. Les rsultats sont exprims  l'aide d'une carte  grande chelle, comments et discuts. Si la superficie globale de la fort est relativement fige rcemment, les dix stades physionomiques des trois communauts identifies (Cdraie pure, fort mixte de Cdre et de Chne vert et la Yeuseraie pure) ont connu une volution fort htrogne. Les uns ont subi une densification nette, les autres une dgradation pousse par surexploitation du bois. La dynamique des sylvofacis du volcan, reflte la variation locale des conditions hydriques stationnelles et de la pression anthropique. This study deals with the different aspects of forest evolution on the Jbel Hebri mountain ranges. On the basis of a comparative aerial photograph analysis (1962 and 1987 missions) completed by photogrammetry and field observations, the vegetation structure and its succession stages have been recognized. Although the total forest area remains unchanged, the physiognomic stages of identified communities (Cedrus atlantica forest; Quercus rotundifolia forest; mixed forest with Cedrus atlantica and Quercus rotundifolia) show heterogenous evolution. Depending on species and forest components we note paradoxal evolutionary tendencies. Systematic degradation due to harvesting and resource overuse is locally observed beside regenerated and densified parts. Therefore, the system dynamics reflects the locally variable factors such as soil hydrology and human impact.
20794647|Kosteletzkya virginica exhibits a delayed autonomous selfing mechanism by stigma lobe curvature. To measure the contribution of delayed selfing to reproductive success in a naturalised population of K. virginica, we evaluated the capacity for autonomous self-pollination and compared reproductive success of intact with emasculated open-pollinated flower and per stigma between the autonomously pollinated and open-pollinated flowers. There were no significant differences in mean fruit set and in mean number of seeds per capsule between autonomous and hand self-pollination. Fruit set following self-pollination varied significantly depending on the timing of pollination within a day. Emasculation and pollination treatments did not significantly affect fruit set. In contrast, the mean number of seeds per capsule from intact open-pollinated flowers was higher than that of emasculated open-pollinated flowers. These results indicate that K. virginica has a well-developed capacity for delayed autonomous selfing, which increased seed production in the study population.
20794490|The outer terraces of braided streams of southern Tuscany consist of consolidated detritus, often with a thin layer of humus. In these a new association of the alliance Bromion erecti (Seselio tortuosi-Brometum erecti) and fragments of Coronillo valentinae-Ampelodesmetum (Oleo-Ceratonion), a thermo-xerophilous Ampelodesmos mauritanicus community, are recognized. The association Seselio-Brometum erecti is widespread on the inner sites and is characterized by a group of relatively mesophilous species. On the contrary, the Ampelodesmos mauritanicus communities are found along subcoastal water courses characterized by several Stenomediterranean species. Both these hemicryptophyte coenoses are ecologically and floristically distinct from Santolino etruscae-Saturejetum montanae s.l. which includes the chamaephyte communities of the lower terraces. Statistical analysis are shown that the main abiotic factors affecting the pattern of riparian vegetation in these sites are height and distance from running water, and to a greater degree, changes in soil texture and bioclimate.
20794636|The effect of using different approaches for in vitro rooting of service tree (S. domestica L.) was tested. When applied conventionally, the type of auxin used significantly affected frequency of rooting, with highest values being obtained after using strong IAA concentrations (27.2  54.4 M). Both the frequency and intensity of callogenesis at the basal part of the microcuttings were positively correlated with auxin concentration. The preliminary dip-treatment in concentrated IBA solution induced rooting accompanied by limited frequency of callus formation. The relationship between exposure time of auxin treatment and rooting followed a hyperbolic curve, with an optimal exposure of 80 s. The dynamics of rooting showed different patterns depending on the auxin used. Encapsulated microcuttings successfully rooted with a frequency comparable to that of the non-encapsulated ones.
20794280|Allozyme variation among Albinaria spp. was analysed using starch gel electrophoresis. The results indicate that the Cretan Albinaria studied so far form a monophyletic group, older than the Albinaria-fauna of the islands of Kephallinia and Ithaka. The cladogram partly supports the currently accepted intrageneric classification, which is based on conchological characters. Les allozymes de quelques pulmonates du genre Albinaria sont analyses au moyen de l'lectrophorse de l'amidon. Les rsultats indiquent que les Albinaria spp. de Crte, tudis jusqu' prsent, forment un groupe monophyltique plus ancien que les Albinaria spp. des les Kephallinia et Ithaka. Le cladogramme appuie partiellement la classification intragnrique actuellement reconnue.
20794388|A better knowledge of the phylogenetic relationships among agricultural and forestry plant species is of a great importance in plant genetic resource management. The conservative mode of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) evolution suggests that any change in structure or content of the chloroplast genome may have significant phylogenetic implications. We describe in this paper six new PCR primers designed for the amplification of three cpDNA intergenic spacers: atpB-rbcL, rps14-psaB, and petA-psbE. The target regions were amplified in various botanical families belonging to both the monocotyledon and dicotyledon classes, indicating the wide interest of the primers for taxonomic studies in angiosperms. In Leguminosae, the digestion of amplified regions by four- and five cutter enzymes revealed cleavage site variation at the intergeneric, interspecific and even at the intraspecific level. Phylogenetic implications of this polymorphism are being established in Phaseolus species. Une meilleure connaissance des relations phylogniques chez les espces vgtales cultives et forestires est d'une grande importance pour la gestion des ressources phytogntiques. Le mode d'volution conservatif de l'ADN chloroplastique (ADNcp) suggre que toute modification dans la structure ou dans le contenu du gnome chloroplastique pourrait avoir des implications phylogntiques significatives. Nous dcrivons dans cet article six nouvelles amorces PCR conues pour l'amplification de trois rgions intergniques d'ADNcp: atpB-rbcL, rps14-psaB et petA-psbE. Les rgions cibles ont t amplifies chez diverses familles botaniques appartenant  la classe des monocotyldones et des dicotyldones, indiquant le large intrt des amorces pour les tudes taxonomiques chez les angiospermes. Chez les Lgumineuses, la digestion des rgions amplifies par des enzymes reconnaissant quatre ou cinq nuclotides a revl des variations de sites de clivage au niveau intergnrique, interspcifique et mme quelques fois intraspcifique. Les implications phylogntiques de ce polymorphisme sont en voie d'tre tablies chez des espces du genre Phaseolus.
20794569|The effect of different sugars (sucrose, fructose and glucose) on morphogenesis of two moss species, Bryum argenteum Hedw. (Bryaceae) and Atrichum undulatum (Hedw.) P. Beauv. (Polytrichaceae) in in vitro culture was tested. In vitro cultures of these two moss species were established from disinfected spores on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium. Apical shoots of well-developed gametophytes were used to investigate the influence of different concentrations (0.01 M, 0.03 M, 0.05 M, 0.1 M, 0.2 M, 0.3 M) of sugars on secondary protonemal and gametophyte growth and multiplication. In in vitro culture of B. argenteum sugars had a positive influence on protonemal development and shoot multiplication, while in in vitro culture of A. undulatum these two processes were negatively correlated with addition of all tested sugars. Although all exogenous sugars tested affected developmental processes in B. argenteum and A. undulatum in in vitro conditions, these two moss species reacted differently.
20794541|Viola calaminaria (Gingins) Lej. is a rare and threatened species, endemic to metalliferous soils in E Belgium, S Netherlands and W Germany. In order to provide basic information for a conservation strategy, we performed an ecogeographic survey of almost all V. calaminaria populations currently existing in Belgium. Twenty-four populations were found, distributed in three geographic groups all in the Province of Lige. The area covered by V. calaminaria ranged from < 1 m to 3.2 ha. The largest populations were found in sites contaminated by atmospheric deposits from metal smelters. Soils were extremely variable in heavy metal and nutrient concentrations, but concentrations of Zn, Pb and Cd were consistently higher than reference values for normal soils. V. calaminaria was most often found in association with other metallophyte and pseudometallophyte taxa typical of metalliferous sites. Plant communities identified by TWINSPAN analysis generally fitted the heavy metal associations previously described but two unusual heavy metal plant communities were identified. Based on a canonical correspondence analysis, pH was the only factor that was clearly correlated with the floristic composition of plant communities associated to V. calaminaria. This study confirmed the ecological endemic status of V. calaminaria and the importance of the conservation of metalliferous sites.
20794230|The small African genus Pouchetia contains a group which is at first glance recognizable because of the presence of tail-like, terminal 'synflorescences'; these are the result of the modification of a large number of leaves into bracts. The group is extremely variable, however, especially because of transgression from diverse types of forest habitats to rheophytic conditions. A numerical analysis (hierarchical clustering, P.C.A. and two-dimensional plotting of characters) shows that phenotypically no clear-cut demarcation line can be traced between the populations of stenophyllous, miniaturized plants occurring in river-beds, and the populations of taller shrubs growing in other ecological conditions. The complex is considered to represent a single species (Pouchetia baumanniana, synonym P. gilletii) wherein no infraspecific categories can be recognized. Le petit genre africain Pouchetia contient un groupe qu'on peut distinguer  premire vue par ses 'synflorescences' allonges et terminales; celles-ci rsultent de la modification d'un grand nombre de feuilles en bractes. La variabilit au sein de ce groupe, par contre, est extrme, spcialement  cause de sa transgression de divers types de forts vers des habitats rhophytiques. Une analyse numrique (groupage hirarchique, analyse des coordonnes principales, diagrammes de certains caractres) indique qu'on ne peut tracer une ligne de dmarcation claire entre les populations de plantes miniaturises et stnophylles des lits de rivires, et les populations d'arbustes plus dvelopps rencontres dans d'autres conditions cologiques. Le complexe est consider comme reprsentant une seule espce (Pouchetia baumanniana, synonyme P. gilletii), au sein de laquelle des catgories infraspcifiques ne peuvent tre distingues.
20794648|Seeds of Syzygium cuminii (L.) Skeels are collected in Madagascar to prepare Madeglucyl, a locally used antidiabetic preparation for type 2 diabetes treatment. For ex situ conservation of the Malagasy S. cuminii germplasm and to provide a continuous seed supply, a simple procedure for its in vitro clonal propagation was established. Nodal stem segments from in vitro raised 10-week-old seedlings were cultured on half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (1/2MS) supplemented with various cytokinins, benzylaminopurine (BA), thidiazuron (TDZ) and N-(2-isopentenyl) (2iP) adenine, at different concentrations and in combination with an auxin, -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). The most effective hormone concentration for shoot multiplication from axillary buds was 4.4 M BA, providing an average of 7.5 shoots per node after six weeks of culture. In liquid medium, cultures could be maintained without subculturing for more than 4 months and yielded an average of 6.9 shoots per explant. The in vitro-propagated shoots produced adventitious roots when transferred to 1/2MS medium supplemented with either indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) or NAA. The best rooting was obtained in medium supplemented with 0.5 M NAA with almost 90% of the plantlets developing an average of 5.9 adventitious roots per shoot. More than 70% of the rooted plantlets were successfully established in soil and showed uniform growth. At present, the plants are ready to be transferred for in situ cultivation to produce seeds for commercial purpose.
20794563|In Belgium, most calcareous grassland relics are associated with Devonian limestone substrates in the Viroin valley, which is part of the Calestienne region. Previously grazed by sheep, these grasslands are characterised by an extremely high species richness and many rare plant species. Despite their high biodiversity, a detailed phytosociological classification and an ecological description of the relics of these grasslands do not exist. In spring and summer of 2003, the calcareous grassland vegetation on Devonian limestone hills in the Viroin valley was inventoried. A total of 401 vegetation relevs were established in 1 m plots. Based on classification and ordination techniques seven vegetation types were distinguished. The main differences in species composition were explained by a gradient from xerophilous towards mesophilous environmental characteristics. The particular phytosociological and phytogeographical position of the calcareous grasslands in the Viroin valley is further discussed in a European context. Mesophilous calcareous grasslands in the Calestienne belong to the Mesobromion and show an intermediate position between the central European and the Atlantic calcareous grassland communities. The xerophilous calcareous grassland communities on the other hand show strong affinities with the calcareous vegetation of central Europe and southern Europe.
20794318|A study was made of plant communities and soils of the Shinkolobwe copper/cobalt/uranium mineralized outcrop in Shaba Province, Zaire. The site has not been accessible until recently because of restrictions based on strategic and military considerations since the discovery of radioactive minerals at this site in 1915. Some 11 different plant communities were identified, all controlled by the nature of the substratum and its chemical composition. The site is remarquable in that it includes in a single locality (Milestone XIII) most of the different plant communities found on other sites in Shaba. An ecotone with its belt of chlorotic Uapaca robynsii is particularly well defined. The site contains an endemic fern, Actiniopteris sp. nov., found elsewhere only in the Mindingi area (Mirungwe hill). From the eleven phytogeochemical transects of Shaban copper/cobalt anomalies already published and from other unpublished field observations, a synthesis is provided, completing the noteworthy studies of Duvigneaud & Denaeyer-De Smet (1958-1963). Une tude des communauts vgtales et des sols a t effectue au gisement de cuivre-cobalt-uranium de Shinkolobwe dans la Rgion administrative du Shaba au Zare. Ce site n'tait, jusqu'il y a peu, pas accessible pour des raisons stratgiques et militaires bien que la dcouverte de minerais radioactifs y remonte  1915. Quelque onze communauts vgtales furent identifies, toutes sous la dpendance du substrat et de sa composition chimique. Le site est remarquable en ce qu'il inclut, en une seule localisation (Borne XIII) la plupart des communauts vgtales observes jusqu'ici sur les autres gisements du Shaba. Un cotone avec sa ceinture  Uapaca robynsii chlorotiques est nettement dfini. Le site hberge une fougre endmique, Actiniopteris sp. nov., observe ailleurs seulement dans les alentours du gisement de Mindingi (Colline Mirungwe). A partir des onze transects phytogochimiques des anomalies cupro-cobaltifres du Shaba dj publis ainsi que d'autres observations de terrain indites, une synthse est ralise, qui complte les tudes pertinentes de Duvigneaud & Denaeyer-De Smet (1958-1963).
20794613|Three new species are described and illustrated from around Tuz Gl from Central Anatolia (Turkey): Saponaria karapinarensis Vural & N. Adgzel (Caryophyllaceae), Senecio salsuginea H. Duman & Vural and Centaurea tuzgoluensis Ayta & H. Duman (both Asteraceae).
20794244|Three new taxa of marine Chroococcales, Chamaecalyx papuanus, Myxohyella papuana and Stichosiphon sansibaricus var. marinus are described from Papua New Guinea. Trois nouveaux taxons de Chroococcales marins, Chamaecalyx papuanus, Myxohyella papuana et Stichosiphon sansibaricus var. marinus sont dcrits de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guine.
20794627|ISSR markers were used to assess the spatial genetic structure and isolation by distance in Salix alba populations along an altitude gradient in two contrasting rivers on a southern and a northern slope in the Alps. Five populations along the Alto Adige-Adige and four populations along the Upper Rhine-Rhine were investigated for ISSR polymorphism. A PCoA showed that most individual trees of the river Adige and of the river Rhine group together as a single species. The number of polymorphic loci, the proportion of polymorphic loci and Nei's gene diversity were higher for the Adige than for the Rhine. FST/(1  FST) ratios between populations increased significantly with geographic distance for the Adige. This increase was also present for the Rhine but it was not significant. The relationship between pairwise FST/(1  FST) and interpopulation altitude differences was not significant for both rivers. The within-population spatial genetic structure of both rivers showed positive values of the pairwise relationship coefficient in the first distance classes (0 - 25 m), which is an indication of isolation by distance within populations of both river transects. The Sp-statistic revealed a rather strong spatial genetic structure in both river basins. A pattern of genetic structure that corresponds to the model of isolation by distance was thus found at both intra and interpopulation levels. ISSR markers proved to be useful in estimating isolation by distance and spatial genetic structuring at both population and individual level for S. alba populations.
20794622|Aquatic macrophytes constitute a major component of lagoon ecosystems. These ecosystems show high primary productivity mainly as a result of the aquatic macrophyte community. The relationship between macrophyte abundance and water quality parameters was examined in six coastal lagoons of western Greece. In a total of 24 selected sampling sites, water depth, transparency, temperature, pH, DO, salinity and conductivity were measured. All the lagoons showed seasonal variations in water quality parameters and significant fluctuations of DO and salinity were observed in the Araxos lagoon. Seven macrophyte groups were identified by TWINSPAN analysis and NMDS. A CCA showed that depth and salinity play a key role in the presence or absence of species and in the structure of macrophyte assemblages. The findings may contribute to a better management strategy of lagoon ecosystems of Greece.
20794405|Cette monographie botanique de 17 tangs de la partie sud-est du dpartement du Nord (France) dbute par une analyse des caractristiques naturelles et de quelques facteurs cologiques permettant d'laborer une typologie abiotique des tangs, avec une distinction entre tangs fagnards et tangs ardennais. Les investigations floristiques ont permis de recenser des espces protges et/ou menaces aux plans national et surtout rgional et constituent la base d'une hirarchisation floristique des tangs. Puis on a men une tude phytosociologique, en reconnaissant une vingtaine de groupements vgtaux, dont une association nouvelle, l'Impatiento - Scirpetum sylvatici. Ces groupements ont constitu la base d'une typologie phytosociologique, d'inspiration paysagre, de ces tangs et d'une nouvelle hirarchisation patrimoniale d'ailleurs significativement corrle avec la prcdente. Une analyse factorielle des correspondances multiples a enfin permis d'associer groupements vgtaux et facteurs du milieu, ce qui dbouche sur des conseils pratiques pour une gestion patrimoniale raisonne de ces tangs. This botanical monograph of 17 ponds from the south-eastern part of department of Nord (France) begins by an analysis of natural characteristics and some ecological factors allowing to elaborate an abiotic typology of ponds. Floristical investigations have allowed to list protected and/or threatened species at national and especially regional levels and constitute the basis of a floristical hierarchization of ponds. In a phytosociological study, we have recognized about twenty plant communities, with a new association, the Impatiento - Scirpetum sylvatici. With these communities, we have constituted a landscape typology of the ponds and a new hierarchization, besides significatively correlated with the floristical one. A data analysis has finally allowed to associate plant communities and ecological factors, followed by advices for a reasoned management of the ponds.
20794344|Seedling survival and growth of three emergent storey trees i.e. Terminalia superba, Antiaris toxicaria and Holoptelea grandis in relationship to canopy closure were experimentally studied in the natural semi-deciduous forest of Pobe. Gap and medium-shade canopy are very suitable for the survival of seedlings of these species while the deep shade of closed-canopy constitutes a great handicap for their development. Terminalia superba seedlings grow faster than Holoptelea grandis and Antiaris toxicaria seedlings in the gap and medium-shade canopy. There are significant differences (p < 0.05) between the gap and medium-shade canopy through the three years as far as the survival and growth of these seedlings are concerned. L'effet du couvert forestier sur la survie et le dveloppement des semis naturels de trois essences de l'tage dominant de la fort dense semi-dcidue de Pob,  savoir Antiaris toxicaria, Terminalia superba et Holoptelea grandis, a t tudi exprimentalement. Le dcouvert et le couvert lger sont favorables  la survie et au dveloppement des plantules de ces essences tandis que le couvert dense en constitue un handicap. Des diffrences significatives au seuil de 5% ont t observs entre les diffrents types de couverts forestiers en ce qui concerne le taux de survie et le dveloppement des semis de ces trois essences au cours des trois annes d'observation.
20794553|Seed morphology of Daboecia cantabrica (Hudson) Koch and its systematic implications were studied with regard to the delimitation of two subspecies, subsp. cantabrica and subsp. azorica. Seeds were collected and stored under cold and dry conditions. SEM pictures were taken of whole seeds and of details. Measures were made for different quantitative characters. Seeds of Daboecia have a papillose testa, not found in other Ericaceae species. Seed size can be use to differentiate subspecies cantabrica and azorica.
20794429|Il y a moins de 500 ans, les tourbires hautes des Hautes-Fagnes couvraient plus de 1000 ha. Aujourd'hui, il ne subsiste environ que 125 ha de tourbires hautes subintactes. Des tudes rcentes ont montr que ces restes de tourbires prsentent des signes inquitants de rgression des espces turfignes. Cette synthse a pour but de suivre la dynamique de la vgtation de la partie sud de la tourbire de la fagne Wallonne, par la comparaison de transects anciens et rcent de vgtation (1938, 1957 et 1995), et d'y dceler d'ventuels signes d'volution ou de rgression. En 1995, la vgtation a t inventorie et cartographie au 1/10, tous les 20 m, sur 4 m, le long du transect. Ensuite, les pourcentages de recouvrement des diffrentes espces prsentes ont t estims. Les rsultats montrent une rduction importante du recouvrement des sphaignes, la quasi disparition des Schlenken et l'augmentation des espces des stades embruyrs. Ces donnes sont compares  des observations similaires ralises dans les secteurs nord et central de la tourbire (Hindryckx 1989). La dgradation du tapis vgtal est trs nette dans la partie nord (disparition des groupements vgtaux turfignes et envahissement par Molinia caerulea). Au centre et au sud, on note surtout une volution de la vgtation vers des stades embruyrs o l'activit turfigne est ralentie. Less than 500 years ago, raised bogs covered over 1000 ha on the Hautes-Fagnes plateau. Today, only  125 ha of ombrotrophic little disturbed raised bogs remain. Recent studies have proved that these remnants show evidences of typical peat-forming communities regression. The aim of this study is to follow the vegetation dynamic of the southern part of the fagne Wallonne raised bog, by comparison of old and recent vegetation transects made in 1938, 1957 and 1995 and to detect in it some possible signs of evolution or regression. The vegetation has been mapped at 1 :10 scale and qualitatively surveyed on 4 m plots each 20 m along the transect. The cover degree of each species has been estimated. The results show a large reduction of the cover degree of Sphagnum species, an almost disappearance of the "Schlenken" and an increase of heathland species. These results are compared with the observations for the northern and the central zones (Hindryckx 1989). The damage to the typical raised bog vegetation is very clear and important in the northern part of the bog: disappearance of typical species overgrown by Molinia caerulea. In the central and the southern parts, the increasing cover degree of ericaceous plants indicates clearly that the peat forming activity is strongly slowed down.
20794373|The recent rediscovery of the European Red List species Ephemerum cohaerens near Strasbourg and the discovery of another red List Ephemerum species, E. stellatum, in the Fort de Soignes near Brussels (new to the Belgian flora) are presented and discussed. Both species may have been overlooked but are certainly very rare. The main conservation problem, maintenance of the necessary amount of disturbance in the management of these habitats, is discussed. Les auteurs signalent la redcouverte prs de Strasbourg de Ephemerum cohaerens, une espce de la Liste Rouge europenne, ainsi que la dcouverte d'un autre Ephemerum de la Liste Rouge, E. stellatum en fort de Soignes en Rgion Bruxelloise (nouvelle espce pour la Belgique). On ne peut pas exclure que les deux stations soient restes inaperues, mais les deux espces sont certainement trs rares. Le problme le plus important pour la protection de ces espces est le maintien du niveau de perturbation ncessaire.
20794534|A checklist of the Cyperaceae of Equatorial Guinea, comprising 95 species, is presented. Thirteen species are known from Annobn, 45 from Bioko and 73 from Ro Muni. The best represented genus is Cyperus, with 25 species. In addition, bibliographic references for Cyperaceae from Equatorial Guinea have been gathered and checked. Twenty-two species are recorded for the first time from the country.
43996267|In the light of the urging need to estimate the extent of the decline of our mycoflora, a method is proposed for attributing preliminary threat categories to macromycetes. The attribution of the threat category is based on the combination of a rarity and a trend criterion. This method is widely accepted and is proposed here for treating mycological data obtained from insufficiently investigated countries or regions. The rarity of a taxon is derived from its known area of occupancy and/or its estimated area of occupancy. The choice of the reference year is not based on the number of records, but depends on the grids that were visited before and after it. The trend is calculated, in accordance to one or more reference years, using an independence-or G-test (model I or II). Trend categorisation is based on the significance of the trend, i.e. the strength of the in- or decrease. It is stated that the reliability of the trend calculation is enhanced by using data from as much identical grids as possible. The method implicates that historically well-known grids should be rescreened regularly. Rarity assessment, however, necessitates the rescreening of all the grid squares, beginning from the last reference year. For smaller databases the estimation procedure can be used. Threat categories are given for three boletes, i.e. Boletus badius, B. erythropus and B. luridus.
20794635|Environmental stresses reduce the absolute and marketable yield of potato plants. Evaluating potato cultivars for their agronomic performance in different agrosystems is of primordial importance. Abiotic stresses can affect both foliage and tubers. Here we present a preliminary work describing the in vitro response of potato clones with different genetic backgrounds to abiotic stresses. The effect of cold treatment (10C and 4C), of NaCl (100 mM and 200 mM) and of mannitol (200 mM and 300 mM) on survival, fresh and dry mass accumulation, shoot and root elongation and on the accumulation of some soluble carbohydrates was analyzed in two potato clones, one belonging to the Solanum phureja group and the other to S. tuberosum. While the S. phureja clone was more resistant to cold than the S. tuberosum clone, the latter was more resistant to salt stress, as indicated for example by a clear reduction in the survival of the S. phureja clone.
20794278|An esterase polymorphism in Tribolium castaneum has been detected and studied during ontogenesis. The presence of a biochemical marker throughout development offers many possibilities to follow the development of pest infestations in storage systems and to analyze flow of genes conferring resistance to insecticides into this closed ecosystem. Un polymorphisme au niveau des estrases chez Tribolium castaneum a t mis en vidence et a t suivi au cours de l'ontognse. La prsence d'un marqueur biochimique  tous les stades de dveloppement de T. castaneum offre de nombreuses possibilits pour comprendre la migration et le mouvement d'insectes dans la filire de stockage ainsi que l' impact de ces phnomnes sur l'volution de la rsistance aux insecticides chez les ravageurs des denres entreposes.
20794253|Vingt-trois taxons de lichens et de champignons lichnicoles sont signals pour la premire fois de Belgique, du Grand-Duch de Luxembourg et des rgions voisines: Arthonia excentrica, A. lapidicola, Bacidia hemipolia, B. viridescens, Biatoropsis usnearum, Buelliella physciicola, Diplolaeviopsis ranula, Enterographa hutchinsiae, Geisleria sychnogonioides, Gongylia nadvornikii, Leptogium biatorinum, Micropeltopsis santessonii, Parmelia olivacea, P. panniformis, Phoma cytospora, Physalospora leptogiophila, Polyblastia philaea, Roselliniella cladoniae, Roselliniopsis tropica, Sagiolechia protuberans, Sphaerellothecium araneosum, Stigmidium congestum et Toninia kolax. La prsence des taxons suivants sur le mme territoire est confirme: Acarospora cervina, Arthrorhaphis citrinella, Baeomyces callianthus, Catillaria minuta, Eopyrenula leucoplaca, Leptogium corniculatum, L. minutissimum, L. schraderi et L. tenuissimum. Par contre, les espces suivantes doivent tre rayes de sa flore: Leptogium byssinum et Stigmidium schaereri. Des informations complmentaires sont donnes pour Arthrorhaphis grisea, Bacidia caligans, Parmelia crinita, Placocarpus schaereri, Rinodina interpolata, Sticta limbata et S. sylvatica. Enfin, deux espces particulirement vulnrables de macrolichens ont t retrouves dans le district lorrain: Pannaria conoplea et Sticta fuliginosa. Twenty-three taxa of lichens and lichenicolous fungi are mentioned for the first time in Belgium, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg or surrounding areas: Arthonia excentrica, A. lapidicola, Bacidia hemipolia, B. viridescens, Biatoropsis usnearum, Buelliella physciicola, Diplolaeviopsis ranula, Enterographa hutchinsiae, Geisleria sychnogonioides, Gongylia nadvornikii, Leptogium biatorinum, Micropeltopsis santessonii, Parmelia olivacea, P. panniformis, Phoma cytospora, Physalospora leptogiophila, Polyblastia philaea, Roselliniella cladoniae, Roselliniopsis tropica, Sagiolechia protuberans, Sphaerellothecium araneosum, Stigmidium congestum and Toninia kolax. The occurrence of the following taxa in the same territory is confirmed: Acarospora cervina, Arthrorhaphis citrinella, Baeomyces callianthus, Catillaria minuta, Eopyrenula leucoplaca, Leptogium corniculatum, L. minutissimum, L. schraderi and L. tenuissimum. On the other hand the following species must be excluded from its flora: Leptogium byssinum and Stigmidium schaereri. More information is provided for Arthrorhaphis grisea, Bacidia caligans, Parmelia crinita, Placocarpus schaereri, Rinodina interpolata, Sticta limbata and S. sylvatica. Finally two very vulnerable species of macrolichens have been rediscovered in the Lorraine district: Pannaria conoplea and Sticta fuliginosa.
43996250|Paul Heinemann a exerc une influence discrte mais efficace en Belgique sur les recherches mycologiques en gnral et sur l'tude de la mycorrhization plus particulirement. La synthse prsente ici rappelle quelques rsultats obtenus dans ce domaine entre 1975 et 1995, y compris les nouvelles conceptions systmatiques et phylogntiques des Endomycorrhizes vsiculo-arbusculaires (Glomales). Un appel est lanc pour que les recherches en mycorrhizologie se poursuivent en Belgique. Researches upon mycorrhization at the Fondation universitaire Luxembourgeoise, the Facult Universitaire des Sciences Agronomiques de Gembloux and the Universit de Mons-Hainaut.  Paul Heinemann has had a discrete but deep influence in Belgium upon mycological research in general and upon mycorrhizae studies in particular. This paper recalls some results obtained between 1975 and 1995 in the latter matter. It also includes the new systematics of Glomales and the phylogenetic concepts of vesiculo-arbuscular mycorrhizae. Further research in the field of mycorrhizae in Belgium would be highly desirable as Paul Heinemann himself wanted it.
20794594|An extensive vegetation survey was carried out in 1978 in 'De Maten', one of Flanders' most diverse heathland reserves. As a consequence of this study, extensive grazing was introduced as a management regime. In 2003, all plots were again surveyed in order to examine whether vegetation composition and diversity have changed over this 25-year period, and hence to evaluate the long-term effects of extensive grazing on vegetation composition and diversity under the prevailing conditions of increased nitrogen deposition and acidification in Flanders. To gain a comprehensive insight into the changes in the plant communities, vegetation change was studied at three different hierarchical levels (community, plot and species level). Overall, heathland vegetation has little changed during the study period and the proposed management seems to have succeeded in preserving the characteristic heathland vegetation and in retaining its typical nutrient-poor, acid character. Our results indicate that an extensive grazing management, as commonly applied in many nature reserves, is able to conserve species diversity in heathlands subject to high levels of nitrogen deposition and acidification. However, a low grazing intensity is not able to fully prevent shrub and tree enroachment. Also, in the moist and wet heathlands, extensive grazing does not seem to be sufficient to prevent increasing grass dominance. Therefore, occasional additional mechanical management is needed.
20794312|The first author collected since a few years many orchids in Burundi. Of these, 56 taxa were not yet recorded from this country in the Flore d'Afrique centrale published by the second author, among which 5 are new for Central Africa (Zare, Rwanda and Burundi) and 3 species and 2 varieties are new for science: Angraecum evrardianum Geerinck, Diaphananthe arbonnieri Geerinck, Polystachya lacroixiana Geerinck, P. stauroglossa Kraenzlin var. alata Geerinck and P. virginea Summerh. var. parva Geerinck. For the first time a hybrid orchid is described in Central Africa: Eulophia  burundiensis Arbonnier & Geerinck [E. cucullata (Afz. ex Sw.) Steudel  E. flavopurpurea (Reichenb.f.) Rolfe].
20794540|The morphological similarity between Luronium natans and Baldellia alpestris, and their co-occurrence at some sites, has led to a degree of confusion in the literature about the current status of L. natans in the Iberian Peninsula. Recent publications have suggested that there are only 4 small populations of this species in the Iberian Peninsula. Here we report an additional 11 small populations, in NW Spain. We also discuss its morphology and differentiation from B. alpestris, and aspects of its biology and ecology.
20794537|The causes of early embryo abortion in reciprocal crosses between Phaseolus vulgaris L. and Phaseolus polyanthus Greenm. were studied. Methacrylate resin sections, 2 m thick, of 2 to 6 day-old hybrid seeds were used to examine the stages of embryo development and the state of seed tissues. These observations permitted to suggest the main causes of abortion and to identify the developmental stages at which hybrid embryos should be rescued. Early nutritional barriers in P. polyanthus ()  P. vulgaris crosses are related to a deficient endosperm development while in reciprocal crosses, endothelium proliferation and to some extent, hypertrophy of the vascular elements might be the main causes of early embryo abortion. The importance of the abnormalities observed during embryo development depended to a great extent on the compatibility between the genotypes crossed. Our results also suggest that the appropriate time for embryo rescue when P. polyanthus is a female partner is at the early globular stage. Several parameters of in vitro culture were analysed within the two parental species: genotype, culture medium, age of the collected pods. The results show that plantlets regeneration can be obtained satisfactorily in P. vulgaris, while the rate of success remains limited in P. polyanthus. Les causes de l'avortement prcoce des embryons rsultant des hybridations interspcifiques rciproques entre Phaseolus vulgaris L. et P. polyanthus Greenm. sont tudies. Des coupes semi-fines de 2 m, ralises dans des graines hybrides ges de deux  six jours, enrobes dans une rsine du type mthacrylate, ont permis d'analyser les stades de dveloppement embryonnaire et l'tat des tissus environnants. Les observations ont permis de proposer les principales causes de l'avortement et d'identifier les stades de dveloppement auxquels les embryons hybrides pourraient tre sauvs. Rapidement, des barrires nutritionnelles peuvent tre observes dans les croisements P. polyanthus ()  P. vulgaris en raison d'un dveloppement rduit de l'albumen, alors que dans les croisements rciproques, la prolifration de l'albumen et, dans quelques cas, l'hypertrophie d'lments vasculaires constitueraient les causes principales de l'avortement prcoce des embryons. L'importance des malformations constates durant le dveloppement embryonnaire dpend en grande partie de la compatibilit entre les gnotypes croiss. Les rsultats suggrent aussi le stade globulaire jeune comme le moment appropri pour le sauvetage des embryons hybrides lorsque P. polyanthus est le parent femelle. Plusieurs paramtres de la culture in vitro sont analyss pour les deux espces parentales: le gnotype, le milieu de culture et l'ge des gousses rcoltes. Les rsultats montrent que la rgnration de plantules peut tre obtenue de manire satisfaisante chez P. vulgaris, mais par contre que le taux de russite reste limit chez P. polyanthus.
20794621|Lake Pamvotis is a shallow urban Mediterranean lake located in northwestern Greece (region of Epirus). During the last three decades, the trophic status of the lake has changed as a result of anthropogenic activity and especially domestic sewage discharge, resulting in severe deterioration. During the 1980s, the lake has been stocked with several native fish species and some exotic herbivorous species (e.g., Ctenopharygodon idella), which resulted in a great decline of submersed vegetation. Ten years ago, a diversion of the sewage effluent was established to reduce external nutrient loads and improve water quality. Nowadays, the aquatic vegetation is mainly located at the northern littoral zone of the lake, and estimated to cover only about 5-10% of the total water surface of the lake. The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the aquatic macrophytic vegetation of lake Pamvotis and to investigate the spatial distribution of water quality among the remaining aquatic vegetation groups. Five major groups and six subgroups of aquatic vegetation were derived from a TWINSPAN classification. Water quality parameters (nitrate, nitrite, ammonium, DIN, SRP-soluble reactive phosphorus, carbonate, bicarbonate, chlorophyll-a), were determined while pH, conductivity, surface DO and Secchi depth were measured monthly in situ during the vegetated periods of 2004 and 2005. One-way ANOVA and CCA ordination revealed significant differences and relationships regarding the environmental variables among the distinguished vegetation groups. The results showed that SRP, pH, transparency, ratio transparency to water depth and total inorganic carbon, were significantly different among these vegetations suggesting the existence of different macrophytes-based mechanisms affecting main parameters of water chemistry. The potential role of floating-leaved vegetation in lake restoration is discussed.
20794362|The survey includes the personal observations of the authors in 1986 and 1994, as well as the data of Heijs (1985a, b) and Ohba & Enomoto (1992). This results in a total of 42 taxa of Phaeophyta from Motupore Island and vicinity (Papua New Guinea). References to species descriptions and illustrations are given, ecological data are specified, reference material is cited and photographs of herbarium specimens of most species are added. Cette liste inclut les observations personnelles des auteurs en 1986 et 1994, ainsi que les donnes de Heijs (1985a, b) et de Ohba & Enomoto (1992). Ceci rsulte en un total de 42 taxons de Phophyces de la rgion tudie. Des rfrences o des descriptions et des illustrations des espces cites peuvent tre trouves sont mentionnes, ainsi que des donnes cologiques; le matriel de rfrence est cit et des illustrations des spcimens d'herbier de la plupart des espces mentionnes ajoutes.
20794289|A new species of Keetia recently collected in Kivu (Zaire) is described. It is unusual because its fruits are densely covered with spine-like fleshy protuberances, a feature hitherto not reported from the Vanguerieae. Keetia ornata seems endemic from the eastern part of the Congo Domain of the Guineo-Congolian Region. Une nouvelle espce de Keetia rcemment recolte au Kivu (Zare) est dcrite. Elle est remarquable par ses fruits densement couverts d'excroissances pointues charnues, un caractre jusqu' prsent inconnu chez les Vanguerieae. Keetia ornata semble tre endmique de la partie orientale du Domaine congolais de la Rgion guino-congolaise.
20794462|Radula lindenbergiana Gottsche ex C. Hartm., een circumboreaal levermos, werd ontdekt in Belgi. Vijf fout gedetermineerde, oude vondsten werden gevonden in de herbaria van de Nationale Plantentuin (BR) en van de Universiteit van Luik (LGHF). De soort wordt afgebeeld en beschreven; standplaats en verspreiding worden besproken. Radula lindenbergiana Gottsche ex C. Hartm. a circumboreal liverwort, has been discovered in Belgium. Five old, incorrectly identified Belgian collections were found in the herbariums of the Belgian National Botanical Garden (BR) and of the University of Lige (LGHF). A description and illustration of the material are provided. Features of its ecology and a preliminary map of its distribution are given.
20794212|The Euglenophytes of the Sepik floodplain were studied. 34 taxa, of which one is new to science, are described and illustrated. Les Euglnophytes du basin du Sepik ont t tudis. 34 taxons, parmi lesquels un est nouveau pour la science, sont dcrits et illustrs.
20794346|La problmatique du maillage cologique est aborde ici  grande chelle, par le biais de l'investigation phytosociologique des reliques de vgtation semi-naturelle dans une portion reprsentative de la Haute Ardenne herbagre. Les groupements vgtaux issus de la synthse numrique objective sont confronts aux syntaxons du systme zurichomontpellirain. Ceux lis aux bords des routes communales et chemins ruraux relvent du Calluno-Genistion Duvigneaud 1944 et du Polygono-Trisetion Braun-Blanquet 1943. Ils acquirent un grand intrt comme tmoins du paysage vgtal issu de l'ancienne conomie rurale. Leur statut particulier en tant qu'lments marginaux linaires de vgtation est examin sous l'angle de leurs position phytosociologique, richesse spcifique et dterminisme daphique. Within the scope of the ecological network approach of agricultural landscapes, a large scale survey of semi-natural vegetation remnants has been carried out in a representative part of the Upper Ardennes. Three plant communities have been identified along road verges and banks. Their status as field margins compared to intensively exploited grasslands is examined focusing on phytosociological position, species richness and chemical soil characteristics.
20794465|The epiphytic bryophytes in the city of Ghent were investigated in November 1998. A total of 2152 trees, belonging to thirty eight species, were searched for bryophytes. Twenty five moss- and two liverworts species were found, most of which were very common species with a broad range of tolerance. Multivariate analyses revealed that the tree species could be divided into three groups according to the species composition of the bryophytes. These groups differed in the hardness and the furrowing of the bark. Les bryophytes piphytiques de la ville de Gand ont t tudies en novembre 1998. Les 2152 arbres recenss, appartenant  38 espces ont t examins quant aux bryophytes. Vingt-cinq mousses et deux hpatiques ont t observes: la plupart taient trs communes. Des analyses multivaries ont rvl que les phorophytes pouvaient tre rpartis en dans trois groupes bass sur la composition des espces de bryophytes. Ces groupes diffrent quant  la duret et au degr de fissuration de l'corce.
20794440|L'inventaire floristique de treize grottes belges, quipes d'un clairage artificiel ou soumises  la lumire naturelle, a t dress. Parmi les algues, ce sont les algues bleues avec 21 espces qui se sont rvles les plus diversifies, suivies des Bacillariophyces (10 taxons), des Chlorophytes (6 espces), des Xanthophyces et des Eustigmatophyces, avec chaque fois une espce. Les lichens sont reprsents par 7 taxons. La liste des Bryophytes comprend 11 espces, alors que celle des Ptridophytes regroupe 3 espces. Une nouvelle combinaison est propose dans le genre Psammothidium (Bacillariophyceae). The floristic survey of thirteen Belgian caves, equipped with artificial light or exposed to natural light, was realized. Within the algae, cyanophytes proved to be the most diverse group with 21 species, followed by the Bacillariophyceae (10 taxa), the Chlorophytes (6 species), the Xanthophyceae and the Eustigmatophyceae, each with one species. Lichens are represented by 7 taxa. The list of Bryophytes comprises 11 species, whereas Pteridophytes were represented by 3 species. A new combination is established in the genus Psammothidium (Bacillariophyceae).
20794189|Description,  l'aide de relevs phytosociologiques (mthode Braun-Blanquet), de la vgtation d'un massif de dunes maritimes de la Tunisie septentrionale. Le fourr  Juniperus oxycedrus subsp. macrocarpa, dvelopp en arrire des dunes initiales, et la steppe  Retama raetam, qui remplace le fourr lorsque celui-ci subit une forte pression anthropique, ont t plus particulirement tudis. Le dynamisme du tapis vgtal a t analys. Description of the vegetation of an area of maritimes dunes, in Northern Tunesia, by means of relevs, following the concepts of the Braun-Blanquet's phytosociological approach. Floristic composition and dynamic behaviour of the Mediterranean thicket with Juniperus oxycedrus subsp. macrocarpa and of the steppe with Retama raetam, who replaces the former under strong human pressure.
20794276|Monoclonal antibodies prepared against the subunits of a hemocyanin from a scorpion belonging to the Buthidae were tested by immunoblots with the hemocyanins of various species belonging to five of the seven scorpion families. The results of the cross-reactions compared to morphological characters allowed to define new characters at familial and specific levels, and to classify the Buthidae into two groups of which the exact taxonomic status will be specified later. Des anticorps monoclonaux prpars  partir des sous-units d'une hmocyanine d'un scorpion appartenant  la famille des Buthids ont t tests par immuno-empreintes avec les hmocyanines de scorpions appartenant  cinq des sept familles actuellement dcrites. Les rsultats des ractions croises, confronts  la trichobothriotaxie, ont permis de dfinir de nouveaux caractres de valeur familiale et spcifique, et de classer les Buthids en deux groupes dont le statut taxonomique sera prcis ultrieurement.
20794437|Fifty-two individuals in a population of Abeliophyllum distichum, a monotypic genus endemic to the central Korean Peninsula, were mapped to examine the spatial genetic structure using ten alleles of six allozyme loci. Moran's I values were significantly different from the expected value (E [I] = - 0.02) in 39 of 100 cases and the overall correlogram for six out of 10 alleles was significant. In the short distance classes (0 < 14 m), 20 positive and only five negative on a total of 50 Moran's I values were significantly different from the expected value, indicating a genetic similarity among individuals within the short distances. Although A. distichum has a heterostyly-breeding system and a winged fruit (samara) which would be dispersed by wind, the spatial genetic structure detected in this study indicated that gene flow would not be extensive in a population of A. distichum because of pine forest acting as a shield for wind movement. It is recommended that the sampling for conservation purposes might be performed at a diameter of more than 16 m to extract the genetic diversity across an entire population.
20794404|It is demonstrated that an increase in carpel numbers originated from an original bicarpellate condition in the Capparaceae. Possible directions of evolution of carpel numbers are discussed in the light of earlier hypotheses. A comparison of different carpel numbers in the family is suggestive of a progressive increase by partitioning of the placentas and/or the addition of primordia within a single whorl. Evidence is found in the pairwise closing of the four locules in the tetracarpellate Capparis micracantha. Another possibility, found in C. spinosa, is an unordered increase of carpels within a whorl, concomitant with a secondary stamen increase. Comparable processes are probably responsible for higher carpel numbers in the Papaveraceae and Brassicaceae. Two types of false septa are recognized and defined, viz. placental and laminal. Il est dmontr que le nombre de carpelles a t augment dans les Capparaceae  partir d'une structure bicarpelle. Les diffrentes directions possibles de l'volution du nombre sont discutes sur base d'hypothses anciennes. Une comparaison dans la famille des nombres de carpelles suggre l'existence d'une augmentation progressive par la division des placentas et/ou l'insertion de carpelles surnumraires dans un seul verticille. La fermeture par paires des quatre loges du Capparis micracantha tetracarpell en est une preuve vidente. Une autre possibilit qu'on retrouve dans le C. spinosa, est l'augmentation inordonne des carpelles dans un verticille, qui va de pair avec une augmentation secondaire du nombre d'tamines. Des dveloppements similaires sont probablement la cause d'une augmentation du nombre de carpelles dans les Papaveraceae et les Brassicaceae. Les fausses cloisons placentaires et laminales sont reconnus comme deux types distincts.
41427181|Despite its tremendous biodiversity, which results from a strong elevation gradient and high habitat diversity, the flora of the Mbam Minkom Hills (Cameroon) is poorly documented. Moreover, these hills have recently become an urgent and major challenge for conservationists because their proximity to the city of Yaound has considerably increased human pressure on this area considered as the last main block of primary submontane forest around this city. As a consequence, the main objectives of this paper are to provide the first orchid account of the Mbam Minkom Hills, to document the ecology and the distribution of these species and to highlight the importance of this family for the conservation of this threatened ecosystem. A total of 75 orchid taxa within 27 genera were found in the Mbam Minkom Hills. Sixty-one (81%) were epiphytic, 11 (15%) were terrestrial and 3 (4%) were lithophytic. Six of them (8%), one Bulbophyllum, one Diaphananthe, one Polystachya, one Rhipidoglossum and two Stolzia are new taxa. Genera with the highest number of taxa were Polystachya (19 taxa) and Bulbophyllum (12 taxa). Polystachya carnosa is newly recorded for Cameroon. Lowland forest (51 taxa) and inselbergs (29 taxa) are the two habitats with the highest species richness. Species flower mainly between March and May and between July and September. Thirty-four (45%) taxa were endemic or near endemic to the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism, of which 14 (19%) were endemic to the Lower Guinean Domain. Moreover, Bulbophyllum teretifolium, Bulbophyllum sp. nov., Cheirostylis divina var. ochyrae, Polystachya sp. nov. and Stolzia repens var. cleistogama are endemic to Cameroon. According to IUCN criteria, 50 taxa (67%) are least concerned (LC), 4 (5%) are vulnerable (VU) and 1 (1%) is near threatened (NT). Three taxa (4%), Cheirostylis divina var. ochyrae, Diaphananthe bueae and Polystachya letouzeyana are endangered (EN). Seventeen taxa (23%) are not evaluated (NE). The orchid flora of Cameroon is far from being completely known, as shown by the six new taxa and the new national record found during this study.
20794630|The ability of Ranunculus lingua to grow at different water depths (from 0 to 80 cm) was tested. The plants from the tested depths did not differ significantly in their height and the number of shoots but differed in the number of leaves and generative organs. The lowest values were recorded at a depth of 30 cm and at a depth of 50 cm and deeper; the maximum was reached at a depth of 40 cm. The production of generative organs decreased significantly with increasing depth except for the peak at a depth of 40 cm. Significant changes in all the measured traits were recorded during the growing season. A wide plasticity of the species in depth tolerance was proved by experimental flooding. Differences in experimental and observed optimal water depth for R. lingua in Central Europe can be ascribed to the competition with littoral dominants. R. lingua usually occupies transition zones among dominants and its position in the hydrosere therefore varies with respect to the dominant competitor. Optimal water depth varied along a geographic gradient from Northern Europe (deeper water) to Central Europe (shallower water).
20794236|Les auteurs ont recens 51 espces de plantes spontanes  feuilles utilises comme lgumes par la population de la ville de Kisangani et de ses environs. Ils indiquent aussi la distribution phytogographique, les types morphologiques, les modes de prparation et de consommation ainsi que les noms vernaculaires de ces plantes. Nombre de ces plantes sont des herbes tant annuelles que vivaces. Fifty-one species of wild plants, the leaves of which are used as vegetable by the local populations, are recorded from Kisangani and from the surrounding area. For each species, are given the geographical distribution, the morphological types, the methods of preparation and use, as well as their names in the local languages. Many of these plants are annual or perennial weeds.
20794653|Encephalartos barteri ssp. barteri (Zamiaceae) is a cycad endemic to Benin, Nigeria, Ghana and Togo. The species is considered as vulnerable in its area of distribution. In the present study, we analysed the patterns of leaflet morphological variation and the genetic variability within and among five populations sampled in Benin, between 734' and 1020'N. Leaflet morphology showed significant variation among populations. The differences observed among populations were not correlated with geographic distances. Sixteen Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers with a total of 133 scorable bands (82.7% polymorphic) were tested. Three primers generating 32 consistently and well-amplified bands were used to characterise the 150 individuals sampled. High levels of genetic diversity were observed (P = 93.75%, HE = 0.297 at the species level, and P = 75%, HE = 0.228 at the population level). Two population-specific bands with high frequencies were found. There was also evidence of high differentiation among populations (GST = 0.2313, ST = 0.3236, p < 0.001). Cluster analysis corroborated the previous results and mainly grouped the individuals and populations according to their geographic origin. Current patterns of morphological and genetic variation in E. barteri ssp. barteri appear to reflect interactions amongst a range of factors namely, past climate changes, phenotypic plasticity, local adaptation, geographic isolation and limited seed dispersal/pollen transfer. Conservation strategies are discussed: urgent actions need to be taken to protect the populations (Gangamou and Doh) not having any legal protection status but containing unique genetic variants, and community-based nursery management should be envisaged. Finally, given the ongoing decline of the habitat of the species and the continued removal of individuals from the wild it is recommended that the IUCN Red List category for this species should be changed from vulnerable to endangered.
20794500|This paper provides taxonomic and chorological data on eleven orchids of the central-western (CW) Iberian Peninsula. Special attention is paid to the critical taxa of the groups Dactylorhiza sambucina (D. markusii-D. insularis-D. romana) and Ophrys scolopax (O. scolopax-O. picta-O. vetula); their taxonomy, morphological variation and distribution in the region are discussed. Two new combinations are proposed: Anacamptis coriophora subsp. carpetana (Willk.) Bernardos and Dactylorhiza insularis f. castellana (Rivas Goday) Bernardos. Finally, karyological information is provided on seven of these species. For Limodorum abortivum (2n = 48 and 2n = 56), Himantoglossum hircinum (2n = 18 and 2n = 36), and Ophrys apifera (2n = 36), these data are the first recorded for CW Iberian populations. In the case of Dactylorhiza markusii (2n = 40), D. insularis (2n = 60) and Ophrys scolopax (2n = 36), the chromosome numbers offer the possibility of gaining a deeper karyotaxonomic knowledge of these groups and critical taxa. Se aportan datos taxonmicos y corolgicos de un total de once orqudeas presentes en el CW de la Pennsula Ibrica, con especial referencia a txones crticos del grupo Dactylorhiza sambucina (D. markusii-D. insularis-D. romana) y del grupo Ophrys scolopax (O. scolopax-O. picta-O. vetula), comentando sus solapamientos y variaciones morfolgicas y su distribucin en estos territorios. Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones: Anacamptis coriophora subsp. carpetana (Willk.) Bernardos y Dactylorhiza insularis f. castellana (Rivas Goday) Bernardos. Por ltimo, se aporta informacin cariolgica de siete de estas especies; para algunas (Limodorum abortivum (2n = 48 y 2n = 56), Himantoglossum hircinum (2n = 18 y 2n = 36), y Ophrys apifera (2n = 36), estos datos representan los primeros conocidos para poblaciones centrooccidentales ibricas; en el caso de Dactylorhiza markusii (2n = 40), D. insularis (2n = 60) y Ophrys scolopax (2n = 36), los nmeros cromosmicos aqu aportados nos permiten profundizar en el conocimiento cariotaxonmico de estos grupos y txones crticos.
20794345|Natural regeneration in Pobe semi-deciduous forest was assessed from phytosociological relevs made in gaps. Three plant communities were identified by a correspondence analysis of 176 species and 18 gaps. The structure and dynamics of these communities were analysed by means of species diversity indices, ecological spectra and mathematical models of species abundance.
20794628|The successful amplification of consensus chloroplast microsatellite markers (cpSSRs) from 22-year-old dried fruits of Zannichellia, originally sampled as a reference herbarium collection for an isozyme study, is reported. The DNA obtained from herbarium tissues was not degraded and revealed amplicons of the same length in old achenes and leaves than in fresh materials of both tissues from the same site. DNA extraction was also performed on single achenes of about 1 mg dry weight. Out of the ten cpSSRs tested, four gave reliable PCR products in both fresh and dried plant materials. Three polymorphic cpSSR loci allowed to distinguish five haplotypes, A, B, C, D, and E from the ancient DNA. Haplotype A is widespread in Z. palustris subsp. palustris and subsp. repens from West-European inland fresh water localities and in Z. major from the brackish waters of the Baltic Sea. Haplotype B is found in Z. palustris from the Baltic Sea, whereas haplotype C seems to be confined to Z. pedunculata, a taxon from northwestern Europe. Haplotypes D and E were observed in Z. palustris and Z. peltata, respectively, from the Mediterranean region. A haplotype network and neighbor-joining tree revealed the possibility of a cryptic species within Z. palustris. The chloroplast microsatellite primers show a potential in detecting haplotypes of Zannichellia, especially at taxon level, as well as in detecting geographical patterns across distant European fresh and brackish water habitats.
20794460|Sematophyllum substrumulosum werd voor het eerst in Belgi gevonden te Kapellen (provincie Antwerpen), niet ver van de Nederlandse grens, als epifyt op een wilg. De dichtst bijzijnde vindplaatsen van dit mos met mediterraan-Macaronesische verspreiding bevinden zich in West-Engeland en zuidwest Frankrijk. De plant wordt beschreven en afgebeeld. Het materiaal stemt volledig overeen met planten uit Zuid-Europa. Er wordt ingegaan op de ecologie van dit mos en op de verschillen met de andere soorten van het genus en met Rhynchostegium confertum en Hypnum spec., waarmee de soort in het veld kan verward worden. Er wordt een verspreidingskaart voor Europa en Macaronesi gegeven. Als conclusie wordt gesteld dat het niet gaat om een adventief voorkomen, maar dat de soort misschien miskend werd. Sematophyllum substrumulosum was found in 1998 as an epiphyte on a willow in Kapellen (province of Antwerp), near the Dutch border, the first record for the species in Belgium. This mediterranean and Macaronesian species occurs as far north as the southwest of France and was recently discovered in western England. The plant is described and illustrated and is proved to be very similar to specimens from southern Europe. Its ecology, as well as the differences with other members of the genus, with Rhynchostegium confertum and Hypnum spec. are outlined. A distribution map is given for Europe and Macaronesia. It is concluded that the species is not an introduction, but that it may have been neglected.
20794266|The relationships of strains assigned to Pseudomonas vesicularis, P. diminuta, and some phenotypically similar organisms belonging to the genus Sphingomonas and the EF group 21 strains, were studied by gas chromatographic analysis of their cellular fatty acids, SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of whole-cell proteins, extensive phenotypic characterization, determination of the DNA base composition and DNA-rRNA hybridizations. The results of this polyphasic approach revealed that the majority of the Pseudomonas vesicularis and P. diminuta strains formed each a well-characterized taxonomic group. Phylogenetically, both Pseudomonas species are highly related, different from Sphingomonas species and not at all related to the authentic pseudomonads. De onderlinge taxonomische verwantschappen werden bestudeerd van stammen, beschreven als Pseudomonas vesicularis en P. diminuta, en van sommige fenotypisch gelijkaardige organismen behorend tot het genus Sphingomonas en tot de EF groep 21. Hierbij werd gebruik gemaakt van gas chromatografische analyse van de cellulaire vetzuren, SDS-polyacrylamide gel electroforese van de totale cel eiwitten, een uitgebreide fenotypische beschrijving, bepaling van de DNA base samenstelling en DNA-rRNA hybridisaties. Uit de resultaten van deze polyfasische studie bleek dat nagenoeg alle stammen van respectievelijk Pseudomonas vesicularis en P. diminuta elk een goed omschreven taxonomische groep vormen. Fylogenetisch zijn beide Pseudomonas species onderling hoog verwant en duidelijk verschillend van de onderzochte Sphingomonas species. Toch behoren deze species niet tot het echte genus Pseudomonas wegens hun classificatie in een andere superfamilie van de Gram-negatieve bacterin.
20794385|As an introduction to the proceedings of a symposium on the use of molecular markers in plant population biology, the authors present some classical or innovative applications of molecular markers. They give an overview of the types of molecular markers now available and of the most commonly used techniques and discuss the strategies for the analysis of data from molecular markers.
20794419|Une formation forestire submontagnarde  Garcinia spp. est tudie sur les collines de Nkolobot, mornes rocheux culminant  1020 m et 1105 m  l'ouest de Yaound. Cette tude est faite  l'aide des mthodes phytosociologiques de l'cole de Zurich-Montpellier. L'analyse dtaille de sa composition floristique est donne, aussi bien que ses spectres biologique, phytogographique, chorologique, de types de dimensions foliaires et de groupes co-sociologiques. D'un point de vue syngntique cette formation vgtale reprsente un climax avec un fonds spcifique propre et plaide en faveur de la cration d'un nouvel ordre des forts ombrophiles sempervirentes: les forts ombrophiles submontagnardes (Garcinietalia) ou Forts de transition. Forestry submountain formation with Garcinia spp. has been studied on the Nkolobot, 1020 m and 1105 m rocky hills, west of Yaounde. The study is made according to the phytosociological methods of Zurich-Montpellier school. A phytosociological list is established and discussed according to various ecological spectra: biological, phytosociological, distribution, dissemination and leaf size types, and eco-sociological groups. Syngenetically, this vegetal formation is a climax with a proper specific fund and pleads in favour of the creation of a new order of rain-forest: the submountain rain-forest (Garcinietalia) or "Transition forest".
20794668|On a landscape level, former land use is a structuring element of plant communities of recent and ancient forest patches. However, ancient land use has been recently identified to affect plant communities within ancient forests. An ancient holloway, i.e., a U-shaped sunken road, embedded in the Meerdaal forest was used to establish whether microtopographical changes brought about by the former road use would structure the forest vegetation and seed bank. Seven transects were set out perpendicular to the holloway over a one kilometer stretch, to test whether the sunken road would locally shape the patterns in abiotic conditions, vegetation and seed bank. Soil pH was significantly higher within the holloway, which was reflected in a higher plant cover, ancient forest and overall species richness. Vegetation composition was altered by the road microtopography, though secondary to a prevailing fertility gradient with distance along the holloway. While seed bank characteristics did not differ between road and non-road plots, seed bank composition did vary according to the microtopography. However, the extant vegetation caused the observed seed bank pattern. The holloway shapes understory community patterns in vegetation and seed bank. As the sunken road cuts into deeper calcareous soil layers at the bottom of the road, this gave way to differential acidification (different buffer ranges) in function of the microtopography, allowing the persistence of favorable growth conditions within the holloway. Hence, these conditions allow the survival of ancient forest species within the road in a forest matrix made increasingly unsuitable through severe acidification.
20794248|Laing Island terrestrial vegetation has been studied during two stays at the King Leopold III Biological Station. Five other nearby coral cays were also investigated. Twenty-seven vegetation relevs were carried out following the Braun-Blanquet method. Ninety-four parallel soil samples were taken and analyzed for pH(w), organic matter content and major cations (P, K, Na, Ca, Mg) content. Seven plant communities have been identified and their limits transferred onto a map. La vgtation terrestre de l'le de Laing et de quelques les coralliennes proches a t tudie au cours de deux sjours  la Station Biologique Roi Lopold III. Vingt-sept relevs de vgtation ont t effectus et analyss suivant la mthode zuricho-montpelliraine. Nonante-quatre chantillons de sol ont t prlevs paralllement et analyss quant aux paramtres suivants: $\text{pH}_{(\text{H}_{2}\text{O})}$, teneur en matire organique et en cations principaux (P, K, Na, Ca, Mg). Sept groupements vgtaux ont t identifis et leur dynamique esquisse. Enfin, une carte de vgtation a t tablie.
20794233|The ectomycorrhizae of Laccaria amethystea and Russula ochroleuca are identified on birch in Belgium. Their morphology, the anatomical characters of their surfaces and of their sections are described. These observations are compared to those of Agerer and his staff, made for the same fungal species but on other host-trees in Germany. In both cases, our mycorrhizae are very similar to the German ones and only differ in the size of unramified axes, of different kinds of hyphae and in the number of cortical cell layers of the Hartig net. Les ectomycorhizes de Laccaria amethystea et de Russula ochroleuca ont t identifies sur bouleau en Belgique. Leur morphologie, les caractres anatomiques de leurs surfaces et des coupes longitudinales sont dcrits. Ces observations sont compares  celles qu'Agerer et son quipe ont ralises pour les mmes espces mais sur d'autres htes en Allemagne. Dans les deux cas, nos mycorhizes sont semblables  celles dcrites en Allemagne et ne diffrent que par la taille des axes non ramifis, de diffrents types d'hyphes et par le nombre d'assises de cellules corticales du rseau de Hartig.
20794596|Phragmites communis Trin. has a wide ecological and geographical amplitude in Tunisia and grows under a variety of environmental conditions. A laboratory experiment was performed to evaluate the effect of temperature and salinity on the germination of P. communis. The germination response of the seeds in darkness were determined over a wide range of temperatures (between 5C and 40C) and salinity (between 0 mM and 500 mM NaCl). We analysed the responses of seeds to salinity at the optimum germination temperature. Temperatures between 10C and 30C appeared favourable for the germination of this species. The optimum temperature was 20C. To assess the effect of temperature on germination rates, the reciprocal of time to 50% germination was calculated and regressed against temperature. Based on the regression, the minimum temperature beyond which no germination is expected was 6.7C. Salt stress decreased both the germination percentage and germination speed (increase of the mean time-to-germination, MTG). The ability of P. communis to maintain a germination capacity in hypersaline conditions (400 mM) showed that this species can germinate on salt-soils.
20794571|Merendera figlalii Varol sp. nov. is described from the Sandras Dag (C2: Mula province) in Turkey. It is related to M. trigyna (Steven ex Adam) Stapf, from which it mainly differs in its longer tunic neck and the shorter, non-auriculate limb of the perianth segments.
