10.2307/2999752|In New Caledonia, protected areas exist only on Grande Terre (mainly in the south of the main island, 16,500 km<sup>2</sup>) These land areas have been created either for their wealth of endemic plants, for their fauna, or to meet the needs of the population (protection of water supplies, tourist sites) Whatever their aims, in practice they protect only two types of plant formation: evergreen forest and maquis on ultrabasic substrates (South), covering only about 9% of the total area This low percentage makes it necessary to (a) increase the surface protected for the formations involved; (b) create protection zones urgently in the following formations not yet covered: mangrove, evergreen forest on schists and on limestone (Loyalty Islands) and sclerophyll forest; and (c) list the species exhibiting disjunct distributions and institute measures to protect their sites
10.2307/2999714|Data on the species distributions of twelve higher taxa of animals and plants are used to explore the extent to which hotspots of species richness tend to coincide across Europe on an equal area grid (squares of approximately 152,000 km<sup>2</sup>). One or two of the hotspots of many of the numerous possible pairwise combinations of higher taxa are congruent, but for no pair of higher taxa do three hotspots coincide. Contrasted with a simple null model, there is a greater incidence of positive associations of hotspots between higher taxa than expected, and more areas contain several hotspots than expected The overall numbers of species of all higher taxa, found within the hotspots of individual higher taxa, are very consistent 50-56% of all species occurred in the richest hotspots, and 60-70% in the top three hotspots.
10.2307/2999769|The dispersal of herbaceous species seeds through herbivorous mammal dung (endozoochory) has been known for some time, although its effect on the grazed communities has not been analyzed in depth. In a Mediterranean grassland, we have found that large quantities of seeds are dispersed in rabbit droppings (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.), with significant effects on the composition and structure of the soil seed reserves. Endozoochorous dispersal encourages the spread of species which lack morphological structures for dissemination, and favours the small-scale spatial diversification of the pasture through the spatial variability of dunging. On a larger scale, however, endozoochory plays a homogenizing role in the plant community through long-distance seed dissemination
10.2307/2999767|Fifty years of ecological research have failed to achieve an integrated, quantitative analysis suitable for both marine and terrestrial biodiversity. We present a new approach that reconciles the interrelationship of the number of individuals and species with population structure. Sample size dependency, always the primary obstacle, here is recognized as the primary missing requirement for biodiversity analysis With this key, and a new decomposition formula, we solve the two historically intractable problems of (1) inability to separate species effects of richness and evenness within the same system, and (2) correlation of diversity measures and non-specificity of statistical distributions with sample size In addition to providing resolution for ecological investigations, this approach reveals ordered structure in inventory and monitoring situations, undetectable by any other approach. As an example, Bolivian and Guyanan trees are shown to exhibit uniquely distinct and heretofore unseen diversity patterns.
10.2307/2999642|Demand is high for methods by which sound predictions of the numbers of species in an area can be generated at moderate to large spatial scales To date, emphasis has been laid upon the application of relationships between species richness and either one or more environmental variables, or the richness of particular indicator groups of organisms. Here we examine the possibility of generating predictions from the relationship between species richness and the numbers of higher taxa in an area This approach has several attractions. Preliminary investigations suggest that predictions might be quite reasonable, that cost-effectiveness may be high, and that substantial bodies of appropriate data already exist
10.2307/2999761|Rates of species discovery shape our perceptions of biodiversity, whether or not accumulation curves are used to generate precise diversity estimates In addition to earlier-noted problems of estimating diversity by this approach, variation in body size, geographic range size, and geographic provincialism all serve to make organisms differentially apparent to sampling efforts. Another striking limitation of the approach is that rates of systematic description of Neotropical mammals are actually slowing relative to rates at which new species are encountered Systematists are clearly losing the race to inventory diversity before it disappears, even for the best studied vertebrate groups
10.2307/2999674|Granitic inselbergs represent xeric islands with a patchy distribution world-wide. Comparative studies on the floristic inventory of these ecosystems give an illuminating glimpse into mechanisms of diversity The Venezuelan study area comprises the northwestern margin of the Guayana Shield Here the granitic outcrops, locally known as `lajas', are grouped along a macro-climatic gradient In total, 614 species of vascular plants are recorded Characteristic families and endemic elements are assessed, with the result that eighty-six species are obviously restricted in their occurrence to laja sites of the Guayana region Evaluation of the distributional ranges of these species reveals that a northern and a southern phytogeographical subunit of the inselberg flora can be distinguished. In the area where the two subunits overlap, a centre of endemism (Atures centre of endemism) can be located. The effects of climate and isolation on floristic diversity are discussed, giving emphasis to the importance of intermediate isolation for florisitic diversification
10.2307/2999760|Recent proponents of the idea of including weightings for species `distinctiveness' in biodiversity measures for conservation priorities have been quick to adopt genetic attribute richness as the `currency' of value to be maximized. However, depending on how this is measured, the consequences of this choice may be at odds with the aims of biodiversity conservation, bringing into question whether choice of another currency might be more appropriate. Among the candidates, morphological attributes most strongly influence the popular perception of diversity (because they are amenable to the senses) and may be most directly useful to the people On the other hand, functional, ecological attributes may be more relevant to the goal of maintaining ecosystem services In practice, the direct use of these currencies is usually prevented by the enormous sampling effort required for adequate direct measurement. Instead, the challenge is to improve on unweighted species richness as a measure of diversity, but using the best information on differences among organisms that is actually available in any particular case. Thus, using only the near-universal taxonomic classifications for multicellular organisms, useful indirect measures of genetic or morphological attribute richness can be identified, although the precise choice of measure depends on whether or not users are prepared to assume `clock'-like patterns of attribute change.
10.2307/2999777|The paper addresses the problem of assigning priorities (e.g. among different areas) in order to maximize a measure of diversity. A software package, DIVERSITY-PD, is presented in which concepts of irreplaceablility, substitutibility, representativeness and complementarity of species and locations are implemented. An application is presented which demonstrates how the package can be used to identify the minimum set of state forests required to supplement the biodiversity representation provided by national parks.
10.2307/2999755|The New Caledonian lizard fauna includes twenty-one species of geckos and twenty-seven species of skinks, of which a total of forty-one species are regional endemics In contrast to most Pacific insular herpetofaunas, generic endemism is high. Alpha taxonomic work continues to be required in New Caledonia, although biological and ecological investigations have been initiated in the last decade. The endemic carphodactyline gekkonid fauna shows affinities with New Zealand and Australian forms, whereas the gekkonine geckos are representative of widely distributed insular taxa, including several parthenogens Relationships among the scincid lizards remain obscure, although all New Caledonian taxa are members of the Eugongylus group of lygosomines and, at least within Nannoscincus, Australian affinities are indicated. The lizards of New Caledonia have apparently evolved their observed diversity in situ and a number of regions of local endemism are evident. The southern ultramafic block and the region around Mt Panie are especially significant in this regard. Habitat destruction and the introduction of rodents and other potental predators are the prime threats to the herpetofauna. Many lizard taxa are presently under no immediate threat, but several taxa are known from only a few specimens, and two species may be extinct. Accurate assessments of the conservation status of most New Caledonian lizards are hindered by a lack of distributional and ecological data.
10.2307/2999695|Organisms in natural populations normally exist in stressful environments. Stress, especially climatic, has an energetic cost which can be so severe at species borders that range expansions are precluded. Outlier populations and those at rain forest edges indicate that stress-sensitive specialist species are most affected by environmental change especially following habitat destruction. This reduction in biodiversity indicates a fall in ecosystem maturity An emphasis on ecologically important stress-resistance traits should assist in developing protocols to promote conservation and retard the rate of species extinctions. However, taking into account past mass extinction events, pessimistic conclusions for the preservation of biodiversity emerge, especially for mature ecosystems.
10.2307/2999688|Here we report on several lines of evidence that lead us to suspect the anthropological extinction of the woodrat Neotoma bunkeri Burt from Isla Coronados, Mexico. This species is represented by only six adult specimens housed at the Museum of Systematic Biology, UCLA, and appeared to be unique in that it had attained a very large body size relative to other insular or mainland woodrats. Our analysis suggests that depletion of food resources and/or the presence offeral cats have led to the decline. Similar combinations of habitat destruction and predator introduction on other small islands in the Gulf of California are probably endangering many extant insular populations, and may ultimately lead to the extinction of an array of unique flora and fauna
10.2307/2999648|Elevational patterns of species richness and endemism in birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and butterflies, in two mountain ranges in southern Mexico are analysed. In all five taxonomic groups and both mountain ranges, although species richness is concentrated in the lowlands, endemism is concentrated at intermediate and high elevations If conservation efforts are to focus on the preservation of biotic elements unique to Mexico, efforts should be focused on highland habitats instead of on the highly diverse lowlands
10.2307/2999668|We examine geographic trends in bird species density on each of the continents except Asia and Antarctica After controlling for prevailing climatic conditions, the greatest diversity of bird species is found in the West of North America, the West of South America, the East of the Western Palearctic, the East of Africa and the East of Australia. On each of the continents except Australia and North America, there are more species nearer the equator than there are nearer the poles. On Australia the pattern is reversed and on North America, there is no latitudinal pattern These results are in broad agreement with previous similar studies It is known that current environmental conditions have a strong effect on species diversity. However, after removing these effects, residual variation in diversity may be associated with biogeographic history High levels of diversity may be associated with species-sharing between continents which are adjacent to one another, or which have been so in the relatively recent past. Continents that have not had borders with others for very long periods of time have the greatest diversity of species on that part of the land mass which first developed an environment like that of the present day. Sibley & Ahlquist's (1990) molecular phylogeny of the birds is consistent with the fossil record and what is known about plate tectonics in explaining patterns in diversity
10.2307/2999734|Decision support systems for nature management are currently being developed at the Institute for Forestry and Nature Research. The programs are meant for managers of nature reserves, as well as for managers of roadsides, city-parks, etc `VLINDEREXPERT' (Butterfly-expert), by example, is a computer program under Windows [Copyright] for nature management with special attention to butterflies. In the program site information, such as plant species composition, vegetation structure, and landscape characteristics, is related to biological properties of 145 butterfly species of northwestern Europe, such as period of activity per life stage, food plants, oviposition, diapause and dispersal and to plant properties such as period of growth and flowering, resistance to trampling and nutrient enrichment. Using the program the manager can select the best management measure for each site in order to optimize the number of butterfly species at the site or to conserve some special target species.
10.2307/2999643|A 50-month continuous observation of the pollinator fauna of a 30 ha phrygana plot near Athens revealed an alpha diversity of 666 species which is the highest polinator diversity recorded so far. Of these, 262 species were Apoidea, of which only three (Apidae) species were eusocial. In comparison with the pollinator fauna of comparable ecosystems in Chile and California, phrygana has a relatively high number of Bombyliidae and especially Syrphidae. Only approximately 20% of the pollinator species occurred in all years of the research period. The very diverse, and shifting pollinator fauna is hypothesized to have brought the evolution of floral characters to a standstill. A peculiarity of the phryganic ecosystem is a preponderance of pollen as a floral reward and a relative scarcity of nectar. This may be an important factor in the high bee diversity that characterizes the phrygana, and mediterranean ecosystems in general
10.2307/2999687|The needs for effective and sustainable programmes of in situ conservation of crop genetic resources are reviewed in terms of increased concern from a wider range of local, national and international interests notably for development of more viable crops and in shorter-term ventures in biotechnology. Gap analysis, comprised of methods to ascertain priorities for additional conservation measures, is considered in terms of the needs for expanded programmes of land management for the conservation of intraspecific variation in wild, weedy and cultivated portions of crop gene pools. Gap analysis first involves setting priorities related to long-term maintenance of genetic variation at prescribed levels of target species in response to current or projected genetic erosion. These dynamics can be described in terms of populations, spatial units, and habitat attributes and conservation measures can involve acquisition and management of networks of protected areas and broader regional management. An approach to evaluation of the effectiveness of protected area programmes is outlined in terms of representatives and control of genetic erosion. The implications of specific aspects of the Convention on Biological Diversity in potentially countering genetic erosion are explored.
10.2307/2999657|Study of the dynamics of extinction of single species has tended to treat temporal patterns of abundance and of spatial distribution rather separately. A framework is discussed for considering their interaction in this regard. This develops, with some possible examples, four simple idealized models describing the trajectory which might be taken to extinction, with respect to changes in the size of a species' geographic range and its total population size.
10.2307/2999704|It is proposed to restrict the term Rapoport's Rule to an increase in latitudinal ranges of animals and plants with latitude, because the causes of correlations of geographical breadth, measured differently, with a point along a biogeographical gradient may be different. The latitudinal Rapoport's Rule is a strictly local phenomenon, restricted to the Palae- and Nearctic above a latitude of approximately 40-50<sup></sup>N. It has never been shown to apply to the tropics Greater depth ranges of cold-water marine teleosts are not due to their greater ecological tolerances but to the more uniform temperature conditions over a larger depth range Restriction of Rapoport's Rule to northern latitudes, where the effects of the Ice Ages have been greatest, suggests that it is due to selection for tolerance to greater temperature fluctuations during the Ice Ages (=extinction of less tolerant species). Rapoport's Rule, like other ecological factors, does not correlate well with species richness and cannot explain latitudinal gradients in species diversity. A shift of emphasis from an ecological to an evolutionary approach (from establishing correlations to experimental work) is necessary to find an explanation for the gradients.
10.2307/2999732|Using a data set composed of all known island-endemic bird species, we demonstrate that taxonomic differences in island-endemic diversity are real and significantly greater than those predicted by a null model in which island-endemic species are randomly distributed across families. We propose on the basis of a simple model of peripheral isolate speciation that these differences might be partly explicable in terms of differences in the number of continental species in an avian family, the number of islands in the vicinity of the continental range of an avian family, and the relative abundance of the types of island (oceanic v continental) in the vicinity of the continental range of the avian family. There are significant positive associations between (i) the number of island-endemic species in an avian family and the numbers of continental species in that family, and (ii) between the number of island endemic species and the number of islands in the vicinity. Island type did not account for a significant amount of the variance in numbers of island-endemic species between families. While this regression analysis explains a significant amount of the variance among families, over 50% remains unexplained. Expanding the model to incorporate the effects of behavioural, life-history and morphological parameters may account for a significantly greater proportion of the total variance among families.
10.2307/2999721|Based on enzyme electrophoretic data, genetic diversity of various medium-sized and large mammalian species is presented. Following various hypotheses under discussion, body size (small v. large), feeding type (herbivorous v carnivorous), mating system (polygynous v. panmictic), and geographic distribution (population structure influenced v. not influenced by Pleistocene glaciations) of species were tested as to their influence on differences in allozyme variation among species. Expected average heterozygosity (H) did not differ significantly among the categories of taxa established according to the above criteria, whereas the proportion of polymorphic loci (P) and the H:P-rate did in most of the comparisons. The same was found in comparisons of undisturbed with bottlenecked populations of various species, whereby only in part of the above categories comprising undisturbed populations genetic variation was higher than in bottlenecked populations. Compared to P and the H:P-rate, H is regarded as less a sensible indicator of genetic erosion. The implications of natural differences in genetic diversity among populations and species for conservation are discussed.
10.2307/2999644|The Canary speckled wood butterfly, Pararge xiphioides, is an abundant endemic on the Canary Islands of Gran Canaria, Tenerife, La Gomera and La Palma It is presumably derived from the mainland western Palaearctic P. aegeria and has evolved in isolation following colonization at some unspecified time in the past. A statistical analysis of variation in hindwing spotting, including the use of diversity indices, reveals a remarkable level of interisland differentiation. Even with relatively small samples it is demonstrated that each island is characterized by distinctive phenotypic combinations Although there is evidence that the spots on the hindwings of P xiphioides are maintained by visual selection by predators, the interisland differences in spotting are probably the result of the founder effect and subsequent genetic drift with their consequent phylogenetic constraint The method of analysis of spotting could be used for populations of other butterflies in which there is easily scorable phenotypic variation.
10.2307/2999715|(1) The largest population of Himantoglossum hircinum L in the U K. is found on a links golf course near Sandwich in Kent (2) Site suitability at the present time can be recognized by the possession of a suitable macroclimate in the local 40 km square, coupled with the presence of a suitable soil in the local 1 km square (3) The site of the golf course was identified on the HORIZON GIS using the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology's Land cover map. (4) A 40 km square which will become suitable in the future if the climate changes following a 5% increase in soil moisture deficit was chosen (5) The 1 km squares containing suitable soils within the chosen 40 km square were identified using the GIS (6) An area with the same land cover characteristics as those of the Sandwich population of H. hircinum was identified using the same GIS. This area, another links golf course, is considered to be a site which could sustain a population of H. hircinum in the future.
10.2307/2999697|The isozyme genetic diversity of Grimmia antarctici Card, Bryum pseudotriquetrum (Hedw.) Gaertn., Meyer et Scherb. and Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid., three important moss species in the Windmill Islands, continental Antarctica is investigated Moss samples were collected from communities throughout the Windmill Islands region. The three species were clearly delineated for the ten scorable isozymes tested No significant polymorphisms were detected within the populations of G antarctici or C purpureus However, differences in the banding patterns of two isozymes were found among populations of B. pseudotriquetrum collected from relatively close geographic locations. Bearing in mind the very small samples on which they are based, these preliminary results are consistent with the hypothesis that the populations of both G. antarctici and C purpureus have resulted from a single colonization event with subsequent local dispersal while the differences within B pseudotriquetrum could indicate the several independent colonizations of this species to the Windmill Islands
10.2307/2999665|The use of the components of biodiversity (i.e. genetic resources), especially as it involves the sale of materials for product development purposes, is often presented as something new. That has been a common perception of the Merck/INBio agreement, which is frequently taken as a model. However the very newness of the situation suggests great uncertainty which in turn tends to deter participation by the majority of agents who are risk averse. Most prefer to await the emergence of a standard practice which reduces the opportunity to make errors. The sale of genetic materials is proposed to be characterized in terms of transfer of `genetic technology' There is long experience with technology transfer, but the present process differs in two key aspects, (1) the trade will be predominately south-north and secondarily south-south as opposed to the long prevailing north-south technology trade, and (2) the products are natural which creates some technical and legal complexities. These differences, once overcome, will facilitate the exchange of genetic resources through the creation of a greater comfort level for sellers and buyers. The development of a technology flow mechanism based on `genetic technology' necessitates that the technology is available openly and on uniform terms. Such a mechanism would be facilitated by considering biodiversity as genetic technology and this, in turn, would enhance an existing and ongoing process, the sustainable use of germplasm which provides an incentive for biodiversity conservation
10.2307/2999742|An examination was made of the patterns of plant species composition at the junction of the Irano-Turanian (steppe vegetation) and Saharo-Arabian (true desert) biogeographic zones in the Negev desert of Israel We measured plant species diversity along a north-south aridity gradient across these two zones, placing particular emphasis on the effects of a large erosion cirque at the boundary of these two zones on plant species composition patterns We found that the erosion cirque acts as a significant barrier to plant dispersal between these zones and that there is a disjunction between plant communities north and south of the cirque Plant species richness and the percentage of annual species increased linearly with increasing altitude and latitude, while dominance showed the reverse trend.
10.2307/2999706|Regional conservation evaluation requires the effective use of available surrogate information, such as that provided by indicator taxa, for estimating the biodiversity represented by candidate protected areas. A recent study demonstrated that accumulating areas individually species-rich for one group of indicator organisms generally did not result in a set containing the areas that were species-rich for other groups. However, the requirement for a species-rich set, and not just individually-rich areas suggests an alternative assessment based on complementary-areas methods, which find a set of areas such that each of the indicator species is represented at least once. A set of areas covering all indicator taxa is assumed to be generally biodiverse. One limitation of this approach is that the set of areas species-rich for an indicator group is likely to represent many other organisms only if the members of the group span a wide range of habitats or environments. This supports the sampling of environmental pattern itself as an alternative strategy for selecting a set of biodiverse areas. Because such a pattern can be inferred from an indicator group, this same sampling strategy may extend the predictive value of such groups. Further, environmental pattern may incorporate additional useful information; for example, abundance information for the indicator taxa may improve predictions when used in this framework. These pattern strategies use the indicator group in a way that does not depend on the usual complementarity criterion in which a set is to be found that represents each indicator species. An example suggests that the complementary-areas approach may not be the best general strategy for using indicator groups in biodiversity assessment. We conclude that the current complementarity paradigm should be replaced by a more general pattern-based approach which views `complementarity' not as a predictor, but as a general property to be predicted.
10.2307/2999658|The species richness of polychaetes from four sites in the northeastern Atlantic Ocean was compared using Hurlbert's rarefaction method, which is commonly used to measure diversity. There was no unequivocal evidence of general gradients of diversity with depth or latitude within the complete data set although some local trends did appear. An increase in diversity with depth at latitudes lower than 60<sup></sup>N, a maximal diversity at about 200 m among stations shallower than 400 m, high diversity in northern latitudes at stations shallower than 700 m and decreasing diversity from the western to the eastern part of the English Channel were all observed. The diversity of abyssal sites was not necessarily as low as predicted by Rex (1983). The diversity of polychaetes showed no marked differences along the latitudinal gradient; both high and low diversity and density being recorded from all latitudinal zones and bathymetric ranges. The lack of general pattern of diversity of polychaetes may be due to the high degree of biological and ecological adaptation of this group, which is one of the most important macrobenthic taxa in soft-bottom communities. The results obtained here are compared with latitudinal, bathymetric and sedimentological gradients observed in other marine invertebrates groups.
10.2307/2999733|The hypothesis that the plant-species rich Fynbos and the less-rich Little Karoo, both xeric ecosystems in South Africa, would support equal levels of gall-insect richness (GSR) was tested. Galls were sampled from Fynbos and Karoo in a valley where adjacent sites with similar climate could be selected. Fynbos had higher GSR, strongly correlated with plant richness. Both Fynbos and Karoo vegetation had galls in equal abundance (galls/plant) showing that neither was a more suitable substrate for colonization by gall-insects, but differed in terms of species richness only. Plant species richness, or the distal factors that generated it, appear to have contributed significantly to the radiation of gall-insects in these regions.
10.2307/2999751|The New Caledonian flora is as a whole rich and unusual, but floral diversity varies greatly between different plant associations and is much affected by edaphic substrates, rainfall and human activities The evaluations available, though still insufficient, of floristic diversity in different plant associations show it to be distinctly higher in rain forest than in sclerophyll forest; it is very variable in different types of maquis Secondary vegetation loses in general floristic diversity, but the associations on ultramafic rocks are less affected than those on sedimentary, volcanic or metamorphic rocks
10.2307/2999696|Newly described animal species are often assumed to be relatively small-bodied, probably because small animals are considered to be more easily overlooked We show that bird species first described in the period 1966-90 average smaller-bodied than birds in general, but suggest that other factors, with which body size is correlated, are more important determinants of the probability of description than is body size
10.2307/2999649|Interpretation of large-scale faunal and floral survey data is often frustrated by the bias caused by variation in recording intensity. Using distribution data for Odonata and Hepaticae from the Biological Records Centre, a technique for correcting this bias is described The method is used to locate species-rich hotspots for the two taxa and comparisons are made with uncorrected data.
10.2307/2999723|Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was used to create hierarchically organized models of the distribution of bird species richness across the conterminous United States. Species richness data were taken from the Breeding Bird Survey and were related to climatic and land use data. We used a systematic spatial grid of approximately 12,500 hexagons, each approximately 640 square kilometres in area. Within each hexagon land use was characterized by the Loveland et al. land cover classification based on Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) data from NOAA polar orbiting meteorological satellites. These data were aggregated to yield fourteen land classes equivalent to an Anderson level II coverage; urban areas were added from the Digital Chart of the World. Each hexagon was characterized by climate data and landscape pattern metrics calculated from the land cover. A CART model then related the variation in species richness across the 1162 hexagons for which bird species richness data were available to the independent variables, yielding an R<sup>2</sup>-type goodness of fit metric of 47.5% deviance explained. The resulting model recognized eleven groups of hexagons, with species richness within each group determined by unique sequences of hierarchically constrained independent variables. Within the hierarchy, climate data accounted for more variability in the bird data, followed by land cover proportion, and then pattern metrics. The model was then used to predict species richness in all 12,500 hexagons of the conterminous United States yielding a map of the distribution of these eleven classes of bird species richness as determined by the environmental correlates. The potential for using this technique to interface biogeographic theory with the hierarchy theory of ecology is discussed.
10.2307/2999754|This paper summarizes the known araneomorph spider fauna of New Caledonia.
10.2307/2999659|Recent attempts to predict extinction rates based on threatened species lists have suffered from inadequate data and subjective threat criteria. A new prediction of avian extinction rates is generated by comparing two global lists of threatened bird species from 1988 and 1994, involving sounder data and more rigorous criteria. Six scenarios tested predict that on current trends between 400 and 1200 species may become extinct within the next 100 years, and the time to extinction of half the world's birds lies between 800 and 2800 years. However, this predicted extinction event is attributable to human activities, and species loss can be minimized by conservation action.
10.2307/2999778|We examine the occurrence of regionally threatened forest land snail species on twenty-five islands with natural forest in Lake Malaren, Sweden. Threatened snail species occurred on most islands with areas of about 1 ha and above, but were absent from the six islands smaller than 0.5 ha. The number of threatened species was related to the number of not threatened species on the islands, as well as to island area. However, island area did not relate to the number of threatened species when total species richness was held constant in multiple regressions. Thus, comparably species-rich islands, but not necessarily large ones, tended to have the largest number of threatened species. Threatened snails most frequently occurred in dry forest with southern deciduous trees, and mainly on islands with a high proportion of productive soils. We suggest two reasons for the patterns found, based on the formerly larger distributions and natural disturbance regimes of rich deciduous forest. Since island area was a less reliable predictor of the number of threatened species, this easily measured variable should not be used as the sole indicator of high conservation value.
10.2307/2999756|This paper summarizes what is known about the New Caledonian terrestrial fauna and discusses opinions on its nature and origins. An overview of relations with neighbouring areas points out links with New Zealand and southern faunas for many ancient or non-mobile indicators, whereas many recent, or mobile indicators, give evidence of Australian or Oriental influences through the Inner Melanesian Arc. It seems that the uniqueness of the fauna, and its old original basis, have been frequently under-estimated. Studies on fossil vertebrates give evidence of recent extinctions, and bird surveys indicate that this process is still continuing. It is assumed that information acquired through biodiversity studies will facilitate the enforcement of a better conservation policy in New Caledonia
10.2307/2999669|In recent years biological conservation efforts have typically emphasized habitat protection as a crucial means of maintaining the fast-eroding genetic diversity in the face of global warming and subsequent climatic change. There are two basic methods for conservation of crop plant genetic resources, in situ (or on site) in nature without any human major disturbances, and ex situ (off site) in gene banks at sub-zero temperatures and low seed moisture content. During the last three decades human-induced disturbances have sharply eroded the original habitats of most field crop species and their wild relatives in the centres of diversity Until recently off-site conservation in gene banks was exclusively used for the preservation of crop plant genetic resources However, some biologists are of the opinion that further evolution of the germplam ceases once it is preserved in gene banks. To counter this line of thought, in situ methods have been proposed where evolutionary processes continue to operate in nature, allowing the germplasm to adapt itself to the changing environment. This method of conservation is gaining acceptance, as it not only preserves the wild progenitors of our major crops on site, but also conserves their habitat through frequent monitoring and limited grazing The biological diversity of the wild progenitors is to be found in some areas in the Near East within the Fertile Crescent. In this article, in situ conservation of biodiversity of the wild relatives of cereal crop plants has been suggested, with the use of available ethnobotanical information generated by recent studies
10.2307/2999731|The range of information on biodiversity currently available via the Internet is reviewed and its accessibility, usefulness and relevance to biodiversity research and to policy decision making assessed. Commercial and non-commercial databases are reviewed. The future of information via the net is also reviewed, in particular the role of the `Clearing House Mechanism' of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Biodiversity Conservation Information System.
10.2307/2999675|Biogeographical regions of Switzerland were defined using numerical analyses based on detailed information about the distribution patterns of the plant species occurring in the area The reference database includes 1876 species and 350 mapping areas When comparing the resulting floristic regions with the standard biogeographical regions according to Gutersohn (1973), two major differences were found, both with regard to the delimitation of the Central Alps For questions about flora or vegetation, the floristically defined regions seem to be more appropriate In addition, the reference database was reduced according to various criteria in order to find out how many species are needed for a satisfactory regionalization. As expected, results were best when high numbers of species were used; when selected systematically, at least one third of the species present are required (623 species) Very good results were also obtained with as few as 1-6% of the flora (twenty to 160 species), so long as the species were selected either according to their statistically established discriminating power or according to expert knowledge. With the expert approach, moreover, only easily identifiable species were used This indicates that floristic regions can be successfully delimited even if detailed distribution maps are not available and even if non-experts participate in the mapping Data-sets consisting of species selected according to taxonomic or ecological criteria turned out to be less suitable for general regionalizations However, they may be useful for addressing specific ecological questions
10.2307/2999759|If developed nations value conservation of the developing world's biodiversity, then financial inducements may be necessary There are currently few conduits for realising such transactions. Those that do exist should be fully exploited.
10.2307/2999776|We studied the relationships between endemic plant richness (response variable) and latitude, area, mean annual rainfall, mean annual temperature and altitudinal range (explanatory variables) in fifty-two biogeographic regions distributed across all major biomes on all continents. In the minimally adequate multiple regression model, latitude and area emerged as significant terms and accounted for 63% of the variance. Thus, large, low latitude regions harbour the highest numbers of endemic plant species, a pattern which is well documented. However, the analysis of model residuals showed that certain mid-latitude regions with semi-arid and strongly seasonal climates (especially mediterranean-climate areas) had much higher endemic species richness than predicted by the model. These areas should not be overshadowed by tropical rainforest regions when planning interventions for global plant biodiversity conservation. Furthermore, a general theory on plant endemism will need to account for these mid- latitude anomalies.
10.2307/2999762|The bat species found on La Trobe University-LIPI expeditions to the Krakatau Islands in 1990, 1991 and 1992 are reported upon Ten species were found, mostly by monofilament mist-netting, compared to thirteen in the period 1982-1986, making a total of seventeen species recorded in the decade 1982-1992 Of these, fourteen species (4 Megachiroptera and 10 Microchiroptera) had not been found on the islands previously Taphozous longimanus Hardwick, Rousettus leschenaultii shortridgei Thomas and Wroughton, Macroglossus minimus minimus (E Geoffroy) and Rhinolophus acuminatus Peters were found on the archipelago for the first time in 1990-1992 Since bats were first encountered on the island group in 1919, twenty species have been recorded
10.2307/2999724|During the past decade many studies have been carried out on the distribution of gallforming insects along gradients of temperature, humidity, elevation, and latitude. Over 300 localities have already been sampled around the world representing numerous vegetation types such as shrubland, desert, chaparral, cerrado, savanna, tropical rain forest, taiga, tundra, and pine forest using sound and field-tested methods. The peak of species richness has been found at low and dry elevations, in areas of sclerophyllous vegetation. Nevertheless, gallers are most species rich and abundant in dry habitats. Among all habitats studied, the Brazilian cerrado has the richest fauna of galling insects. At 900 m altitude in a cerrado area at the base of the Serra do Cipo in south-east Brazil, we found the richest galling insect fauna (forty-six species in a census of forty-five trees, 100 shrubs and 1000 herbs per site). At this elevation, the soil is rocky and sandy, nutrient-poor, and the vegetation is dominated by woody, sclerophyllous plants, with few herbs. The plant most attacked was Baccharis concinna (Asteraceae) which supported fifteen galling species
10.2307/2999743|We tested the hypothesis of an inverse relationship between gall-forming species diversity and altitude in the Old World Tropics. We extracted a list of the galling fauna of the Indonesian Islands from previous published work on galls sampled from sea level (0m) to 3400m above sea level. Diversity of Indonesian galling species was strongly correlated with altitudinal variations. The diversity of gall formers in all taxa combined (insects and mites) increased with decreasing altitude (r<sup>2</sup>=0.76). Diversity of gall-forming herbivores increased with decreasing altitude for the Cecidomyiidae (r<sup>2</sup>=0.76), Thysanoptera (r<sup>2</sup>=0 61), Psyllidae (r<sup>2</sup>=0.61), Hymenoptera (r<sup>2</sup>=0 54), Lepidoptera (r<sup>2</sup>=0.54), Tephritidae (r<sup>2</sup>=0 44), Aphididae (r<sup>2</sup>=0 31), Coccoidea (r<sup>2</sup>=0 21), and Coleoptera (r<sup>2</sup>=0.21) The diversity of gall-forming mites (Acarina) also increased with decreasing altitude (r<sup>2</sup>=0 78). Increased diversity of galling species with decreasing altitude may be a global phenomenon. Galls are most abundant at lower altitudes in the Temperate region, the New World Tropics, and the Old World Tropics (this study) Nevertheless, more precise understanding of the pattern of biodiversity in gall-forming herbivores requires studies on the mechanisms that produce them
10.2307/2999667|The structure (Foliage Projective Cover, Leaf Area Index and stocking density of trees and tall shrubs) of mature evergreen plant communities and the annual growth of the foliage canopy are predictable from the arid to the perhumid climatic zones, from the warm temperate to the tropical climatic regions of Australia. Biodiversity (mean number of species of trees and tall shrubs per hectare) of the overstorey is related to the annual growth (tonnes dry weight per hectare per year) of the foliage canopy The mean number of stems of each species in a hectare of overstorey doubles from thirty to almost sixty in the 10<sup></sup>C temperature gradient from southern to northern Australia The interception of solar radiation by the overstorey canopy reduces the foliage cover of the understorey, the net photosynthesis of this stratum, and hence the species richness of the understorey. In any ecosystem, the biodiversity of most vertebrate classes parallels that of vascular plants, which appears to be related to annual growth of the foliage shoots in the overstorey canopy The processes which determine the species richness of plants and animals within an ecosystem need urgent identification so that maintenance of biodiversity can be based on scientific principles
10.2307/2999676|The distribution of endemic dung beetle species has been analysed in the West Palaearctic region (547 spp.) These species are concentrated in the Mediterranean Basin or in the neighbouring regions, with two main centres of endemism located on opposite sides of this Basin The centres of endemism and the degree of endemicity were very different according to the three main dung beetle families The possible explanation of these patterns has been examined
10.2307/2999750|The richness and originality of the New Caledonian flora (3200 species, of which 79% are endemic) are largely due to the territory's geological history After a brief review of relevant data and events, the current status and progress of our knowledge of this flora, including both phanerogams and cryptogams, is presented. The cryptogams are at present the least known component; with the exception of the algae, inventory work on these groups has hardly started The diversity and endemism of New Caledonia's flora varies considerably from one major plant group to another, and between the various vegetation types present The role substrate plays in this variation is highlighted
10.2307/2999713|The abundances and biodiversity of nematode assemblages from two well studied bathyal sites, the Rockall Trough (three stations) and the San Diego Trough (one station), are compared in an attempt to associate patterns to ecological factors. The biodiversity of the nematode assemblages was found to be extremely similar in both locations, both in terms of community structure and the identifiable genera present, which is surprising in view of the differences in latitude, current speed and chemistry between the troughs, suggesting that these apparently important ecological factors were not controlling agents for nematode diversity. Similarly, the bathymetric gradient across the Rockall Trough stations had no impact on biodiversity. Nematodes at San Diego Trough were found to be significantly less abundant than at the Rockall Trough and it is suggested that this may be the result of high macrofaunal activity in this region.
10.2307/2999770|In this paper, I discuss the measurement of biodiversity within an ecological context The idea is that any such measurement should include ecological information which the mere species number does not This ecological information is essential when we have to take conservational counter-measures against biodiversity reduction when this is caused by some form of ecological degradation Nevertheless, the analysis of the effects of clear-cutting, irrespective of the ecological identity of species, can still be based upon species counts in so far as the species are endemic to the affected region. However, winter migrants into such cleared areas, for example, should still be characterized ecologically Furthermore, I focus on the effects of changes in the scale of ecological variation, thus leaving changes in nutrient availability or pollution out of consideration. Changes of scale have an ever growing impact as a cause of variation, but are often overlooked
10.2307/2999703|WWF, the World Wide Fund for Nature, has proposed that there should be four general criteria of forest quality (Dudley, Stolton & Jeanrenaud, 1993): <tex-math>$\bullet$</tex-math> authenticity; <tex-math>$\bullet$</tex-math> forest health; <tex-math>$\bullet$</tex-math> environmental benefits; <tex-math>$\bullet$</tex-math> other social and economic benefits. In this framework, authenticity defines the ecological value of a forest and is a measure of biodiversity. In the following essay, it is argued that the concept of authenticity offers advantages over alternatives when identifying and describing biodiversity and in drawing up ecologically-beneficial managegment plans.
10.2307/2999705|The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is a model of evolution capable of rapid genetic change. In vitro evolution technology could be applied toward the goal of evolving a harmless, replicating descendant of HIV Strains of virus would be selected and evolved based on their abilities to interact benignly with immune cells. A virus which could replicate without interfering with critical immune functions might eventually emerge Introducing this newly evolved virus to hosts who are already HIV-positive would initiate a competition between two distinct types of viral genes. A widely held principle of ecology indicates that only one gene type will survive, causing the extinction of its competitor Viral genes evolved to function cooperatively with immune cell genes could win this competition. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) would not occur as a result of retroviral infection.
10.2307/2999707|Tolerance of oribatid mites belonging to twenty-three species has been determined after exposure to short-term unpredictable environmental extremes such as drought, frost, heat, and food shortage. Species having a narrow temperature tolerance were also susceptible to drought, whereas species having a very broad temperature tolerance also tolerated drought. Tolerance classes per environmental condition were defined and used to classify oribatid mites in datasets from undisturbed and clearcut forests, and unmanaged, cut, and cattle-grazed grasslands. Once-only events, like clearcutting, could be shown to markedly influence the oribatid mite fauna. Cutting of grassland (once a year) led to the absence of species intolerant to drought, but higher cutting frequencies did not alter the species composition any further with respect to drought tolerance. Soil compaction due to cattle-grazing in combination with removal of the vegetation led to the absence of species intolerant to drought and to a decrease of small species usually able to avoid drought by entering deeper soil layers. The frequency of extreme conditions is discussed in general and a hypothesis is formulated wherein species diversity, metapopulation dynamics, and `unsaturated' biotopes are results of the frequency of disturbance and recovery of the affected populations.
10.2307/2999650|The species richness and composition of the ground beetle and spider fauna of twenty-eight farm woods in the Vale of York was sampled. The relationship between species richness and woodland area, isolation and shape was examined. Ground beetle species richness was related to woodland shape, and spider species richness to isolation If new woodlands are to be created, there appears to be a balance between increasing the total species richness by having long thin woodland belts and increasing the number of characteristic woodland species by having compact woods that maximize the area of core woodland habitat Comparison of the results from the two faunal groups indicates that it can be dangerous to base an assessment on a single taxonomic group of arthropods
10.2307/2999720|This paper reviews patterns of genetic diversity in natural populations of plants: patterns which have emerged from more than 70 years of genecological investigation and 30 years of allozyme analysis. The compelling conclusion to be drawn from these empirical studies is that genetic diversity in most plant species lies along the axis of environmental, and specifically habitat, variability. This predominance of genotype-environment correlations, a testimony to the power and ubiquity of natural selection, demands that strategies for the conservation of genetic diversity involve sampling or protection schemes which are stratified across environments or habitat-types. The genetic response of species' populations to their environment is affected, or constrained, by a range of intrinsic biological properties such as the breeding system and external processes such as those which cause fluctuations in population size. Insight into the impact of such forces on the genetic diversity and structure of natural populations has been the major gain from studies of allozyme variation. However, there is some doubt about the neutrality of allozyme loci, and often no correlation can be found between levels of allozyme variation and those in quantitative trait loci. Furthermore, variation in intrinsic properties and external forces accounts for relatively small amounts of the between-species variation in genetic diversity (but rather more of the variation in their population genetic structure). Coupled with the remarkable, and largely unpredictable, range of diversity patterns found in rare and endangered species, this has led to the view that there are no useful generalizations on which to base conservation strategies. Each and every species must be investigated. Here I suggest that this view has been based on an inappropriate group of species (the rare and endangered) and that a habitat-based conservation strategy has generic utility. Because of the remarkably small numbers of plants needed to capture most of a species' genetic diversity, sampling, or conserving, across habitats Can be adjusted to account for the expected levels of between-population differentiation. Prediction of these levels may be improved by taking a phylogenetic approach.
10.2307/2999753|A biogeographic and ecological profile of the Lepidoptera fauna of New Caledonia is presented. The biodiversity of the moth fauna is contrasted with that of neighbouring archipelagos and elsewhere in the Indo-Australian tropics. Endemism is much less, at a lower taxonomic level, and with fewer Gond-wanan relationships than in the flora. Variation in moth diversity in different vegetation types is examined. The representation of endemics, other biogeographic categories and higher taxa in associations of moth species is related to vegetation. Attention is drawn to the unexpectedly low moth diversity associated with vegetation with high floristic endemism and diversity on ultrabasic rocks, suggested to be a result of adaptation of the flora to the unusual mineral regimes in soils on such rocks. Suggestions for further study of this phenomenon are made, and the importance of conserving all New Caledonian ecosystems is stressed.
10.2307/2999666|We related plant species richness data from 1260 sites in forty physiographically homogeneous units ranging in size from 1104 km<sup>2</sup> to 69,196 km<sup>2</sup> in the southern and western half of southern Africa to mean potential evapotranspiration (PET) (an index of energy availability), mean annual precipitation (MAP) and AREA There was a significant negative relationship between PET and plant species richness and a weaker but significant positive relationship between MAP and plant richness On its own, AREA was not significantly correlated with richness. A multiple regression model which incorporated all three variables in the set of significant regressors accounted for 57% of the variance in regional plant species richness. We suggest that our data form part of a more general unimodal (hump-backed) pattern between richness and environmental controls and that at high PET values plant richness may be reduced
10.2307/2999694|The diversity of life, biodiversity, is the result of irreversible adaptations of biological systems to variation in environmental conditions, both in time and space. Usually, scientists search for traits various objects or phenomena have in common, an approach which is inadequate in biodiversity research. Here, the object of study is, in contrast, the uniqueness of biological adaptations resulting in a complex process of species maintenance and its development, speciation. As living conditions vary in time and space, species continually have to adapt spatially and genetically, implying that ecological optimization theories based on equilibrium assumptions do not apply. In practice this means that species counts or diversity measures give insufficient biological information As to conservation measures to be taken, it means that large complexes of reserves, each containing variable living conditions, should be preserved rather than a number of small ones interconnected by corridors. Therefore, what should be kept is as broad a spectrum of biological adaptations to variable, non-equilibrium conditions as possible.
