biolenviprocria.117b.2.91|Total soil respiration (R
20500016|As part of the first study of the smooth newt in Ireland, a population was monitored at a small pond in Dublin over 3 years. Non-destructive skeletochronology was used to examine the life history of this animal. The investigation has also been the first to monitor the population biology of this species and achieve accurate age estimates without the need to sacrifice large numbers of animals. Most newts were found to mature after four winters on land (4+). However, 20% of males were recorded breeding for the first time as 3+ animals, suggesting that two development strategies are open to males: (1) they can mature at 3+ without the benefits of an additional 1-year's growth on land; or (2) they can delay their maturation for 1 year and increase their potential annual reproductive output at the loss of 1 year's breeding. The oldest animals recorded were 7+, and female predominated in the oldest age classes. Annual survivorship was higher in females than males; the overall survivorship calculated for the population was 43%. A regression of total length with age proved non-significant, but the correlation between weight and age was significant.
20799768|Five adult Dreissena polymorpha were found on the hull of a boat moored in Kinnego Marina, Lough Neagh, in November 2005; this is the first indication of their presence in this large lake. This finding initiated a survey to determine whether the zebra mussel was present throughout Lough Neagh. Forty-four settled juveniles on debris were found at twenty sites around the lough shore. As a result of these findings a more extensive study was undertaken in October 2006 to examine planktonic and settled stages. Veliger larvae were at densities of 0.0211 veligers per m. Spat collectors showed settlement at six out of the seven sites sampled at a mean density of 523.76 juvenile zebra mussels per m. No adult zebra mussels were found on natural substratum in the lough during the shoreline survey. However, 24 adult zebra mussels, 7.5mm to 24mm long, were found on the hull of a boat moored in Lough Neagh.
20499971|There is a paucity of published information on the population biology of salmonids in Irish upland soft-water streams despite their relative importance as salmonid nursery areas and their susceptibility to acidification. This paper describes the characteristics of brown trout populations in upland streams in County Wicklow and identifies some of the factors affecting their distribution. The impact of plantation forestry on salmonid streams in this area is also evaluated. Sixty sites in the upland reaches of the King's, Liffey and Avonmore rivers and the feeder-streams of the Vartry Reservoir were studied in July/October between 1990 and 1992 (Vartry 1990 only). Summer trout densities ranged from 0.009 to 2.93 fish/m but were generally well below 0.6 fish/m. At an elevation above c. 300m numbers fell below 0.2 fish/m at most sites. Fish were recorded at altitudes as high as 460m but were generally not found in stretches of stream above c. 400m, especially where gradients were steep. Trout have, however, been observed in Wicklow streams above the 500m contour. Alkalinity, calcium and pH have been shown to be the key factors affecting the distribution of trout. Adverse changes in water quality, such as depressed pH and elevated levels of toxic inorganic aluminium, may be associated with high levels of forestry in poorly buffered streams, and can in turn deplete trout populations.
20694853|Chemical analyses of cations and anions from five Irish midland raised bogs, from blanket bogs in Galway and Mayo and from groundwater-influenced sites in Mayo, Connemara and the Burren are presented. Principal components analysis clearly separated ombrotrophic from groundwater-influenced sites and showed a clear relation between geography and water chemistry among the ombrotrophic bogs. Nitrification was evident in many stored samples taken from fen sites and in some samples taken from raised-bog peat under birch at a pH of approximately 4.0. The occurrence of Schoenus nigricans in western lowland blanket bogs cannot be explained by raised pH or nutrient status due to sea spray, by freedom from aluminium toxicity near the west coast or by historical differences in grazing between Scotland and Ireland. The data show beyond doubt that S. nigricans occurs extensively in truly ombrotrophic sites in western Ireland. The cationanion balance shows a substantial anion deficit in the midland raised bogs (with no Schoenus), but little or none in the western lowland blanket bogs. Irish blanket-bog occurrences of Schoenus may form part of a wide north-west European pattern: obligate 'fen' plants under continental conditions moving successively into ombrotrophic sites with increasing oceanicityinvolving in turn, inter alia, Eriophorum angustifolium, Narthecium ossifragum and S. nigricans.
20728616|The presence of Anguillicola crassus, an introduced Asian parasite of eels, into south Connemara is reported. European eels Anguilla anguilla were found to be infected in the three basins of varying salinity of Lough Ahalia, but eels sampled in the nearby marine Camus Bay were uninfected. Variations in infection parameters were analysed. It was concluded that the parasite is a recent introduction to the river system. The highest prevalence (63.1%) and mean intensity (4.22) of infection in the lower, most saline, basin of the lough suggest that the parasite was introduced to the River Screebe system at that location. Potential dispersal mechanisms by which the parasite may have been introduced to such a relatively isolated location and to such apparently unexploited eel populations are discussed.
20728608|Clara Bog is an oceanic raised bog of international ecological importance located in central Ireland. The occurrence of soak systems (areas of mesotrophic/minerotrophic vegetation within acid bog) adds greatly to the scientific interest of Clara Bog. Recent research into the vegetation history of a soak system on Clara Bog known as Lough Roe indicates that major vegetation changes have occurred within the soak over the past century. Vegetation communities were classified and mapped on three different occasions over the last thirty years, most recently in 2003. The results show that the characteristic fen type vegetation has changed considerably with increased representation of ombrotrophic species and a decline in open water communities. Indications are that these changes are occurring as a result of human activity over the past century. It is expected that the soak system will be totally dominated by ombrotrophic bog communities within the next 50 years. This paper describes research investigating the possible restoration of poor fen vegetation within the Lough Roe soak system. Results of hydro-chemical sampling and vegetation monitoring indicate that it is possible to recreate more alkaline conditions suitable for poor fen vegetation to develop by removal of Sphagnum-dominated floating scragh vegetation from the soak. The possible application of the research is discussed with reference to potential future restoration and conservation of the site.
20499884|A novel marking scheme, using the Panjet inoculator and alcian blue for uniquely identifying large numbers of trout, was evaluated using a natural population of brown trout. This staining technique was found to be a quick, easy, reliable and durable method, having minimal effect on trout behaviour, condition or mortality, and permitted repeated capture and stomach flushing of individually identified trout over a period of twelve months.
20500192|The selection of appropriate conservation prescriptions for Burren grassland is complicated by its fragmented pattern of occurrence and by marked interpatch and intrapatch heterogeneity in both vegetation and environmental variables. Here, a patch scale study into the relationship between flowering plant species distribution and environmental variables aims to inform prescription selection. We found that patterns in species distribution were related to those in environmental variables such as soil pH and slope. Environmental heterogeneity is created by soil decalcification and downslope mass movement, resulting in exposure of calcareous subsoils on steeper slopes and accumulation of carbonate-poor, more sandy soils at slope bases. Conservation of vegetation diversity requires that processes important in creating this environmental heterogeneity continue to operate. Possible threats to the continuance of these processes are identified.
biolenviprocria.115B.2.125|Artificial weirs on the Mulkear River present an obstacle to sea lamprey (
20499929|Water quality in Kinnego Bay was assessed by a study of the protozoan communities colonising an artificial substrate, polyurethane foam (PF). Protozoan communities were sampled on 1, 3, 6, 9 and 14 days after exposure of cubes of foam in the lough during August 1992. Four study stations--three in Kinnego Bay, one in the open lake at Traad Point as a control station--were distinguishable in terms of differences in the community's structural (species richness) and functional parameters (protozoan colonisation rate on PF). The concentrations of PO, NO, NH, BOD and COD as chemical indicators of pollution at the four sampling stations were also analysed. An inverse relationship was found between these indicators of pollution and the colonisation rate of the protozoan communities. The number of protozoan species colonising PF after exposure of 1 to 3 days was found to give a clear comparative indication of the water quality at the four stations. The results of this research provide further evidence that protozoan communities may be used effectively in the assessment of water pollution and that the PF method offers the advantages of a rapid, accurate and economic method of biological monitoring, compared with other routine biological monitoring.
42912448|To quantify levels of gene flow among and genetic variation within different age cohorts of pedunculate oak (Quercus robur L.) in a semi-natural oak woodland, diversity and parentage studies were undertaken on a stand in Ballytobin, Co. Kilkenny, Ireland. Trees were categorised into four size classesseedlings, saplings, mature trees and veterans, and genetic differentiation was estimated for three microsatellite markers using AMOVA. Parentage was assessed using a likelihood assignment approach. Between nine and fourteen alleles were detected per locus (mean gene diversity, h, 0.8312). All samples from Ballytobin were heterozygous. AMOVA between age cohorts (veterans, mature, saplings and seedlings) estimated that only 2% of the variation was partitioned among age cohort and the mean FST was low (0.015) but significant (P = 0.034). Parent-pair analysis revealed that out of 24 candidate trees, fifteen were assigned as parents to at least one offspring and, out of these, five were veteran. The average pollination distance was estimated at 47.8m with seven out of the twelve parent-pairs being within 50m of each other. The measured range of distances between trees indicated in the analysis as parents was between 22m and 150m. The highest values for number of parent/offspring assignments were between 40m and 49m. Overall, veteran oak at the site were found to be reproductively successful and a low level of differentiation was found between age cohorts indicating that population genetic diversity has been maintained over time.
20500205|The presence of potentially toxic diatom species from the genus Pseudo-nitzschia was investigated using net material acquired during several research surveys carried out off the southern, south-western and western coasts of Ireland between 1993 and 1997. Qualitative examination of the phytoplankton net samples using electron microscopy showed that P. pungens, P. multiseries, P. fraudulenta, P. australis, P. delicatissima and P. pseudodelicatissima were regularly present. Two other Pseudo-nitzschia species, tentatively identified as P. seriata (two forms: P. seriata f. seriata and P. seriata f. obtusa) and P. subpacifica, were also observed, though less frequently. Pseudo-nitzschia pungens was relatively abundant in August 1993 and July 1996. Pseudo-nitzschia fraudulenta was a common component in net samples examined throughout the survey and was predominant in the Pseudo-nitzschia flora in October 1997. Pseudo-nitzschia pseudodelicatissima and P. delicatissima were predominant in many of the net samples taken in July and September 1996.
20728602|We have completed a review of lichen-rich grey dune vegetation. All of the quadrat data for the National Vegetation Classification (NVC) grey dune community described as Carex arenaria  Cornicularia aculeata (SD11) collected during the Sand Dune Survey of Great Britain has been re-analysed using Pseudo-quadrat Analysis. This is based on a recent mathematical development showing that it is possible to generate artificial quadrats ('pseudo-random quadrats') from the phytosociological tables provided in the NVC manuals. These are mathematical approximations of the original NVC quadrat datasets and can be used to compare the NVC with newly acquired quadrat data using a standard ordination techniqueDetrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA). The field quadrats can be placed into this ordination space as passive samples, and their distance from the artificial NVC quadrats used as a measure of community membership. As was expected this has shown that there is a degree of inter- and intra-site variation among grey dunes, with some stands having strong affinities with various healthland communities, and others having more in common with certain lichen-rich grasslands. An ecological interpretation of grey dune vegetation is provided together with some details on how British grey dunes compare with those of continental Europe. Nomenclature follows Stace (1997) for vascular plants, Smith (2004) for bryophytes and Purvis et al. (1992) for lichens.
20499909|Bembidion obtusum (Ser.) has been found to be one of the most numerous carabid beetles occurring in winter wheat in Ireland. The species showed both nocturnal and diurnal activity and was found in fields from autumn until early summer, but showed peak activity over winter when it dominated the carabid fauna. The field distribution of B. obtusum was aggregated with a mean density of 23/m, and beetles were only found in the soil surface layer. The width of the proximal protarsal segment was used to determine the sex of live beetles, males being larger than females. Egg-laying by B. obtusum was recorded in the laboratory during March and April. The opaque eggs were cylindrical in shape and measured 0.57mm  0.34mm. The lifespan of beetles is considered to be one year. An examination of crop contents of B. obtusum showed that significantly more contained aphid remains than remains of Collembola or mites, but the diet varied with season.
20500181|Many marine and freshwater pollution indices are available for all levels of the system, but all have their problems when used in estuaries. These difficulties are compounded at system level, especially where the goal is the creation of an easily communicated management tool, generally in the form of a simple index that integrates the pollution status over the whole of the estuary. The Biological Quality Index and Pollution Load Index have been suggested as simple and robust tools. They have been used in a variety of estuaries in Europe and the US, yielding values over the full scale from near 0 to a maximum of 10.0. The Biological Quality Index and Pollution Load Index results compare well with other indices currently in use, and the data on which the indices are based also provide diagnostic information that can be used to probe spatial, temporal or contaminant patterns in the system further.
20694841|The intensification and specialisation of agricultural practices have led to a widespread decline of farmland bird diversity across much of Europe. Increasing habitat heterogeneity at multiple spatial scales has been suggested as one possible strategy to reverse these declines. This study examined the relationship between habitat heterogeneity, as measured by a number of indices, and bird diversity at farm scale using study sites in the east and south-east of Ireland. Generalised Linear Models indicated that there was a positive relationship between the documented heterogeneity of farmland habitats and the numbers of bird species observed during standardised farm surveys. However, this relationship was not evident when bird diversity was quantified using both the Shannon and the Simpson's diversity indices. It is concluded that agri-environmental policy that aims to influence the heterogeneity of habitats at the farm level can provide a useful means to maintain farmland biodiversity. Future research should aim to develop an improved system of habitat classification and a deeper understanding of the ecological value of different habitat types in Irish farmland.
23033936|The study investigated the effect of sublethal concentrations (39.10mg 1 -1 , 19.55mg 1 -1 , 9.87mg 1 -1 and 0.00mg 1 -1 ) of Portland cement powder in solution on the biochemical parameters (cholesterol, triglyceride, total protein, glucose, lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase) in the serum, liver and kidney of the juvenile African catfish Clarias gariepinus after a fifteen-day exposure period. The result revealed varying levels of significant difference in serum, liver and kidney cholesterol, triglyceride, total protein, glucose, lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase activities, showing that the liver was most affected, the serum was less affected and the kidneys were least affected by the sublethal concentrations of the Portland cement powder in solution after the fifteen-day exposure period. Consequently, the liver and kidney, the medium of transportation of nutrients and other metabolites were affected. The liver and kidney, which are primarily responsible for maintaining external and internal milieu of fishes via detoxification, metabolism and excretion, are susceptible to deleterious effects of Portland cement powder. Therefore, sublethal concentration (39.10mg 1 -1 ) of Portland cement powder in solution after a fifteen-day exposure has been most toxic and debilitating to the test fish.
20694879|To date, 24 cetacean species have been recorded in Irish waters. These are protected by a range of legislation, including the Whale Fisheries Act, the Wildlife Act and the EU Habitats Directive, which oblige Ireland to maintain cetacean populations and their habitat at a favourable conservation status. Policies aiming to maintain conservation objectives must be underpinned by scientific research. In this paper, we review historical and recent research on cetaceans in Irish waters (within the EEZ) to evaluate present knowledge and identify gaps in research. This information includes historical (pre-1976) records, targeted and incidental land, vessel and aerial based observations, acoustic surveys and monitoring and information from strandings. The habitat requirements of most cetacean species are not fully understood but some important habitats have been identified. A number of threats to the welfare of cetaceans in Irish waters have also been identified, including fisheries interactions, pollution, climate change and disturbance. Future research required to fill gaps in knowledge highlighted by this manuscript is considered and discussed.
20500211|Damage to young trees in a new plantation caused by the browsing activities of Irish hares, Lepus timidus hibernicus, commenced within one month of the completion of planting. The browsing was most intense in spring and early summer. Removal of the apical shoot was the most common form of damage, leading to the formation of multiple leaders but rarely to the death of the tree. Broadleaved species, particularly oak, and to a lesser extent, beech were most susceptible to browsing. Damage to conifers was negligible, with the exception of larch. Although the impact was high in localised areas within the plantation, overall damage was much lower. L. timidus is considered a browser in more northerly parts of its range. However, despite the evidence of browsing of saplings in this study, dietary analysis showed grasses to be the primary food throughout the year.
20500173|During an investigation into the biology of three shark species commonly taken in Irish fisheries, biological information was also collected from an additional six less-common species: Galeorhinus galeus, Lamna nasus, Mustelus asterias, Galeus melastomus, Hexanchus griseus and Dalatias licha. Data on age, reproduction, feeding and parasites were collected from a total of 137 sharks. Age data from G. galeus and M. asterias suggest possible differences in growth-rate relative to other areas. The state-of-maturity of all specimens agreed with earlier studies, although data regarding the reproductive cycle of M. asterias and G. melastomus were inconsistent with data commonly reported for these species. Stomach contents were unremarkable, with the exception of 1.3kg of cetacean material recovered from a specimen of H. griseus. Results from the parasite component of the investigation extend the known range of two monogenean species, while a further three parasites were recorded from new hosts.
20694902|Good water quality is increasingly scarce throughout Europe, and in southern parts water quantities are limited and often insufficient for demand. In addition to being essential for life and for numerous human activities and industries, water provides a range of ecological life-support systems that are often difficult to value. The economics of water involves understanding its scarcity and its value, as well as human needs, and ensuring that the costs and benefits of choices are clear and that the impacts of alternative pricing schedules are determined. As the Water Framework Directive requires the integration of economic analysis for its implementation, this paper outlines key areas where such application is called for. Analysing cost-effectiveness, determining benefits, setting exemptions and calculating cost recovery are considered, followed by country case studies. The paper concludes with some consideration of the opportunities and challenges for Ireland.
20500110|The first permanent human impact on the Faroe Islands was identified in the palaeoecological record at three sites on three different islands by the appearance of cultivated crops, charcoal and large wild grasses. Accurate dating of the settlement horizon was made difficult by a radiocarbon plateau, but a suite of dates that lay within the range AD 500-700 was found and the horizon predated the landnam tephra from the AD 870s. The effects of people and their grazing animals on the landscape were rapid and were first apparent in nutrient enrichment of a lake as inferred from diatoms. The earliest known introduction of domestic animals (sheep/goats) was around the eighth century AD, and it probably contributed to the widespread change in vegetation and the loss of restricted native woody cover. Settlement resulted in a widespread degradation of the landscape and accelerated the replacement of woodland shrub communities or herb-rich parklands by acid heathland and blanket peat. Pollen and plant macrofossil analyses have revealed that during the early Holocene, blanket peat and shrubby heathlands with Juniperus, Salix, Calluna vulgaris, Empetrum and Erica cinerea developed before the first permanent settlement on the landscape. Comparable mid-Holocene vegetational changes on Shetland have been attributed to early human activity, but new data from the Faroes suggest that climate change may be an alternative hypothesis.
20694870|This study addresses the classification of grassland and heath communities found within the Burren uplands of Co. Clare and identifies threats to their integrity. Quadrats were taken on a range of sites, focusing on semi-natural, upland grassland and heath of conservation interest. Before analysis, the data set was divided into a heath group and a grassland group based on cover of dwarf shrubs. The data were analysed using TWINSPAN and canonical correspondence analysis. Within the grassland group, two main associations were found: the Sesleria caeruleaBreutelia chrysocoma association of low-nutrient, calcareous, species-rich grasslands, and the Dactylis glomerataHolcus lanatus association of more-mesotrophic grasslands. Within each group three sub-associations were identified. The heaths also fell into two main groups: one dominated by Dryas octopetala, and the other by Calluna vulgaris. The Dryas heath association formed three sub-associations, while the Calluna heaths formed three distinct associations, including associations of rare alpine heaths with Empetrum nigrum and Arctostaphylos uva-ursi. From direct ordination, significant environmental and management factors, such as altitude, soil depth and grazing pressure, were identified. Trends within the data set suggest a gradual increase in agriculturally favoured species with increased summer grazing. Abandoned and less-grazed areas are threatened by scrub and bracken encroachment.
20728600|Large areas of British coastal and riverine floodplains support grazing marsh, a landscape representing an intermediate stage in the reclamation of natural wetlands toward intensive agriculture. Once disregarded for nature conservation, in the late twentieth century it was realised that grazing marshes were significant for wetland birds and invertebrates, as well as the key refuge for aquatic vegetation in lowland Britain. The Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH) surveyed this vegetation, focussing on drainage channels and their banks. In multivariate analysis, vegetation composition was related to channel dimensions, soil type, land use, channel management and the drainage function of the channel. CEH attempted to relate the channel vegetation assemblages to those aquatic and swamp types described within the British National Vegetation Classification and the wider literature. Although we sometimes achieved this aim channels often appeared to contain intimate concatenations of types that could not be simply separated into recognised aquatic and swamp associations. Thus, channel vegetation may be represented either as combinations of described communities or as unique multilayered associations, comparable with woodlands. The degree to which aquatic and swamp elements occur in predictable combinations is discussed. Despite being artificial habitats, drainage channels have intrinsic biodiversity value, meriting recognition within European systems for the protection of biodiversity.
20499895|The food of otters Lutra lutra (L.) on a limestone river system in the west of Ireland was determined by analysis of faeces collected monthly from nine sites over a year. The prey was predominantly crayfish Austropotamobius pallipes (Lereboullet), fish (salmonids, pike Esox lucius L., perch Perca fluviatilis L., roach Rutilus rutilus (L.), sticklebacks Gasterosteus aculeatus L., Pungitius pungitius (L.), stoneloach Noemacheilus barbatulus (L.), eel Anquilla anguilla (L.)) and frogs Rana temporaria L. Crayfish were a minor food in winter, whilst consumption of fish tended to peak at this time. Frogs were eaten least in summer and most in winter and spring. The sizes of fish and crayfish consumed were examined but there were no seasonal or spatial patterns evident. Results from the present study were compared with those from a similar study undertaken ten years previously. The main difference is that roach, which had colonised the system in the interim, is now the most important fish in the diet. The consumption of pike has also risen.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The current national surface water monitoring programme in Ireland includes 224 lakes. Monitoring data from the period 201214 are used to evaluate the performance of ecological assessment metrics in responding to eutrophication pressure, as indicated by average total phosphorus concentration (TP). For 70 surveillance lakes, the r
20728575|Species of Alcyonidium occur commonly on rocky shores and in the shallow sublittoral. Five of them, A. diaphanum, A. gelatinosum, A. hirsutum, A. mytili and A. polyoum, are described, including new taxonomic information. A. gelatinosum has been the subject of extensive nomenclatural confusion, its name until recently having been incorrectly applied to two other species (A. diaphanum and A. polyoum). Three species, A. gelatinosum, A. mytili and A. polyoum, have been consistently misidentified. However, A. mytili is oviparous, whereas A. gelatinosum and A. polyoum are larviparous. A. gelatinosum and A. polyoum can be distinguished by, for example, gut shape, tentacle number and number of embryos per brood chamber, but breeding season is the main distinguishing characteristic, as A. gelatinosum is a winter breeder (like A. hirsutum) and A. polyoum reproduces in summer (or in autumn in some places outside Ireland). New data on settlement seasons are presented and the variation found between localities is discussed. A key to species is included. Irish distributions are given, corrected from the literature where possible, and based on a recent survey by the authors. A. gelatinosum and A. hirsutum are by far the most widespread and abundant species.
20499891|Between-site differences and within-site seasonal patterns were studied in benthic macroinvertebrate communities from two physically and chemically contrasting streams in the River Blackwater catchment (the River Awbeg and the Glenfinnish River). Between-site differences occurred in species composition (related to water hardness, pH and stream order), total macroinvertebrate densities (related to hardness and riparian vegetation), diversity and functional group organisation (partially related to water chemistry, but also to riparian vegetation and stream order and distance from headwaters). Total density, taxon richness, numbers of shredders, filterers and deposit collectors and relative abundance of filterers were greatest in the higher-order, hard-water Awbeg. Diversity and relative abundance of grazers and predators were greatest in the lower-order, softer-water Glenfinnish. Seasonal changes in total invertebrate numbers, diversity, rank/abundance distributions and functional group organisation were also observed. Overall densities were greatest in late summer/early autumn and lowest in early summer in the Glenfinnish River. Seasonality patterns in invertebrate abundance in the Awbeg were dominated by Simuliidae, peaking in late summer. Rank abundance distributions varied from log series to geometric patterns over the year. Taxon richness and abundance of shredders and filterers increased in late summer in both rivers in accord with seasonal patterns predicted under the River Continuum Concept. Other seasonal patterns, e.g. in grazers, did not; this was related to the local habitat conditions (e.g. shading).
biolenviprocria.115B.1.29|Several phenotypic tests were used in this study to determine the biodiversity of rhizobial strains nodulating
23188046|The huge herbaceous Gunnera tinctoria (Giant rhubarb), long naturalised in coastal Connemara, has recently spread rapidly and moved inland causing considerable concern. Its native habitat in South America comprises disturbed areas on volcanic soils. In Connemara it has colonised quarries and roadsides, spreading out from these, though rarely onto bog. Gravel spread from infested quarries has been an important dispersal factor. It is mostly associated with plant communities of damp and disturbed habitats, with other invasive aliens. In a growth experiment, it grew poorly in waterlogged peat or gravel and best in a drained mixture of both substrates. Gunnera manicata (Brazilian giant rhubarb) is here confirmed for Connemara and both species are mapped. G. manicata appears to occur through accidental transfer of rhizome parts, while G. tinctoria can also spread by its abundant seed. The exceptionally severe winter of 2009/2010 checked the growth of G. tinctoria away from the coast, but not G. manicata. It is likely that the previous long run of milder winters facilitated the recent rapid spread of G. tinctoria. Climate change hypotheses predict increased milder oceanic conditions for Western Europe, which could result in both species becoming more widely invasive.
20694899|This paper reviews the rationale and scope of the monitoring programmes that are being developed to meet the objectives of the Water Framework Directive (WFD). It also includes reference to monitoring carried out by the National Parks and Wildlife Service for habitats and species listed under Annex I and II of the Habitats Directive for which maintenance or improvement of the status of waterbodies is an important factor in their protection. Ongoing elucidation of the distribution and ecological requirements of water-dependent habitats and species, and the protection of or restoration to favourable conservation status, feeds into high-status classification under the WFD and associated monitoring programmes and measures. The details of a number of key monitoring programmes are still being developed, and the details of monitoring stations and networks also require some updating. A key aspect of WFD implementation is flexibility, which is required in order to respond rapidly to individual events and to changes in risks and pressures, including climate-change impacts.
23188068|This catalogue follows two similar studies, the more recent dating from 1988. In the period since then, sporadic collecting has continued throughout Ireland and the number of Myxomycete species recorded for the country has now reached 228. Individual vice-counties have totals ranging from 31 (Armagh) to 142 (Wicklow). Clearly, much scope exists for future recording of this group in Ireland.
20728610|We still lack quantitative and comprehensive methods to assess spatio-temporal changes in biodiversity of landscapes. Even more, we need methods to determine the amounts of change especially in the light of the current acceleration in the loss of biodiversity. We have developed a widely applicable method to reveal spatio-temporal changes in vegetation patterns and relate them to ecosystem processes. We use a systematic grid of hexagonal plots in a spatially nested design (three spatial scales and levels) to examine these patterns. The hexagonal grid, as well as the hexagonal plot, provides several advantages compared to other methods. Most important in the context of evaluating patterns is the equidistant nature of the grid. This facilitates data analysis and circumvents statistical and logical problems (compared to squared or circular plots). Correlation is very strong ($r=0.88^{\ast \ast}$) between structural data assessed with the line-intercept method and that gathered from field sketches. This indicates that the lines used to mark out the plots provide an easy and feasible method to assess quantitative data on structure and disturbance. We show that frequency data does not perform better than presenceabsence data regarding correlation with other variables. We conclude that the hexagonal grid provides an efficient method to assess patterns of biodiversity.
biolenviprocria.114B.1.53|In situ measurements of nitrate (NO
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|Effective management of aquatic ecosystems requires knowledge of baseline conditions and past variations in stressors and their effects in order to mitigate the impacts of future variability and change. This study utilizes combined monitoring, sedimentary and hindcast computer model data to reconstruct and examine the eutrophication history of a lake in southwest Ireland over a
23188044|Although there are some notable exceptions, introduced plant species tend not to receive the public and media attention that their animal counterparts do; however, the impacts they have on the environments they invade can be equally, and sometimes more, dramatic. This article presents a short overview of the main ecological and economic impacts that alien plants can have on invaded regions, with particular reference to Ireland. In terms of biological impacts, invasive alien plants may affect the ecology of native species, the composition of biological communities and, in turn, ecosystem processes. In addition, because human-mediated introduction of new species can remove geographic barriers, gene flow between formerly separated species can occur. This can potentially lead to the loss of native genotypes through hybridisation and introgression. However, the impacts of invasive alien plants on native biodiversity and ecosystems are difficult to assess, and are often species- and context-specific, making it almost impossible to make general statements. Economically, invasive alien plants can have impacts on the delivery of ecological goods and services, and can be costly in terms of management and control. Conservative estimates of the cost of invasive alien plants at the European scale run to several billion euro per year, but no assessment has been made specifically for Ireland. Although some invasive alien plants may be directly hazardous to human health, it is their indirect effect on native biodiversity and local economies that are likely to cause most harm to humans. Finally, this paper provides a summary of current and potential Irish invaders and discusses the problems associated with predicting which species will be the next invasive aliens.
42912436|The occurrence of microbial enteropathogens in the environment can represent a serious risk to human health. The fate of enteropathogens introduced into the soil environment is dependent on a wide range of complex interacting environmental factors. While the effect of abiotic factors on enteropathogen survival has been widely examined, the interaction of enteropathogens with the soil microbial community is poorly understood. This study investigated the effect of soil biology and soil type on the survival of a non-toxigenic strain of Escherichia coli O157 under different temperature regimes. Soil microcosms of two soil types, with and without an intact microbial community, were inoculated with the enteropathogen surrogate, and survival was determined over a 64-day period, encompassing a shift from cold to ambient temperatures. In both soil types bacterial numbers decreased in soil with an intact microflora, while in the absence of an intact community E. coli populations increased. This effect was temperature specific, with E. coli populations remaining stable at low temperature, regardless of treatment. Soil type was of importance in survival at both cold and ambient temperatures. This work highlights the significance of the soil microbial community in suppressing enteropathogens in soil, and of investigating die-off in a multi-factorial manner.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.219|Salmonid populations were sampled in 64 first- and second-order headwater streams throughout the Republic of Ireland in 2008. Streams were selected from neighbouring sub-catchments dominated either by moorland or conifer plantations, across two soil typespeat soil and mineral soil. A range of chemical variables were measured on three occasions over the year. Brown trout and Atlantic salmon populations were quantified on a single occasion for density and biomass in each stream. Data were analysed to test the null hypothesis that neither land use nor soil type had a significant impact on fish or chemical metrics in the streams. Streams draining afforested catchments had a significantly lower pH, pH and elevated TDOC, total phosphorus, total monomeric aluminium, ammonia and colour. Streams draining peat soil sub-catchments had significantly lower minimum pH and TON, and higher suspended solids, TDOC, ammonia, aluminium and colour. While density and biomass of brown trout were somewhat lower in afforested catchments, the difference was not significant. Densities and biomass of juvenile Atlantic salmon, however, were significantly lower in streams draining afforested catchments. Atlantic salmon also had a much lower threshold tolerance to deleterious forestry-mediated water chemistry than trout. Forestry-mediated acidification of streams apparently remains a severe threat to Atlantic salmon populations, despite the reduction of airborne sulphate pollutants, posing challenges to forest and fisheries managers.
biolenviprocria.114B.1.41|The mechanisms underlying biotic resistance against the establishment of invasive species in native macroalgal communities are still poorly understood. In the present study, the impact of epiphytes on growth and recruitment of
20694844|This paper compares the diversity and structure of the benthic diatom assemblages on boulder and cobble substrata and examines the influence of site and seasonal factors on diatom diversity in the River Deel, Co. Limerick. One hundred and ten diatom species were identified from the River Deel, with 85 species found on boulders over a two-year period and 102 species found on cobbles over a one-year period. There was little difference in the composition of the diatom community on boulders between sites. Some differences were noted between sites for cobbles, with a small number of species being more associated with certain sites than others. The absence of marked differences between the sites was attributed to the lack of longitudinal variation in the main channel of the River Deel. On both substrates, indicator species analysis showed that the abundance of most diatom species was not related to sampling date. On boulders, only fourteen species in 1999 and twenty-one species in 2000 had a significant association with any sampling date. Twelve cobble species had a significant association with a sampling date (principally May). There was little correspondence between significant indicator species on cobbles and boulders. The patterns of dominance of diatom species differed between the boulder and cobble substrates over the sampling period, and Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) showed that diatom samples formed two distinct groupings based on substrate.
20500025|The grey seal breeding assemblies on the Inishkea Island Group and Blasket Islands in western Ireland were studied in 1995 and 1996. A census of pup production in each area provided data on the timing of breeding and site selection at these island groups in addition to birth and mortality parameters. An estimated 154 pups were born at the Inishkea Group in 1995 and 155 pups at the Blasket Islands in 1996-97. These figures correspond to minimum all-age population estimates of 539-693 and 543-697 animals, respectively. These minimum estimates are similar to those derived in previous work at these islands, suggesting little change in the breeding population size at these colonies since 1983. Observed mortality was approximately 7.8% at the Inishkea Group and 2.6% at the Blasket Islands, though the true mortality may have been higher. Changes in breeding site use since 1980-83 were observed at the Inishkea Group in 1995. These are thought to be a result of past human interference. More effective coverage of the breeding season and long-term monitoring of these sites would contribute more accurate estimates and facilitate the determination of population trends.
20499893|The helminth parasites of 171 trout from three locations in the west of Ireland were investigated as part of a research programme into recent declines in sea trout stocks in the area. Of the sample investigated, 135 were sea trout and 36 were brown trout. The sampling sites were located in Drumcliffe Bay, Co. Sligo, Killary Harbour, Co. Galway, and the Burrishoole system, Co. Mayo. The following parasite species were recorded: Discocotyle sagittata, Diphyllobothrium ditremum, Eubothrium crassum, Acanthocephalus clavula, Acanthocephalus lucii, Echinorhynchus truttae, Pomphorhynchus laevis, Lecithaster gibbosus, Hemiuris spp, Crepidostomum spp, Cystidicola farionis, Hysterothylacium aduncum. The numbers of helminth species recorded were compared for the different trout life-cycle stages. Species richness was found to differ significantly between the stages and was highest in the sea trout kelts. Cestode and acanthocephalan parasites showed particularly marked differences in the trout, and the prevalence and intensity of these groups were investigated in detail. Worm burden showed significant differences between the fish groups.
20500236|Stocks of the freshwater crayfish in Ireland are thought to be some of the largest in Europe. To better protect this species, it is necessary to update data on the geographical distribution of Austropotamobius pallipes on the island. Records from surveys carried out by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from 1990 to 2003 and from specific crayfish surveys (2000 to 2002) were compiled to generate a distribution map of A. pallipes in the Republic of Ireland. The map shows that A. pallipes is still widely distributed throughout the Irish midlands. Water quality data (Q values) were also analysed to establish if crayfish were, in general, found only in good water quality. Crayfish were most often encountered in unpolluted conditions but were also found in slightly polluted and moderately polluted water. Some populations were even found at sites with very low water quality. The percentage occurrence of crayfish sites (17.6) is broadly similar to that recorded in a survey carried out between 1976 and 1985. An abundant stock of A. pallipes in Ireland would act as a safeguard for this endangered European species.
20499950|The feasibility of developing commercial whale-watching in the Shannon Estuary was investigated by determining the distribution and abundance of bottle-nosed dolphins in the estuary. A variety of field techniques were employed, including photo-identification, fixed boat transects, scan sampling, minimum number estimates and the collection of incidental sightings over an eighteen-month period. Land-based observations showed that the presence of dolphins was influenced by the state of the tide, with a peak in sightings recorded three hours after high water. Dolphins were observed on 25 (61%) of 41 boat transects surveyed, of which sixteen turned into encounters, with dolphins sometimes present for many hours. A minimum number estimate conducted on 16 October 1994 showed that at least 56-68 animals were present, and photo-identification has recognised 25 animals individually. Dolphins were often recorded in discrete areas, especially off Kilcredaun Head, Beal Bar and off Leck Point. Sighting records from the Tarbert to Killimer ferry showed that dolphins were regularly seen especially in the spring and summer (May to August), being recorded on up to 88% of days in the month. Photoidentification showed that the same dolphins were present in the estuary throughout the study period, suggesting that they were resident. This is the first known resident population of bottle-nosed dolphins in Ireland. The implications of this work for the development of commercial dolphin-watching in the estuary are discussed.
20499982|Floristic and environmental data were recorded from wetland woods in all regions of Ireland, with more intensive studies in the Killarney area. The principal gradients in the environment are found to be edaphic and hydrological. Seven vegetation groups are distinguished; two represent communities not hitherto described from Ireland. Group A is mostly riparian woodland and equates with the Salicetum albo-fragilis. Group B is found in stagnant conditions, mostly near lake shores, and corresponds to the Osmundo-Salicetum atrocinereae. Group C1, a rare community of mires irrigated by calcareous groundwater, equates with the Alnus glutinosa-Carex paniculata community; one site corresponds to classic swamp carr. Group C2, typically associated with springs or flushed sites, largely equates with the Carici remotae-Fraxinetum. Group D, on soils that are waterlogged in winter but dry out in summer, is classified as the deschampsietosum caespitosae subassociation of the Corylo-Fraxinetum. Group E, associated with oligotrophic peat that is relatively dry, equates with the Betuletum pubescentis. Group F, of waterlogged oligotrophic peat, equates with the Sphagnum palustre-Betula pubescens community. The richness and diversity of Irish wetland woods have been underrated; we emphasise the need for active conservation measures.
biolenviprocria.115B.3.171|An understanding of the extent to which natural variability has been and is being exceeded by the effects of human activity can make an important contribution to the effective management of impacted water bodies, including their restoration. Frequently, however, the required monitoring data are not available, particularly for the period prior to human impact, or are of insufficient quality. Two methodological solutions to this problem are often proposed, both of which involve the reconstruction of past variations in water quality and associated ecological conditions through indirect means: computer (hindcast) modelling and sedimentary (palaeolimnological) analyses. Both proposed solutions are not without their own challenges, however. Here a series of dynamic computer models (a catchment model and an in-lake ecological response model) and palaeolimnological techniques (including sediment-based diatom-inferred total phosphorus, DI-TP), were used to reconstruct total phosphorus (TP) concentrations and measures of primary productivity in Lough Mask, Co. Mayo, for the period
20500163|This paper reviews the decline to probable extinction of the corn bunting (Miliaria calandra) in the Republic of Ireland. This species has undergone severe population decline in other western European countries, where studies have suggested that changes in the agricultural environment are probably largely responsible. The most important factors are thought to be the decline in mixed farming and the loss of temporary grasslands, hay meadows and undersown cereals, especially spring cereals and overwinter cereal stubbles. These crops provided the preferred breeding and overwintering habitats of the corn bunting, and the use of pesticides may have reduced the availability of invertebrate and seed food supplies. Some of these agricultural changes have also occurred in Ireland and may be responsible for the corn bunting's decline here. Many other farmland birds have also shown severe range and population declines in western Europe, and similar agricultural changes are thought to be responsible. Some evidence suggests that many seed--eating farmland birds have undergone range declines in the Republic of Ireland. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive assessment of the population status of farmland birds in Ireland and for studies of their ecology, in order to draw up and implement effective conservation management plans. Without such action, other familiar birds could soon disappear from the Irish landscape.
23188066|Gelatinous zooplankton play important roles in coastal seas, from predators of fish eggs and larvae to competitors of fish for copepods. Despite this, they are often an underestimated component of coastal marine ecosystems. In Ireland, there has been limited research focussed on the gelatinous zooplankton communities in coastal waters. In the present study, 21 stations in the coastal waters to the south and west of Ireland were sampled, providing the first broad-scale description of the gelatinous zooplankton communities along over 600km of the Irish coastline. In total, 23 species/genera of gelatinous zooplankton were identified from six taxa: hydromedusae, siphonophores, ctenophores, chaetognaths, urochordates and polychaetes. Only a few of the stations sampled were highly stratified in terms of temperature or salinity; these were shallow stations close to freshwater inputs. Thermo- and halocline intensity had little influence on the community composition observed. The community structure was however found to be highly dependent on temperature at depth and surface salinity, which varied with latitude and longitude, respectively. The similarity in the community composition between stations was largely driven by three highly holoplanktonic abundant species: the hydromedusa Aglantha digitale; the ctenophore Pleurobrachia pileus; and the larvacean Oikopleura sp. These species reached densities of 214, 83 and 492 individuals m-3, respectively.
20499881|The food of red deer Cervus elaphus living in an enclosure in the Connemara National Park was determined by faecal analysis of 50 samples collected at approximately weekly intervals from June 1985 to June 1986. The vegetation, which was only lightly grazed, was predominantly bog and grassy heath. Grasses were the main food, primarily Festuca ovina, Agrostis stolonifera, Anthoxanthum odoratum and Holcus lanatus, the last three being eaten most in summer and least in winter. This reflected seasonal availability and/or digestibility. Molinia caerulea, the dominant grass in the area, was of importance only in early summer when it is most palatable. Ling heather Calluna vulgaris was also a major food, but predominantly in winter, and provided live matter when grasses were an inferior forage. Minor food items (1-3%) were the herb common tormentil Potentilla erecta in summer, and sedges (mainly Carex sp.). Other plant species were detected only occasionally.
20504512|The majority of forests in Ireland comprise monocultures of coniferous tree species introduced from continental Europe and North America. Along with the fact that historically Ireland was virtually deforested, this means that a unique arthropod fauna may be present in today's forests. In order to examine this hypothesis, the Carabidae of two Irish coniferous sites, one in County Kilkenny, the other in County Wicklow, were studied by pitfall trapping every two weeks over a two-year period and the species composition compared with species lists for other European forests derived from the literature. Activity patterns for the most common species were similar to those found elsewhere, but TWINSPAN classification analysis placed the Irish sites in an end-group, distinguished by the presence of Agonum muelleri and separated from the other European sites by the absence of Carabus hortensis and Pterostichus oblongopunctatus. This suggests that the fauna of the Irish forests is distinct in not having some of the generally common, large and typical woodland species. However, the majority of the species found are normally categorised as woodland associates, which demonstrates their ability to survive centuries of deforestation.
20500112|The author--an academic ecologist and environmental scientist with thirty years of experience of contributing to the activities of An Taisce, the National Trust for Ireland--briefly reviews the characteristics of environmental non-governmental organisations (ENGOs) and contrasts their roles with those of governmental agencies. Although state agencies are placing an ever greater emphasis on governance of the environment, there is still a need for active ENGOs. ENGOs play an important role in safeguarding the long-term interests of the citizen against the state and representing those interests in conflicts concerning the activities of multinational corporations. Potential ENGO activities that engage with states and multinational corporations are listed and discussed, with the aim of improving environmental governance. Professional environmental scientists can provide pro bono publico inputs in these interactions--an activity that is both highly valuable and rewarding.
20694896|This paper describes Ireland's participation in the intercalibration of the macroinvertebrate biological quality element as used in the classification of ecological status of Irish rivers under the Water Framework Directive (WFD). An Intercalibration Common Metric approach was used to compare different macroinvertebrate methods in use in 21 countries participating in the two geographical intercalibration groups that involve Irelandthe Northern and Central/Baltic geographical intercalibration groups. The results of the intercalibration exercise for Irish rivers are shown, and comparisons are made between pre-WFD water-quality classifications and the new WFD ecological-status classifications. The existing Irish classification system fitted well with the boundaries established under the intercalibration process. Ireland also participated in successful intercalibrations for the following other elements: diatoms in rivers; lake chlorophyll and lake aquatic macrophytes; benthic macroinvertebrates; phytoplankton biomass (chlorophyll) and bloom frequency; macroalgae; and intertidal seagrass in transitional and coastal waters. The intercalibration results are included in the first intercalibration decision published by the European Commission.
42912483|The importance of plantation forests for biodiversity conservation is greatest in landscapes that have experienced significant loss of natural forest ecosystems and the plantation forest estate continues to expand, as is the case in Ireland. We investigated the role of plantation forests in supporting forest plants, invertebrates and birds of conservation concern in comparison to semi-natural woodlands in Ireland. Of the 169 vascular plant species, 97 bryophyte species, 162 spider species, 159 beetle species and 36 bird species recorded 5, 3, 9, 1 and 5 species of conservation concern, respectively, were recorded. Many of these were found in semi-natural woodlands, highlighting the importance of the retention or restoration of these habitats for forest biodiversity. A number of species of conservation importance were also recorded in plantation forests demonstrating that the role of these forests in the provision of habitat for biodiversity conservation should not be overlooked.
41714030|Meristic variation within a fish species can arise due to environmental factors and can aid investigation between fish stocks and closely related juvenile fish species. The aim of this study was to investigate the spatial variation in meristic characteristics for juvenile flounder Platichthys flesus from Irish and Welsh coasts. Five meristic fin ray counts were taken from 120 fish from nursery grounds in three regions (west Irish coast, east Irish coast and Welsh coast). Statistical analysis revealed regional variability for two of the meristic counts (dorsal and anal fin rays). A discriminant function analysis revealed a weak separation of the three regions. This separation improved when samples from the east Irish region were eliminated, with 65% of the fish from the Irish west coast and 73% of the fish from Wales correctly classified.
20500159|Ongoing improvements in computing and in climate modelling now permit much more detailed climatic scenarios to be produced as an aid to potential impact assessment. We have employed a downscaling approach, using the UKCIP (UK Climate Impacts Programme) gridded climatology for Ireland at a 10km resolution to produce preliminary scenarios for temperature and precipitation for the year 2050. Warming of approximately 0.2C per decade is indicated Precipitation changes cannot yet be confidently predicted, though increases are likely during the winter months Contradictory signals for changes in summer rainfall are evident from model output and circulation typing-based approaches. Increased soil moisture deficits are likely during summer, and increased wetness, is likely during winter, particularly in western Ireland. We make some preliminary comments on the implications of these changes for the natural environment and agricultural practices.
20499973|The relationship and overlap between farms and territories of badger social groups were determined in an area of central Ireland which has a chronically high incidence of tuberculosis in cattle. Badger territorial boundaries were determined by the bait-marking technique, and all signs of badger activity, setts, latrines and paths were mapped in an area of 16km. Farms were highly fragmented and consisted of between one and eight parcels of land. As a result a farm shared a boundary with between four and sixteen contiguous farms. The proportion of herds infected with tuberculosis fluctuated between 7.4% and 29.6% over the three-year study. Badger territories were, on average, almost three times larger than the area of the average farm. The fragmentation of farms further increased the degree of overlap. The territory of a badger group overlapped in whole or in part between six and fourteen different farms. Most (75%) of the badger groups contained at least one infected individual during the study. Every herd was either contiguous to land used by an infected herd or shared pasture with badgers from an infected social group. Overall, cattle had open access to most sites particularly used by badgers, such as setts and latrines. Because of the highly non-random distribution of those sites, erection of cattle-proof fencing along farm boundaries will substantially reduce access by cattle without concomitant loss of productive land. Culling of an estimated 50% of the badger population resulted in an increased potential of cattle--badger contact as assessed by the number of farms visited by each group of badgers and an increase in the number of badger groups visiting particular farms.
20500015|A total of 27 species (23 free-living and four parasitic) of marine Isopoda (Crustacea) are recorded from the Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve. Excluding deeper water and parasitic species, this represents 35% of the total recorded Irish fauna. Twenty species were recorded during an extensive survey of Lough Hyne in 1989-90, with the two most widespread species being Dynamene bidentata and Jaera forsmani. The distribution of all species recorded during this survey is presented and discussed. Three centres of higher species-richness were encountered, probably linked to the higher number of micro-habitats available in these areas.
20500034|Energy (biomass) and energy flows (production, inputs, transfers and respiration) were calculated for seven compartments (phytoplankton, benthic primary producers, zooplankton, benthic macrofauna, fish, birds and particulate organic matter (POM)) of the Dublin Bay system. The resultant model was analysed with the SCOR network analysis package. The most prominent feature of the model was the importance of the allochthonous input of POM and the processing through the macroinvertebrates. Network analysis suggested that Dublin Bay showed the characteristics of a coastal/estuarine system, although the total system energy throughput was rather low. Indices of the system itself suggested that it was in an immature, developing stage (sensu Odum 1969) which would show low resilience and thus be sensitive to external perturbations.
20694892|Most member states of the EU have chosen to use existing diatom-based metrics for assessment of ecological status, as required by the Water Framework Directive (WFD), rather than develop new methods. In this paper we assess the suitability of such methods in light of the requirements of the normative definitions of ecological status. In particular, we focus on the rationale for the placement of ecological-status boundaries. As the WFD defines ecological status in terms of the 'structure and functioning' of aquatic ecosystems, we interpret changes in the diatom assemblage in light of changes in entire phytobenthos. Whilst we believe that analysis of diatom assemblages is a sensible approach to developing a first generation of WFD-compatible tools, bearing in mind tight deadlines and limited budgets, the potential of non-diatoms should not be ignored when developing future methods.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.271|Constructed ponds are small water bodies that have an enormous biodiversity potential. The creation of this habitat can be seen as a valuable ecological enhancement tool, as ponds can host a great number of species. Integrated constructed wetlands (ICWs) are a type of surface-flow constructed wetland formed by interconnected ponds that integrate their water treatment capabilities with other functions such as biodiversity enhancement, carbon sequestration and landscape fit, by virtue of mimicking natural wetlands. ICWs have been shown to have the potential to enhance freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity in Ireland, especially Coleoptera diversity, in agricultural areas due to their unique design adaptability. A total of 67 water beetle taxa were found to inhabit the 15 studied ponds in the Annestown River catchment, Co. Waterford. Furthermore, when the taxa that have the potential to inhabit ICW ponds in Ireland were included a total of 82 water beetle taxa was obtained, which represents 26% of the known Irish aquatic lentic coleopteran fauna and includes several species of conservation interest. If the potential of these small water bodies to support water beetle diversity and that of other aquatic macroinvertebrates is to be maximised, particular attention should be paid to enhancing the range of mesohabitats within the ICW system.
20500102|The Quaternary palaeovegetation record of pollen and plant macrofossil data is characteristically multivariate in nature, as well as multiscale with respect to both temporal and spatial scales. As a result, it has the potential to provide a wealth of palaeoenvironmental information. Although calibrations of palaeovegetation data in terms of environmental variables can be made in various ways, all techniques for making palaeoenvironmental reconstructions from such data depend upon an assumption that 'the present is the key to the past' and most utilise data from contemporary ecological and biogeographical studies. This approach involves a series of assumptions and has a number of limitations, most significantly those associated with no-analogue assemblages in the fossil record. Collaborative research between palaeoecologists, ecologists and biogeographers will be needed to address this and other limitations of current approaches to palaeoenvironmental reconstruction from palaeovegetation data. In order to maximise the potential contribution of the palaeovegetation record to advances in our overall understanding of past environmental dynamics, palaeoecologists will need to focus their efforts on appropriate times and places and undertake high temporal resolution studies. Such efforts will enable them to fully exploit their potential contributions to the global research agenda, which focuses upon rapid climatic changes and climatic variability.
20504492|Bottom trawl surveys of the Irish Sea were conducted in the spring, summer and autumn of 1992 and 1993 to obtain data on the seasonal distribution and feeding patterns of Loligo forbesi. The few L. forbesi caught in March in either year were all large mature animals. In the July surveys, two cohorts of male and one of female L. forbesi were identified using the interactive software package MIX. In the autumn two cohorts of female and three of male L. forbesi were identified. Putative daily statolith growth increment counts were used to estimate the hatch date. The results are compatible with a one-year life-cycle, with two main broods, the first hatching in December-January and the second in April-May. There was evidence of a migration of L. forbesi into the Irish Sea in late summer. Few animals from a single night tow had stomachs containing food and maximum stomach fullness was found in the morning. The occurrence and distribution of other cephalopod species is also reported.
20500229|The EU Habitats Directive requires protection of species and habitats of European importance in Ireland. Six fish species will be given priority protection, together with other aquatic organisms. This paper outlines the relevance of this directive to Ireland's fish fauna, describes the process involved and sets out the position in Ireland regarding designation under this directive as of September 2003.
biolenviprocria.115B.1.67|The analysis of decadal change in regional floras has received fresh impetus in recent years with studies often detecting anthropogenic effects and biotic homogenisation. Here we analyse the changing flora of the island of Ireland (i.e. both the Republic and Northern Ireland) using data derived from the
20500161|The most common semi-natural grasslands in Ireland are 'neutral' communities belonging to the phytosociological association Centaureo-Cynosuretum. An experiment was established at Teagasc, Oak Park Research Centre, Co. Carlow, using a representative Centaureo-Cynosuretum grassland community, to investigate the long-term effects of exposure to ambient and elevated carbon dioxide (CO) and high- and low-nitrogen fertiliser applications on above-ground plant biomass production, community structure and species diversity. The experimental units were 0.4m  0.4m  0.4m grassland monoliths exposed to CO in a miniFACE (free air CO enrichment) system. The experiment was based on a randomised two-factorial block design of two CO treatments (365mol mol and 600mol mol), two N fertiliser treatments (50kg ha y and 250kg ha y) and three replicates of each. CO treatments began on 1 April 1999 and continued throughout the growing season. During the season, four species responded significantly in terms of biomass production to the treatments: Potentilla anserina, Plantago lanceolata, Trifolium repens and Holcus lanatus. When the species were classfied into monocotyledon and dicotyledon functional groups, significant changes in the structure of this mixed grassland community became apparent. Elevated CO altered the relative monocot and dicot composition of the sward. Nitrogen fertiliser modified the CO response, with concomitant effects on community biomass productivity and species diversity. The results may have long-term implications for the dominance and successional patterns in grasslands under increasing atmospheric CO concentrations.
23033939|In temperate coastal and shallow shelf waters oxygen depletion near the seabed can occur naturally as a result of seasonal water column stratification. The presence of stratification limits the downward mixing of well-oxygenated surface water with the result that oxygen near the bottom can become depleted as a result of biological consumption. In this paper we show that in coastal and shelf waters around Ireland a strong positive correlation (r = 0.81) exists between bottom layer oxygen under-saturation and the presence or absence of stratification. A predictive empirical model based on this correlation together with an analysis of the deviation in bottom oxygen levels from a reference value of 100% saturation was used to map the bottom distribution of oxygen in these waters. The model was also used to estimate the daily rate of oxygen consumption in the bottom layer during the summer stratification period (approximately 120 days) on the north-western Irish shelf. This was found to be 0.25 percentage saturation points (or 0.022mg 1 -1 O 2 ) per day. These findings provided the basis for a discussion on the development of oxygen- and nitrogen-based environmental quality standards and the identification of potentially oxygen vulnerable areas in waters around Ireland. Finally, this work demonstrates that the likelihood of large-scale hypoxia occurring in Irish waters as a result of anthropogenic nutrient inputs is very low.
20728601|The aim of this study was to relate riparian landscape and vegetation patterns to plant species richness. Seventeen stream sites were selected in southern Ireland, and the vegetation within 20m-wide riparian strips was mapped using a global positioning system. Digital maps were created using geographic information systems, and vegetation/habitat classification was carried out at four levels (from broad habitat group to vegetation type). To analyse the structure of the riparian landscapes in the study area, a number of landscape indices were calculated using Patch Analyst software. Plant species richness and community structure were examined using belt transects perpendicular to the watercourse. Riparian zones in the study area are very heterogeneous and exhibit obvious gradients with reference to landscape composition and spatial configuration. This is the result of both natural disturbance caused by streams and human influence. Landscape structure indices were only weakly correlated with plant species richness in the riparian zones investigated, but they did explain most of the variation in the structure and composition of the plant communities.
41714031|Turloughs are a type of karst wetland found extensively in western Ireland. Turloughs have a dynamic flooding regime, are groundwater dependent and lack a surface outflow. The EU Habitats and Water Framework Directives provide the impetus for evaluating the impacts of nutrient pressures on this internationally protected habitat. Differences in hydrogeological settings are thought to be a key driver of nutrient variation among turloughs. An holistic assessment of turlough trophic conditions should include the terrestrial phase, and an improved understanding of turlough soil property spatial variation is necessary for informing attempts to link nutrient pressures and impacts on the terrestrial phase of the habitat. This study compared nutrient-related soil properties among two groups of turloughs situated in East Burren, Co. Clare, and Coole Garryland, Co. Galway. Each group is representative of a contrasting hydrogeological setting indicative of a trophic gradient. Soils within Coole Garryland turloughs are potentially more nutrient rich than East Burren turloughs owing to the larger zones of groundwater contribution with faster throughflow, greater levels of disturbance and more intense grazing pressures. Turloughs in East Burren had distinctly more alkaline and peaty soils than Coole Garryland, reflecting the relatively longer flood durations of the former. There was no clear distinction in soil total phosphorus, total nitrogen or desorbable phosphorus between East Burren and Coole Garryland. The soils of dry, more intensively grazed turloughs are apparently not more nutrient rich than wet, less intensively grazed turloughs. Variation in nutrient availability and inter-relationships of soil properties were examined along the flooding gradients of two turloughs representative of each hydrogeological setting, namely Garryland turlough and Cooloorta turlough. Elevated concentrations of available forms of N and P in the saturated lower zones of each turlough may be the result of anaerobic conditions or nutrient accumulation. High coefficients of variation reveal that available forms of N and P exhibit a high degree of spatial variation in turloughs. Consequently, the occurrence and distribution of vegetation communities and plant species indicative of different trophic conditions are likely to be more useful than soil nutrient assessments for assessing the impacts of nutrient pressures on turloughs. pH was identified as an important driver of P availability in turloughs. The negative association between available P and pH highlights the potentially significant influence of marl accumulation on turlough ecological functioning. Future turlough soil research should be cognisant of spatial variation along flooding gradients and should focus on N and P mineralisation studies of mineral, organic and calcareous soils to develop understanding of turlough nutrient cycling processes and retention capacities.
20694873|Studies over two decades have shown a marked trend towards a decrease in blood lead levels in the mute swan (Cygnus olor) in parts of Ireland. However, this study shows that a small percentage of some populations of mute swans in Co. Cork still have significantly elevated lead levels, causing some potentially sublethal effects to the health status of the swans. Overall, at both urban and rural sites the median blood lead levels in adults and cygnets of both sexes were below a threshold level of 1.21mol l, which is indicative of elevated lead. However, 27% of the population at Cork Lough had elevated lead levels, with the highest blood lead level being 27.66mol l, indicating that acute poisoning is still a problem in some individuals. Mute swans from rural sites generally showed no variation, and median blood lead levels were generally low. Lead levels reached a peak in October 2004 and again during the spring months of 2005. Swans may be more susceptible to lead poisoning during spring, as it follows the winter months when natural food is scarce and lead is easily absorbed across the gut after ingestion. Autumn peaks may be explained by an increase in fishing activity over the summer months. A positive association was found between elevated lead levels and packed cell volumean indicator of health status. Overall, a decline in acute lead poisoning at urban and rural sites is apparent from this study. However, due to its continued and persistent use in the environment, lead still poses a threat at a sublethal level.
20728585|Up until about 80 years ago it was believed that hard water was inimical to Margaritifera margaritifera. Once found in the calcium-rich waters of the Barrow, Nore and Suir rivers, the hard-water form of M. margaritifera has become extinct in all but one of these rivers in the past 50 years. The surviving depleted population in the Nore is threatened with the same fate. In an experiment to test the hypothesis that the species was not strictly calcifuge, specimens were transferred from a soft-water river to the hard-water Nore and then returned to their natal water after six months. An examination of the mussel's distribution in Ireland shows that, as well as living in its usual soft-water habitat, it lives in rivers of varying degrees of hardness; 21% of the site occurrences in southern Irish rivers fall within the range of what could be described as slightly hard to hard waters. Other evidence presented, including locations where M. margaritifera has become extinct, points to it being formerly relatively widely distributed in moderately hard waters throughout Ireland. The mussel, which is protected under national and EU legislation, appears to be most threatened in its hard-water habitats. The study findings may have important positive implications for any proposed restocking programmes.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.281|Small inland water bodies (streams and ponds) are abundant in most European countries. Eighty per cent of the millions of kilometers of river network in Europe consist of small rivers, commonly known as headwaters, creeks, streams, brooks or wadeable rivers, and there are many hundred thousands of small lakes and ponds. Small water bodies are ecologically very important. They support specific and important hydrological, chemical and biological processes. Unfortunately, due to human activities, the ecological condition of small water bodies is poor in many places in Europe. There is now an urgent need to raise awareness about their ongoing destruction and their many beneficial functions to society. This will increase political recognition of their importance for maintaining a healthy and diverse aquatic environment. Coordinated activities with the protected habitats under the nature directives and EU Water Framework Directive activities should help to ensure the protection of these valuable small water bodies.
20500056|This paper presents an analysis of two sampling methods used to examine population size and age structure of freshwater crayfish in the River Nore catchment, Ireland. Results indicate high densities of crayfish in this river system (20-45 per m). The combination of the two sampling methods employed (traps and enclosures) provided data on all size classes, reduced sampling selectivity and allowed estimates to be made on population densities, including juveniles.
20728592|Greece harbours 85 Annex I habitat types and 30 additional types selected from a national perspective. There are 359 Natura 2000 sites containing 92 habitat types in Greece, of which 78 (21.7%) have been included in the area of responsibility of management institutions. To establish priority concepts for policy-makers and provide monitoring guidelines we have used the following criteria: total national distribution, degree of national responsibility and present and potential threats. Based on the total number of their occurrences in the Greek Natura 2000 sites, 30 of the 92 habitat types are considered rare, 13 infrequent, 24 scattered and 25 widespread or abundant. A reference list with 42 threat categories and their impact on the Greek habitat types is presented here for the first time. Greece takes a high responsibility for the following habitats: 16 endemic types; 14 important for endemic species; 17 types for which Greece forms the centre of the overall range; 12 widespread types with the largest stands in Greece; 26 types considered rare throughout Europe; 25 that occur in Greece on the edge of the overall range; and 35 that may be assigned a particular quality as stepping stones within the Natura 2000 network.
20694893|Many countries, including Ireland, were ill-prepared for the requirements of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) regarding the use of fish as a biological element. Examination of archival data proved uninformative. Details of species composition, distribution and density were fragmented and non-standard. No monitoring programme or strategic stock assessment existed, and information of the type required by the WFD was not available. This paper describes the research undertaken in Ireland since 2000 to deliver standardised WFD survey methods and protocols with which to create essential WFD-compliant data on fish communities in rivers, lakes and transitional waters. Three research projects, one in each surface water category, are discussed, as are initial developments towards fish-classification schemes, surveillance monitoring, and participation and advances in the intercalibration process.
23188048|Seven alien aquatic plants occur on the Shannon Navigation. Six ornamental plants have been recorded in Lough Derg. Two, Elodea canadensis and Lemna minuta, are widely distributed in the lough, locally abundant within the Navigation and the only alien plants found in Lough Ree. The species with the greatest impact, Elodea nuttallii, was first recognised in 2004 in harbours and cuts about the southern region of Lough Derg. It spread northwards by drifting fragments and almost certainly by leisure craft. Likewise, the fertile water violet, Hottonia palustris, originally found on the eastern side of the lake, has become abundant in sheltered shallows, reedbeds, canals and drains on the western side of the lake and continues to spread northwards and southwards. Confined populations of Stratiotes aloides occur only on the western side of Lough Derg and may have been there for several years. An isolated population of a pink cultivar of Nymphaea alba, present for at least four decades, occurs in Lough Derg beside a lakeside domaine. Since the introduction of the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, in c. 1993/4 there have been increases in water transparency that have presumably enabled some macrophytes to extend their ranges into deeper water. Given the likelihood of further range expansions or new introductions, regulation of the sale and distribution of alien aquatic species is needed to prevent further exotic plants from entering Irish waterways.
20500191|Examination of the abundance of plant species occurring in limestone terrain at Mullagh More, in the Burren, Co. Clare, indicates that 'shade' plants are not restricted to microenvironmental conditions with reduced light levels (grikes), but are also common in exposed situations. Investigations of three species found in exposed locations (Teucrium scorodonia L., Mycelis muralis L. Dumort. and Corrylus avellana L.) indicate that they all have a limited capacity to acclimate their maximum photosynthetic rate (
20694889|The EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) aims to promote common approaches, standards and measures for water management on a systematic and comparable basis throughout the EU. All waters must be managed on the basis of natural geographical areas called river basin districts (RBDs). Within the EU many RBDs are shared by member states. These cross-border districts are called international RBDs (IRBDs), in accordance with Article 3.3 of the WFD. Member states are required to coordinate their efforts in these international districts, with the aim of producing a single river basin management plan covering each entire district (Article 13.2). There are three IRBDs on the island of Ireland, all straddling the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Irelandthe North Western, Neagh Bann and Shannon districts. The competent authorities identified in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland with responsibility for implementation of the directive have taken significant steps to harmonise the approaches adopted in the two jurisdictions. So far, the competent authorities have maintained a high level of coordination and have successfully met all of the directive's milestones.
42912433|A pot experiment was conducted to compare three strategies of chemically enhanced phytoremediation using alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) treated with potassium dihydrogen phosphate-disodium hydrogen phosphate (PDP-SDP), potassium dihydrogen phosphate-sodium hydroxide (PDP-SH), and disodium hydrogen phosphate-citric acid (SDP-CA). It was found that: the average biomass of alfalfa treated with PDP-SDP, PDP-SH and SDP-CA were 2.59-, 1.22- and 1.44-fold higher than controls, respectively. However, the application of PDP-SH had a passive effect on root growth. The Bio-Concentration Factor (BCF) values and Translocation Factor (TF) values of Zn in alfalfa plants were increased after the soils were treated with PDP-SDP, PDP-SH and SDP-CA. With the addition of PDP-SDP the accumulation of Cd, Cr, Cu and Zn in shoots of alfalfa plants were 2.30-, 1.75-, 2.04- and 4.60-, for PDP-SH 1.07-, 1.71-, 0.82- and 1.56-, and for SDP-CA 1.53-, 0.82-, 1.02- and 2.83-fold higher, respectively, than the untreated controls. The results indicate that the application of PDP-SDP, PDP-SH and SDP-CA could be used for enhancing phytoremediation of Zn using alfalfa, and PDP-SH and SDP-CA could be used for enhancing the phytoremediation of Cr and Cd using alfalfa.
20500096|Zooplankton was sampled almost monthly over a two-year period in and immediately outside Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Co. Cork, Ireland. In the laboratory, echinoderm larvae were isolated and counted at class level. Mean numbers of all echinoderm larvae and of the separate classes thereof were calculated for the three sites sampled. Echinoderm larvae showed peaks of abundance in spring and summer and were virtually absent in winter. Peaks of abundance at sites in Lough Hyne occurred in July and consisted mainly of asteroid larvae. Peaks of abundance in a coastal site immediately outside Lough Hyne consisted mainly of ophiuroid larvae. Holothuroid larvae were rare, and crinoid larvae were not found. The results of three-factor ANOVA with date, class and site as fixed factors revealed differences between the separate classes and between sites. The environmental parameters of each site--substrata, water exchange, current--and associated echinoderm benthos appeared to influence the echinoderm plankton.
20500009|A unique dataset of the distribution and abundance of all microarthropods (Acarina and Collembola) collected from fungal fruiting bodies (sporophores) from a wide range of fungal species is presented. A very diverse fauna of 323 species was identified from 65,000 microarthropods collected from 40 species of fungi, ranging from very ephemeral agarics to essentially perennial bracket fungi. A functional classification of the fauna is outlined with information on the basic biology and trophic status of the major groups and potential interactions with their fungal hosts. Classic species--area relationships were demonstrated for the fauna of two species, the perennial bracket fungus Fomes annosus and the ephemeral agaric Clitocybe flaccida. Although dry weight of the sporophore was a significant determinant of size and diversity of microarthropod assemblages, it accounted for a relatively small amount of the variance. Characteristic faunas were not detected for any species or higher taxon of fungus, suggesting that faunas of sporophores containing toxic chemical metabolites were no different from those of the most 'palatable' fungi. The degree of temporal heterogeneity associated with host sporophores (a perennial bracket or more ephemeral species) was the single most important determinant of assemblage structure. In several fungal species, an increased number of sites produced a significant increase in the abundance and diversity of the attendant fauna (-diversity). The utility of the analogy drawn between fungi, higher plants and their faunas is discussed and a comparison made of theory and data from these two independent systems.
41714046|The most common technique used to survey Arctic char, Salvelinus alpinus (L.), in Ireland is gill netting, which is a lethal method of sampling. This paper reports on the use of snorkelling as a potential alternative, non-destructive technique for monitoring the recruitment of Arctic char in Ireland. Snorkelling allows for the positive identification of spawning beds in littoral areas, their characterisation, visual assessment of their ecological condition and monitoring throughout the incubation period. Data are reported from Coomasaharn Lough in County Kerry.
20499972|The home range sizes of eight adult Irish hares on a coastal grassland habitat were studied using radiotracking. The total home ranges of male hares had a median size of 50ha and ranged between 30ha and 70ha, whereas female total ranges had a median size of 21.5ha and ranged between 12ha and 50ha. This difference, however, was not significant. Range sizes did not change significantly across the year for either males or females. There was no significant difference between the sizes of day and night ranges for either males or females. Male day ranges were significantly larger than female day ranges while there was no significant difference between the sexes in night ranges. There was a large, though variable, degree of overlap (20-84%) between day and night range areas. Hares showed no signs of dispersing from areas in which they were originally caught. Range sizes in this study were substantially smaller than those reported for mountain hares on montane habitats in other countries but were similar to home ranges of brown hares on grassland habitats elsewhere.
biolenviprocria.114.2.61|A key concern in farming systems that seek to maximise the grass content of livestock diets is the management of grazing so as to avoid damage to soil structure during periods with high antecedent soil moisture conditions. The aim of this study was to investigate, under the current codes of good agricultural practice, the impact of two contrasting grazing systems on soil structure and nutrient export from grazed grasslands. The two grazing treatments were (1) WinterCalf treatment, involving winter-calving Holstein-Friesian dairy cows, which had a mean start of turnout date of 28 March, and were offered 5.0kg concentrate/cow/day throughout a 214-day grazing season; and (2) SpringCalf treatment, involving spring-calving Jersey  Holstein-Friesian dairy cows, which had a start of turnout date of 17 February, and were offered between 1.0 and 2.0kg concentrate/cow/day throughout a 260-day grazing season. Maximum reliance on grazed grass was a key objective of the latter system. Mean stocking rates during the grazing season were 5.1 and 4.3 cows per hectare with WinterCalf and SpringCalf systems, respectively. The experimental site was divided into four replicated blocks (A, B, C and D), with each block containing two grazing plots (425m
20499898|Brown earths from a cultivated field at Slievenaboley are described. Experimental studies of mass-specific magnetic susceptibility were carried out on samples produced by mixing podsol horizons from upslope of the field, together with heating to different temperatures. Results indicate that the brown earths could have derived from the podsols by a combination of enclosure, cultivation and periodic firing of vegetation and topsoil layers.
42912434|Surveying of brook lamprey (Lampetra planen Bloch) spawning activity was undertaken within a number of Irish river catchments during 2004-2011. Presence of adult fish, redd construction and spawning activity is reported. Additional data pertaining to spawning redd physical attributes and riverine conditions were collected at selected sites. Lampetra planen redds were, in general, relatively shallow excavations, averaging 3.5cm depth into the river bed substrate. Redds were typically 8-10cm in diameter with excavated substrate generally forming low mounds, 1-2cm in height, immediately downstream. Active redds were most frequently located in shallow ( 10cm water depth) fast-flowing (0.20m s ) sections of watercourses. Because of excavation, water velocities were significantly lower inside redd structures when compared with velocities outside. Implications for conservation monitoring are discussed.
20504515|The diet of thirteen species of demersal fish, based on four trawl samples yielding 319 fish from an area with a sandy/mud substratum in the Irish Sea, was investigated by stomach content analysis. Two major feeding groups were distinguished. The first major group exploited mainly infaunal/epifaunal food types such as polychaetes, bivalves and echinoderms. The second group preyed predominantly on more mobile prey organisms such as decapods, mysids, copepods and fish. As their length increased, most fish species showed a change in dietary emphasis and some fish species appeared to become more specialised in their diets. Fish species with close dietary similarities had similar mouth length/standard length dimensions.
23033881|An investigation of the lichens Lobaria pulmonaria and L. virens on the trunks of mature oak (Quercus spp) revealed differences in their ecological preferences. These species were found to occupy significantly different niches, with L. pulmonaria occurring in the more exposed sites. The niche widths were similar with respect to exposure and there was a high degree of overlap between the species, although they did not differ significantly in aspect preference. The chlorophyll content and biomass per unit area was similar for both species, but they showed strong morphological differences that could influence light capture. Fertility, measured as apothecium abundance, was greater in L. virens, but L. pulmonaria reproduced both asexually and asexually in this region. A recent decline in the abundance of Lobaria scrobiculata and the potential effects of deer grazing on the lichen flora are discussed.
20504524|Like many states in the European Union, Ireland has yet to fully commit itself to genetically modified (GM) crop technology. The general position of the Irish Government is 'positive but precautionary'. However, with the European-wide de-facto moratorium on commercial production of GM crops now ended, many strategically important decisions regarding the commercial deployment of such crops and their co-existence with conventional/organic crops need to be considered. To date, little research on the environmental impact of GM crops has been carried out in Ireland, and the provision of relevant local information lags far behind that available in other countries in the European Union. In this paper, we discuss much of the new ecological and economic data that have emerged since the moratorium on GM crops was introduced in 1998, assess the likely impacts of pest-oriented GM crops should they be introduced to Ireland and examine criteria for post-release monitoring. We also describe the likely commercial demand for these crops and the consequent priorities for ecological research. We argue that the impact of GM technology needs to be assessed in relation to the environmental impact of modern agriculture as a whole. Public unease in relation to this technology may be addressed if adequate resources are made available for independent Irish research on the issue.
42912435|A lacease (lac-L) was purified from the culture supernatant of Pycnoporus sp. SYBC-L3 in submerged fermentation and its partial properties were characterised. A purification of about 4.67-fold was achieved with an overall yield of 28% using ammonium sulphate precipitation, Sephadex G-25 and Q-Sepharose Fast Flow. The molecular mass of lac-L was estimated as 58kDa by sodium dodecyl sulphatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with the N-terminal amino acid sequence of AIGPVADLTLTNAAV. Lac-L showed high temperature optima (55-75 C) and acidic pH optima (3.5-4.5) to oxidise four different substrates. The best substrate for lac-L was found to be 2,2-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) (Km = 0.1mM, Vmax = 1484U mg) followed by 2,6-dimethoxyphenol (Km = 0.5mM, Vmax = 500 U mg), Gua (Km = 1.38mM, Vmax = 125U mg) and syringaldazine (Km = 8.16mM, Vmax = 2.58U mg). The half-life of lac-L was 5h and 3h at 60 C and 70 C, respectively, which was longer than many other Pycnoporus laceases. The lac-L retained 80% of initial activity after 24h of incubation in the 6.0-9.0 pH range. The lac-L was tolerant towards most metal ions except Fe, Fe and Ag. Lac-L can effectively decolorise Remazol Brilliant Blue R, Mordant Red 5G, Weak Acid Blue 25, and Acid Blue 129 without any mediators.
biolenviprocria.116B.1.1|The fully marine Lough Hyne in south-west Ireland was designated a marine nature reserve in 1981 because of its high species and habitat diversity as well as intense fishing pressure. Considerable research has described the fish species in the Lough, their behaviour and distributions. Following the population demise of purple urchins in the Lough, the fish communities inhabiting the shallow sublittoral zone, particularly benthic and hyperbenthic fishes, which could be potential predators of sea urchins, were characterised. Three sites were chosen in different parts of Lough Hyne that historically supported dense urchin populations. In August to September 2014, fish density was estimated by snorkel surveying 50m band transects, noting water depth, habitat type and the number of fish by family for each 5m section. The two-way factorial survey design included time of day (morning, midday, late afternoon) and tide (high vs low) as factors with six surveys per transect. Numerically, gobies were the most abundant benthic to hyperbenthic fish in the shallow subtidal habitats; wrasses were the second most abundant. While all factors of site, tide, time and weather had significant effects on fish densities, site was most significant. This pattern indicated that gobies and wrasses were distributed more according to habitat type than small-scale depth and temporal variations, but further work should be done to elucidate nocturnal-diurnal effects and large-scale, seasonal effects. In the absence of direct evidence of predation effects before and after 1981, coupled with observational and/or gut content data, the role of fish predation as the major causal mechanism of urchin demise in the Lough was not supported.
20728565|Svalbard is an archipelago at the north-western edge of the Barents Sea. Despite its extreme northerly position, the climate is relatively mild in the western part of the archipelago. This is due to the warm North Atlantic Current reaching Spitsbergen, the largest island, causing temperatures there to frequently fluctuate around freezing, even in winter. Svalbard ecosystems share some attributes typical of islands. However, in spite of the limited land area there is large heterogeneity among ecosystems on different spatial scales: three out of five Arctic bioclimatic subzones occur in the archipelago, stretching from extremely low productive polar deserts to relatively productive tundra. Plant community data presented in this paper demonstrate that plant communities in mesic (zonal) habitats are well differentiated among the different bioclimatic subzones. Within a subzone, strong community differentiation occurs between mesic and ridge habitats in the two warmest zones, but not in the coldest, the polar desert. Relative to 'mainlands', species diversity is low on Svalbard and terrestrial food webs are simple, with strong links to marine food webs. However, fully accounting for the invertebrate components of the food webs reveals a considerable complexity that may contribute to ecosystem robustness. Fragility of the terrestrial ecosystems on Svalbard is discussed in terms of island characteristics. It is concluded that these ecosystems are robust in terms of temporal variation in herbivore populations and climate, but are fragile in terms of human disturbance. Their fragility in terms of climate change is still an open question that needs more thorough evaluation.
20499879|Cuscuta epithymum (L.) L. (common dodder) has been found growing in a limestone pavement habitat in the Burren Lowlands (H9) in County Clare, western Ireland. The species is relatively rare in Ireland and is confined to sixteen coastal vice-counties. On limestone pavement Cuscuta is found in vegetation belonging to the Asperulo-Seslerietum, an association assigned to the chalk grassland class Festuco-Brometea. The vegetation of the limestone pavement habitat is compared with mature dune grassland at Fanore, also in the Burren region, where extensive populations of Cuscuta occur in vegetation assigned to the Camptothecio-Asperuletum, another association belonging to the same class. While there are species differences between the communities in these contrasting habitats, there is considerable floristic overlap. Cuscuta epithymum is catholic in its selection of host plants at these sites. The hosts common to the two sites include Achillea millefolium, Lotus corniculatus, Thymus praecox, Asperula cynanchica, Trifolium pratense and Viola species. There are fourteen additional hosts on the limestone pavement, and fifteen confined to the mature dune grassland site. Despite the catholicity of host selection, the rarity of Cuscuta in Ireland suggests that establishment is a critical determinant of the species' distribution, and depends on the initial infection of a primary host in an appropriate habitat with suitable environmental conditions.
20500064|The diet of otters Lutra lutra on the north-east coast of Inishmore was investigated by analyses of monthly collections of droppings. The diet comprised a total of 70% by weight of rockling and wrasse (Labridae) in almost equal quantities. Eel Anguilla anguilla, sea scorpion (Cottidae), blenny (Blenniidae) and Mollusca all contributed 3-8%. Minor items included other littoral/sublittoral fish and invertebrates, some of which may have been present in the guts of prey fish. Rockling and wrasse are considered preferred prey and were consumed more often on Inishmore, where shores are more exposed and there is less sand than on the mainland. Eel, however, was eaten less often on Inishmore, presumably because of an absence of freshwater run-off. Many of the eels and most of the three-spined sticklebacks Gasterosteus aculeatus were probably caught in brackish lakes. Seasonal variation in prey included a rise in consumption of wrasse in winter, probably because they are then semi-torpid amongst rocks, as well as a fall in eels (which in winter bury themselves in sediment), blennies, butterfish Pholis gunnellus and conger eel Conger conger. The sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus is eaten most often in winter, when the gonads are largest and firmest.
biolenviprocria.117b.1.1|
               
41714035|The inconspicuous intertidal sea anemone Anthopleura thallia is redescribed based on recent collections in England and Ireland. The redescription includes a complete account of the types and sizes of cnidae, and documents variability in colouration and pattern within and among populations. This is the first record of the species in Ireland. Anthopleura thallia is sympatric with the better-known and widespread species Aulactinia verrucosa, and the two may co-occur at a single site; they differ colouration, reproductive biology, internal anatomy and the types of cnidae in the body.
biolenviprocria.115B.2.97|
               
20694900|A series of studies have been completed by river basin districts to arrive at a comprehensive list of measures that will assist in achieving Water Framework Directive objectives. Each study addressed a key pressure on the water environment. The measures are available for public consultation in the draft river basin management plans, and the final set of measures for each waterbody for the first six-year cycle of river basin management will be determined in the final plans. The most relevant and cost-effective measures will be chosen from the list for implementation. Procedures for consideration of potential measures and their projected timescale are described. The measures comprise 'basic measures', largely based on existing European legislation and policies, and 'supplementary measures', additional measures needed where basic measures are not capable of achieving objectives in the timescale required. Studies completed on three pressureshigh-status sites, forest and water, and unsewered wastewater systemsare presented, and the full list of pressures and their measures are listed. A 'climate-check' of the measures is also considered.
20500183|Port Bn Nature Reserve, a peatland in south-western Ireland, is a complex system of cutover lowland blanket bog, wet meadow, willow scrub, heathland and riparian vegetation. The plant communities of the reserve were sampled and described using the Braun-Blanquet stratified random sampling technique, with a view to compiling an ecological inventory of the site to aid future conservation management. A total of 99 species of vascular plants were recorded from an area of twelve hectares. Ordination of the relev data was carried out using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). The presentation of the vegetation data follows the Braun-Blanquet system. The vegetation described ranged across four phytosociological classes and was placed in seven different plant communities: Narthecio-Ericetum tetralicis, Ulici gallii-Ericetum cinereae, Senecioni-Juncetum acutiflori, Valeriano-Filipenduletum, Myricetum gale, Osmundo-Salicetum atrocinereae and Oenanthe crocata-Salix x calodendron. Each of these communities is discussed in terms of their occurrence at Port Bn and elsewhere in Ireland. In addition, the problems regarding conservation management of the reserve are outlined, with natural succession identified as the largest threat to the reserve's plant communities.
biolenviprocria.117b.1.1|Vacutainers are widely used for water-sample collection. Possible interferences due to the adsorption/release of analytes at the internal surface of vacutainers could affect the solute concentrations in filtrates. To gauge their suitability for storage of conventional analytes, the stability of NO
20728586|The Australasian barnacle Elminius modestus Darwin was assessed on 89 shores around the Irish coast using abundance scale (ACFOR) methodology. In 2003, E. modestus was present on 43 shores (48%), with a rating of abundant on two shores, and a rating of common on seven shores. Elminius modestus was significantly more abundant on sheltered shores than on moderately exposed or exposed shores. There has been a statistically significant increase in E. modestus since surveys carried out in 1958 and 1995.
20500026|The meteorological series maintained at Armagh Observatory began in 1795 and are the longest in Ireland and among the longest in the British Isles. Here we present the monthly mean daily precipitation recorded at Armagh since 1838. Variations in the distribution of the rainfall during the year, over this period, are apparent, with a tendency for drier summers in recent decades. We find a significant correlation between the mean seasonal rainfall and the North Atlantic Oscillation index during autumn and winter, and there appears to be a negative correlation between the summer rainfall and the North Atlantic Oscillation index for the previous winter. A search for periodicities has been made and no evidence of an eleven-year cycle similar to the Sunspot cycle has been found. However, Fourier analysis reveals an approximate seven-year cycle in summer rainfall. We examine the evidence that this cycle may be linked either to the Taurid meteor stream or to the North Atlantic Oscillation.
biolenviprocria.115B.1.59|We report three new occurrences of
20500105|W. A. Watts pioneered palaeoecological investigations in the grasslands of the northern Great Plains in central North America. He showed from fossil data that Picea forest covered the plains during the late Pleistocene, as biogeographical evidence suggests. This forest gave way to prairie with some deciduous woodland in the eastern part of the region at the beginning of the Holocene. Greatly fluctuating but on average high amounts of Ambrosia-type and Chenopodiaceae/Amaranthaceae pollen are found throughout the middle Holocene. These high values of Ambrosia-type pollen are puzzling because today Ambrosia is more common in wetter climates to the east of the Great Plains; however, lake levels indicate that the middle Holocene was drier than today. Differences in the seasonality of precipitation may provide the explanation--lake levels respond to precipitation in the period from autumn through to spring, whereas Ambrosia responds to growing-season moisture. High interannual variability in growing-season precipitation may explain the greatly fluctuating values of Ambrosia during the middle Holocene.
20728604|It is widely accepted that anthropogenically driven climate change is having a significant impact on the natural environment of Ireland and this will accelerate in the future. The changes have been attributed to increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, of which carbon dioxide (CO) is the main contributor. There is now increasing evidence that elevated CO will directly alter the structure of plant communities although this will depend on the availability of major nutrients, particularly nitrogen. Changes in plant phenology will also occur as a result of warming, resulting in changed patterns of development of vegetation and in particular longer growing seasons for plants. Climate plays a pivotal role in determining the geographic distribution of plant species and climate 'envelopes' describe the potential range of climatic conditions over which species and ecosystems occur. As the climate changes these climate envelopes will move and, based on available evidence, the predicted change in climate is expected to have significant effects on the distribution of species and ecosystems. Modelling of climate envelope movements show that some of the key Irish habitats, particularly peatlands, are likely to be vulnerable and may be eliminated by climatic change predicted during the rest of this century.
23188064|Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are chemicals that have the ability to mimic or disrupt the endocrine system in wildlife. Many of these EDCs are present in treated Irish sewage effluents and landfill leachate and have recently been identified in Irish rivers. The effects of exposure to EDCs were investigated in Irish brown trout (Salmo trutta), sampled from selected Irish rivers downstream of Irish wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) with control fish sampled upstream of the same WWTP. The effects were also investigated in Irish roach (Rutilus rutilus) sampled downstream of Irish WWTPs. Control roach were sampled from a pristine salmon fishery river (River Deel) located in the west of Ireland. Histopathological and macroscopic analyses of downstream trout showed no adverse reproductive effects, compared to control fish sampled upstream of the WWTP. Statistically significant (p <0.05) populations of wild roach from three sampled Shannon basin rivers were, however, observed to be phenotypically intersex (ovo-testis) when compared to the control river. This, it is hypothesised, is as a direct result of exposure to WWTP effluents. The results reported herein are the first observations of intersex fish in Irish rivers.
20500086|A time course study was carried out to examine the interrelationships of selected microbiological and biochemical variables in the N mineralisation process in soil. The soil was a clay loam (pH 5.9, 4.1% organic C and 0.36% total N) and the incubation was conducted outdoors under natural diurnal and seasonal variations in temperature. Soil moisture content was maintained at 55% water-holding capacity throughout the incubation. Two periods of net N mineralisation were observed. The first was accompanied by a sharp decrease in the size of the biomass and by increases in soil respiration and casein protease activity. In contrast, the second increase in mineral N was accompanied by decreasing values for soil respiration and metabolic quotient, but an increase in biomass C. This suggests that the two periods of net N mineralisation arose from different sets of events. It is suggested that the initial period of net N mineralisation arose from the development of microbial populations that consumed nitrogen-rich labile organic substrate released from dead microbial cells. As the simpler lytic products were consumed, populations capable of using more complex C sources evolved. These populations are postulated to have had a lower N requirement, which led to the second period of net N mineralisation.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.265|Turloughs are temporary ponds on karstic limestone, filled from groundwater after rain and draining away again underground. The periodicity of inundation varies, providing an added stress to fauna and flora. Most studied turloughs are in Counties Galway, Mayo and Clare. This paper describes characteristic plants of three County Limerick turloughs and discusses a partial list of water beetles collected from one of them, Lough Selleher.
20500014|The amount of carbon stored in vegetation and soils (including peat) in Northern Ireland has been estimated and the distributions mapped on a 1km  1km grid as part of a national inventory. This was funded by Government to help meet some of its commitments under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Knowing the sizes of the carbon stores (reservoirs) and the factors influencing them will help in developing policies to protect and enhance them as a contribution to the amelioration of global warming. To calculate these carbon stores, the area and carbon density of each vegetation and soil type were required. Similar data sources and methods were used to those in complementary inventories in Great Britain, but modifications were required in Northern Ireland, including the use of CORINE land cover (classification and maps) and the development of a soil carbon database. The total amount of carbon stored is estimated to be 4.4Mt in vegetation (5.1Mt, allowing for forests underestimated by CORINE) and 386Mt in soils. Forests account for 55% of the carbon in vegetation, and peat for 42% of that in soils--a product of their relatively high carbon densities.
20500197|A study of the physico-chemical characteristics of the Caher River, Co. Clare, was carried out at two sites between October 1999 and April 2000. The Caher is an alkaline system with pH values in excess of 8.0. Phosphate and nitrogen concentrations showed no evidence of eutrophication. Conductivity values were at the lower end of the range expected for a limestone region. Calcium concentrations were relatively high, and precipitation of calcium carbonate was evident for much of the lower course of the river. However, other ions such as magnesium and potassium were present in low concentrations when compared to other limestone areas. A total of 80 macroinvertebrate taxa were recorded. The upstream site (Site 1) supported a more diverse community. The compacted nature of the substratum at Site 2, located downstream of Site 1, would restrict habitat availability and preclude the establishment of some interstitial dwelling fauna. The macroinvertebrates recorded in the Caher were, for the most part, fairly typical of clean-water rivers in Ireland, being represented by taxa that are relatively common throughout the island. One noteworthy exception was the unusually high abundance of the plecopteran Dinocras cephalotes. This predatory species is uncommon in Ireland and, even where it occurs, the numbers present are generally low. The Caher River, with its excellent water quality, has high ecological status, deserving special protection as a biodiversity refuge.
20500121|Humic substances are an extremely important soil component because they constitute a stable fraction of carbon and improve water-holding capacity, pH buffering and thermal insulation. To understand the role of humic substances (HS) in carbon dynamics, it is necessary to evaluate how concentrations and characteristics vary with location. To this end, we extracted, fractionated, quantified and characterised HS from six peat and peaty mineral soils from the Vartry catchment. The extraction procedure was an adaptation of the International Humic Substance Society method. We then isolated samples using XAD-8 resin columns and dialysis analysed them for water, ash, elements (carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen), amino acids and carbohydrates, and by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy. Although the characterisation of the HS could not reveal details of chemical processes, we were able to identify a number of characteristics that pointed to differences between forested and non-forested sites. In general, the HS at forested sites indicated more humified organic matter and quite different decomposition processes. The results indicate a need to extend research into HS to allow a more detailed evaluation of the effect of forestation on soil organic matter dynamics.
23033937|Although peat slope failures have occurred in Ireland for many thousands of years, their causal factors and the triggering mechanisms involved are poorly understood. A particular barrier to quantitative assessment of the risk of failures is the lack of knowledge of the geotechnical properties of peat and its role in failures. In order to advance the understanding of these issues case history data is invaluable. This paper describes a case study from the Wicklow mountains where a desk and remote sensing based study was used to identify peat slope failures. Subsequently, detailed field studies were carried out at two failure locations. It was found that although the full causal factors at the time of failure are unknown, a common factor was that the failure took place in a zone of highly decomposed and relatively low-fibre-content peat. A revision of the standard test method for fibre content for use in peat soils is proposed.
20500043|Naturally and artificially revegetated grassland and wetland soils from eleven historical non-ferrous metalliferous Irish mines and one Zn/Pb anomaly were sampled for Staphylinidae. A total of 82 species was recorded. There were significantly fewer species in samples from eight metalliferous old mine sites, in comparison to a set of paired non-metalliferous sites. Some metalliferous tailings sites had well-developed staphylinid assemblages, with a range of species typical of old grassland or wetlands. These sites included Pb tailings with wet grassland cover and Cu tailings and Zn/Pb tailings with marsh covers. Stable soil moisture conditions appear to be important for the recolonisation of metalliferous soils by staphylinid species typical of self-sustaining ecosystems.
20500238|Seasonal stratification in Lower Lough Erne, north-west Ireland was studied between 1991 and 2000. Oxygen depletion rates from the profundal water (below 40m depth) are reported for each year. The mean depletion rate for all years was 0.459g O m d. Values varied approximately two-fold between individual years, and there was no trend in depletion rate with time. The water mass used for the calculation of the oxygen deficit gained heat throughout the stratified period, but there was no correlation between the oxygen deficit and bottom water heating. The rate of oxygen depletion in the lake was not related to plankton crops in individual years. A provisional carbon budget suggests that advected carbon is the dominant carbon flux to the sediment. The spring diatom crop accounts for only a small fraction of the total carbon deposition, but it may explain up to half of the summer oxygen demand in the bottom water of Lower Lough Erne.
42912480|Understanding the feeding habits of aquatic invertebrates under reference conditions can contribute to our understanding of community assemblages in freshwaters. Here, seasonal changes in the diet of three species of Ephemeroptera from Irish high status rivers were investigated. A fluorescent dye, 4'6 diamidino-2-phenylindole, was used to differentiate the various types of gut contents and to allow bacteria and biofilm matrix to be visualised. Through interpretation of gut contents and feeding strategy plots, Baetis rhodani was found to have a generalist diet with detritus, algae and biofilmthe main food types. Two congeneric species, Ecdyonurus venosus and E. insignis, were found to be detritus specialists. Seasonal sampling indicated that biofilm can provide a valuable food source to E. venosus at times of high flow when detritus is not readily available. There was evidence of niche separation in summer when E. insignis and E. venosus co-existed. E. insignis fed on coccoid algae while E. venosus consumed no coccoid algae. B. rhodani consistently ingested a similar broad diet throughout the year. A detritus-based diet is likely nutrient poor leading to lower growth rates. These findings are discussed in the context of the behaviour of these species and sensitivity to nutrient enrichment.
23033868|The hen harrier in Ireland has suffered a loss in numbers and distribution, primarily through habitat loss, and persecution. Further declines are possible if current issues (involving public opinion, forestry, wind farming and loss of traditional farming practices) are not addressed. Without public support or goodwill towards this, one of Ireland's rarest and most vulnerable birds of prey, it will be difficult to conserve both the population and its habitats. Education and awareness programmes regarding the hen harrier and upland wildlife in general should continue to be supported. Within Special Protection Areas, Appropriate Assessments of the potential impacts of further afforestation and wind-farming on hen harriers (and other species) appears necessary. Proactive steps can be taken with regard to forest biodiversity and structure with hen harriers in mind. Support should continue for those managing the upland landscape in ways that benefit the hen harrier and other wildlife.
20728611|The Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) scheme was introduced in 1988 by the Department of Agriculture for Northern Ireland (now DARD) to help safeguard areas of the countryside where the landscape, wildlife or historic interest is of particular importance and where these features would benefit through farmers continuing with or engaging in environmentally sensitive practices. The scheme was expanded in 1993 to cover 20% of the agricultural land area of Northern Ireland. A monitoring programme was established in 1993 to determine the effectiveness of the ESA scheme in maintaining or enhancing biological diversity of eligible habitats, such as woodland, heather moorland and grassland across the five ESAs. Permanent quadrats were established on 188 sites with vegetation recorded at baseline (year 0), year 3 and year 10. After ten years, results from the biological monitoring programme of the ESA scheme show no change in botanical diversity of heather moorland or grassland habitats. An increase in rush (Juncus spp) cover was observed on hay meadows, wet grassland and unimproved grassland habitats. On heather moorland sites, mean heather (Calluna vulgaris) cover had increased significantly. However on sites that were in poor condition at baseline, heather cover had not increased. Burning and flailing of heather have been shown to be positive methods of encouraging heather regeneration. Woodland species diversity and levels of regeneration were shown to have decreased. A corresponding decrease in bare ground and an increase in bramble (Rubus fruticosus agg.) cover was observed, possibly related to the exclusion of livestock.Monitoring has shown that the ESA scheme is maintaining the majority of habitats and identified potential negative trends in some habitats, where modifications to current management prescriptions may prove beneficial.
biolenviprocria.116B.1.1|Bottlenose dolphin group size is known to be determined by food availability, social interactions and predator defence. This paper analyses data gathered over seven years from dolphin tour boats operating in the Shannon Estuary and examines whether there were any temporal or spatial trends in group size of the resident group of bottlenose dolphins in the region. Findings indicate that dolphin group size varied significantly between years (ANOVA, F = 4.55, P = 0.0001), and increased during the months of July, September and October (ANOVA, F = 8.921, P < 0.0001). Findings also reveal that group size of dolphins encountered in the middle part of the estuary was greater than the outer or inner estuary (ANOVA, F = 4.176, P < 0.001). The seasonal change in group size is thought to be primarily caused by dolphins switching to different prey species.
41714040|This article addresses the lack of knowledge with regards to the macroinvertebrate communities of Irish headwater streams. The main objective of this study was to describe the macroinvertebrate communities of 74 headwater sites representing a range of geological and geographical settings with the focus on reference systems and to propose a typological classification of these sites. Four main groups of headwaters were identified using multivariate clustering and ordination techniques to develop groups and to determine the environmental factors associated with macroinvertebrate assemblages. The groups identified are largely grouped according to environmental variables. Group 1 sites drained softer geology with non-peaty soils, with a higher conductivity and total hardness than any other group. Group 2 had a similar geology and again drained mainly non-peaty soils but had lower conductivity levels than Group 1 and had the greatest representation of cobble/pebble substrate among the groupings. Group 3 sites drained mainly siliceous geology with peaty soils and were characterized by predominately bedrock and boulder substrates. Finally, Group 4 sites drained siliceous geology with peaty soils and were located at the highest elevations and had the lowest pH. A Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was conducted to determine the relationships between the macroinvertebrate communities and the physico-chemical variables. It was clear that geology and its co-variables, including conductivity and pH, played a considerable role in defining the groups. A one-way ANOVA also highlighted the significance of some of these variables in the grouping of these sites. This study highlights the importance of defining headwater typologies so that reference conditions for each type can be established and thus form a baseline against which future changes in biodiversity or water quality can be measured.
20500215|The smelt (Osmerus eperlanus L.) is a little-known indigenous fish species in Ireland. All known Irish populations are anadromous. A total of 173 smelt were captured using a variety of fishing methods in Waterford Estuary over the period June 1997-June 1998. Analyses of the stomach contents revealed that they fed almost exclusively upon the marine mysid Praunus neglectus and other macroinverterbrates such as Hyperia galba and Crangon allmani. Piscivorous feeding, including cannibalism, was also evident, and three fish species were recorded in the smelt stomach contents (Merlangus merlangus, Sprattus sprattus and Osmerus eperlanus). Seasonal variation in feeding intensity was also noted. Six metazoan parasite species were recorded from the Waterford Estuary smelt. These included two digeneans (Diplostomum spathaceum and D. gasterostei), one cestode (Proteocephalus longicollis), two nematodes (Hysterthylacium aduncum and Anisakinae sp.) and one ectoparasitic crustacean species (Caligus eperlanus). Parasite prevalences and mean intensities of infection were recorded. The smelt examined ranged from 1 + to 5 + years, with the majority belonging to the 2 + and 3 + cohorts. They varied in size (125-260mm fork length) and in weight (15-129g). Their growth rates were broadly similar to those of smelt populations elsewhere in Europe. Maturation of gonads and increasing egg diameter in ovaries of female smelt in the Waterford Estuary were noted prior to a spring spawning period. No clear correlations were found for either mean egg diameter or fecundity when parental body size or age were taken into account. However, this may be due to the relatively small sample size.
biolenviprocria.116b.2.1|Changes in the timing of arrival and departure of migrant bird species to and from breeding and wintering grounds in response to rising temperature have often been reported. A recent study from Ireland found earlier indications of spring departure for some waterbirds but not for all. In order to examine if it is possible to determine any change in the length of time these birds spend at their wintering grounds, we examined indicators of the timing of autumn arrival and the subsequent duration of stay. We used the earliest reporter dates in autumn from BirdWatch Ireland's East Coast Bird reports (19802003) as an indicator of the timing of arrival and determined the duration of stay as the number of days between arrival and departure for each species. Although these reports did not specifically document earliest and latest datesand therefore make it difficult to conclusively determine duration of staythe data extracted may still provide some useful indications of changes in the tails of a distribution. Of the nineteen species examined, two arrived earlier and one later, whereas none extended their duration of stay. In addition we analysed average autumn (August-October) and average annual (July-June) temperature from within the study area and correlated these with autumn arrival and duration of stay, respectively. In response to average autumn temperature, two waterfowl (Brent Goose (P = 0.023) and Eurasian Teal (P = 0.037)) delayed arrival by approximately 10 and 11d/C respectively whereas one wader (Bar-tailed Godwit (P = 0.008)) advanced its arrival by roughly 22d/C. Even though the majority (six out of eight) of the birds examined revealed a reduction in their duration of stay with increasing annual temperature, none were statistically significant. Due to the highly variable nature of these data, the limitations associated with dealing with the tails of a distribution and difficulties with extracting specific earliest and latest records, we recommend using more robust data from dedicated bird observatories where possible. Overall, this analysis revealed the difficulty in finding suitable data by which to examine the influence of climate change on bird migration and highlighted the value of systematically tracking the timing of arrival and departure of a range of bird species as an indication of what may be expected in a warmer future in relation to Ireland's bird diversity.
20500092|A sample of 150 four-spot megrim, Lepidorhombus boscii (Risso 1810), was collected from the port of Rossaveal, Co. Galway, between June 1997 and July 1999. Age was determined by examining the sagittal otoliths, and the oldest fish was estimated to be an eleven-year-old female measuring 33.4cm in total length. Six-year-old fish were the most frequently recorded age class in the sample (40.5%). The von Bertalanffy growth parameters of k=0.27, L=34.39cm and t=-1.997 years were determined, as well as the weight (W) to length (TL) relationship of
20504521|This study examined the effect of heath litter addition on seedling establishment within deep-burn patches at Cave Hill, Belfast. Vascular plants had failed to re-establish in the deep-burn patches prior to this study and it is known that heathland fires that ignite underlying peat can potentially destroy the seed bank and all vegetative regeneration structures. This can result in slow vascular plant recovery. Heath litter containing large numbers of potentially viable ericaceous seed was sown onto experimental plots consisting of three types of peat-ash surface within deep-burn patches. The peat-ash surface types were ash with bryophyte cover, ash with a lichen-algal crust and raked ash. Ericaceous species failed to establish during initial spring growth. However, on experimental plots with litter added there was increased establishment of Agrostis canina and Molinia caerulea. On plots with bryophyte patches, there was a greater number of A. canina seedlings. After two years, Calluna vulgaris and Erica cinerea seedlings were established on plots with litter added; establishment was greatest on raked plots and poorest on bryophyte patch plots. Efforts to establish ericaceous species on deep-burned heath ash could benefit from the introduction of materials to stabilise the substrate and from the introduction of ericaceous seed.
20499953|An indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was evaluated for detection of antibodies to the spirochaete Borrelia burgdorferi in deer. The assay was assessed by comparison with an inhibition ELISA, which revealed that the indirect ELISA was sufficiently sensitive and specific for use as a screening test for deer populations. The indirect ELISA showed a high prevalence of B. burgdorferi infection in red deer Cervus elaphus from Killarney and Glenveagh National Parks and sika deer Cervus nippon from Killarney and Wicklow National Parks. A small number of samples from fallow deer Dama dama from an urban park (Phoenix Park, Dublin) that tested positive by the indirect ELISA were shown to be negative for antibodies by the inhibition ELISA. The conclusion that these samples were indeed false positives in the indirect ELISA was strengthened by the absence of the vector tick, Ixodes ricinus, and of B. burgdorferi infections in woodmouse Apodemus sylvaticus trapped in the park. The inhibition ELISA was also used to validate the findings for the National Parks suggesting that transmission to deer probably occurs in woodland, which harbours reservoir hosts such as woodmice. Although deer do not seem to be competent reservoirs of the spirochaete, the fact that they are the main hosts of the adult vector ticks in woodland and can also respond immunologically to B. burgdorferi infection means that they can serve as sentinels for B. burgdorferi presence in particular habitats.
42912438|Surveys of non-indigenous species (NIS) typically concentrate on the establishment and expansion phases of population dynamics. Our study, in contrast, investigated the status of an invader that has declined to low levels throughout much of the British Isles. The green macroalga Codium fragile ssp. fragile (Suringar) Hariot appeared in the British Isles in the 1800s and probably entered Lough Hyne, County Cork, Ireland in the 1930s. It proliferated on Irish shores in the 1940s to 1970s, but has declined to low levels in the region. Broad-scale surveys in County Cork, SW Ireland (2002-2005) and extensive surveys (2001-2011) within Lough Hyne indicate that the introduced alga has declined substantially since earlier decades. These results are consistent with other studies on NE Atlantic shores indicating a long-term decline.
20500083|The seasonal distribution and abundacne of medusae, siphonophores and ctenophores were investigated over a two-year period at Lough Hyne. Monthly samples of a 40m water column were taken. In total, 21 species of hydromedusae, three species of scyphomedusae and their ephyrae, one ctenophore and one siphonophore were recorded. Lough Hyne is significantly richer in gelatinous zooplankton species per unit area than other Irish inshore water bodies studied. The hydromedusa Proboscidactyla stellata (Forbes) was present in every month of the study period and showed a wide range of polymorphism. Ephyrae of the scyphomedusae occurred from January to March. All other species were most abundant from spring to autumn. In September 1994 Lizzia blondina (Forbes), an asexually reproducing medusa, reached a maximum density of 193m.
42912440|The value of the large data sets often collected in modern field plant physiology has been investigated by post hoc data analyses of canopy light extinction and photosynthesis. Analyses of field physiological data collected in different field campaigns of grassland and Miscanthus reveal the impact of shade light for photosynthesis. Shade light stimulates photosynthesis in dense grassland canopies, with the C pathway of photosynthesis, but it reduces photosynthesis in a Miscanthus canopy, with the C pathway of photosynthesis. The perfectly spherical umbel inflorescence of the photosynthetic organs of C4 papyrus (Cyperus papyrus) provides an ideal example for comparing the ways in which light extinction is simulated for plant canopies, with field observations of net ecosystem productivity. Assuming a constant extinction coefficient under-predicts net ecosystem production at low light and over-predicts at high light, with an overall underestimate of 15% compared with observations. Assuming a spherical distribution of leaves, in addition to predicting leaves in sun or shade light, provides a simulation of net ecosystem productivity that is not significantly different from observations. Comparative analyses of photosynthesis in C4 and C3 canopies nicely illustrates the advantage of cloudy conditions for enhancing photosynthesis in the C3 canopy but with no benefit in a C4 canopy.
20694861|Surveys of three Irish endemic Hieracium species were undertaken in 2006 and 2007 to provide information for their conservation. Hieracium argentatum mainly occurs on rocky riversides or open rocks, usually sandstone, in open vegetation. A total of 870 plants were found in seven sites, and the species was not refound in five sites. The extant populations currently appear to be healthy and under relatively low threat; it has an International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) threat category of 'Vulnerable'. Hieracium scullyi is found on acidic sandstone rocks on rocky riverbanks in the zone between winter floods and summer flows, on the associated rocks above, on rocks by lakes and rarely on bridges. A total of 210 plants were found in eight populations, and the species has disappeared from one site; it has an IUCN threat category of 'Endangered'. Hieracium sparsifrons is also found in rocky rivers and on bridges in open vegetation. A total of 204 plants were found in the six known sites; the species has an IUCN threat category of 'Endangered'. The main threats are outlined. Some material has been collected for ex situ conservation.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) typology for Ireland groups lakes based on their altitude, alkalinity, water depth and area. Alkalinity and depth data are, however, lacking for many unmonitored lakes on the Irish WFD programme. In light of legislative requirements to categorise these lakes, we examined relationships between the alkalinity and depth of lakes and the hydrological, morphological and geological characteristics of their catchments. We used a decision-tree learning approach to categorise lakes into their predicted Irish WFD typology categories. We then tested our model predictions using data from an independent set of 62 lakes. Alkalinity type was predicted correctly 87% of the time, with greatest success of classification in the low alkalinity category. The most important variable for predicting water depth was the range of slope within 50m of the lake shore. However, lake depth category was predicted correctly only 54% of the time, and predictions were particularly poor for shallow lakes. This latter model is therefore not proposed for use in typology assignment for WFD purposes. Our predictions allowed WFD alkalinity category to be assigned for 790 lakes on the Irish WFD programme and provide insights into relationships between catchment hydrological, morphological and geological characteristics and in-lake conditions in Ireland.
20728625|This study examined the diet of a re-established population of pine marten Martes martes in the broadleaf woodlands of Killarney National Park between 2003 and 2005. In contrast to previous dietary studies of pine marten, fruit formed the greater part of the diet, not small mammals. Except in summer, fruit was the most frequently consumed item and it also contributed the most in terms of percentage mass and percentage fresh weight ingested in the diet. The Mammal Group was the next most important food group overall, particularly in summer. No significant difference was observed in the frequency of occurrence of the wood mouse and the recently introduced bank vole in the diet. Birds were only consumed in spring and summer. Frogs were important throughout spring, summer and autumn, while earthworms were only important in winter. The overall dietary niche breadth was wide, and the narrowest seasonal niche breadth was recorded in autumn. The maintenance of woodlands with good fruiting species diversity, which in themselves provide the habitat for the other prey items that the pine marten consumes, is desirable for marten conservation.
42912450|Sustainable agriculture and the provision of environmental public goods are key deliverables for European farming and food production. Farmland biodiversity, cultural landscapes, soil functionality and climate stability are among the environmental public goods provided through agriculture. Future Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) direct payments are intended to be more targeted at the provision of these agricultural deliverables. Field boundaries are an example of such deliverables. They are widespread features that have both environmental and aesthetic functions in farmed landscapes. However, research on their variety, density and contribution to semi-natural habitat cover on farms in Ireland is lacking. This study investigates the diversity and density of all field boundary habitat types on 32 lowland farms in east County Galway, western Ireland. A total of 286km of field boundaries were surveyed across six study sites. Five types of field boundary habitats were recorded. The density of field boundaries on the farms studied was high and could have positive implications for delivery of environmental public goods and sustainable farming metrics. In more intensively farmed areas, field boundaries were the only remaining semi-natural habitat on some farms highlighting the need to retain, and improve the ecological quality, of these features. The condition of one field boundary type (hedgerows) was also investigated in further detail. While the density of field boundaries was high on many of the surveyed farms, we found that the hedgerows on these farms were not necessarily in good condition for wildlife.
biolenviprocria.115B.1.1|The balance between carbon removal and oxygen production plays a key role in global biogeochemical carbon cycles. Therefore, carbon flows through an ecosystem are an important determinant of its ability to act as a carbon sink. Using remote-sensing images and precipitation, temperature and total solar radiation data from 1998 to 2007, and a light use efficiency model, we study the effects of changes in these parameters and land use and cover types on removing carbon and producing oxygen value in Guanzhong-Tianshui Economic Region. The results show that carbon removal value is 3.62 $ B a
20799765|The impacts of current and future changes in climate have been investigated for Irish vegetation. Warming has been observed over the last two decades, with impacts that are also strongly influenced by natural oscillations of the surrounding ocean, seen as fluctuations in the North Atlantic Oscillation and the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation. Satellite observations show that vegetation greenness increases in warmer years, a feature mirrored by increases in net ecosystem production observed for a grassland and a plantation forest. An ensemble of general circulation model simulations of future climates indicate temperature rises over the twenty-first century ranging from 1C to 7C, depending on future scenarios of greenhouse gas emissions. Net primary production is simulated to increase under all scenarios, due to the positive impacts of rising temperature, a modest rise of precipitation and rising carbon dioxide concentrations. In an optimistic scenario of reducing future emissions, CO concentration is simulated to flatten from about 2070, although temperatures continue to increase. Under this scenario Ireland could become a source of carbon, whereas under all other emission scenarios Ireland is a sink for carbon that may increase by up to three-fold over the twenty-first century. A likely and unavoidable impact of changing climate is the arrival of alien plant species, which may disrupt ecosystems and exert negative impacts on native biodiversity. Alien species arrive continually, with about 250 dated arrivals in the twentieth century. A simulation model indicates that this rate of alien arrival may increase by anything between two and ten times, dependent on the future climatic scenario, by 2050. Which alien species may become severely disruptive is, however, not known.
20499986|The seasonal selection of food by pale-bellied Brent geese and wigeon on Strangford Lough was analysed with respect to nutritive quality. Both species selected food plants to maximise nutrition. In wigeon, food selection may also have been affected by the intolerance of this species to disturbance, forcing many individuals to feed in secondary habitats. Minerals do not seem to affect food selection, with most plant species in the diet providing a sufficiently balanced complement of nutrients. It is concluded that interspecific differences in food selection and reaction to human disturbance may have contributed to the decline in numbers of wigeon in Strangford Lough while numbers of Brent geese have been maintained. Some implications are discussed and recommendations for management are proposed.
20500057|Presence and significance of arm regeneration were studied in a population of Acrocnida brachiata (Montagu) from Little Killary on the west coast of Ireland. Arm loss appears to be a phenomenon to which A. brachiata is well adapted, since all individuals examined had recent or older regeneration scars on the arms. While the main cause of arm loss is generally deemed to be sublethal predation, the present study does not clearly support the significance of any one species as an important arm predator. However, in the shallow, high-energy environment of Little Killary, physical stress can also be considered as a possible cause of arm loss. Observations made in this study support the theory that arm rotation, a procedure where the most damaged arms are withdrawn inside the burrow and are replaced on the sediment surface by less damaged arms, enables the population to withstand high, cumulative levels of sublethal arm injury.
20728599|The National Survey of Native Woodlands in Ireland, which was initiated in 2003, will provide two key resources identified in the National Biodiversity Plan: an inventory of native woodlands and a woodland classification system. The project has taken advantage of recent advances in GIS and remote sensing to develop a GIS-based inventory of potentially native woodland sites. Field survey and characterisation of a large subset of these sites is currently ongoing. In this paper, a proposed methodology is presented for developing a national woodland classification based on data from this field survey using current best practice in statistical techniques. The applicability of this method is demonstrated using the data gathered thus far. The method uses hierarchical agglomerative cluster analysis and indicator species analysis with validation using multi-response permutation procedure (MRPP) and non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination (NMS). A two-tier classification system has been produced, with five broad groups of woodland being each divided into a number (between five and eight) of more specific woodland types. The five main vegetation groups were named, using the results of indicator species analysis, as: Quercus petraea  Luzula sylvatica, Quercus robur  Hedera helix, Corylus avellana  Thamnobryum alopecurum, Alnus glutinosa  Filipendula ulmaria and Betula pubescens  Molinia caerulea. This classification defines a greater number of woodland types than previous studies based on the more subjective central European phytosociological approach. However, for applied purposes any evaluation based on the statistical significance of these groups may need to be tempered by ecological significance. It is apparent that the identification of native woodland communities may be hampered by the modified nature of Irish woodlands and the presence of non-native species in particular. With the dataset still expanding, the results must be regarded as preliminary, but it is concluded that this is an effective method for the objective classification of Irish native woodlands.
23033880|Plantation forests were established on western Irish peatlands before it became apparent that riparian buffer zones were essential for the health of important salmonid habitats and aquatic ecosystems. The option to retrofit a riparian buffer zone several years before the clearfelling of the main plantation may lessen the possible effect of the clearfelling on receiving waters and provide some protection against sediment and nutrient runoff. The option to create a riparian buffer zone can only be considered if it can be shown that clearfelling this zone of coniferous forestry along the stream does not pose a significant risk to the water bodies in the short term. To assess this risk, the hydrology, water chemistry and biota at three locations in western peatland catchments within mature, harvestable-age forestry plantations were studied before, during and immediately after riparian buffer zones were created. Results indicate that water discharge and suspended sediment increased significantly at two experimental sites post-felling. Maximum and minimum daily temperature and pH also increased significantly at two of the sites. The biological results from macroinvertebrate analysis indicated some significant changes in richness and abundance of species post-felling. The juvenile trout (Salmo trutta L.) densities remained stable over the sampling period and appeared unaffected by the clearfelling operations.
20728564|Ecotourism in the Atlantic islands region is well-established and growing. Still, in the whale watching and marine tourism sector, many so-called ecotourism enterprises fail to achieve the minimum standards required to qualify as ecotourism. In the Atlantic islands area, approximately 1.7 million people a year go whale watching, with a total expenditure of US$133 million. In this region, the 90 existing marine protected areas (MPAs) where cetaceans are present and the 59 proposed MPAs represent nearly 27 per cent of all MPAs with cetaceans worldwide. When whale watching is conducted in a sustainable manner, especially in or near a cetacean MPA, and with other regulations in place, it has the capacity to take a leading role in the development of an island-based ecotourism industry. Yet few MPAs have management plans that include strategies for sustainable ecotourism. Sustainable ecotourism depends, firstly, on the maintenance of a pristine natural environment. Using a cost benefit analysis approach (CBA), managers can enhance the benefits or values of ecotourism and reduce the costs. CBA can be a key part of a framework for sustainable ecotourism that includes a stakeholder-agreed management plan, a legal structure, such as an MPA, together with environmental legislation and a strategy for evaluating sustainability that includes periodic review. The management plan should also set a carrying capacity for ecotourism.
20500225|The European smelt Osmerus eperlanus L. is listed in the Irish Red Data Book as vulnerable. Known from only a few locations around Ireland, its distribution appears to be disjunct and all populations confined to estuarine habitats. The current paper gives an overview of the species' ecology, biology, status and known distribution in Ireland today, with emphasis on the resident population on the River Shannon from which they were first described in Ireland.
biolenviprocria.115B.2.115|A total of 41 sites used by breeding peregrines
20504502|Two separate spawning components of a population of Ammodytes tobianus (Pisces, Ammodytidae) were recorded off the west coast of Ireland. The two groups were distinguished principally by differences in the size of the opaque centre of the otoliths. There was also a significant difference between the mean vertebral number of the spring- and autumn-spawned fish. A sample of 219 spring-spawned and 574 autumn-spawned fish were examined during the period November 1987 to August 1989. The spring spawning period was December to February and the first influx of spring-spawned juveniles occurred in June. The autumn spawning period was in August and September and autumn-spawned juveniles were captured in January. The most recent year-classes dominated the age structure of the population. Peak feeding intensity for both groups coincided with a peak growing period in April. All guts were empty from mid-December to early March. Copepods, mainly planktonic, formed the major food items but mysids were more important in July and August.
biolenviprocria.115B.2.83|The EU Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC) requires assessment of the impact of chemical and quantitative groundwater pressures on groundwater-dependent terrestrial ecosystems (GWDTEs). During the first River Basin Cycle (20032009), 48 Irish groundwater bodies (GWBs) were identified as at risk of failing to meet the WFD objective of good status owing to potential damage to GWDTEs and required further status assessment. Status tests were only applied to two GWBs, however, owing to the lack of ecohydrogeological data needed to assess damage. This paper aims to contribute to the evaluation of GWDTE chemical and quantitative status and specifically aims to: (1) develop an enhanced understanding of GWDTE ecohydrogeology; (2) determine groundwater nutrient threshold values (TVs) for GWDTEs; and (3) propose methodologies for assessing groundwater-related significant damage at GWDTEs.
biolenviprocria.116b.2.1|Siphonophores are at times amongst the most abundant invertebrate zooplankton predators in the oceans. Historically, siphonophores have been under-sampled and of the studies conducted there has been a bias towards oceanic oligotrophic waters where they are considered to be more important. In temperate coastal regions, comparatively less is known about the diversity and abundance of siphonophores, where periodic blooms can restructure the plankton communities and have been correlated with high mortalities in the salmon aquaculture industry. To address this lack of knowledge, plankton samples were collected during two periods (March 2009-March 2011 and April 2014-November 2015) from a coastal embayment in the southwest of Ireland. In total, three siphonophore species were found, the calycophoran
42912451|The filamentous and euryhaline red alga Bangia atropurpurea (Rhodophyta, Bangiophyceae) is a little-known member of the Irish aquatic flora. Although a common freshwater species in the northern hemisphere, it seems that the lower Shannon Navigation is one of the principal freshwater localities for the species in Ireland. It was recorded from thirteen sites in Lough Derg in 1972 and in the 2010 survey reported here at 40 sites including islands and navigation buoys as well as on lock gates. It attaches to rocks and other hard surfaces immediately above and below the waterline. It may have been introduced to Lough Derg on the hulls of commercial vessels. Changes in climatic conditions, eutrophication, competition from other filamentous algae and fluctuating lake levels are all pressures that could affect the sustainability of Bangia within the Shannon Navigation. Nevertheless, this study shows that B. atropurpurea has persisted for at least 40 years in Lough Derg and remains widespread despite highly variable environmental conditions.
20500182|Germination trials of fifteen rare and endangered Irish plant species, representing twenty-two accessions, were conducted after up to seven years storage in the Irish Threatened Plant Genebank. Seeds had been stored at low moisture content (approximately 5 per cent) and at low temperature (- 18C). A variety of results was obtained, with some species showing a significant increase in percentage germination, some showing a significant decrease in percentage germination and others showing no significant change. Within a species, consistent results were not always obtained, with individual accessions sometimes showing varied germination results. Consistent monitoring of seed storage conditions along with regular viability checks is recommended in order to improve the management of the Irish Threatened Plant Genebank. Based on the results presented here, the extrapolation of results from one accession of a species to include all other accessions of the species is not recommended.
23188062|The objective of this study was to evaluate the taxonomic diversity of freshwater benthic macroinvertebrate communities in two small geographical regions of Ireland and assess their potential as critical refugia for local recolonisation in the future. Areas were identified from previous studies as potentially supporting a high diversity of aquatic macroinvertebrates. Six rivers in the Slieve Bloom Mountains and five rivers in the Killarney region of County Kerry were sampled. Where possible, each river was sampled at intervals along its course at source, 2.5km, 5km and 10km. The local and regional taxonomic richness and -diversity were assessed at all sites. The results showed that both regions have many healthy freshwater systems and a high occurrence of selected Irish benthic macroinvertebrate species. The local richness and diversity was found to be low, with a high heterogeneity among sites sampled. The regional richness and diversity was high, however, indicating the importance of both regions for benthic macroinvertebrate diversity in Ireland and their potential to act as local refugia in the future. The protection of these regions may be extremely important in providing refuge populations in the future from which surrounding areas can be re-populated, facilitating ecological recovery as required by the Water Framework Directive.
20728573|Ireland remains an important refuge for the freshwater crayfish Austropotamobius pallipes. To determine factors that influence their riverine distribution, forty rivers or tributaries of rivers that flow into Upper and Lower Lough Erne were sampled and surveyed. The nineteen sites where crayfish occurred had more bedrock and moss than those without crayfish, indicating the importance of a stable substrate and an indirect source of food. A subset of these sites, for which hydrochemical data were available, showed greater water hardness where crayfish were present, indicating that a high calcium water content is important to these animals. However, neither biological water quality nor invertebrate community structure varied between sites where crayfish were present and sites where they were absent. This indicates that biological factors have little influence on the presence of crayfish in a river and that crayfish influence biological water quality to a limited degree.
20500004|The phytoplankton of an offshore station in the north-west Irish Sea were sampled daily at a depth of 15m by an automated sampler between April and August 1995. Specific rates of net population increase were calculated from the daily data for five species of diatom; the rates lay mostly in the range 0.2-0.5 day, except for Lauderia annulata, which increased at 1.4 day. The 39 diatom species found are listed.
42912485|In a Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) plantation established over ancient woodland and agricultural grassland with hedges in western Ireland, we monitor early stage vegetation development to determine the effects of clear-fell timber harvesting carried out to meet broadleaf woodland restoration guidelines. A paired-plot random sampling procedure was used to describe pre-harvest species composition and to record post-harvest change. At pre-harvest, both plantation types supported plant species typical of seminatural broadleaf woodland (Corylo-Fraxinetum deschampsietosum). Species composition was related to edge-effect light penetration at plantation boundaries with broadleaf woodland patches and hedges. Post-harvest species assemblages were dominated by grass, rush and ruderal species. The pre-harvest abundance of typical broadleaf woodland species was significantly reduced by timber extraction but most broadleaf woodland species (including ancient woodland species) survived the harvesting process. Pre-harvest tree seedling and sapling density was also reduced post-harvest, but was up to acceptable forestry standards for early stage broadleaf restoration.
20499984|This paper presents an analysis of data collected from rainfall-monitoring networks operating in Ireland over the period 1972-94. In particular, mean rainfall chemistry over the periods 1972-4, 1982-4, 1986-8, 1988-91 and 1992-4 is discussed, with greatest emphasis placed on quantifying sources of acidity in Irish precipitation. Along with rainfall amounts, species analysed include Na, Cl,
20500175|In this account we demonstrate that different vessel classes and different types of boat movement are important in determining the role of pleasure craft as a vector for transmission of zebra mussels. Vessels with zebra mussels on their hulls have been found in areas where zebra mussels are not known to be established. The main concern is the overland transport of boats to lakes at more elevated levels within infested catchments and to other river systems. Large boats that are heavily fouled pose the highest risk. However, these are moved infrequently compared with angling boats, which are moved from fly hatch to fly hatch. Up to three size classes of zebra mussels with densities greater than 1000m have been recovered from the hulls of several different classes of vessel. Such numbers are probably sufficient to form new populations, following spawning in areas where zebra mussels did not previously exist. This may have happened in several lakes in Ireland from 1996-8. Vessels most likely to acquire large numbers of zebra mussels are those that remain idle for long periods of time. This would appear to be the case for barges, canal boats, private cruisers and lake boats. An assessment of the vectors that disperse zebra mussels allows efforts to slow down intranational spread to be focussed.
20500085|The reproductive cycle of Melarhaphe neritoides (L.) (Gastropoda, Littorinidae) was studied by histological analysis of the gonads of individuals collected at a range of shore heights at Portnakilly, Clare Island, Co. Mayo, Ireland. For comparative purposes, two additional sites were sampled, but on a less frequent basis: Lekkycranny, Clare Island, Co. Mayo, and Tralispeen, Co. Cork. Staging criteria for the gonads of male and female snails of M. neritoides are described. Oogenesis and spermatogenesis occurred throughout the year at all of the sites, but mature females were found only between September and May at Portnakilly. Shore height did not have an influence on the reproductive cycle. At the exposed site, Lekkycranny, a significantly lower number of mature males were found in the smaller size categories than in the larger categories. Females were more abundant than males on all shores studied, with a significant deviation in the sex ratio at the two Clare Island sites.
20694859|The otolith microstructure of juvenile plaice from two beaches in Galway Bay on the Irish west coast, Ballyloughaun and Silverstrand, was examined. Sampling was carried out monthly in the spring of 2003. The hatch date, larval duration, settlement date and larval growth rates were determined for 85 fish. Hatching occurred from late January to late March. The mean larval duration was 33 days, and fish settling earlier in the year had a longer larval life on Silverstrand. Settlement occurred between early March and late April. Settlement pulses closely corresponded to hatching times, indicating that hatching/settlement cohorts could exist for plaice in Galway Bay. Larval growth was consistent between locations assessed. There was a positive relationship between larval growth and hatch date, and an inverse relationship was noted between larval growth and larval duration. Results from this study were compared to studies from other European areas, and a relationship between larval duration and temperature was noted, with fish from cooler areas in Europe having longer larval durations. This is the first study of its kind on the west coast of Ireland and the first study within eastern Atlantic waters to focus on the early life history of plaice.
23188045|Biomass allocation and leaf attributes are traits that discriminate between plants that exploit different light resource environments. Disturbed and high light environments provide easy access for resource-demanding, fast-growing invasive species. Comparing growth, ecophysiological and reproductive characteristics between invasives and non-invasives could help to predict a species' invasiveness and identify which habitat would be most susceptible to its invasion. In a common garden experiment we compared traits in Impatiens species that vary in their invasive status. They were the aggressive invader Impatiens glandulifera, which is invasive in mainland Europe and Ireland, I. parviflora, invasive in Central and Northern Europe but only established and not invasive in Ireland, and I. balfourii, naturalised in central and southern Europe but not reported in Ireland. We aimed to investigate their ecological requirements and to identify which traits promote invasion in this genus in a high-resource environment. Photosynthetic and allometric traits characterised the contrasting investment in light harvesting and carbon fixation of I. parviflora and I. glandulifera. The comparison of reproductive, photosynthetic and growth characteristics explained I. glandulifera's superior invasiveness when compared to I. parviflora. However, there was no evidence that the invasive performed better than the non-invasive when it was compared to I. balfourii. Other traits that were not considered in this study, such as germination characteristics and adaptability, might also be responsible for invasiveness. We conclude that I. balfourii may possess an intrinsic invasiveness that, due to differences in invasion history, may not have reached its full potential yet.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The Water Framework Directive requires all EU Member States to improve, sustainably manage and protect water quality in all surface waterbodies. To achieve this goal the ecological status of all our streams, rivers and lakes must be assessed against type-specific reference conditions. A number of distinctive or rare river types were not adequately represented in the development of the existing national river typology in 2005, and so it is not known whether they are sufficiently characterised by the current 12-type river typology or represent distinct types. Rare in this context refers to systems with a naturally variable or unusual combination of environmental conditions (e.g. naturally low pH) rather than a limited distribution. The rare or distinctive river types highlighted were: (1) groundwater-dominated rivers; (2) highly calcareous rivers with calcium precipitation; (3) low conductivity, naturally acidic rivers; and (4) rivers strongly influenced by lakes (lake outlets). Whether or not these river types host distinct biological communities has yet to be established. While there is a large body of research on the macroinvertebrate communities, research on other biological quality elements such as diatoms is limited. This paper summarises the literature available on the biological characteristics of these rare or distinctive river types.
biolenviprocria.115B.3.191|The appropriate management of natural riparian zones can provide numerous ecosystem services within an agricultural landscape, including the enhancement of regional biodiversity. Management of riparian zones has featured in Irish agri-environment schemes. We investigated the biodiversity of riparian field margins which had been fenced to provide water quality and biodiversity benefits. Surveys of plants, carabid beetles and spiders were conducted in typical habitat types that occur in riparian zones (grassland, scrub and woodland) on intensively-managed grassland systems in the south-east of Ireland.
20799766|The limestone country of the eastern Burren includes permanent lakes, extensive fens, and turloughsdepressions characterised by large fluctuations in water levels that become dry in summer and have distinctive vegetation. Most of the larger lakes lie on an almost level surface, draining southwards via the River Fergus into the Shannon estuary; Lough Bunny drains through the limestone north towards Galway Bay. Field evidence indicates that the lakes and fens, whether they flood in winter or not, have a relatively constant summer water level, probably because the underlying limestone is sealed by glacial drift. Their vegetation follows a normal hydrosere succession from open-water deposits (mostly calcareous marl) to reed swamp and Schoenus fen, culminating locally in raised bog. Present-day exposed expanses of marl are products of erosion of a former peat cover. Turloughs are characterised by unconstrained fluctuations of the water level through most or all of its vertical range. They occur where there is no barrier at the surface to drainage into the limestone, but there is sufficient hydraulic resistance to underground flow to allow water levels to rise during winter and after heavy rain. The vegetation of typical turloughs has more in common with dune slack or flood meadow communities than with true fens.
20500228|Anadromous twaite shad (Alosa fallax Lacpde) and allis shad (Alosa alosa L.) occur in Irish coastal waters, although only twaite shad has been confirmed to reproduce in Ireland. A landlocked subspecies of the twaite shad, known as the Killarney shad (Alosa fallax killarnensis), occurs in Lough Leane in south-western Ireland. Relatively little scientific research has been undertaken on the marine phases of these species in Ireland except for occasional reports of coastal bycatch. The growth, diet and parasite assemblages of twaite and allis shad sampled from Waterford Estuary and the upper tidal reaches of the River Barrow have been investigated since 1995. Similarly, aspects of the Killarney shad have been investigated since 1986. The number of gill rakers or general body size easily separates these subspecies of shad. The perceived threats to the twaite, Killarney and allis shad in Ireland, where they have been categorised as 'vulnerable' to extinction (twaite shad) and 'endangered' (Killarney and allis shad), are listed and discussed.
20694851|During the autumns of 2005 and 2006, 0-group plaice (Pleuronectes platessa (Linnaeus)) and flounder (Platichthys flesus Linnaeus) were collected from beaches in Galway and Kerry on the west coast of Ireland by beach seining and push netting. Characteristics used to identify adult flatfish were not discernible in these juveniles, and fin-ray counts were used to differentiate between the species. The dorsal, anal and caudal rays of 325 plaice and 116 flounder were counted and plotted, resulting in a clear separation between the two species. Thus, fin-ray counts may be used to reliably separate these two species on the west coast of Ireland. The ranges observed for both species lie within those previously reported. Analysis of fin-ray counts for both plaice and flounder showed no significant difference between the two regions studied. However, for plaice, a significant difference in dorsal fin-ray numbers was observed between the Galway beaches. No evidence of plaice/flounder hybrids, as identified by intermediate ray counts, was observed. There was no relationship between the numbers of dorsal and anal fin rays for plaice. However, a positive relationship was found between the numbers of dorsal and anal rays for flounder.
20728615|Land-use change is one of the major components of global change. In Ireland, this change is largely due to the rapid expansion of the forestry sector at the present time. As much of the forest being planted comprises monocultures of exotic conifer species, this has led to concern about its effects on local biodiversity. In this study, the carabid fauna of forested and open habitats were sampled. The fauna of forested areas differed from that of open habitats both in terms of species composition and species diversity, but the forest carabid faunas also appeared to reflect the landscape in which they were found. In order to control for the effect of adjacent landscape and to verify and quantify the effects of afforestation on upland carabid faunas, a further sampling was carried out using a regime based on a matched pairs design using ten pairs of sites. Five of these sites were grasslands with adjacent forest plots and five were bogs with adjacent forests. This showed that species composition in forested areas was significantly different from that of open habitats but that species diversity did not differ significantly between open and closed habitats when differences in topography, altitude and other factors were eliminated.
20500044|Samples of soil, three higher plant species (Teucrium scorodonia, Primula vulgaris, and Succisa pratensis) and two moss species (Hylocomium splendens and Rhytidiadelphus loreus) were collected in 1995 from around some of the disused buildings and surrounding area of Shallee mine, Silvermines, Co. Tipperary. The samples were analysed for lead, copper and zinc, using flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Results indicated high lead levels in all soil and moss samples, but copper and zinc levels were similar to levels found in uncontaminated areas. Although mosses are used extensively for monitoring the aerial heavy metal contamination, correlations were found here between lead levels in mosses and their adjacent soil. This suggests possible local aerial lead deposition.
biolenviprocria.117b.1.1|The island of Ireland is the largest region in western Europe with no populations of non-indigenous crayfish species, and the native white-clawed crayfish,
biolenviprocria.115B.3.157|There is a small international scientific literature, principally from North America, on recovery of fish communities following substantial fish kill events and a smaller literature on monetary assessment of losses in such events. A chemical discharge led to over 90% loss of brown trout (
20504526|The paucity of species inventories for the freshwater Oligochaeta in Ireland probably reflects the high level of taxonomic skill required to fully identify individual specimens. In many studies of the freshwater fauna the Oligochaeta are identified to order or family level only. During the present study, initiated by the Limnology Unit, Department of Zoology, University College Dublin, in excess of 1,100 records from 331 aquatic sites were compiled for a range of lotic and lentic habitats in the Republic of Ireland. In addition, a survey of the published literature was completed in order to augment records obtained in the field. Species-level identifications were undertaken on all suitable material, and a comprehensive checklist was generated. The field study yielded thirty five species in the families Naididae, Tubificidae and Lumbriculidae. This number rose to forty three species after a survey of published records. Lumbriculus variegatus (Mller) and Stylodrilus heringianus Claparde were the most frequently encountered species, being found at 191 and 155 sites respectively. Ten new Irish records were discovered during the course of this project.
biolenviprocria.114B.1.19|Single platform line-transect surveys with distance sampling were carried out at eight sites between July and September 2008 to derive density and abundance estimates of harbour porpoises. Over 37 days at sea, a total of 475 track-lines were surveyed for a total distance of 20,623km. From the 332 sightings, a total of 618 individual harbour porpoise were recorded. Overall density estimates ranged from 0.53 to 2.03 porpoises km
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|A model for predicting the sources of nutrient loads (phosphorus and nitrogen) to water has been developed to support Water Framework Directive (WFD) implementation. The Source Load Apportionment Model (SLAM) framework described in this paper integrates catchment data and pressure information from point discharges and diffuse sources to enable characterisation of sourcepathwayreceptor relationships. Hydrogeological controls have a strong impact on nutrient fluxes, particularly in agricultural catchments, and have been incorporated into the diffuse agricultural model (the CCT). Results for the Suir catchment matched the measured loads of nitrogen and phosphorus well, and showed that pasture is the dominant source of nitrogen. The main sources of phosphorus in sub-catchments varied between diffuse agriculture, wastewater and industrial discharges. A relatively small proportion (13%) of the Suir catchment area requires a reduction in phosphorus emissions to achieve Good status. In these areas, model results can be used in conjunction with local knowledge gathered through the WFD characterisation process to identify significant pressures that contribute excessive nutrient loads. An example of assessing load reduction scenarios is presented to illustrate how modelling can support catchment scientists in identifying appropriate measures.
biolenviprocria.114b.3.119|In recent years there has been increasing interest in the conservation and management of small streams. They are essential to the health of the wider aquatic ecosystem and of fish populations throughout river catchments. Because of their size, small streams are particularly at risk from the predicted changes in temperature and flow regimes resulting from climate change. This paper deals with small coastal streams, which to date have received little if any attention from researchers, local authorities or fisheries management bodies. It seeks to summarise the information currently available on small coastal streams, to outline the potential importance of such streams from both an ecological and biodiversity perspective and suggest research topics that could help to conserve these sensitive biotopes and underpin the requirement to assess and categorise their role as producers of juvenile seatrout (
20500073|Coastal sediments may be considered contaminated with a metal if they have undergone an increase in concentrations above background levels due to anthropogenic inputs. The extent of contamination in Northern Irish coastal sediments was examined by a combination of statistical and graphical analysis utilising aluminium as a grain-size proxy. Enrichment of mercury, lead, zinc and copper was commonly observed in sediments throughout the study area, whereas concentrations of nickel, chromium and iron largely reflected levels in their source rocks. Belfast Lough was the most contaminated area, and it is suggested that the metals commonly associated with industrial and domestic discharges are more biologically available than at the other coastal sites studied. Concentrations of metals in Strangford Lough were close to or at background concentrations and may be used as a baseline to assess the degree of enrichment in other Irish coastal sediments. The area of fine sediments in the western Irish Sea had higher concentrations of metals than some inshore areas that could not be accounted for by grain-size differences alone. The sources and transport mechanisms of metals to the western Irish Sea and the influence of a seasonal gyre on contaminant accumulation are discussed.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.233|Blanket bogs are an important habitat in Ireland and are listed for their conservation value by the European Union. Despite this little is known about the invertebrate fauna of freshwater habitats and environmental factors that structure these in blanket bogs, particularly in small upland lakes. This study addressed this topic by sampling twelve small lakes (<0.21km
biolenviprocria.115B.3.221|This trial examined phosphorus (P) loss in overland flow (OLF) at a tillage farm in the southeast of Ireland. The soil was a grey-brown podzolic, and was representative of land covering 16% of the total agricultural area, with tillage practised on approximately one-third of this area. The object of the trial was to establish whether this site is a P-pollution risk to surface water. The productive tillage field was divided into three plots, each of approximately 1ha in size. Plots had low earth dams and open lined drains on the lower boundaries. A flow meter sampler with V-notch tank was connected to each of the three drains. Macro-pore flow (MPF) samplers were installed in the plots. Average depth of overland flow across the three plots was 5.4, 17.5 and 18.1mm y
20500023|A comprehensive inventory of the salt marshes of the entire coastline of Ireland is presented here for the first time. Most salt marshes were visited by the authors, following reference to any available data on known sites. Two-hundred-and-fifty marshes are classified according to physical structure and origin. Each is listed in tabular form by county, grid reference, substrate type, and where relevant, the associated geomorphological formation. They can be classified into five main types: estuary, bay, sand flats, lagoon and fringe; the lagoon type being very rare and the fringe type, on peat formations, being characteristic of the west coast. Geographical variation of the marshes is discussed particularly in relation to substrate and management.
20728591|The habitats listed in Annex I of the 1992 European Union Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora cover a wide range of both terrestrial and marine habitats, including a large number that are semi natural rather than natural. Implementing the directive has revealed many problems, particularly with identifying the habitats in the field and the absence of information on habitat distribution. As a result the Directive has been responsible for much survey work and has increased our knowledge of many habitats and species across the European Union. As data are reported to the European Commission in agreed standard formats, a database of information about habitats now exists that can be used for other projects. Monitoring obligations will give another unified source of information at a European Union scale.
biolenviprocria.114.2.71|The composition of the black deposit found in solution hollows on the karstic limestone of the Burren is described. The deposit is shown to consist partly of cyanobacteria, mainly in the order Chroococcales. Pigment analysis showed a mean chlorophyll
23188059|The zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha, Pallas 1771) invaded Lough Sheelin in the midlands of Ireland in 2001, providing a novel potential food resource for the resident fish species. This paper assesses fish predation on the mussel after the recent colonisation of the lake (with supplementary data from Lough Arrow). In addition, implications for the resident fish community are considered. Roach (Rutilus rutilus L.), and roachbream hybrids (R. rutilus  Abramis brama L.) were found to consume zebra mussels in all sampling seasons. For other fish species (European perch [Perca fluviatilis L.], northern pike [Esox lucius L.] and the brown trout [Salmo trutta L.]) the occurrence of zebra mussels in the diet was low, in addition to being seasonal, and possibly consumed as incidental by-catch in some cases. The incorporation of mussels into the diet represents the most important change to the feeding habits of cyprinids. Adult roach populations have not increased despite feeding on zebra mussels and appear to be the most negatively impacted fish taxa since the establishment of the mussel in the lake. Brown trout and perch may be advantaged in the long-term, most likely due to reductions in chlorophyll a, habitat changes and altered food resources. The extent of fish predation on zebra mussels does not appear to be sufficient to suppress the mussel population in the lake.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.205|Research throughout Europe has indicated the continuing reductions in acidic aerial deposition and associated improvements in freshwater pH. However, information on macroinvertebrate responses to these on-going changes is rare. During 2009, 2010 and 2011, 34 peat-dominated catchments in three geologically distinct acid-sensitive regions of Ireland were sampled for macroinvertebrates (6 occasions) and chemistry (3 seasons) to assess the effects of reduced sulphate and nitrate deposition in an ecoregion with historically low acidic deposition. Streams drained moorland catchments without forest, catchments with 20%50 % (low) and catchments with forest cover and >50% (high) forest cover. Results indicate ecological improvements have occurred in many forested catchments when compared with findings in the early 1990s, especially on metamorphic and igneous geologies. However, episodically low pH (<5.7) and high inorganic aluminium concentrations (>150g l
23033938|Separate subhabitats are distinguishable in tufts of Corallina officinalis, including the surface of the algae itself and the interspace (areas of water) within the algal tufts. The oxygen microenvironment of each of these was investigated in laboratory investigations using oxygen microelectrodes to test the hypothesis that oxygen gradients form adjacent to the seaweed surface and that the oxygen concentration of the seawater between the branches of individual plants differs from that of the surrounding water body due the tuft forming nature of this seaweed. Regions of hyperoxia (up to 250% of saturation) were detected at the surface of Corallina branches in static conditions, with steep declining gradients of oxygen concentration through the diffusive boundary layer in the vertical plane to 100% of saturation a distance almost 2mm from the surface. Oxygen concentration at the surface did not vary with position along individual branches, or with position on any one branch segment. Concentrations were significantly higher on main branches than on peripheral branches of individual plants. Water flow was the dominant factor controlling the depth and oxygen supply of diffusive boundary layers and in moving water oxygen levels did not achieve such high saturation levels and the boundary layer was thinner. On a larger scale, oxygen concentrations in the interspace of C. officinalis tufts were highly variable and commonly in excess of air saturation. The oxygen environment was both temporally and spatially dynamic, and very rapid changes in oxygen concentration were observed in response to changing flow conditions. Despite the ranges of oxygen concentrations, and often hyperoxic conditions described, a thriving epiphytic community of animals smaller than 2mm, dominated by harpacticoid copepods and marine mites is associated with this extreme and dynamic environment.
20500120|Lampreys are distinguished from other fish by their eel-like bodies, round sucker-like mouths, poorly developed fins and by a row of seven breathing holes instead of gills. Most species have a life cycle of several years' duration, involving an adult parasitic feeding phase, an upstream spawning migration of adults and a gradual downstream movement of juvenile stages to silt beds, where they burrow. Following metamorphosis, the young adult lampreys migrate downstream. The three species of lamprey recorded in Ireland are designated in the European Union (EU) Habitats Directive as species requiring conservation within member states. However, the scientific database available to assess the distribution, status, habitat use and conservation requirements of these species in Ireland is very limited and is largely composed of records of known spawning locations, with little by way of a literature on aspects of ecology. This paper provides a context for conservation management and biodiversity considerations with regard to these species in Ireland. It reviews an extensive European and North American literature to provide a detailed and comparative account of lamprey ecology, particularly those riverine stages most likely to be affected by human activity, and points to those areas in which more information is required to form a basis for decision-making with regard to conservation requirements for these species in Ireland.
20499883|Sexual dimorphism in cranial size and shape was examined in a sample of adult otter (Lutra lutra) crania from Ireland. Univariate and multivariate techniques revealed a high degree of dimorphism, with shape, rather than size, accounting for most (86.96%) of the variation between the sexes. The results are discussed in relation to cranial musculature, dietary relationships between the sexes, and existing theories which try to explain the occurrence of sexual dimorphism in mustelids.
20499945|The results of a 50mm-bar gill netting survey of the pike, perch, roach, bream, roach  bream hybrids and trout of Lower Lough Erne, carried out from July 1991 to September 1992, were compared with similar data obtained in 1972 and 1973. Catch per unit effort (CPUE) analysis showed that roach, bream and trout were significantly more abundant in 1991-2, and smaller increases were noted in catches of roach  bream hybrids and pike. Abundance of perch in 1991-2 was similar to that in the earlier study. Population structures of older bream and roach  bream hybrids showed marked variations in year class strengths in both surveys. Multimesh survey nets added to the 1991-2 programme sampled a more complete size range of all fish species and enabled description of the individual species population structures, with regard to regularity of recruitment and population stability. Survey net catches showed that in 1991-2 roach formed by far the largest component of the fish population of the lake in terms of both biomass and numbers. There was no clear evidence that eutrophication has contributed to changes in fish populations between 1972 and 1991. A high degree of variability in population structure was evident and correlations of strong year classes suggest that similar sets of conditions are required for good recruitment and for survival of roach, bream and hybrids. CPUE for adult pike was higher in sanctuary areas protected from commercial exploitation than in non-sanctuary areas, but there was no statistical difference between sanctuary and non-sanctuary areas in survey net catches of mainly juvenile pike.
20500204|Salmonid populations were sampled in 36 streams, at altitudes between 100m and 200m, in counties Cork and Kerry, south-western Ireland. The catchment land use ranged from open moorland and rough pasture/improved grassland to afforested sites with varying levels of catchment afforestation, mostly coniferous but with some patches of mixed coniferous and deciduous trees. The main geology types within the region were slate, Old Red Sandstone and limestone. Study sites were electrofished, and the density, biomass, age structure and condition of salmonid populations were assessed. A range of in-stream riparian and catchment environmental variables were measured, and the data were analysed using stepwise multiple regression to identify the most influential environmental factors affecting trout metrics following principle component analysis. The majority of salmonids were trout (86%), and mean trout density ranged from 0.662 fish m to 0.984 fish m for all sites, irrespective of catchment geology. Trout condition did not differ significantly with level of catchment afforestation or geology, with the exception of limestone with high catchment afforestation. At sites with underlying limestone, trout condition decreased with increased catchment afforestation. River habitat structure was identified as the most important variable influencing trout density and biomass, irrespective of geology and water chemistry.
20500058|This research presents the first records of taxonomic composition of protozoa in Lough Neagh, the largest freshwater lake in Northern Ireland. One-hundred-and-eight taxa have been identified following the examination of colonisation on approximately 150 polyurethane foam (PF) artificial substrates and various types of natural substrates from May to December 1992. Of the 108 taxa, 30 core species were found on PF substrates and 17 were found on natural ones. Variations in taxon richness and individual abundance as a function of season or water temperature was described. Protozoa on PF from two sampling stations were also compared.
20728574|Ericoid mycorrhizal fungi were isolated from roots of Calluna vulgaris collected from mine spoil at abandoned copper mines at Avoca, County Wicklow, Ireland, and Parys Mountain, Anglesey, Wales. Two isolates were morphologically identical to Hymenoscyphus ericae and formed typical ericoid mycorrhizal associations. Four fungal isolates the two mine-site isolates and two H. ericae isolates (obtained from uncontaminated sites) were grown in liquid media containing elevated levels of Cu and Zn. All isolates were determined to have a low sensitivity to these metals, with EC values (concentration of metal causing 50% reduction in mycelial dry mass) in the range 0.3-0.9mM Cu and 1.2-5.5mM Zn, but there were differences in metal sensitivity between isolates. There was a significant decline in the tolerance of each isolate to increasing concentrations of mine spoil (up to 10% in the agar medium). Mycorrhizal amelioration of heavy-metal toxicity was determined by growing mycorrhizal (M) and non-mycorrhizal (NM) rooted cuttings of C. vulgaris on mine spoil. Rooted cuttings obtained from an uncontaminated site showed no response to mycorrhizal colonisation. However, C. vulgaris obtained from the Avoca site and inoculated with H. ericae performed better than NM plants. The improved growth of these plants was associated with a reduction in Cu within the host's shoot. Inoculation of C. vulgaris with an ericoid mycorrhizal fungus isolated from the Avoca mine site also reduced Cu accumulation within shoots but there was no change in the growth and Zn accumulation of C. vulgaris on mine spoil. Results are discussed in relation to the potential benefit of the ericoid mycorrhizal association to C. vulgaris at metal contaminated sites.
20500107|Johannes Iversen speculated that aquatic plants may offer a higher degree of temporal resolution as indicators of past climate changes than terrestrial plants. Here we test that idea with fossil-pollen data from hundreds of sites across North America. Maps of the geographic ranges of selected aquatic-plant taxa over the past 12,000 C years reveal that most aquatic taxa reached the modern extent of their geographic ranges almost as rapidly as the glacial ice receded and lakes became seasonally ice-free. Iversen's hypothesis is further supported by the fact that Isoetes, Myriophyllum, Nuphar, Potamogeton, Sagittaria and Typha were able to colonise lakes north of the remnant Laurentide ice sheet in early Holocene time. However, following their post-glacial northward migration, these aquatic taxa responded little to subsequent climate changes. Late-Holocene cooling does not appear to have affected the geographic ranges of the aquatic taxa, in contrast with some terrestrial, arboreal taxa.
20500013|Pelagic fisheries account for 83% of the total number of fish landed into Irish ports, with mackerel Scomber scrombrus, horse-mackerel Trachurus trachurus and herring Clupea harengus constituting 97% of this. Despite the importance of pelagic fish species, there is little published information on discarding practices for most Irish trawl fisheries and no study of marine mammal by-catch. Fisheries scientists accompanied commercial trawlers fishing herring in the Celtic Sea during the 1994/5 season. During the study, 85 days were spent at sea, with 78 tows monitored, amounting to 101h of fishing effort, which was 7% of the total effort in the fishery. Most fishing was carried out in International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) divisions VIIg01, VIIg02 and VIIa20, and most fish were caught in VIIg01 and VIIa20. The fishery was very selective, with 99.5% of the total weight of the catch being the target species. Mean size (SE) of herring caught was extremely consistent, ranging from 24.82.7cm in October to 26.02.0cm in January. Overall, 1270 tonnes of fish were observed being caught, of which 1214 tonnes were landed and 57 tonnes discarded (4.7%). Whiting Merlangius merlangus was the most frequently recorded non-target fish species; mackerel and horse-mackerel were also frequently caught. Four grey seals Halichoerus grypus were caught during the study at a rate of one per 317.5 tonnes of fish or 0.05 seals per tow. This catch rate extrapolates to around 60 seals caught in the fishery, which is not thought to have a significant impact on the Irish seal population.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|Effective implementation of the integrated catchment management approach, catchment characterisation and suitable catchment management strategies and measures are the means of ensuring protection of satisfactory water resources and improvement of unsatisfactory water resources, and achievement of Water Framework Directive requirements. Lessons have been learned from the first-cycle River Basin Management Plans, particularly on the need for proper public and community engagement and involvement, improved governance and targeting of appropriate mitigation measures. However, challenges need to be overcome: there needs to be genuine integration of the work of discipline- or process-based sections in public bodies and better collaboration between these bodies; the environment must be at the core of sustainable intensification; appropriate mitigation measures for diffuse and small point sources will need to be analysed and targeted to the pressures; and there is a need to ensure the involvement, cooperation and co-ownership of water (and biodiversity) management by local people and communities. The approach currently being undertaken is laying a solid foundation for integrating science and people, and is a basis for optimism.
biolenviprocria.116b.2.1|The potential roles of herbivory and fecundity were investigated in the post-boom population stages of the introduced, green macroalga
20500176|An 800mm sediment core taken from Lower Lough Erne covered the period c. 1920-94. The core was dated with Pb. A marked increase in overall dry matter deposition rate over the period was punctuated by periods of much more rapid deposition. These were tentatively ascribed to periods of drainage or channel disturbance upstream of the core site. Elemental analyses of the sediment material showed marked temporal trends in percentage composition. Iron and manganese showed a downward step at about 1960, and horizons more recent than this were poorer in both elements. Total nitrogen and total carbon content increased up the core throughout the period. Percentage sulphur decreased up the core in the period before 1960, whereas calcium and phosphorus increased up the core in the period after 1960. Diatom analysis indicates a long-term eutrophication trend with the shift from Aulacoseira spp. to small Stephanodiscus and related species after approximately 1960. The arrival of Skeletonema subsalsum recorded in the core c. 1980 coincides with its documented arrival in the lake. The cause of this invasion is unknown. The changes in geochemistry and diatom assemblages are probably linked to increases in nutrient supply (from sewage and diffuse agricultural sources) and hence to increases in primary production.
20728627|The general biology and seasonal ecology of eels from a riffle section of the lower reaches of Ireland's largest river system, the River Shannon, were investigated. Eels at this location occurred in high densities, had a slow growth rate and were predominantly male at maturation. Although they fed to some degree all year round, foraging activity of the eels was highest in the months of May to September, inclusive. Their diet, which was dominated by larval Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera, reflected the typical composition of the macroinvertebrate species assemblage of the riffle habitat sampled. Little evidence of piscivory or of the potential impact of the high density eel population on the salmonid stocks of this river section was recorded.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The Water Framework Directive (WFD) has established the concept of ecological quality as a method to improve European Union (EU) surface and ground waters. Ecological quality status is based on the composition and abundance of different biological quality elements, including fish fauna, with the supporting elements of hydromorphology and chemical and physico-chemical parameters. Monitoring for fish for the WFD began in Ireland in 2007. In parallel, classification tools were developed or refined for each surface water type (lakes, rivers and transitional waters) and then intercalibrated in a cross-Europe exercise to ensure consistency across all EU states. The development and basic concepts of three WFD-compliant ecological classification tools for fish and the cross-Europe intercalibration exercise are described for rivers, lakes and transitional waters.
20500162|The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has proposed methods and thematic areas for data collection that are appropriate to the evaluation of biodiversity. The Heritage Council has identified a paucity of data on habitats in Ireland. Within this context, we outline the Irish Forest Soils (IFS) element of the Forest Inventory and Planning System (FIPS) and present a detailed account of land-cover mapping, which is an important aspect of the project. The IFS project aims to produce a national thematic map of land cover using soft-copy photogrammetry, combined with satellite-image classification and field survey. This aspect of the IFS project generates data on land cover at different spatial and classification resolutions. We report on the progress made to date and present illustrative examples of the data sets. The UNEP proposals provide a useful framework within which to discuss the potential contribution of IFS data to the assessment of biodiversity.
20799779|Sciomyzid flies (Diptera) have potential as biological control agents of intermediate hosts of snail-borne trematode diseases and as bioindicators of habitat condition and quality (particularly hydrology and vegetation structure). Standard area sweep net sampling of these flies in a single vegetation zone across ten turloughs in summer 2004 highlighted the importance of vegetation structure (standing height and outstretched length) on the abundance and species richness of Sciomyzidae. A mark-recapture study was initiated in the summer of 2005 with the aim of quantifying absolute populations at one site where sciomyzid abundance was particularly high (Cregaclare South, Co. Galway). The total abundance of Sciomyzidae at the site was estimated at 3512 flies over an area of 600 square metres. This density (6.08 flies per square metre) is considerable higher than densities previously reported in two studies of a sciomyzid species in the USA, but is in line with estimates from the 2004 wider study. Specific markings were used in the 2005 mark-recapture study to monitor any adult fly movements within the habitat. Females in two out of the three univoltine species showed a positive correlation in the proportion of gravid individuals caught over time. Multivoltine species showed no such relationship. Additionally, multivariate procedures were used to investigate the effect of date of sampling and spatial position on sciomyzid assemblage composition.
42912441|The first Irish pollen diagram was published by Gunnar Erdtman in the Irish Naturalists' Journal in 1927. Since then over 475 pollen diagrams have been produced from locations throughout Ireland from a range of sites and time spans. The data from these pollen diagrams can be used to reconstruct vegetation dynamics over long timescales and so facilitate the investigation of climate change impacts, plant migration and the scale of human-induced landscape change. In this paper we collate the available data from Irish pollen sites into the Irish Pollen Site Database (IPOL) to illustrate their distribution and range. It is intended that this database will be a useful research resource for anyone investigating Irish vegetation history. The database also links to the European and global research agenda surrounding impacts of climate change on ecosystems and associated livelihoods. The IPOL database can be accessed online at www.ipol.ie.
20500104|The sediments of Ethiopian crater lakes have differentially sensitive palaeoclimate indicators that vary with time. Lake Tilo, in the south-central Rift Valley, shows a 10,000-year diatom and oxygen-isotope sequence that may be interpreted in terms of hydrochemical and hydrological responses to century-scale climate changes. The diatom record of lake salinity became sensitive to climate variability only after a sharp reduction in hydrothermal inflow at 5500 C yrs BP. In contrast, the oxygen isotope composition of the lake as recorded by authigenic calcite varied in response to early Holocene climatic change despite the hydrothermal influence and became especially sensitive to climate variability after hydrothermal flow diminished. Pollen data from the same core show savanna vegetation throughout the Holocene, indicating that strong rainfall seasonality has long been characteristic of the region. Deposits of aragonite varves in Lake Hora, a crater lake on the western margin of the Rift Valley, may reveal climate variability at annual to decadal timescales. Because the aragonite is precipitated during dry-season mixing, aragonite O values for individual white laminae reflect the composition of the entire lake integrated over its water-residence time of about ten years. Nevertheless, the high-resolution varve chronology presents an opportunity for calibrating the isotopic record against instrumental climate data, provided that the climatic controls on the isotopic composition of these groundwater-fed lakes are fully understood.
40716312|Aquatic and terrestrial invertebrate supply was measured across eight streams with contrasting riparian vegetation (grassland, open-canopy deciduous and closed-canopy deciduous) in County Mayo, Ireland, in 2002. Benthic invertebrates were collected from Surber samples, drifting aquatic and terrestrial invertebrates were collected in drift traps, aerial terrestrial invertebrates were collected on sticky traps and soil-surface-dwelling invertebrates were collected in pitfall traps. Season had greatest influence on aquatic invertebrate supply, whereas riparian vegetation type had a greater influence on terrestrial invertebrate supply to streams. Benthic invertebrate abundance tended to be lowest in summer while, in contrast, aquatic invertebrate drift was significantly higher. Terrestrial invertebrate drift was greatest in open-canopy streams. Aerial terrestrial invertebrate densities were greater in canopied streams in spring but were greater in grassland streams in summer. Biomass, however, was lowest in grassland streams in spring and summer. Soil-surface invertebrate abundances did not differ among riparian types, but canopied streams were associated with wingless groups while grassland streams were associated with winged groups that may be easily dislodged by wind and rain. !!c:/3b2win/remove. batRiparian influences on the abundance and composition of invertebrate supply to streams are discussed.
20500055|Stocks of the flat oyster (Ostrea edulis) have declined throughout their entire geographical range, principally due to anthropogenic overexploitation. Strangford Lough in north-east Ireland supported a productive flat oyster fishery until the population crashed at the turn of the century. A survey of flat oyster resources in Strangford Lough has revealed that a small population still exists, although the origin of the stock is not apparent. Spatfall on natural cultch occurred at low levels in 1997. Natural recruitment of oysters in Strangford Lough may be limited by the availability of suitable substratum. Although the hydrographic conditions in the north of Strangford Lough are ideal for oyster bed reclamation, any development programme would require a large-scale accumulation of broodstock and suitable substratum.
20500084|Concentrations of eleven organochlorine (OC) pesticides and ten individual polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) in blubber and liver from twelve harbour porpoises Phocoena phocoena and eight common dolphins Delphinus delphis incidentally caught in fishing nets in Irish waters are presented. All animals sampled contained persistent pollutants. Female harbour porpoises had highest concentrations of OC pesticides in blubber and male common dolphins in liver. Harbour porpoises had higher mean concentrations of lindane (121-154ng g extractable lipid), dieldrin (116-121ng g) and -BHC (54-128ng g) but common dolphins had greater overall concentrations of DDT (9444-3998ng g). The predominant DDT metabolite was pp-DDE and for the chlordanes was t-nonachlor. Concentrations of ICES 7 PCB (liver-blubber) were similar in both species (4075-7999ng g in harbour porpoise and 4076-8945ng g in common dolphins). The sum of ICES 7 PCB in porpoises ranged from 3041ng g to 12,270ng g extractable lipid in the blubber of females and from 2911ng g to 10,429ng g in males; in common dolphins it ranged from 798ng g to 11,074ng g in the blubber of females and from 1555ng g to 15,883ng g in males. Contaminant levels were generally similar to those reported from Scotland but lower than reported from Scandinavia. Ratios of DDT to DDE suggest that there are limited new sources of DDT in the Irish marine environment.
40716311|We have analysed the trends in four long meteorological time series from Armagh Observatory and compared them with series available from other Irish sites. We find that although maximum and minimum temperatures have risen in line with global averages, minima have risen faster than maxima, thereby reducing the daily temperature range. The total number of hours of bright sunshine has fallen since 1885 at the four sites studied, which is consistent with both a rise in cloudiness and the fall in the daily temperature range. Over the past century, soil temperatures at both 30cm and 100cm depths have risen twice as fast as air temperature. Wavelet analysis has found significant cycles with periods of 78 years, 2023 years and 3033 years in the seasonal and annual meteorological series from Armagh. Some of these cycles are clearly linked to the North Atlantic Oscillation.
23033869|Peatlands in Ireland have been subject to peat extraction and drainage for many years, with detrimental effects on the flora and fauna of the ecosystem. Blanket bog has been listed for protection under Annex 1 of the EU habitats directive, making the conservation of intact bogs as well as the restoration of degraded sites a priority. In order to assess how effective a restoration measure this has been it is important to look at the biodiversity within the site. This study compared the macroinvertebrate and microcrustacean communities in open-water habitats of an intact and a restored mountain blanket bog in County Wicklow over a number of seasons. It also examined the hydrochemistry of both treatments. Hydrochemically there was no difference between the restored and intact pools. Neither was there any significant difference between the two in terms of taxon richness, abundance, community composition or structure. Season was found to significantly affect the structure of the invertebrate communities in both areas. It is not known how long it takes a peatland to return to its natural state. However, we can conclude that the restoration measures implemented fifteen years ago have provided an aquatic habitat similar to that of the intact site.
20500223|The systematics and nomenclature of European freshwater fishes, especially salmonids, are in a chaotic state. The implications of this chaos for the conservation of Irish biodiversity are outlined with reference to pollan and brown trout. The recognition of Irish pollan as a postglacial relict of the Alaskan-Siberian species Coregonus autumnalis makes it one of the most unique components of the entire Irish fauna, not just the fish fauna. Brown trout (Salmo spp) shows considerable genetic diversity that is not adequately represented by designation as a single species, and it is more appropriate to regard it as either a species complex or as separate designated species in particular areas. One example of brown trout diversity is the occurrence in Lough Melvin of three types of brown trout, known locally as gillaroo, sonaghen and ferox. These three types are genetically distinct, due to independent ancestry and natal homing to separate spawning areas, which means that minimal hybridisation has occurred since sympatry was established. They differ also in their morphology and ecology. These three types therefore merit designation as separate species: gillaroo as Salmo stomachicus; sonaghen as Salmo nigripinnis and ferox as Salmo ferox. Their conservation importance needs to be recognised, and practical conservation measures need to be put in place as a matter of urgency. Long-lived piscivorous ferox trout, which probably share a common ancestry with Melvin ferox, are found in many of the larger Irish lakes. Further work will undoubtedly reveal other unique populations. Many threats to brown trout diversity exist, including the introduction of non-native fish and invertebrate species, such as the zebra mussel, and stocking with hatchery-reared brown trout. Although the Melvin brown trout types can be designated as distinct species, conservation activities should ideally be based on local populations and communities rather than formally described taxa. This approach is limited by current European legislation but may be achievable through other facets of national fisheries and wildlife legislation.
23188063|A programme of afforestation has increased forest cover in Ireland from around 1% to more than 10% in less than a century. This study describes planting trends up to 2005 according to habitat and characterises the bird assemblages of the most commonly afforested habitat types. Most afforestation has taken place on peats, gleys [typical of wet grassland (WG) habitats] and well-drained mineral soils [typical of improved grassland (IG) habitats]. Since 1986, afforestation of gley sites increased dramatically, and afforestation rates on both peats and gleys were more than two times greater than on well-drained mineral soils. Bird diversity was assessed at 27 peatland, WG and IG sites. Bird density and species richness were positively related to shrub and tree cover, which was highest in WG and lowest in peatland sites. Indicator analysis identified several characteristic bird species of WG and peatland, but no characteristic species were identified for IG sites. The ways in which choice of afforestation habitat and subsequent management of plantations could affect bird diversity in Ireland are discussed. Afforestation is likely to benefit the birds most in areas of high-productivity grassland managed at high intensity for grazing and/or cutting, with relatively low levels of shrub cover.
20504501|The development of the size distribution curve in a juvenile population of Haliotis tuberculata L., reared under various stocking densities, was examined. The population exhibited a lognormal size distribution which, with time, became increasingly skewed. It is suggested that the increase in skewness with increasing density is a result of interference competition. The allometric relationship measured by the equilibrium constant derived from the regression of weight on length increased with increasing stocking density. The distribution of shell size among juvenile abalone was further assessed by comparing communally reared populations with singly raised individuals. The decrease in logarithmic variation in individuals grown communally and in isolation suggests that the variation of attained sizes of juveniles in a H. tuberculata population has a genetic basis.
20694854|To help understand and counteract future agronomic challenges to farmland biodiversity, it is essential to know how present farming practices have affected biodiversity on Irish farms. We present an overview of existing research data and conclusions, describing the impact of crop cultivation on biodiversity on Irish arable farms. An extensive literature review clearly indicates that peer-reviewed publications on research conducted in Ireland on this topic are quite scarce: just 21 papers investigating the effect of conventional crop cultivation on Irish biodiversity have been published within the past 30 years. Principally, these studies have concluded that conventional crop cultivation has had an adverse impact on biodiversity on Irish farms, with 15 of the 21 studies demonstrating negative trends for the taxa investigated. Compared to other EU states, the relative dearth of baseline data and absence of monitoring programmes designed to assess the specific impacts of crop cultivation on Irish biodiversity highlight the need to develop long-term research studies. With many new challenges facing Irish agriculture, a research programme must be initiated to measure current levels of biodiversity on arable land and to assess the main farming 'pressures' causing significant biodiversity loss or gains in these systems.
20499991|In order to identify some novel parameters for monitoring the environmental impact of industrial pollutants, we measured the hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase activities of two species of feral rodent: the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and field mouse Apodemus sylvaticus trapped at two isolated rural areas (reference sites) and at a study site adjacent to a bauxite refinery where atmospheric sulphur dioxide levels are high. At the reference sites voles showed lower specific activity for the enzyme than mice. There was no difference in activities between mice from contaminated and reference sites. However, reference enzyme activities of both male and female voles were lower at the contaminated site, and males showed severe diminution of hepatic tetrahydrobiopterin-dependent phenylalanine hydroxylase (27% of reference values). Western blotting revealed normal abundance of phenylalanine hydroxylase protein, indicating loss of catalytic function. Loss of activity may be due to oxidative stress resulting from an accompanying deficiency in glutathione peroxidase activity, which for voles of both sexes at the contaminated site was half that of the references. The differences between mice and voles are discussed. These two enzymes in bank voles may provide useful bioindicators of the impact of industrial pollutants.
20694895|The EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) has provided the opportunity, virtually for the first time at a national scale, to characterise groundwater throughout the countrynot only groundwater in the productive aquifers but also groundwater in the less productive rocks that underlie a significant proportion of the country. The national monitoring networks for groundwater quality and levels have been updated, with emphasis placed on achieving networks that are representative both of hydrogeology (e.g. groundwater flow regime, vulnerability) and of pressures (e.g. livestock units, tillage, urban areas) on groundwater bodies. The interim status of the groundwater bodies has been determined, with 14% of the country classified as being of poor status; status provides a measure of the present situation and also a signpost to future requirements. Implementation of the WFD and the associated Groundwater Daughter Directive is providing the opportunity for a holistic, integrated approach to water management in Ireland, with groundwater as a critical element.
20728582|A map of the potential natural vegetation of Ireland is presented. The concept of potential natural vegetation is briefly outlined, followed by a consideration of the factors affecting its development: these include climate, soil type, vegetation history, land use and biotic factors. This is followed by a brief overview of present day vegetation. Literature sources and methods used in the compilation of the map precede the man body of the text, which consists of a description of twenty vegetation units. The vegetation units, which fall within six Formations or Formation Complexes, include nine forest units, five mire units, two heath units, two sand dune units and one each of salt marsh and polder units. Minor vegetation types are also considered briefly. In conclusion, the general distribution and character of Irish potential natural vegetation and its relationship with the rest of Europe is discussed.
20504495|The chough Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax L. is largely restricted to areas of low-input agricultural land in the UK and Ireland. In parts of their range their numbers have declined dramatically in recent years following changes in land use. In this study, the relative importance of eight major habitat types to the foraging requirements of five breeding pairs of choughs in County Donegal was investigated. For each pair the area within a defined home range was classified according to habitat type, and both habitat use and foraging behaviour were monitored. Invertebrate samples were also collected. Most pairs preferentially foraged in machair and maritime turf and avoided heather and improved pasture. Rough grass was also important, although to a lesser degree. Birds spent longer actively feeding in machair where a greater range of invertebrates were available. Our results are supportive of those obtained in previous studies and emphasise the importance of machair as a primary foraging habitat.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.163|Little is known about the structural composition of macrophytic communities in Irish small streams and headwaters, despite their important influence on the biological integrity of the river catchment as a whole. A subset of 103 small stream and headwater vegetation plots were extracted from the River Macrophyte Database (RMD) with the aim of identifying the vegetation groups that occur there, to describe their composition and determine whether these vegetation groups have affinities to British and European vegetation communities or are unique to Ireland. The RMD has been recently collated as part of a wider project that aims to construct a vegetation classification system for Irish rivers. Hierarchical Cluster Analysis and Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) were used to identify these species assemblages. Nine cluster groups, representing different vegetation assemblages were identified; five of these groups were of biological significance and these are described in detail. Of these, two groups were typical of slow-flowing calcareous waters of lowland regions, one group characteristic of fast-flowing calcareous streams and two were typical of acidic fast-flowing waters found more commonly at a higher altitude. A Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) biplot showed the relationship between the species distribution and three chosen environmental factorsflow rate, conductivity and substrate type. These factors were found to have significant influence on macrophyte distribution, despite the small percentage of the variance explained during analysis. Additional factors that were not available for analysis, e.g. nutrient levels, that may explain a greater percentage of the variation in macrophyte distribution are discussed.
20728563|Proximity to the ocean can have both positive and negative effects for tree survival. Across the world relict forests that were once trans-continental in their distribution depend for their continued survival on coastal refugia. The tree species that dominate the cloud-zone forests of Macaronesia, the coastal redwoods of California, the Atlantic forests of Brazil, and the Podocarp forests of New Zealand's South Island are all examples of palaeoendemic species that once had a much wider distribution and appear to owe their survival to the particular environmental conditions provided by coastal sites and oceanic islands. By contrast, in the islands of the North Atlantic, oceanic conditions appear to limit tree regeneration and make forests vulnerable to human disturbance. Paradoxically, winter warmth appears to be harmful to trees in northern cool and moist oceanic conditions. There may be many reasons why the warm winters of maritime environments can be detrimental for woody species. Insect attack, pathogenicity and metabolic dysfunction with loss of frost hardiness and over-wintering carbohydrate reserves are all possibilities. Where long, mild winters are combined with wet soil conditions, metabolic dysfunction brought about by prolonged periods of oxygen deprivation can deplete root meristems of carbohydrate reserves that are essential for avoiding postanoxic injury when the soil profile once again becomes aerated in spring. In areas where the temperature remains below zero for the greater part of the winter, this is not a danger. However, in oceanic habitats there is always the risk, even in the far north, of temperatures rising above zero. Model predictions and field observations confirm the potential dangers of warm winters by suggesting that any significant degree of winter warming will cause a retreat of Pinus sylvestris and other woody species from oceanic regions at northern latitudes.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|In the Irish environment, anthropogenic pressures have led to widespread nutrient over-enrichment and eutrophication in surface waters. In the past 25 years European Directives have been implemented resulting in significant measures to improve water quality. Multi-decadal monitoring of nutrient inputs from rivers, and response parameters in estuarine and coastal systems, allows for a comparison of the effectiveness of these measures. In this study, trends in nutrient inputs from eighteen river systems and downstream estuarine parameters between 2000 and 2013 are explored. The results are placed in the context of changes in nutrient source load apportionment modelled through a newly developed GIS tool. Measured phosphorus inputs showed a significant reduction from fifteen catchments, with only four rivers showing a concurrent reduction in nitrogen. Significant Parallel improvements in estuarine water quality were evident in eight downstream systems, highlighting the complexity of response mechanisms. Load apportionment illustrated that the effectiveness of measures largely depended on factors such as land use and the proximity of large urban agglomerations to the estuary. The partitioning of nutrient sources could determine the nutrient landscape of the downstream estuary, with possible implications for the ecological health of the system. The results of the study will inform decision makers on the effectiveness of measures to date and the possible response of systems to future controls in the light of targets set out under the Water Framework Directive.
20499899|The in vitro sensitivity of 227 environmental bacterial isolates to the organophosphinate herbicide glufosinate (phosphinothricin) was investigated. Although 38 strains (17%) were wholly resistant to the compound at concentrations of up to 3mM, growth of 84 isolates (37%) was inhibited at concentrations of less than 1mM. Inhibition could be reversed by supplementation of the minimal growth medium with glutamine, whilst glufosinate-resistant mutants arose in almost all sensitive isolates at frequencies ranging from less than 10 to greater than 10. Such mutants were found to have glutamine synthetase levels on average ten times higher than the corresponding glufosinate-sensitive wild types. Evidence for the utilisation of glufosinate as the sole phosphorus source by a mixed bacterial population was obtained and its utilisation as a nitrogen source by a Gram-negative isolate was demonstrated.
20694890|The Water Framework Directive requires the selection of type-specific reference conditions. Typological classification has resulted in twelve river types based on geological and slope categories. Thirteen lake types have been defined using altitude, alkalinity, depth and area. However, a number of distinct river and lake types, such as those in karst areas, do not fall within the current classification. Challenges associated with the selection of reference sites and the limitations of the typological classification are discussed.
20500006|This study investigates the factors affecting mortality in the sawfly Pontania proxima (Tenthredinidae: Hymenoptera) that forms galls on the crack willow Salix fragilis inhabiting a site near the Royal Canal, north Dublin, Ireland. The ectoparasitoids Pnigalio nemati Westwood (Eulophidae), Pteromalus dolichurus Thomson (Pteromalidae), Scambus vesicarius Ratzeburg, Diaparsis stramineipes Brischke (Ichneumonidae), Bracon picticornis Wesmael, Bracon discoideus Wesmael (Braconidae), and the inquiline weevil Curculio salicivorus Paykull (Curculionidae: Coleoptera), caused an approximate 7% reduction in population size of Pontania proxima during the period April-November 1995. The overall survival rate, however, reached an average of 67.48% for the observed population. The low parasite-induced mortality may be due to an increase in the number of galls without eggs, which constituted an average of 16.45% of the surveyed population. These might act as 'decoys', attracting the parasitoids and predators away from the sawfly stages, and subsequently enhancing the insect's survival. In addition, it might be indicative of a particular defensive behaviour used by the sawfly larvae against these natural enemies. Evidence of larval avoidance of enemies was present in the population in the form of large numbers of clean galls, indicating continuous larval cleaning of the gall chamber and removal of any material that could be used as a cue by these enemies. The number of live larvae in the studied population was positively correlated with the number of clean galls.
20728618|Stable isotope analysis was used to examine dietary separation between sympatric Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus (L.)) and brown trout (Salmo trutta) in Lough Muckross, Co. Kerry, and to test the applicability of the interactive segregation hypothesis to observed trophic relationships. Gut contents showed both species fed seasonally on similar prey. Stable isotopes indicated the long-term nature of the similarity in feeding relationships, with results providing no support for the interactive segregation hypothesis as used to explain dietary differences between the species in Scandinavian lakes. Feeding and capture patterns indicative of differences in habitat use were consistent with the MacArthur niche compression hypothesis, with differences in temperature preferences for both species providing a plausible mechanism for observed habitat separation.
41714041|Although now we have had many years of research completed on assessing the potential environmental impact of GM crops, concern remains over their potential impact on biodiversity in the rural landscape. In particular, issues have arisen in regards to the modification of crops with traits that could introgress into sexually compatible wild relatives. In contrast to wheat, barley, potato and maize, Brassica napus (oilseed rape) is the only commercial crop grown in Ireland at present with the potential to successfully transfer its DNA, via pollen-mediated gene flow, into inter-related weed species. This review details the species in question and by examining the relevant literature that relates to Irish agronomic conditions, demonstrates that gene flow is likely to occur, especially to an earlier used cultivar, Brassica rapa. However, the critical factor remains not that GM traits will flow from the commercial source but what might the consequences of said gene flow events be. This review indicates that the conferred trait in question (in this case, herbicide tolerance) can only impact on weed diversity in the presence of selecting herbicide action. In the absence of the herbicide, the GM traits will be lost from the wild species over time and will not confer any selective advantage that could facilitate population growth.
40716310|Increasingly large areas of Ireland's emerging cutaway peatlands are being flooded to create a linked network of lakes and wetlands designed for conservation and amenity purposes. The current study examined water quality in four artificial cutaway peatland lakes over three years (2001-2004), with particular focus on nutrient dynamics and the potential for phosphate to be regenerated from the organic phosphorus pool via biotic and abiotic processes. The cutaway lakes contrasted strongly in both their physico-chemical characteristics, trophic statuses and limiting nutrient states. Two of the alkaline mesotrophic study lakes were annually N-limited in summer, while the acidic eutrophichypertrophic study lake underwent a transition to more sustained N-limitation. Laboratory experiments indicated a considerable potential for soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) to be regenerated from the dissolved organic phosphorus pool by phosphatase enzyme hydrolysis (mean 2.6g 1). UV-induced SRP regeneration was found to play a lesser role (mean 0.9g 1), particularly in the dystrophic study lake, while combined UV and enzymatic hydrolysis produced an intermediate response (mean 2.3g 1). With all three mechanisms, the quantity of SRP regenerated appeared to be independent of lake trophic status. The current data provide some evidence that the regeneration of SRP from the large organic phosphorus pool in cutaway peatland lakes can help maintain a constant supply of bioavailable phosphorus, potentially contributing to the prevalence of N-limiting conditions in these systems.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|As part of the national monitoring programme under the Water Framework Directive (WFD), seine, trawl and fyke net samples were taken of fish from thirteen locations in Tidal Freshwater Transitional Waters (TFTW) around Ireland. The results were highly variable, with some hauls completely empty while others returned high numbers of individuals, usually dominated by a single species. Thirty-four species were recorded, of which
20799782|William Henry Harvey's 'Travelling Sets' of Australian algae as held in his home institution of Trinity College Dublin and in the National Herbarium of Victoria at Melbourne are described and enumerated and the contents are documented for the first time. It is shown that the collection of almost 600 numbers contains numerous type specimens with some unpublished ancillary notes. The Trinity College Dublin collection is especially taxonomically important as it contains much holotype and lectotype material. However, as the specimens in this collection are never sent on loan, this paper provides the only coherent source of information on the material in the collection. It draws attention to the web-based resources available for study of this important collection, elucidates the status of these specimens and indicates where further detailed study of material is required.
20728595|Epiphytic lichens are extremely sensitive to environmental perturbations. This research work has adapted and applied recently developed methods of assessing epiphytic lichen species diversity to the Irish semi-natural acidophilous woodlands of Knocksink Wood Nature Reserve, Enniskerry, Co. Wicklow, Ireland. The study has focused on the differences that arise in relation to acidophilous oak versus ashhazel woodlands at Knocksink. The frequency of occurrence of lichen species on a defined portion of tree bark is used as an estimate of diversity and to evaluate the degree of environmental stress on the sensitive lichen community. Epiphytic lichens were investigated across the oak woodland (Blechno-Quercetum petraeae) and ashhazel woodland (Corylo-Fraxinetum) and a total of 30 lichen taxa were recorded on trunks and 11 on twigs and branches. Results showed that 26 epiphytic lichen taxa were found on the oak tree trunks in the oak woodland and 14 epiphytic lichen taxa on the ash tree trunks in the ashhazel woodland. The genera with the highest number of species were Opegrapha, Pertusaria and Arthonia for tree trunks and Parmelia, Hypogymnia for tree canopies. Lichen diversity (LD) results were interpreted in terms of environmental assessment and a relatively low environmental quality was detected. Further comparison to other broadleaf woodlands in Ireland revealed a poverty of epiphytic lichen flora at Knocksink. Oak trees in the oak woodland were recognized as richer in lichen flora on the trunk area than ash trees in ashhazel woodland. However, the epiphytic lichens in the ashhazel woodland showed a higher LD score than that in the oak woodland at Knocksink Wood. This research advances understanding of environment influences on sensitive epiphytic lichens and their abundance and distribution in Irish broadleaf woodlands.
20504488|The impact of burning and grazing on plant, ground beetle and spider species was investigated experimentally in stands of varying ages (burnt in 1982 and 1988 and unburnt plots) on an area of heather moorland in County Antrim, north-east Ireland. Burning initiated complex succession pathways which appear to have characteristic plant and invertebrate species associations. Removal of Calluna dominance initiated a period of high plant species diversity. Investigation of initial post-fire regeneration suggested that the frequency of occurrence of plant species changed over time and was affected by grazing. Grouping of species by the position of their renewal bud, i.e. their life-form, did not account for all observed interspecific variation. The dominant species after burning were Eriophorum vaginatum, E. angustifolium and Vaccinium myrtillus. Studies of vegetation canopy structure showed that, even with the exclusion of the main grazing herbivores, Calluna will not re-establish itself as the dominant species until several years after burning. The ground beetle Nebria salina was trapped more often on plots burnt in 1988 than on unburnt plots or those burnt in 1982. In comparison, Pterostichus niger and Carabus granulatus were trapped in greater numbers on plots burnt in 1982 than on unburnt plots and plots burnt in 1988. The large species Carabus problematicus and Carabus glabratus were trapped in greater numbers on unburnt plots. Similarly, more of the spiders Ceratinella brevipes and Centromerita concinna were trapped on the plots burnt in 1982. In comparison, Lepthyphantes zimmermanni and Robertus lividus were trapped more often on unburnt plots than on plots burnt in 1982 and 1988. Results are discussed with respect to the importance of the continuation of traditional heathland management practices.
20799769|We report the finding of twenty-two original Darwin letters among the papers of Alexander Goodman More kept in the library of the Royal Irish Academy, Dawson Street, in Dublin. The existence of the letters and their contents were known as handwritten copies, or as transcripts published more than a hundred years ago, but the precise location of the originals was unknown. The letters were found in their envelopes with stamps and postmarks. They deal with orchids, mostly Ophrys apifera and Epipactis palustris. Additional background information is provided.
20499997|Following general fish surveys in 1991 and 1992, which failed to find any of the endemic pollan (Coregonus autumnalis pollan Thompson) in Lower Lough Erne, an extensive targeted study using an EY-200 echosounder was carried out to prove the continued existence and determine the status of this population. Twenty-one specimens were obtained by deep-water gill netting from 1992 to 1995. Data from these fish are discussed and compared with the limited previous data available on Lough Erne pollan and with data on other coregonid fish, and possible reasons for a population decline in recent years are discussed.
20499963|In Ireland the mountain hare Lepus timidus hibernicus Bell and rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus L. are sympatric over most of their range. This paper presents information on the diet of the two species from a coastal grassland ecosystem. The diets of both lagomorphs were very similar in both the types of plants consumed and the relative rankings of these plants in the diets. Thirty-six species of plants were identified in the faeces of hares, 38 in those of the rabbit. Grasses were the most frequent species identified, constituting 85% of the annual rabbit diet and 94% of the annual hare diet. Despite this trophic overlap it is not believed that, under normal circumstances, either lagomorph will strongly compete with the other in areas where they are sympatric owing to differences in their ranging behaviour.
20500007|This paper presents the first checklist of helminth parasite and ectoparasitic crustacean species recorded from freshwater fish that is exclusive to Ireland. The parasite species list is arranged alphabetically by phylum and class, as appropriate, and comprises information on the parasite species name, host, location of host capture, and author and date of published record. The host list consists of all parasite species listed by host species. The significance of the occurrence (or non-occurrence) of certain parasite species or groups in Ireland is discussed and contrasted with those described from Britain. Relationships between fish range and parasite species richness and between sampling effort and species richness are presented. The relevance of these observations for further research on Irish freshwater fish helminths is also highlighted.
42912449|In Ireland, Food Harvest 2020 focuses on increasing productivity while enhancing environmental sustainability of agricultural land. On underutilised or marginal land, drainage systems may be installed to expand agricultural enterprises. Mixed nutrient losses are inevitable from any drainage system, but assessing processes leading to differences in nutrient speciation, fractionation and losses in grasslands between locations or flow paths is important to achieve sustainability. This study investigates these processes in overland flow and subsurface drains over three rainfall events from four non-grazed plots recently converted from marginal land in the south-east of Ireland. A shallower water table and smaller plot size resulted in greater water and nutrient losses in overland flow per unit of land area. Nutrient losses were less in subsurface drains. Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) dominated, but dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) was more abundant in the drains. Particulate phosphorus generally dominated in drains, except in plots with a shallow water table where dissolved unreactive phosphorus (DUP) was more abundant. In overland flow, a shallower water table resulted in a switch from dissolved reactive phosphorus (DRP) to DUP. Fertilisation increased phosphorus losses in overland flow, with DRP dominating. These results highlight the importance of an integrated assessment of the controls on flow and nutrient losses to design drainage systems in marginal lands.
20499946|A comprehensive review of the biology, ecology, fisheries and cultivation of the European abalone (ormer) Haliotis tuberculata Linnaeus 1758 is presented. Topics include taxonomy, morphology, distribution, reproduction, pre-adult and adult stages, nutrition, growth, population characteristics, and various aspects of exploitation and mariculture. Data and information were obtained from unpublished as well as published sources. The ormer, the only species in the family Haliotidae which is harvested commercially in Europe, has a geographic range which extends in the eastern Atlantic from the Channel Isles and the French coasts of the western Channel in the north to the Cape Verde Islands and the West African coasts of Mauritania and Senegal in the south. Ormers are exploited both commercially and recreationally. Decreasing natural stocks and increasing value for the flesh have led to an interest in mariculture of this species.
20499995|Major changes in the status of the populations of the large gull species in Ireland have taken place over the past fifteen years. While marked declines have occurred in the numbers of breeding herring gulls Larus argentatus, over more or less the same period there has been a sharp increase in the population of lesser black-backed gulls L. fuscus. Moreover, this increase has not been confined to the numbers breeding but has also involved considerable changes to the size of the overwintering population. This paper describes the change in status of the lesser black-backed gull in Ireland with particular emphasis on the rate of increase of the breeding population and the geographical distribution and numerical strength of the overwintering flocks. The increase in breeding numbers of lesser black-backed gulls is most marked at coastal sites in the south and south-east of Ireland, where annual increases in excess of 14% have been recorded. A survey of overwintering lesser black-backed gulls carried out as part of this study has shown that the population has exceeded 12,000 birds. The overwintering flocks are again mostly confined to the south and south-east of Ireland.
41714044|Azoreductase from Pseudomonas putida WLY, which is a kind of induced and extracellular enzyme, was purified by Chromatographie methods. The purified azoreductase, with a molecular weight of 28,000Da, gave a single band on SDSPAGE. The maximal azoreductase activity was observed at pH 7.0 and 35C. The specific activity of the purified enzyme was 8.22 x 10U mg. The K m value for X-3B was 39M and the maximal velocity (V max ) was 12mol of X-3B min mg. The purified azoreductase catalyses the reductive cleavage of the azo bond of X-3B in the presence of NADH as electron donor and yields aniline. The purified azoreductase is inhibited by several metal ions, including Fe and Ca, and is activated by Mg. The result of eliminating the plasmid of P. putida WLY showed that the azoreductase coding gene locates in the plasmid DNA.
20504504|Urease activity was determined in nineteen soils at three depths (0-100mm, 100-200mm and 200-300mm) by incubating at 6C for 40h. Activity was also determined using standard methods involving buffered and unbuffered incubations at 37C. The soils had been in long-term pasture (n = 11) and long-term tillage (n = 8) and included eight pasture--tillage counterparts. Each assay showed that mean urease activity decreased with increasing depth, especially in pasture soils. At 6C, activity in the 100-200mm and 200-300mm layers of pasture soils was  0.38 and 0.19 times that in the 0-100mm layer. Corresponding data for tillage soils were 0.90 and 0.67 respectively. Generally, the mean trends reflected relative activities in pasture (but not tillage) layers. When 100kg urea-N ha was assumed to be dispersed throughout each soil depth, the estimated time for complete urea hydrolysis at 6C ranged from 3.6h to 27.0h, 7.5h to 40.0h and 8.0h to 80.0h at 0-100mm, 100-200mm and 200-300mm depths respectively. Risk of significant urea leaching in the field is likely to be small, however, since the residence times for urea in subsurface soil layers are expected to be shorter than those observed in the current study.
20499892|The macrobenthos and associated sediment of Galway Bay were sampled in 1975-7 using a dredge. Hierarchical classification of faunal binary data showed a number of discrete associations, some of which have known equivalents in coastal European seas. Their distributions in Galway Bay are considered in relation to the sedimentological data, water depth and exposure level.
biolenviprocria.115B.3.211|The long-term sustainability of fish stocks is dependent upon the identification of biologically meaningful demographic boundaries and, subsequently, appropriate assessment figures and management strategies. In the case of the horse mackerel,
20500195|Two turloughs on the east Burren limestones in County Galway were the subject of a study of current and recent management practices. Farmers with animals on each turlough were interviewed about stock type, stocking density, time of stocking and fertiliser application. Cattle were and still are the dominant stock, but average densities have increased by over 60% over 40 years. One turlough (Caherglassaun) has a history of fertiliser use, and stocking levels are more intense. There was no standard grazing time or stocking density for either turlough. Farmers often operated quite different regimes for the same turlough. The maximum length of any regime was almost seven months, the period without flooding. These results are discussed in relation to the designation of many turloughs as Candidate Special Areas of Conservation (CSACs). Flexibility in devising management plans for the turloughs is recommended.
biolenviprocria.117b.1.1|Trait-based approaches, which focus on the functional characteristics of organisms rather than their taxonomic identity, offer a means to explain how plant communities and ecosystem functions respond to environmental change. Here I review recent developments in the use of plant trait-based approaches for interrogating the functioning of soils and their response to global change. Plant traits impact soil functioning via multiple routes with feedback consequences for biogeochemical cycles and plant community dynamics. They also display a high degree of plasticity in response to global change; as such, there is much potential for global change-induced shifts in trait spectra, both aboveground and belowground, to impact soil functions with feedbacks to biogeochemical cycling across multiple scales. Recent research reveals that root traits play a particularly important role in influencing the soil environment, with strong impacts on a host of physical, chemical and biological soil properties. Although a fast-moving topic, many challenges regarding the use of trait-based approaches to interrogate soil functioning remain. I identify three. First, there is a need for improved understanding of genotypic- and species-level variation in plant traits, especially of root traits that have the strongest potential to influence soil function. Second, there is a need to incorporate new understanding of links between plant traits and soil processes into terrestrial biogeochemical and dynamic vegetation models, in order to enhance their predictive power. Finally, there is a need to harness new understanding of plant traits and their impact on soil functions in sustainable food production systems, in particular to enhance resource acquisition by crop plants. This last point is especially important given the extent that soils are degraded worldwide, and the need to develop sustainable ways of managing soil to prevent further degradation whilst also increasing the production of food.
20694883|Phenology, the study of the timing of recurring life cycle events, has gained global scientific recognition in recent years as it demonstrates how ecosystems are responding to climate change. However, in Ireland the systematic recording of phenological events has not been traditionally undertaken. Here we present some recently rediscovered historic phenological records, abstracted from the Irish Naturalists' Journal for the period 1927-1947 (with a gap from 1940 to 1945) and analyse them with respect to temperature data, sourced from Dr Tim Mitchell's Tyndall Centre webpage. We find that in many cases in Ireland spring phenological events, such as first flowering, first leafing and first observations of insects, show an earlier trend in response to increasing spring temperatures over the study period. In addition, we compare spring migrant bird arrival dates from the Irish Naturalists' Journal records with those abstracted from various published and unpublished bird records from the eastern region of Ireland for the period 1969-1999. We demonstrate that five out of the seven species analysed were recorded earlier in the more recent time period, and three of these were significantly earlier. These results illustrate the value of historic phenological data records for investigating and comparing past and present climate influences on species developmental behaviour.
20504523|Burren grassland is an important habitat for biodiversity conservation, but studies to date have not provided sufficient scientific understanding of vegetation dynamics to inform selection of appropriate management prescriptions. This paper reports on a pilot scale study on a small grassland patch on limestone pavement near Mullach More in the Burren National Park. Through experimental manipulation, it examines the effects of grazing and bare soil gap creation on vegetation dynamics and reproductive success over six years, with a focus on temporal changes in cover, species richness, flowering rates, turnover and mobility. Cessation of grazing resulted in very marked frequency reductions for most species, but increases for some grasses and increased flowering frequency in some forb species. Gap creation resulted in vegetation change that persisted for at least two years under ungrazed treatment, but for six years in grazed sward. Soil depth decreased under grazing but increased under ungrazed treatment. The grassland patch had attributes suggestive of both equilibrium and non-equilibrium vegetation dynamics. As the small study area selected may not be fully representative of the markedly heterogeneous Burren landscape, this paper does not arrive at conclusions in relation to all Burren grasslands and their conservation, but rather identifies some attributes important in informing prescription selection that require further testing at larger scale.
20500106|Fire history data provide information on the role of fire as a long-term ecological process and the changes in fire activity that have occurred in response to variations in climate, vegetation and human activity. Fire reconstructions are derived from dendrochronological records that span the last few centuries and charcoal records obtained from the sediments of lakes and wetlands that span millennia. Several advances in the study of charcoal records have improved their usefulness for palaeoecological research. For example, calibration studies of charcoal inputs during and following recent fires indicate that macroscopic charcoal particles are not transported far from the source area. In addition, high-resolution charcoal time series are now interpreted in terms of two components--a peaks component that registers past fire events and a background component that represents long-term variations in charcoal production and transport. This paper presents an examination of charcoal and pollen records from the western United States that illustrates the potential of this type of research for reconstructing past environments.
20499941|A short-term anaerobic assay was used to determine the potential denitrifying enzyme activity (DEA) of the top 5cm of 24 field moist soils collected in March 1989 and, in order to determine if there was a seasonal effect, on a representative subset of these soils on five occasions during the period November/December 1988 to August 1989. The 24 soils were selected to give a large variation in their physical and chemical properties. Of these properties, DEA correlated best with exchangeable Mg (r = 0.85), which was itself highly correlated with indicators of soil organic matter such as cation exchange capacity and organic carbon. Dry matter was negatively correlated with DEA (r = -0.75) and reflected the moisture content of the soil at the time of collection. When Mg was added to various soils in laboratory experiments, no significant effect on DEA was observed, indicating that the effect of Mg on DEA was indirect. The DEA value was also found to vary with time of year, being highest during the summer months. There was some suggestion that annual field denitrification rates (DN) at two sites were related to DEA values. Soils from the same HOST class (Hydrology of Soil Types) appeared to have the same DEA:DN ratio. This relationship is discussed in relation to developing a Geographic Information System approach which would predict and map relative annual denitrification losses on a regional basis.
20499951|Pollen and macrofossil analyses of raised bog peats associated with prehistoric wooden trackways at Corlea, Co. Longford, reveal a series of environmental changes on the 'dry' land bordering the extensive (and now commercially worked) bog and on the bog itself. An early form of land clearance of a landnam type, lasting about 250 years, occurred in conjunction with an elm decline at 5100 radiocarbon years BP (3890 BC in calibrated years). This pre-dates the earliest trackway, Corlea 9, dated to 3580 BC, which was built at a time for which there is no direct palynological or archaeological evidence of nearby human activity. Pollen found in association with the trackway indicates the presence of cleared areas not registered in the bog record. The apparent absence of human activity for about a millennium after this time, as illustrated in the pollen record from the peat, is questioned on the basis of the trackway pollen record and the sudden expansion of Fraxinus (ash) at 3000 BC. The possibility of a form of limited forest farming which is not registered in the pollen record from the bog, but which would have encouraged ash and hazel, is proposed.
20499911|A field experiment was carried out to determine whether artificial substrata used for the routine monitoring of mussel settlement required conditioning prior to deployment in order to record mussel colonisation rates accurately. Two experimental treatments, freshwater- and seawater-conditioned pads, were compared with unconditioned pads in terms of the density and population structure of mussel spat recruiting to them after a two-week deployment on a rocky seashore. No significant differences in the density or population structure of the mussels among the three treatments were found. It is concluded that the particular artificial substrata used, flat nylon domestic pan scourers, do not require this type of conditioning prior to deployment in order to monitor settlement.
20499961|The diet of rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus was investigated by analysis of faeces collected each month over one year from three warrens on upland grassland. Three-quarters of the diet was grass, with the remainder made up of approximately equal quantities of sedges, rushes and forbs--the last comprising mainly relatively minute amounts of a variety of species--together with small quantities of moss. Although Agrostis capillaris was the dominant grass, at two of the warrens several other genera of grasses were as well or better represented in the faeces, indicating that A. capillaris is not the preferred species. The genera Anthoxanthum, Deschampsia, Holcus, Cynosurus, Molinia, Dactylis, Poa and especially Festuca were also important food species, and locally Arrhenatherum, Danthonia and Lolium. In winter the rabbits grazed more Deschampsia flexuosa, Anthoxanthum odoratum, Poa annua and moss, the last three utilised probably because they continue to grow through the winter and thus provide fresh tissue. Agrostis, Nardus stricta and Molinia caerulea were eaten more often in summer, the last two almost certainly because they provide particularly poor grazing later in the year.
40716307|The Gormanstown razor clam bed, which measured 21km in extent in 1998, provided more than half the razor clams harvested in Europe for three years, 1999-2001. Exploitation of the bed commenced in late 1997. As a result of hydraulic dredging, the sediments have higher sorting coefficients and some larger grades were added in the form of shell fragments in the intervening years. The macrobenthos of the bed was monitored over a period of seven years, beginning one year after exploitation commenced. Throughout that time the dominant species, Ensis siliqua, which had accounted for up to 90% of the biomass in the first year of the study, declined to approximately 50% in 2005. Ensis siliqua displays the characteristics of a K-selected species: heavy standing biomass, type one survivorship curve and slow replication. Coinciding with exploitation, the bed was invaded by other deposit and suspension-feeding bivalves, notably Pharus legumen and Lutraria lutraria, whose population expansion can be traced to the early dredge fishery. The ratio of Ensis to Lutraria sampled weights was 124:1 in 1998, but it steadily advanced to 1.2:1 in 2005. Thus Lutraria, another suspension feeder, has displaced the razor clam. The Shannon-Wiener index of diversity rose as exploitation of the bed progressed, and in 2005 (eight years after dredging commenced), it had not returned to its 1998 level. However, the trend over the period was downwards, suggesting that a new stability involving a different species composition may be achieved. An age length key applied to length-frequency distributions of E. siliqua indicated that no age class older than age eleven has accounted for 10% of the population since 2001, although that was usually the case in the four preceding years.
20500076|Vegetation history derived from pollen analysis of an Irish midlands raised bog is presented. The profile has been radiocarbon dated and covers the period from late Neolithic to early Christian times (4200-1100 BP). The pollen record also demonstrates that prehistoric agriculture in the region was both sporadic and of low intensity. Mongan Bog is situated in Co. Offaly, adjacent to important archaeological sites at Clonmacnoise and Clonfinlough, and so its pollen record provides environmental context. The almost exclusive use of Fraxinus timber at Clonfinlough coincides with its dominance over Ulmus in the region at the time of construction. The establishment of the monastery at Clonmacnoise coincides with evidence of sustained and more intense agriculture in the vicinity.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|Excessive nutrient loading to the marine environment from different sources and pathways, including rivers, has led to nutrient over-enrichment and the phenomenon of eutrophication in estuaries and coastal waters. The systematic monitoring of riverine nutrient inputs to Ireland's marine environment began in 1990. Over this period there has been a large reduction in nutrient inputs with loads of total phosphorus, total ammonia and total nitrogen decreasing by 71.8% (4,716 tonnes), 77.3% (5,505 tonnes) and 39.0% (59,396 tonnes), respectively. The largest reductions, particularly in total phosphorus and total ammonia, were seen in the main rivers discharging to the Celtic and Irish Sea coasts, with smaller or no reductions in rivers discharging along the western and north-western Atlantic coast. The reductions indicate the success of measures to reduce nutrient loss but also the disproportionate reduction in phosphorus over nitrogen. The ratio between nitrogen and phosphorus loads has increased by 2.5% per year and by as much as 4.1% per year for discharges to the Celtic Sea. As a consequence, the stoichiometric N:P ratio of river inputs to the Celtic Sea has more than doubled. The potential for this disparity to create a nutrient imbalance in downstream estuarine and coastal waters is discussed.
20499912|A comprehensive review of the literature has revealed that Mycelis muralis (L.) Dumort, wall lettuce, was known in Ireland nearly a century earlier than has been recognised previously. A study of all records for M. muralis in Ireland suggests that the number of sites occupied by this species is increasing, and we document its occurrence in 25 vice-counties. Outside the Burren M. muralis is most commonly associated with habitats that have been influenced by man, and the evidence indicates that these populations are a result of chance introduction. These habitats include walls, roadside banks, rock outcrops and woodland. The majority of the populations identified were found on walls and in shaded locations in soils with varying pH and nutrient status. However, M. muralis reaches its greatest abundance in Ireland on the limestone pavement of the Burren, although it also occurs in woodland in this region. Previous accounts indicate that M. muralis had only been recorded in the Burren since the 1930s, and no older records have been discovered in this study. In the absence of older records, a definitive judgement on the status of M. muralis in the Burren may never be possible. Comparisons of plant performance in exposed and shaded environments show that both vegetative and reproductive performance was higher in high-light environments. This suggests that an ability to grow in shaded habitats is not necessarily associated with an impaired performance in high-light environments and may not preclude a species from colonising exposed situations.
20499994|Foam was collected from 21 rivers in southern and western Ireland in autumn 1993 and 1994 and early spring 1994, and aquatic hyphomycete spores were enumerated and identified. Sixty-eight aquatic hyphomycete species were identified, with a significantly greater number of species being recorded from rivers with a riparian vegetation of woodland than from rivers with a more herbaceous vegetation. The number of species recorded in this study was comparable to numbers recorded from Europe and North America. However, the mean number of taxa recorded per river (26.5) was comparatively low. Detrended correspondence analysis showed that rivers of contrasting water hardness and conductivity could be differentiated on the basis of differences in the composition of their aquatic hyphomycete spora. Assemblages of associated species were also detected, such as those confined to soft-water rivers. TWINSPAN analysis also distinguished a core assemblage of species that were widely distributed.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.143|This paper assesses the contribution that Irish headwaters make to overall aquatic macroinvertebrate biodiversity of a river network by examining changes in the composition and structure of macroinvertebrate communities from source to 10km downstream. A total of 43 sites were sampled on three different rivers (Bilboa, Mulkear and Tar) in County Tipperary in the south of Ireland, recording a total of 154 taxa. Source sites had the highest number of unique species (20) compared to all other distances. When data from both source sites and 2km headwater sites were combined to give an overall headwater count, 24 species were identified as unique, representing 17% of the total macroinvertebrate taxon richness of the rivers examined. Headwaters also supported many species common to streams further downstream (38% of species in the present study), highlighting their potential to act as sources to downstream sites if natural or anthropogentic pressures cause local extinctions. Thus, headwaters are important in terms of catchment biodiversity but may also be critical for the restoration of downstream sites to good status as required by the Water Framework Directive.
23188065|Nitrate ( ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ ) pollution of water is a serious environmental problem, as ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ can contribute to the eutrophication of surface waters, and high levels may cause methaemoglobinaemia in formula-fed infants. Grassland agriculture is a major source of diffuse ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ pollution, with much of this ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ originating from urine deposited by grazing animals. The research objective was to determine the effectiveness of a nitrification inhibitor, dicyandiamide (DCD), in reducing ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ leaching under Irish dairy farming conditions. Urine was applied in autumn to undisturbed monolith lysimeters to replicate an average cattle urination (2l of 8.6g N l -1 urine), or 344kg N ha -1 equivalent. Nitrogen (N) fertiliser was applied at 141kg ha -1 and 291kg ha -1 . DCD was applied in autumn and spring. The total annual ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}$ losses from urine patches on three soils ranged from 16kg to 204kg ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}\mathrm{h}{\mathrm{a}}^{-1}$ . Peak concentrations on the non-urine treatments did not exceed 6.1mg ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}{1}^{-1}$ , but reached 17.1148.6mg ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}{1}^{-1}$ when urine was applied. DCD reduced the total ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}$ losses from urine treatments on the lighter soils by 38%42%, and reduced peak ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}-\mathrm{N}$ concentrations by over 50%. This trial has shown that DCD has the potential to significantly reduce ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ leaching losses from grazed grassland in Ireland.
20499954|A palaeoecological study of cladoceran remains in the sediments of Lough Garadice has been made, covering the past three centuries. From considerations of the absolute rates of accumulation of microfossils, three notable changes in the recent history of the lough can be dated to (i) the early eighteenth century (significant increase in Bosmina coregoni), (ii) the mid-nineteenth century (halt in the B. coregoni increase and temporary absence of Alona guttata), and (iii) the twentieth century (decline in B. coregoni, significant appearance of B. longirostris and increase in Daphnia spp). These changes are interpreted in terms of cladoceran ecology against historical evidence of changes in human and animal populations, the construction of the Ballinamore canal, sanitary history and soils of the catchment.
20694842|The UK and Ireland, in common with most other European states, are in the middle of a period of rapid expansion in the number of marine protected areas (MPAs). Most of these areas are being designated as Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) under the EU Habitats Directive. This level of activity will dominate the future of MPAs in Irish waters, presenting opportunities for marine conservation and potentially bringing wider benefits to society. The success of SACs is likely to depend heavily on the attitudes and engagement of people that use protected sites (stakeholders). This article reports on a stakeholder workshop where the potential benefits of, achievement of the potential of, and improvements in MPAs were discussed. A lack of baseline data and inefficient communication of existing information appear to restrict the perceived success of some existing reserves. Improvements seem possible in legislative coherence, public engagement and the science base. Resources for monitoring and managing protected areas are always likely to be stretched. Ways have to be found to make use of whatever data are available, potentially leading to public access websites for each SAC, where stakeholders can upload information. There appeared to be a broad consensus on many points in the day's discussions. In keeping with the workshop format, individual participants were invited to emphasise areas of omission, disagreement or consensus in comments that follow the main body of this article.
20500206|Multivariate morphometric and meristic analyses of Irish Arctic char Salvelinus alpinus (L.) from Lough Eske, Co. Donegal, and Lough Mask, Co. Mayo, are presented. The analysis illustrated the monomorphic character of the two populations despite differences in growth and size between the 'stunted', slower-growing Lough Eske fish and the 'normal', faster-growing Lough Mask fish. The results are discussed in the context of other systems where sympatric morphs have been described. Differences in body size and growth rate appear to reflect the trophic status and the productivity of the two lakes. The results confirm earlier findings, which were based on dietary analysis and analysis of metazoan parasites of both Irish populations of Arctic char.
20500212|Baled grass silage is an important ruminant feedstuff in Ireland. Bird attacks to the plastic stretch film surrounding the bales are a considerable problem. We carried out a national survey of bird activity in silage fields and a local crop utilisation survey and made observations of harvested plots containing bales to examine this problem. For the observations of harvested plots, groups of ten bales were made in a series of 0.5ha field plots throughout the summers of 1999 and 2000. Bales were individually wrapped in black plastic stretch film and remained in the field for 24h. Observations during this time indicate that rooks (Corvus frugilegus) and jackdaws (Corvus moneduala) were the primary users of grass silage stubbles and the main species that damaged the plastic film. The incidence of damage was sporadic, but when it occurred was often substantial. Behavioural observations suggest that their primary activity in the field was feeding on the grass stubble and that attacks to the plastic stretch film surrounding bales were a secondary behaviour.
41714033|Previous studies of short-eared owl Asio flammeus (Pontoppidan) diet in Ireland have all been relatively small in scale and restricted in time. A total of 759 prey items were recovered and identified for this study during six winters (2005/2006-2010/2011). A further 271 prey items collected by the same authors in 2004/2005 for a previous study makes this the largest body of work on the prey of short-eared owls carried out in Ireland to date at 1030 prey items. Bird prey made up 55.9% by number and 83.1% by weight, and mammal prey made up 42.4% by number and 16.9% by weight. Thirteen invertebrates were also recovered. Dunlin Calidris alpina (L.) was the most frequently taken bird species, followed by snipe Gallinago gallinago (L.) and redshank Tringa totanus (L.). Together, these three wading birds formed 62.2% of prey by weight. Passerine birds were also taken, but only the thrush family (Turdus spp), collectively, was of any importance at 10.1% of prey by weight. The wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) was the most frequently taken mammal species (8.2% by weight), while smaller numbers of other rodents and shrews were taken. Dunlin was an important prey species up to February, but declined thereafter, while snipe and redshank remained important throughout the winter. Passerine birds were also taken throughout the period, but their overall contribution was lower than that of wading birds. Brown rats Rattus norvgiens (Berkenhout) and small mammals were taken throughout, but their monthly contribution was generally below 20%, except for one occasion in April in one year. Chi-square tests showed significant differences in some prey species and categories between months and years. While the reasons for some of the differences remain unknown, others are related to prey numbers available in any given month. There is also a suggestion that the severe winter of 2010/2011 influenced the higher than expected number of dunlin, and the lower than expected number of small mammals taken as prey in that winter.
20499894|A high level of mortality occurred among a sample of brown trout contained for seven days in the acidified Lugduff River which drains an afforested catchment in County Wicklow on the east coast of Ireland. No evidence of stress was observed among brown trout contained in the adjoining Glenealo River, draining a non-afforested catchment. In the Lugduff River the fish tended to lie at right angles to the direction of a moderate flow prior to death, and showed evidence of disorientation and loss of energy. The trout showed extensive coating of aluminium and mucus on the lamellae of their gills, but evidence of fusion of the secondary lamellae was inconclusive. No difference was noted in the intensity of staining for both aluminium and mucus between the gills of the surviving fish in the Lugduff River and those that died during the experiment. However, when examined under a scanning electron microscope, a section of the gill of a surviving fish was seen to be free of mucus clogging. It is possible that this fish maintained gill function by partially clearing its gills. The high levels of acidity in the Lugduff River can be attributed to the impact of the scavenging of air pollutants by the canopies of the evergreen trees in its catchment.
40716308|On islands, one of the greatest risks to native wildlife is the establishment of alien species. In Ireland, the Irish hare (Lepus timidus hibernicus), the only native lagomorph, may be at risk from competitive exclusion and hybridisation with naturalised brown hares (L. europaeus) that were introduced during the late nineteenth century. Pre-and post-breeding spotlight surveys during 2005 in the north of Ireland determined that brown hare populations are established in mid-Ulster and west Tyrone. In mid-Ulster, brown hares comprised 53%-62% of the hare population, with an estimated abundance of 700-2000 individuals between pre-and post-breeding periods. Comparison of habitat niches suggest that Irish and brown hares have comparable niche breadths that at times completely overlap, suggesting the potential for strong competition between the species. Anecdotal evidence suggests that both species may hybridise. Further research is urgently required to assess the degree of risk that naturalised brown hares pose to the Irish hare population and what action, if any, is needed to ensure the future ecological security and genetic integrity of the native species.
20728576|Plasma thyroxine (T) concentrations and seawater tolerance were measured in one-year-old (S1) and two-year-old (S2) Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) smolts and S2 sea trout (Salmo trutta L.) smolts reared under natural temperature and photoperiod regimes in western Ireland (0934'W 5355'N). The S2 salmon and sea trout showed significant surges in T titres during AprilMay, which coincided approximately with the period of maximum seawater tolerance. However, no T surges were observed in S1 salmon during the sampling period (FebruaryJune). Nevertheless, S1 salmon exhibited a clear increase in seawater tolerance, indicating that they can complete smoltification without an observed elevation in T titres. The seawater tolerance of S2 sea trout progressively increased during the smolt period. The results demonstrate clear differences in seawater tolerance and the development of smoltification between sea trout and salmon.
20728597|Variation in the community composition of hedges in the Leinster region may be explained to a large extent by ecological factors. Disclosed patterns of community composition indicate a primary base-rich (Euonymus europaeus, Viburnum opulus) to base-poor (Rubus idaeus, Sorbus aucuparia) gradient, with a secondary wet to dry gradient also apparent. These differences correspond closely to the broad physiographic zonation of the Irish landscape. The underlying community composition pattern is complicated and to some extent obscured by the presence of a substantial synanthropic element, including Acer pseudoplatanus, Symphoricarpos albus, Prunus domestica and Fagus sylvatica. The patterns are further complicated at local level by the presence of drains, streams and boundaries of varying dates and manner of origin and by the occurrence of limestone-derived glacial soils and raised bogs in close proximity.
20500002|A lysimeter study was carried out to compare the effects on the chemical composition of the leachate of adding pig slurry to forest and grassland soil. The results suggest that the soil pH and the extent to which available ammonium was nitrified determined which cation was leached. Nitrification operated efficiently in grassland soil and the loss of nitrate was balanced by the loss of base cations. However, in forest soil less of the nitrogen was lost as nitrate and the cations leached included large proportions of ammonium and potassium rather than, for example, magnesium and aluminium. Pig slurry contains relatively high concentrations of heavy metals and the amounts of zinc leached from the acid forest soil, to which pig slurry had been applied, were significantly higher than those from the grassland soil, which had received the same amount of slurry but had a higher pH.
20500109|The palaeoecological evidence for Neolithic farming and its impact on the natural environment and, in particular, woodland cover and composition is reviewed. Particular attention is paid to mid-western Ireland, where the evidence from detailed radiocarbon-dated pollen diagrams provides the basis for reconstructing Neolithic farming and assessing the associated impact on the natural environment. Archaeological evidence is considered, including data from Cide Fields, northern Mayo, which includes megalithic tombs, large circular enclosures and a pre-bog stone-wall field system that extends over more than 1000ha. It is shown that at Cide Fields and Garrynagran, c. 16km to the south, intensive Neolithic farming continued over at least five centuries (until c. 5200 cal. BP) with complete deforestation at a local level and probably at a wider regional level. This was followed by an almost equally long period during which farming activity was negligible and woodland regenerated in the northern Mayo region. Towards the end of this period (late Neolithic / early Bronze Age), pine colonised peat surfaces on a wide scale (c. 4700 cal. BP) and there is evidence of a renewal of farming activity. A similar sequence of development is reported from western Connemara; though landnam was of shorter duration here (approximately three centuries), Neolithic farming activity appears to have been more localised and there is no evidence that farming involved construction of elaborate field systems. The evidence for Neolithic impact in Ireland as a whole is reviewed mainly on the basis of 34 pollen diagrams, which offer a palynological record that is detailed enough to allow us to confidently reconstruct human impact. We argue that Neolithic farming in Ireland is very much concentrated in the earlier Neolithic, i.e. between the Elm Decline at c. 5800 cal. BP and 5200 cal. BP, and that the later Neolithic is characterised by minimal levels of farming and woodland regeneration in which yew (Taxus) played an important role in several places, particularly in western Ireland. We also consider field systems in the Irish Neolithic and palynological evidence for woodland instability and Neolithic farming in pre-Elm Decline contexts (late Atlantic period). The evidence for instability is widespread and convincing, but it is often unclear whether the disturbances are the result of Neolithic farming or natural factors.
20500152|Fusarium head blight (FHB) of wheat has become one of the most important crop diseases in small-grain cereal production The FHB pathogen lowers grain yield and quality, and under favourable conditions it can also produce mycotoxins that pose a serious risk to animal and human health. Because environmental factors play a significant role in the spread of FHB, it is essential to evaluate control strategies under Irish growing conditions. This paper reviews the findings of the first major field research project to investigate control of Fusarium head blight in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in Ireland We examined two approaches to controlling the disease a short-term approach based on the use of fungicides and a longer-term approach based on the development of resistant cultivars by conventional plant-breeding techniques The results show that a satisfactory level of control can be achieved with fungicides We succeeded in identifying a number of lines with high levels of resistance to FHB under Irish field conditions. It is hoped that these resistant genes can be introgressed into a more adapted background with the ultimate objective of developing a resistant variety for Irish wheat-growers.
20499942|The purpose of this paper is to show the value of microtephra-linked palynological investigations in Holocene vegetation studies. A layer of tephra from the eruption of the Icelandic volcano Hekla (Hekla 4) in 2310  20 BC forms an isochronous marker horizon in deposits throughout much of the north of Ireland. Using this precisely dated isochrone at three contrasting sites, pollen-analytical studies have been performed to investigate vegetation history in these areas. Around 2310 BC hazel and oak woodland dominated the Antrim and Down lowlands, while more open scrub was the major vegetation of the Mourne Mountains.
20499976|An assessment of heavy metal concentrations was performed on two sheltered littoral locations on the north-west coast of Ireland, encompassing the tidal flat, eroded tidal marsh edge and backmarsh/supratidal settings. Both sites possess catchments devoid of major industries, allowing an indication of regional pollution levels to be approximated. Profiles of heavy metal concentrations were interpreted by considering diagenetic effects, with conclusions supported by grain size and organic carbon determinations. An increase in heavy metal concentrations landwards was observed, resultant upon increased organic components in the sediment and a dominance of metal-humic complexes. Concentrations of lead, copper, zinc, chromium and manganese were found to be relatively low for both sites, although an increase in anthropogenic input in recent sediments was implied. Both sites were also dated radiometrically. The dates calculated helped to show that the tidal marshes of north-western Ireland have not yet been anthropogenically modified to the point of toxicity.
42912447|Geomycology is the study of the roles of fungi in geological processes. The biogeochemical importance of fungi is significant in several areas, including nutrient and element cycling, rock, mineral and metal transformations, bioweathering and mycogenic biomineral formation. Such processes can occur in aquatic and terrestrial habitats, but it is the terrestrial environment where fungi probably have the greatest geochemical influence. Of special significance are the mutualistic relationships with phototrophic organisms: lichens (algae, cyanobacteria) and mycorrhizas (plants). Central to many geomycological processes are transformations of metals and minerals, and fungi possess many properties that effect changes in metal speciation, toxicity and mobility, as well as mineral formation or mineral dissolution or deterioration. Some fungal transformations have potential applications in environmental biotechnology, e.g. metal and radionuclide leaching, recovery, detoxification and bioremediation, and in the production or deposition of biominerals or metallic elements with catalytic or other properties. Metal and mineral transformations may also result in adverse effects when these processes result in spoilage and destruction of natural and synthetic materials, rock and mineral-based building materials (e.g. concrete), biocorrosion of metals, alloys and related substances, and adverse effects on radionuclide speciation, mobility and containment.
20499880|A brief introduction to the weevils (Curculionoidea) is given, together with a short account of the biology of the group. Identification of species is discussed. Irish records of species of Curculionoidea (excluding Scolytidae) are reviewed and the sources of records described, with emphasis on published accounts. Brief characteristics of the abundance of each species in Ireland are given, together with summaries of distribution, using the vice-county system. If there are specimens in the collections of the National Museum of Ireland, this is indicated. Two species have not previously been recorded in the Irish fauna; 246 species are regarded as certainly Irish; the status of 22 others requires clarification. The zoogeography, ecology and conservation of the species are discussed.
biolenviprocria.116B.1.1|Agricultural land use and land use change (LULUC), and land management practices have a major influence on the provision of multiple ecosystem services. Obtaining information on LULUC and land management is subject to numerous limitations, such as low spatial and temporal resolution of data, or high costs. In recent years the Land-Parcel Identification System (LPIS), a geodatabase developed to assist farmers with agricultural subsidies, has become available as a potential source of LULUC and management data to researchers in Ireland.
20500042|Ectomycorrhizas were identified on the root systems of nursery-grown lodgepole pine, Scots pine and silver birch planted onto a revegetation mine spoil site at Avoca, Co. Wicklow. The revegetation site was divided into plots and imported mine spoil added to each plot was treated with various combinations of lime, sludge and subsoil. The acidic, metalliferous mine spoil reduced seed germination of lodgepole pine and Scots pine, and nine-week-old seedlings did not form mycorrhizas in a pot study. The main ectomycorrhizal fungus identified on the planted trees at the revegetation site and from Midleton Nursery (Co. Cork) was Humaria hemisphaerica (Wigg.: Fr.) Fuckel. In naturally-regenerated forests around the revegetation site, a different population of ectomycorrhizas was found on trees of similar age. During autumn 1996 and 1997, fruit bodies of putative ectomycorrhizal fungi were collected in neighbouring forests. No fruit bodies were observed at the revegetation site. Inoculum cultured from fruiting bodies formed mycorrhizas and stimulated the growth of lodgepole pine. It was concluded that inoculation of tree seedlings with selected ectomycorrhizal fungi could enhance their establishment and growth on mine spoil at Avoca.
20499975|Quantitative phytoplankton samples collected during 1974/5 from a series of stations in Galway Bay were examined by inverted microscopy. Observations made on the diatoms are presented here. Seasonal changes in the numbers of the most common genera are examined and an annotated list of species is presented. Spring blooms developed during February and March and were dominated by Skeletonema in 1974 and Thalassiosira in 1975. Most of the recorded species would be considered as being neritic in origin. Variations were found in the species composition in different parts of the bay. Comparisons are made with other work carried out in this area, especially in the vicinity of Galway Bay.
20500087|During the years 1993 to 1996 surveys were carried out on 89 sandy beaches around the Irish coast from Malin Head in the north, along the west and south coasts, and on the east coast north to Dundalk. The hermit crab Diogenes pugilator (Roux, 1829), which had not previously been reported from Irish waters, was found on eight beaches between Portnablagh, Co. Donegal, in the north-west and Red Barn Strand, Co. Cork, in the south. The records given here represent a northward extension from its reported northern limit in Wales. Data are provided on the distribution and ecology of the species in Irish waters. In 1999 D. pugilator was found again on one of the surveyed beaches and exoskeletons were recorded at a ninth location, Bunduff Strand, Co. Sligo, showing that populations were still present in Irish waters.
20504514|An investigation of contrasting land uses on Brown Earth soils in eastern Ireland indicated modification of physical, chemical and morphological soil properties coincident with changes in soil animal diversity and abundance. The study area consisted of three adjacent plots which had comparable histories until the early 1950s but were then individually planted with Norway spruce, ash and grass. Forty-three years of Norway spruce monoculture increased acidity, reduced nutrient recycling, induced some mobilisation of organo-metallic complexes, and reduced the numbers and species of earthworms. A moder-like surface organic layer developed. Under a 44-year-old ash stand, pH and total exchangeable bases, especially Mg and K, were maintained at high values (c. 2 times greater than in the A1 horizon under spruce, and 7 and 3.5 times greater, respectively, than in the A1 horizon under pasture). High biological activity was reflected by an appreciable diversity and abundance of arthropod and earthworm species. Amounts of
20500214|The occurrence of dung beetles in the diet of hooded crows (Corvus corone cornix L.) was examined in order to identify possible biases in predation that could influence the structure of local dung beetle assemblages. Pellets and gizzards collected in southern Ireland indicated that crows fed largely on insects between March and September, and dung beetles (particularly Aphodius prodromus (Brahm)) were the most common insects in the diet in March and April. An abundance of alternative prey items, including Carabidae and Curculionidae, may have protected late summer dung beetles from intense crow predation. Small beetles (i.e. Hydrophilidae 2mm body length) did not occur in the pellets or gizzards and may be ignored or avoided by foraging crows. Field observations and diet analyses suggest that crows prefer to forage from fresh equine dung rather than fresh cattle dung. We suggest that such predation biases could play a role in determining dung beetle assemblage structures at microhabitat (dung type) and macrohabitat scales.
23188060|Since its inception in 1994, there has been strong demand for evidence of the environmental effectiveness of the Rural Environment Protection Scheme (REPS), which has paid farmers in the Republic of Ireland over 3 billion up to 2010. A variety of research projects have been undertaken that investigate the environmental effects of REPS through an examination of either specific environmental measures or specific geographical areas. A review of available publications has confirmed the absence of a comprehensive, national-scale study of the environmental impacts of REPS. For this reason, there is insufficient evidence with which to judge the environmental effectiveness of the national-scale implementation of the whole scheme. For some specific measures, however, sufficient evidence is available to inform an objective assessment in some cases, and to help learn how to improve environmental effectiveness in most cases. The majority of the REPS payments are now dedicated to biodiversity objectives. Thus, biodiversity measures and options should be a priority for any national-scale environmental assessment of the scheme. Such a study would help identify the environmental benefits of REPS, the specific elements of REPS that are performing adequately, and those elements that are in need of improvement. Given the considerable overlap between REPS measures and options and those included in the 2010 Agri-Environment Options Scheme (AEOS), the assessment of REPS measures could also be used to inform the likely environmental performance of the AEOS.
41714047|Eleven different mycorrhizal types were found on samples of roots of Arctostaphylos uva-ursi and Helianthemum oelandicum spp piloselloides from the Burren, Co. Clare. Three types, Cantharellus aurora, Cenococcum geophilum and Tomentella sp. were common to both hosts; these types are also common on roots of Dryas octopetala in the Burren. Ectomycorrhizas of C. aurora have not been previously reported on roots of either A. uva-ursi or H. oelandicum spp piloselloides, nor have tomentelloid ectomycorrhizas been previously reported from roots of H. oelandicum spp piloselloides. The identities of the other mycorrhizal types were not confirmed by morphological comparisons or DNA evidence.
20504490|Five techniques were assessed to determine their accuracy in revealing the age of 50 fallow deer of known age from an enclosed population. The pattern of tooth eruption is described for comparison with other fallow deer populations. The four other techniques--(i) incisor height, (ii) molar height, (iii) molar wear and (iv) annuli in dental cementum--are directly compared. Of these four methods, incisor height was the most appropriate method for the study population and accurately aged almost 90% of males. Males were aged more accurately than females by the three methods for which comparison was possible.
20728605|High mountain (alpine) vegetation in Europe occurs above the climatic treeline or substitute vegetation from north of the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean. As bearing the least modified ecosystems, high mountains offer an opportunity to use their plant and animal species for studying climate change impacts. However, the indicator value of the different vegetation types varies. Treelines, often used in reconstructing past climate by palaeo-scientists, are, in most cases, suppressed by past or present land use and, as a result, their changes need careful interpreting. Glacier forefields are the theatre of primary succession and vegetation changes there have an innate temporal dimension that needs to taken into account. Changes in snowbeds can occur over a relatively short time and are readily interpretable, as long as potential confounding impacts by herbivores are excluded. In the long-term, remote alpine summits with long-established vegetation (but less so those in the sub-nival zone, where primary succession is underway) are likely to yield useful and interpretable information beyond the short- to medium-term impacts of the vagaries of mountain weather.
biolenviprocria.115B.1.11|The hazel dormouse (
20694891|The EU Water Framework Directive has created research opportunities and challenges for water-quality managers and paleolimnologists alike. Opportunities have arisen through increased attention to water-quality issues, and these in turn have led to enhanced funding for palaeolimnological research. Scientific challenges include identifying aquatic-system pressures, assessing risks, defining non-impacted reference conditions and developing new indicator and classification systems. These challenges have provided the aquatic science research communities with a range of highly relevant and urgent research questions. Addressing these questions requires a collaborative, systematic, whole-catchment approach that, in addition to palaeolimnologists, involves modellers and scientists from other disciplines, water-quality managers, policy-makers and the general public.
biolenviprocria.114.2.89|Surveys of southern Irish rivers and streams confirmed the presence of five sponge species:
biolenviprocria.115B.1.45|
               
20500123|Many species of grassland fungi are sensitive to the application of artificial fertilisers, especially those containing phosphorus. It may take a considerable time for fertilised sites to be rehabilitated, even if managed positively for nature conservation. In this respect, analysis of the resident mycota offers an excellent way to identify and classify ancient unfertilised grassland sites. The present paper seeks to further knowledge of these habitats in Ireland by presenting preliminary results for Ireland of a waxcap survey of the British Isles instigated by the British Mycological Society. We review various systems used in Continental Europe for assessing the quality of ancient grasslands through their mycota. We have constructed a system for assessing Irish grassland sites using a species quality score that takes into account species indicator value in a broader context combined with apparent rarity in Ireland. The system is simple and robust and can be used in parallel with the other Continental systems.
20694855|Sediment coring for subsequent elemental analysis and radionuclide dating is an effective way to reconstruct sedimentation and contamination chronologies in sheltered marine environments. Of four sediment cores collected in Strangford Lough, three showed clear spikes in the mass accumulation of sediment in the late 1970s and early 1980s. These brief periods of heavy sedimentation also coincided with periods of conspicuous change in particle-size parameters in two cores. Monthly meteorological data for Northern Ireland suggest that wind speeds and rainfall were also above average for this period. However, the majority of the annualised meteorological data failed to correlate with the particle-size parameters or the sedimentation rate. Heavy-metal analysis indicated that most metals are near a predicted background concentration, although Cd appears to be particularly enriched, and Cd concentrations continue to increase in the most recent deposits. This study furthers our understanding of historical rates of sedimentation in Strangford Lough. The influence of anthropogenic activities on sedimentation dynamics is also discussed.
20500040|Vegetation can modify the local geochemistry of natural soils, but the effects of plants on artificial sediments, including mine tailings, are not well understood To study the effects of wetland plants on the metal mobility in stagnant, waterlogged Zn-Pb mine tailings, a specialised lysimeter chamber was designed to allow repeated collection of porewater samples from specific locations relative to plant roots. These root-zone containers consisted of a central mesh root enclosure (containing Typha latifolia, Glyceria fluitans and an unplanted control) and special dialysis vials situated at distances horizontal to and below the root enclosures The porewater was analysed for pH and concentrations of Fe, As and Zn Soil redox potential (Eh) was also measured at specific locations Statistical analysis (split-plot ANOVA) highlighted significant effects of plant presence within and between the experimental treatments Typha latifolia caused decreased pH and increased soluble Zn near (as far as 1cm) and below the roots, while G fluitans showed little effect on the sediment chemistry. The time--species interaction emerged as a significant factor in the plant-induced metal mobility patterns Results of this study may have implications for the development and efficacy of wetland cover over stagnant mine tailings ponds and long-term soil toxic metal retention.
20499939|The thermal regime of the hummock-hollow complexes on Clara bog (Co. Offaly, Ireland) was studied during the summer of 1990 and the winter of 1991 and was found to be mainly dependent on the differences in physical properties of the peat and the interaction with vegetation structure. Differences in specific volumetric heat capacity and thermal conductivity between hummocks and hollows have implications for their thermal behaviour. Their varying thermal responses indicate that hummocks and hollows should be considered as interconnected but simultaneously independent systems. The lower water content of the hummock, resulting in a lower specific volumetric heat and thermal conductivity, means that its surface layers may not only heat up quickly but also act as an insulating blanket, protecting the deeper layers from cooling in the summer nights or heating up during the winter days. Larger diurnal amplitudes in temperature were found in the surface layer of the hollow compared with the slope and hummock. These result from higher maximum temperatures. Minimum temperatures in the hollow are higher than in the slope or hummock, since heat is supplied to the surface from the layers deeper down the profile, where it was stored during the day. Hummocks store little heat and temperatures therefore drop more during the night. Vertical variation in thermal regime, owing to delayed responses to warming or cooling of the surface, gives rise to horizontal thermal variation. The effect of this phenomenon on nutrient supply and water movement in the hummock-hollow complex is discussed.
20500151|We sampled chydorids (Branchiopoda, Anomopoda) from 29 Irish lakes between June 1996 and July 1997 in order to assess the usefulness of this group as an indicator of lake ecological quality, as required by the recently published EU Water Framework Directive. The lakes represented a wide range of the physicochemical conditions found in Irish lakes We identified 31 species of Chydoridae from the lakes and used multivariate analysis to elucidate the relationship between the chydorids and their environment Groups of lakes were found to have distinct chydorid communities, the structure and composition of which depended on environmental variables such as total phosphorus, total nitrogen, alkalinity, conductivity and lake size. The study highlights the potential value of this group as a biotic indicator of ecological change in Irish lakes.
20694862|Velvet crabs (Necora puber (L.)) are taken mainly as a by-catch in the pot fishery for large crustaceans. N. puber is negatively associated with spider crabs (Maja brachydactyla Balss) and positively associated with brown crabs (Cancer pagunus L.). In the Irish Sea, which yields small quantities of brown crabs, velvets have greater commercial significance, and they are targeted. Individuals from 28 samples of velvet crabs were described to characterise landings of the species. The female:male ratio was low, as was fecundity, which was typical of the northern European subgrouping of the species. Carapacewidth frequencies of males and females were disaggregated by a Bhattacharya plot into six groups of males and four groups of females. Females have been described as having a lower life expectancy than males in this species. An age of eight to ten years is proposed as the required age to achieve maximum size in the male. Average male and female size and weight within samples correlated highly significantly, and males were used as indicators of population structure as more information was obtained on males. Age at full recruitment of males correlated inversely with landings over a period of ten years; the mortality coefficient (Z) correlated positively with landed weights. There are no conservation measures currently in force in Ireland for this species, but it is difficult to hold in captivity, and most of the trade is live export. Hence this species is landed at 20-34% of potential landing places, only where suitable buyers are available, although the species is believed to occur in all coastal waters. Spatially discontinuous exploitation fabours a sustainable velvet fishery.
20728596|Ireland has one of the richest bryofloras in Europe, with a wealth of Atlantic species that is shared only with western Scotland. Until recently knowledge of Irish bryophyte distribution has nevertheless been insufficient to inform conservation priorities. Intensive field surveys of rare and threatened bryophytes in Ireland were therefore carried out during 1999-2005 and are continuing. The draft Red List of Irish bryophytes from 1998 has already been greatly altered by this work, with deletion of 53 taxa that were under-recorded, whereas 24 taxa have been newly discovered in Ireland and several others that had been lost for more than a century have been rediscovered. The result should eventually be a more reliable Red List that provides an effective tool for conservation of threatened bryophytes, by recognising which taxa are really threatened and which populations are of greatest importance in a European context. Action to protect bryophytes in Ireland can then be developed more effectively. It has been realised that certain habitats are especially threatened, most notably the montane 'Northern Hepatic Mat', but also some coastal sites and intermediate fens.
20499896|A survey of otter holts was carried out along 47km of watercourse within the River Blackwater catchment. In general, there were three types of holts and the majority (76%) were constructed in tree root systems. Holts were also located in limestone cliff faces and earthen banks. Differences in the types of holt found between the habitats were highly significant. The number of holts close to human traffic were significantly lower than those not subjected to human interference.
20728603|Machair is a highly specialised and complex sand dune habitat that is confined globally to the north-west coasts of Ireland and Scotland. It comprises a flat or gently undulating sandy plain that develops in an oceanic location with a cool, moist climate. Machair systems are highly calcareous, the sediments usually containing a high percentage of shell fragments and having pH values in excess of 7. The vegetation is herbaceous, with low frequency of typical sand-binding species such as Ammophila arenaria. Irish machair is designated as a priority habitat under the EU Habitats Directive and as such Ireland has special responsibility for its conservation. The quality and extent of machair in Ireland is increasingly under threat from human pressures such as housing developments, recreation and changes in agricultural practice. This paper describes the vegetation of Irish machair and examines how climatic, edaphic, geographic and anthropogenic factors not only influence the distribution and formation of machair, but the plant communities present. A comparison between the vegetation of Irish and Scottish machair reveals a high degree of similarity, with some variation that can be explained by different land-use and/or management practices.
20499927|In this article the results of a study on hummock-hollow complexes on Clara bog (Co. Offaly, Ireland) are presented. The present size of the bog is the result of peat-cutting, road-building and drainage. These activities influenced the hydrology of the western side of the bog, where the main flow of water is in a south-easterly direction. Specific distribution patterns of nutrients are found, with
42912484|Concentrations of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) were determined in the muscle tissue of the fish commonly known as mullet (Mugil cephalus; in Mexico, lisa). Muscle tissues were collected during bimonthly samplings from March 2010 to February 2011 in the Navachiste Bay (southwestern area of the Gulf of California). The pesticides -HCH and dieldrin were the substances most frequently detected throughout the collection period, while endosulfan 1, endosulfan 2, endrin, heptachlor epoxide, -HCH and methoxychlor were identified in 80% of the samples analysed. Other pesticides were found in 20%-60% of samples. No correlation was found among water physicochemical parameters and OCP concentration. The one-way variance analysis between OCP concentrations and collection months revealed no significant differences. The correlation between OCP concentrations and the weight or size of the fish was not significant, although between size and weight there was a significant correlation. During the study period, as a whole, the pesticides that showed the highest concentrations above 0.3ppm per sample were -HCH (MAY-JUN-2010), dieldrin (JAN-FEB-2011), dieldrin (JULAGO-2010), methoxychlor (two samples in MAR-ABR-2010) (0.568, 0.533, 0.533, 0.503 and 0.330ppm, respectively). The pesticides aldrin, dieldrin, endosulfan (1 and 2), heptachlor epoxide, DDT and -HCH, are listed in Appendix III of the Rotterdam Convention, which means that their use is illegal in most signatory countries. According to results, the higher OCP concentrations detected make frequent consumption of M. cephalus a human health risk for the low-income population in the Navachiste area.
20728619|Surface water samples were collected from the Celtic Sea and adjacent waters during a two-week cruise in February/March 1985. Temperature, salinity, and nitrate-nitrogen were continuously monitored. Discrete samples were collected for chlorophyll a measurement and phytoplankton analysis. The results show distinct coastal and offshore water masses. Waters close to the Irish and Welsh coasts were characterised by low temperatures and salinities but high nitrate-nitrogen concentrations. Offshore waters were warmer and had higher salinities and lower concentrations of nitrate-N. However, although low chlorophyll a concentrations were generally found, they were highest in the coastal waters. Cryptophytes and other small flagellates were numerically dominant, but diatoms provided the larger contribution to both the chlorophyll a concentrations and the total volume of phytoplankton. The evenness and richness of diatom species was generally greatest off the south coast of Ireland. A list of species observed is given and is compared with published data for the same area. Most of the recorded diatom species have been shown by other workers to contribute to the spring bloom and to summer and autumn populations.
20799767|Zooplankton communities are an important component of the pelagic food web, but they are absent from the list of biotic elements to be considered for the assessment of ecological status in Annex V of the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC). We report here on an assessment of zooplankton populations across 32 lakes that represent a gradient of alkalinity and anthropogenic impact, primarily owing to nutrients and/or acidity. Acidic and oligotrophic lakes were typified by a high relative abundance of cladocerans, but with some key taxa groups absent from the most acidified lakes. Zooplankton total abundance increased across the trophic gradient. This interplay between acidity and productivity provides the potential to assess effects of anthropogenic pressure on zooplankton communities. Incorporation of ecological function, as opposed to structure, can additionally be evaluated through community attributes, particularly fecundity and size distribution. The assessment of the zooplankton can be cost-effective and related to reference conditions. Reasons for this omission from the requirements of monitoring under the Water Framework Directive are unclear, but this should not preclude the use of zooplankton communities if they can provide a valuable component for ecological assessment.
20500202|The distribution, density, diet and habitat use of the otter (Lutra lutra) were examined in the Araglin Valley, in counties Cork, Tipperary and Waterford. Otter signs (tracks, spraints, anal secretions, holts, etc.) and environmental conditions (river depth, river width, flow regime, vegetation cover, etc.) were recorded at 112 sites across three habitat types (agriculture, moorland and forestry) in the river valley. Three definite home range boundaries were delineated by high levels of sprainting and scraping, and results indicated the presence of six or seven otters. Significant correlations were recorded between otter signs and river depth, river width, lying-up availability and presence of holts, but no trends were found between otter signs and vegetation cover or flow velocity. A positive relationship was recorded between spraints and vegetation cover in the agriculture and moorland habitats, but a negative correlation was found in the forested sites. Percentage frequency of occurrence, relative percentage of frequency, and percentage bulk (Sc%) were calculated for twelve food categories based on seasonal data sets. Fish (mainly salmonids and eels) were the predominant food category in each season (Sc% = 70.03). Other significant food categories included small quantities of mammals, birds, frogs and crayfish (both in February and March). Considerable variation in otter diet was revealed and was related to differences among three different habitat types and to the location of the home range. In home range 3, fish prey were relatively scarce, while birds and frogs were more important. In contrast, fish was the more important food in home ranges 1 and 2. The trophic niche breadth of otter, evaluated using Levin's index, varied little throughout the study period, with a peak in spring/early summer and a minimum value in late autumn (October-November).
20499913|A survey of otter density and breeding was undertaken over a six-month summer/autumn period within part of the River Blackwater catchment, Co. Cork. A minimum density (inclusive and exclusive of subadults) was calculated based on direct observations of otters and track recordings. Excluding subadults, a minimum density of thirteen otters was estimated to be using 47km of watercourse, though overall home ranges would be likely to embrace considerably more habitat. Sprainting behaviour, site, sign and spraint density and home range boundaries were also investigated.
biolenviprocria.117b.2.107|Community-level physiological profiles (CLPP) were constructed of bacterial communities from potato ridge soil, potato bulk soil, woodland soil and non-sterile sand. The bacterial profile in ridge soil was shown to be significantly different to that of bulk soil from the same field in terms of overall activity and diversity. Woodland soil was shown to be the most functionally diverse of the four substrates tested. A second experiment was designed to determine the temporal changes in soil bacterial communities in potato ridge and bulk soil over the growing season. Cluster analysis and principal component analysis were used to differentiate between bacterial communities at different stages of plant development. Emergence of plants above ground and the onset of flowering were shown to alter the functional diversity of soil microbial communities. Further work in this area is recommended to examine the impact of plant development on soil bacterial communities. This is particularly timely given the emergence of novel, biological control methods for the management of important soil-borne plant pests.
20500222|Ireland's freshwater fish fauna, which is less diverse than that of the UK or mainland Europe, was historically dominated by salmonids. Subsequent changes to the species community in many waters has occurred due to a combination of human influences, including non-indigenous fish introductions, water pollution and habitat alterations. However, intact postglacial fish communities still remain in many parts of the country, and maintaining the biodiversity of these communities is of particular importance. It is argued that the genetic diversity within species such as brown trout needs to be recognised by state agencies and fishery managers and that separate species recognition is appropriate in some instances. The paper discusses the development of freshwater fish conservation in the Irish Republic today and deal specifically with the main state agencies entrusted with their conservation, the Fisheries Boards. The paper reviews the more significant pieces of legislation at the disposal of the Fisheries Boards and other environmental authorities and highlight areas that require further attention. Irish planning legislation and some of the problems currently being encountered by Fisheries Boards in relation to the planning process are also examined.
20500198|The first Irish colony of the land winkle Pomatias elegans was found in the Burren, Co. Clare, in 1976, but the site was never surveyed. From the 28 July to the 7 August 2000 the extent and abundance of the P. elegans population was established in this locality. Standard searches by three people for five minutes each were used to determine the distribution of the snails. Live specimens were found to occupy an area of approximately 9ha of limestone pavement south of the wall along the coastal road north of Cnoc an Bhoirinn hill. Empty shells of P. elegans were found on a further 6ha of limestone immediately south of this area. No specimens were found in the area of grassland ( 5ha) that occurs within the limestone area. To estimate abundance, additional searches were carried out in standard areas of 2m following a stratified random sampling protocol. For this, the survey area was divided into rectangles of approximately 0.2ha using a differential GPS navigation system, and a single measurement was made at random within each rectangle. In order to estimate the fraction of the population that was found by this sampling procedure, a mark-release-recapture sampling programme was carried out at three sites where the snail was known to be common. The mean density of P. elegans was calculated, and the minimum population was estimated to be 247,000 individuals. The precision of the sampling methods and the pressures of grazing and housing development on the site are briefly discussed.
biolenviprocria.115B.1.17|Ant nests are a microhabitat within grasslands that provide habitat for a wide range of invertebrates, including mites. The mite assemblages inhabiting ant nests in Ireland are poorly studied. This paper compares the mite communities in nests of the yellow meadow ant,
42912437|The timing of phenological phases, such as leaf unfolding of trees, is partly driven by the weather. The impact of weather on the spring phenology of a selection of tree species in the phenological garden at Valentia Observatory, Caherciveen, County Kerry, Ireland, for the period 1967-2004 was assessed. In particular, the beginning of the growing season (BGS), as determined by the date of leaf unfolding, was considered. The impact on BGS of a range of meteorological parameters and derived parameters, including minimum, maximum and mean air temperature (C), soil temperature (C), rainfall (mm), sunshine (hours), number of air frost days and number of rain days was investigated. These parameters were averaged or summed over the months of February, March and April and linear regression analysis with BGS was carried out for several tree species. The results showed that the regression coefficients of BGS on minimum air and soil temperature were highest, with Populus canescens and Populus tremula showing the strongest relationships. Temperature parameters were found to be more important in driving advancing phenology than any other meteorological parameter tested.
23188047|Alterations in the structure of the vegetation and of the soil seed bank associated with primary invasions by alien species could create novel conditions that facilitate secondary invasions by other alien or weedy species. Here, we present a unique dataset collected from a site experiencing a process of secondary invasion by Fallopia japonica after having long been invaded by Gunnera tinctoria. These are among the largest herbaceous plant species in the world and among the worst invaders in Ireland. The main objectives of this study were 1) to test for differences in the soil seed bank associated with these invaders; 2) to discuss the potential role of changes in the soil seed bank associated with G. tinctoria invasions in promoting secondary invasions by F. japonica; and 3) to discuss the potential role of niche and fitness differences in determining the outcomes of competition between these species. The differences in the characteristics of the seed bank invaded by these species were evaluated by collecting samples in comparable, adjacent areas invaded by G. tinctoria and by F. japonica. Soil samples were collected at to two points in time (May and October), from three depth categories (05cm; 510cm; 1015cm). The seedling emergence approach was used to assess the structure of the soil seed bank. Fallopia japonica showed a capacity to alter substantially the structure of invaded soil seed bank within a short period of time. Significant changes in the composition, richness and abundance of the seed bank were observed, in both the transient and the more persistent component of the seed bank. A capacity for a rapid displacement (few years only) of long-term stands of G. tinctoria suggest a higher competitive ability for F. japonica and/or an availability of empty niches not occupied by G. tinctoria. Our findings show that the formation of a persistent soil seed bank by an invasive species is not a sufficient condition for preventing its displacement by another invader. This study represents an important starting point for evaluating the long-term implications of plant invasions on invaded ecosystems and on the potential causes of secondary invasions.
20500153|During 1996 the present author sampled diatom biomass monthly from three spawning fords on the River Bush in County Antrim, using both the glazed and unglazed surfaces of ceramic tiles A high biomass of benthic diatoms occurred in the river during spring 1996, and it is possible that this reflects the situation in most years It is also possible that in certain years in the presence of optimal growth parameters, such as low flows, the diatom biomass hinders alevin emergence The concentration of nutrients such as silica, soluble reactive phosphorus and total oxidised nitrogen never limited diatom growth during 1996. The decline in diatom populations in late spring 1996 was probably attributable to invertebrate grazing.
20500033|A census of the population of freshwater pearl mussel Margaritifera margaritifera in a 1.6-km stretch of lowland river in south-west Ireland was taken as part of an environmental impact study for a proposed flood relief scheme. Ninety-four cross-sections (2-3m wide) were taken and various habitat parameters were recorded. The total population was estimated to be 14,194 and four juveniles were recorded. High mussel densities were associated with shaded channels and low channel depths.
20728598|Review of literature on glacial history indicates that all trees had to migrate into Ireland during the current interglacial (since 10,000 years ago). More diverse tree floras existed in Ireland in previous interglacials. The collation of palynological data from 32 sites indicates that the early tree invaders migrated from the south. Other data suggest that the Irish Sea was a barrier to later tree migrants. The evidence for land bridges and timing of isolation of Ireland is unclear, but early tree migration across the Celtic Sea may have been facilitated by a forebulge land-bridge model. Tree migration rates have been calculated, and these indicate that vectors must also have assisted in the migrations. Data on the genetic diversity of oak across Europe also support the proposed migration route into Ireland.
20499914|Fifty-one accidentally oiled mute swans were allowed to recover in captivity without being cleaned. Rehabilitation took from 30 to 101 days, with a mean of 63 days. Nine swans died while in captivity and 42 were released. At least 33 (65%) were still alive five months after the spillage. The mortality of rehabilitated swans was significantly higher than that of a control group of unoiled swans in the five-month period immediately following release. However, there was no significant difference in mortality between the rehabilitated and unoiled swans over the next four years. Only one rehabilitated swan bred in the year following rehabilitation, but in subsequent years the numbers breeding and productivity were normal.
23033879|Present study deals with the seasonal effects of domestic wastewater on the chromium reduction potential of strains Bacillus cereus S-6 and Ochrobactrum intermedium CrT-1. The presence of domestic wastewater from various localities caused a 20%30% decrease in the Cr (VI) reduction potential of these bacteria. However, Cr (VI) reduction potential was 5%20% higher in the presence of domestic wastewater collected in the summer season as compared to the winter season. The optimum temperature for reduction was observed at 37C in case of B. cereus (96.9% Cr (VI) reduction) and 45C in O. intermedium (96% Cr (VI) reduction). The pH preferences for optimum Cr (VI) reduction in these strains was pH 7 and pH 9 in case of B. cereus (93% Cr (VI) reduction) and O. intermedium (97% Cr (VI) reduction), respectively. The rate of Cr (VI) reduction was more in both strains when initially supplied with 100g ml -1 of K 2 CrO 4 as compared to 500g ml -1 and 1000g ml -1 . In the presence of three domestic wastewater samples, the rate of Cr(VI) reduction was slightly less where the effluent was used in sterilised form.
20500005|Fen and wet flush vegetation in Ireland that is dominated by Schoenus nigricans is described in this paper, which is based on analysis of 108 relevs, 46 taken by the authors during a field survey and 62 gleaned from documentary sources. The conservation importance of fen vegetation in which Schoenus is dominant is recognised at European Union level. In Ireland such vegetation is found in well-established flushes that are ungrazed or only lightly grazed, and in base-rich fens. Water pH in such habitats ranges from 5.0 to 8.1. The Schoenus fen and flush vegetation in Ireland has a distinctive synmorphology, with pronounced Schoenus-tussock formation combined with inter-tussock erosion to give a characteristic vegetation mosaic. Acidification of tussock tops allows development of a calcifuge vegetation component, including Myrica gale and Narthecium ossifragum, presenting a contrast to calcicole elements, such as Scorpidium scorpioides, that are typical of the tussock interspaces. This survey supports the assignment of Schoenus-dominated vegetation in Ireland to the Schoenetum nigricantis (Allorge 1922) Koch 1926, an association that belongs to the Scheuchzerio-Caricetea nigrae (Nordh. 1936) Tx. 1937 em. Tx. 1980, the Caricetalia davallianae Br.-Bl. 1949, and the Caricion davallianae Klika 1934. From the analysis presented here, there appears to be little justification for the inclusion of such Irish vegetation in the separate Atlantic association, Cirsio dissecti-Schoenetum nigricantis, defined by Braun-Blanquet and Txen (1952). The present survey indicates that Cirsium dissectum is confined to drier stands and that the distinctive synmorphology of Schoenus-dominated vegetation warrants its inclusion in a single association. Habitat variation and floristic differentiation within Schoenus-dominated fen and flush vegetation in Ireland may be defined at the subassociation level: (a) caricetosum lasiocarpae, typical of topogenous habitats in extensive fens, (b) eleocharetosum multicaulis, a more rheotrophic vegetation, often found in flushes in otherwise base-poor situations, and (c) cirsietosum dissecti, typical of the drier habitats for Schoenus.
23033867|Genetic diversity can play a key role in the survival of endangered species. Both the number and size of populations of a species can affect genetic diversity and may be reduced by fragmentation of natural habitats. Here we examine the effects of a low number of populations and small population sizes on the population genetics of the nationally endangered and red-listed orchid Pseudorchis albida. To determine genetic variability within and among populations of P. albida, we employed AFLP and four plastid microsatellite (SSR) markers. In addition, we compared the SSR data from Irish P. albida to the closely related P. straminea. AFLP markers showed that P. albida has a high level of polymorphism and that significant differentiation occurred both within and among populations, with increasing population genetic isolation through distance. However, SSR markers revealed no variation, but did show that all Irish individuals had the same alleles as P. straminea rather than P. albida. Further work is required to assess the taxonomic status of P. albida/straminea in Western Europe. Irish populations of P. albida s.l. require immediate conservation attention due to their decreasing number and low numbers of individuals within populations.
41714045|The most common technique used to survey Arctic char Salvelinus alpinus (L.) in Ireland is gill netting, which is a lethal method of sampling. This article reports on the suitability of fyke nets as a non-destructive method to trap mature Arctic char Salvelinus alpinus (L.) close to their spawning beds based on work carried out in the southwest of Ireland.
20500150|It is widely accepted that hydroelectric dams have a significant effect on migratory fish species. Ireland has four major catchments harnessed for hydroelectricity. Atlantic salmon populations above hydroelectric installations in these systems are significantly reduced or extinct, and the available literature on the potential problems associated with dam passage is limited. Mitigation of salmon population losses has centred mainly on the stocking of rivers upstream of hydroelectric installations with juvenile, hatchery-reared fish. This form of mitigation has largely failed to produce a returning stock of spawning fish. It is clear that problems associated with the safe migration of salmon past hydroelectric facilities must be addressed in a more constructive and scientific fashion than they have been in the past.
20499992|Metal levels (iron, zinc, manganese, cobalt, chromium, copper and nickel) were determined in Cerastoderma edule, Mytilus edulis, Monodonta lineata, Patella vulgata, Nucella lapillus, Littorina obtusata and L. littorea at two sites close to the mouth of the Shannon Estuary (Ireland) in November 1993 and May 1994, using standard atomic absorption spectrophotometer techniques. Samples of seaweeds were included at one shore for comparative purposes only. The best all-round indicators for all the metals studied were C. edule, M. edulis and N. lapillus. Metal levels in the seaweeds were much lower than in the molluscs. No species was a universal indicator of the metals studied when site and season were taken into consideration. High levels of metals accumulated from water and/or sediment were observed in a number of cases. Levels of Zn in N. lapillus were significantly different to those in all other species and C. edule had high levels of Ni. These levels were dependent on site and season. A detrended correspondence ordination showed that the two species of bivalve mollusc and P. vulgata formed one cluster and that the remaining gastropod species formed a second cluster. This study shows that species-specific bioaccumulation occurs and is seasonally specific in certain species. This needs to be taken into account when choosing a bioaccumulator model and when comparing data from different studies.
23188049|Lagarosiphon major is a priority invasive species first recorded in a natural Irish watercourse, Lough Corrib, in April 2005. The weed has subsequently expanded its range significantly within the upper and middle lake but, as of 2010, has not been recorded in the large lower lake. In Lough Corrib the temporal growth pattern exhibited by L. major is at variance with that displayed in its country of origin. In southern Africa the plant grows most vigorously in summer, whereas in Corrib it achieves its best vegetative expression during the colder and darker winter months. This temporal growth pattern significantly influences practical weed control programmes, as it has proved to be far more efficient to cut and harvest L. major stands when the stems are erect and buoyant, even if it does mean that cutting operations must be conducted during the more inclement winter months. A combination of traditional and innovative weed control methods are used to control L. major in the lake. These include manual removal using scuba divers, mechanical cutting and harvesting, chemical control and light exclusion using a natural jute matting material. In 2008 L. major occupied c. 92ha of lake bed, while some 8,500ha is deemed to be suitable for its establishment and growth. Control work to date has reduced the area of lake occupied by this aggressive weed to c. 35.9ha.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|Despite considerable investment in recent years, approximately half of all Irish water bodies still do not meet Water Framework Directive (WFD; European Parliament and Council, 2000) objectives. Identifying appropriate measures to address eutrophication linked to agriculture remains a major challenge. Field and modelling studies were integrated in two hydro(geo)logically contrasting Irish catchments at less than Good status, to identify the main pathways delivering flow and nutrients to streams. The transport of phosphorus (P) via overland flow and interflow, and from small point sources, proved the key issues in the catchment underlain by poorly draining soils. Measures in such catchments need to focus on intercepting pathways and mitigating the discharges. In the freely draining karstified catchment, transport of nitrogen (N) and P via subsurface pathways were the key issues. Measures for N in these scenarios need to focus on best management practices of source loads, as interrupting the pathway is much more challenging, whereas measures for P must target managing inputs to groundwater, for example via sinking streams from poorly draining areas. Achieving successful WFD outcomes depends on having a site-specific, three-dimensional understanding of contaminant transfer pathways.
20694901|The Water Framework Directive (WFD) requires understanding of both technical issues and, under Article 14, dialogue among stakeholders. To date, consultation with stakeholders, including the general public, has occurred mainly through the establishment of river basin district advisory councils, and following the dissemination of documents, entitled Water matters, outlining significant issues for meeting the WFD's environmental objectives. Here, we review progress in the Republic of Ireland for meeting the goals of Article 14 and examine how that progress compares with a set of principles of best practice for stakeholder participation. Overall, information is generally available, but there are some problems in accessing background information, unprocessed (raw) data and land-use data. While the main issues were outlined in Water matters, the clarity with which these issues were presented, the extensiveness of coverage and the quality of feedback were of concern to some stakeholders. A series of associated public meetings were generally poorly attended. Active involvement, through the advisory councils, appears limited, with no formal process for information dissemination or dialogue with stakeholders. Adoption and promotion of guiding principles of best practice that promote inclusiveness; transparency; commitment, including provision of adequate resources; accountability; a general openness for mutual learning; and improved structures to address stakeholder concerns are likely to provide a more effective process. A complementary approach to meet overall WFD objectives would be to view the WFD as an environmental management system; this provides a continuous process that circumvents pitfalls of imprecise or inappropriate targets, but it is likely to provide more realistic decision support, facilitating stakeholder understanding.
23033870|Mysis salemaai forms an important part of the food web, linking the trophic networks of the pelagic and benthic zones. This study examined the current distribution of M. salemaai in Ireland and the species was recorded from eight lakes. This included some previously known one-off records overlooked in distribution reviews and a new record from Lough Derravaragh. Together with its well-documented occurrence in Northern Ireland, this makes ten lakes where the species is known on the island of Ireland. On account of its deep-water habit, M. salemaai has been under-recorded in Ireland, and its distribution may extend to other Irish lakes. There were significant differences in body size in the studied lakes and adults ranged from 11.5  0.01mm in Lough Allen to 15.6  0.01mm in Lough Corrib. The abundance varied significantly and ranged from 0.3  0.1m -3 and 0.5  0.3m -3 in Lough Ree and Lough Derg (respectively) through 1.8  0.5m -3 in Lough Allen to 12.8  4.7m -3 in Lough Corrib. Despite its relatively wide distribution in Ireland, the abundance in most lakes appears low and its status may be under threat from eutrophication, climate change and the introduction of alien species.
20728567|Four new, sexually reproducing hybrid species have originated in the British Isles during the past 100-400 years. Two of these are allopolyploids (Senecio cambrensis and Spartina anglica), one is a recombinant polyploid (Senecio eboracensis), and the other is a diploid hybrid species (Senecio squalidus). We review what is known about the origins and establishment of each of these species. Material of all four species provides a valuable resource for detailed analysis of processes involved in the evolution of new species during and immediately following their origin. We also report the results of a recent study conducted on neutral molecular variation (AFLP variation) within S. cambrensis and its two parents, S. vulgaris and S. squalidus. Widespread AFLP variation was recorded in S. cambrensis with approximately 12.5% of this variation due to differences between populations and 87.5% resulting from variation within populations. This shows that genetic diversity has been rapidly generated in this species, most probably due to multiple origins, intergenomic recombination, crossing between divergent lines and possibly other factors such as increased transposon and retroelement activity. This ability to generate large amounts of genetic diversity may aid this species in adapting to new sites and increasing its range in the future. The high level of AFLP variation recorded in S. cambrensis contrasts with the relative genetic uniformity found in Spartina anglica based on AFLP surveys conducted by others. Reasons for this difference are briefly discussed.
23188069|Throughout the European Union (EU), agricultural soils with high phosphorus (P) status due to surplus fertiliser input have been identified as a landscape pressure impacting on water quality. In Republic of Ireland, approximately 80% of agricultural land is devoted to grass, 11% to rough grazing, and 9% to arable cereal and crop production. Consequently, the majority of erosion research has focused on quantifying nutrient and sediment losses from grassland. Tillage soils are, however, more susceptible to erosion than grassland soils and, in general, have higher levels of soil P. This paper reviews the current state of research and the regulatory regime relating to diffuse P and sediment loss for tillage soils. It identifies the key threats to soil quality associated with cultivated soils, and proposes the targeting and remediation of critical source areas for effective mitigation of P losses from tillage soils. A multiscaled approach is recommended, in which catchment and field-scale monitoring is complemented with controlled laboratory and small plot-scale rainfall simulation experiments to identify areas where P loss and soil erosion are at critical levels and may pose a threat to water quality. Catchment scale research will help to link critical source areas of sediment and P loss with hydrological pathways to surface waters in the catchment area. These areas can then be targeted for remediation in the river basin management plans.
23188050|As a consequence of the sustained interest in exotic plants we now face the challenge of dealing with the economic and ecological impacts of many environmental weeds. Exotic ornamental plants can often flourish as they have been imported without their natural enemies that suppress the plant's growth and reproduction in the native range. The aim of classical biological control is to re-establish the natural regulation provided by host-specific primary consumers from the native range of the weed. In contrast to the long history of arthropod biological control in Europe, environmental weed biological control is only now gaining some momentum. Ireland stands to benefit from developments made in other EU member states and other parts of the world as it shares many of the same environmental weed problems. Both terrestrial and aquatic weeds are good targets for biological control, and developments relevant to Ireland are described in this paper to illustrate the potential benefits of this management option.
biolenviprocria.115B.3.143|The Common Fisheries Policy proposes the landing of all catch to encourage discard reduction, but may allow exemptions for species for which scientific evidence demonstrates high survival rates. This shows the importance of bycatch stress studies into capture method and treatment post-landing. The physiological responses of a non-commercially exploited elasmobranch,
20500190|The purpose of this review is to explore ideas that may explain the pattern of distribution of grassland and heath communities in Europe and apply them to the special case of the Burren, with its suites of rare plant species. The vegetation of the Burren is a complex of woodland, wetland, grassland and heath communities. It is distributed over a landscape of glaciated, deeply weathered karst limestone. This landscape has generated a variety of soil-forming parent materials, which are an important element in governing the distribution of vegetation. A testable hypothesis is developed that explains the relationship between parent materials and vegetation distribution in terms of community dynamics. Critical environmental factors include the probability of regular drought, soil fertility and base status. It is suggested that these three adverse factors inhibit the development of scrub and lowland grassland. This model may assist future management both of particular sites of nature conservation interest and of whole landscapes.
20500221|Ireland's native fish fauna, like that of much of the rest of Europe, is declining. It is likely that some of the unique elements of Ireland's fish communities will become extinct in the next few decades unless urgent action is taken soon. This paper reviews the relevant international conventions and legislation related to fish conservation as well as Ireland's obligations to meet these. Several management options are available, including further legislation, habitat management, translocation, captive breeding and cryopreservation. The present activity in Great Britain in relation to the preparation of Biodiversity Action Plans and other statements of intent is commendable, but what is really needed is prompt practical action in the field if many of these unique wildlife resources are not to be lost.
biolenviprocria.116B.1.1|Strangford Lough is a large sheltered marine inlet in Northern Ireland. It is also a designated Special Area of Conservation based partially on the presence of an extensive area of
20504503|A population of white-clawed crayfish, Austropotamobius pallipes (Lereboullet), was studied by trapping and underwater observation in Blessington Lake, Co. Wicklow, between 1989 and 1993. Results suggest a sparse, patchily distributed population of some 500 adult crayfish (&gt; 30cm carapace length) per 100m of rocky shoreline. Catch per unit effort (CPUE) averaged 0.44 adult crayfish per trap-night over summer, dropping to 0.16 during winter, for traps lifted and rebaited every 2-5 days. Approximately 6% of the catch exceeded 9cm in total length. Males dominated the larger size classes. The sex ratio of the entire catch of 1356 crayfish was 1.44 males to 1 female, rising to 1.99 males to 1 female during egg incubation. Berried females formed about 24% of the catch during this period. Mating activity occurred from early to mid-October. Mean pleopodal fecundity in the wild ranged from 55 to 65 eggs per female. Moulting commenced in early June. Growth increments averaged 9% of carapace length for the early summer moult, falling to about 6.5% for a second moult in the laboratory. This population represents one of the few sizeable lentic populations of A. pallipes remaining in Ireland, perhaps the last European stronghold for this species.
20728628|The distribution of phytoplankton is related to local and regional oceanographic features off the north-western coast of Ireland. A thermohaline front known as the Irish Shelf Front (ISF) that separates coastal and oceanic water was observed in the study area. Phytoplankton biomass levels, as indicated by chlorophyll concentrations, were higher on the coastal side of the frontal boundary. Inshore of the front the phytoplankton species composition was dominated by diatoms such as Leptocylindrus danicus, Guinardia flaccida and Pseudo-nitzschia cf seriata. The flora of the shelf region between the ISF and the outer shelf was characterised by the presence of Halosphaera minor, Oscillatoria sp., Ptychodiscus noctiluca, Ceratium fusus and Amphidoma caudata. Further offshore along the margins of the continental shelf the floral assemblage was characterised by Gonyaulax polygramma, Ceratium furca, Oxytoxum scolopax, Podolampes palmipes, Prorocentrum compressum and Prorocentrum dentatum. The presence of Gonyaulax polygramma, an indicator species for North Atlantic Current (NAC) slope waters, indicates the presence of this current at the shelf edge. The highest Karenia mikimotoi cell concentrations were found in close proximity to bottom density fronts located inshore. The biological observations presented here further highlight the potential role of local processes such as the presence of strong, jet-like, density-driven coastal flows in transporting potentially harmful phytoplankton populations northwards along the western coast of Ireland.
20694860|Despite increasing numbers of stranding events of sperm whales in the British Isles, to date relatively little is known about the population status of these whales in the North Atlantic. Acoustic surveys of this deep-water species are advantageous over visual surveys as they have a greater detection range, can operate 24 hours a day in most weather conditions and are less affected by observer subjectivity. An acoustic survey to assess potential monitoring sites was carried out on the North Antrim coast of Northern Ireland, where sperm whale clicks were successfully detected and recorded. This study identifies potential for future acoustic monitoring of whales off the north coast of Ireland and highlights the potential value of the technique in population studies.
20500122|The determination of the value of biodiversity from the point of view of its contribution to the proper functioning of ecosystems is currently the subject of significant debate. The interest in this issue arises because of the rapid decline in diversity due to elevated rates of species extinction. Decision makers across the spectrum of public and private life need to know the ecological implications of this reduced diversity, and it is the responsibility of the scientific community to provide them with focused and accurate answers. The idea that the species diversity of ecological communities contributes to stability is a well-documented hypothesis. However, the tests of this hypothesis and the hypothesis that a relationship exists between species diversity and ecosystem processes have not provided any unequivocal answers to these important questions. In this paper the background, hypotheses and experimental evidence for the proposed relationship between species diversity and ecosystem function are reviewed.
20500124|We investigated the distribution and abundance of Benthosema glaciale larvae as part of the EU-funded project 'Ichthyoplankton-based indices of abundance of spring-spawning commercial fish populations in Western European waters' (INDICES). The larvae were abundant and widespread and were recorded mainly west of the shelf break. The area of maximum abundance of larvae showed a northward migration as the spawning season progressed. This abundant species is important mainly as a food source for commercially exploited fishes, including hake and horse mackerel.
41714034|The Irish pollan Coregonus autumnalis pollan is a unique and threatened freshwater fish species endemic to the island of Ireland, with its current known distribution limited to five lakes; Lough Neagh, Lower Lough Erne, Lough Allen, Lough Ree and Lough Derg. The Lough Neagh pollan are still relatively abundant, contributing approximately 25% of the total fish abundance. However, populations in Lower Lough Erne and the three Shannon lakes contribute <1% of total fish abundance. As a result, pollan are listed as 'Endangered' in the Irish Red Data Book and the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Empirical data on pollan population size in Irish lakes is lacking, with current estimates based mainly on expert opinion. The current work combines new hydroacoustic data with an extensive gill netting survey, suggesting an abundance estimate for pollan greater than 10cm in length in Lough Ree to be in excess of 6000 individuals. The age classes 1 + and 2 + were captured and the hydroacoustic data displayed a strong cohort of 0 + fish, indicating reproductive success in the previous three years. This new abundance data contributes significantly, to the knowledge of the Lough Ree pollan stock. Future and ongoing monitoring of population size, along with the identification of spawning locations, will help to inform management decisions aimed at protecting this unique and endangered fish species.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.129|The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has highlighted as a key concern the decline in high ecological quality river sites. Such waters are indicators of largely undisturbed conditions and reflect natural background status or only minor distortion by anthropogenic influences. These sites tend to be located in the upper portions of larger river catchments, and constitute lower order streams in the main. Small water bodies therefore form the greatest proportion of high status waters. High status water bodies are protected under several tiers of European and National legislation. The key piece of legislation for the protection of all waters is the Water Framework Directive or WFD (2000/60/ EC).
20500213|In Ireland, triangular club-rush (Schoenoplectus triqueter) is found only in the upper part of the Shannon Estuary below Limerick City. It forms a large and apparently stable population here, in contrast to Britain, where it has declined precipitously in recent years. S. triqueter is found in three situations in the Shannon Estuary: as the outer zone of vegetation on mud banks of the main channel, on tributary and creek sides, and in lagoons. The S. triqueter population is more extensive than indicated in previous surveys. Three new populations, the principal one in the River Ratty, were located during this study. No evidence of hybridisation was found in the Shannon population and no seed production was observed in 1998 or 1999. S. triqueter is confined to the upper part of the estuary where average soil salinity levels do not exceed 10g l. Salinity appears to be the most important factor limiting the downstream extension of S. triqueter in the main estuary and the River Maigue. S. triqueter is confined to the lowest reaches of the muddy riparian zone, where its rhizomes grow under anoxic conditions and where it endures substantial periods of inundation. The inundation regime may explain the lack of seed production by S. triqueter in the field, through immersion of flowers and deposition of sediment on flowers. Seeds were produced prolifically by S. triqueter in cultivation.
41714043|Understanding past and present genetic diversity within endangered species is crucial for the identification of evolutionary significant units (ESUs) and subsequent conservational decisions. Direct access to genetic diversity of extinct populations can only be gained from (sub) fossils or specimens housed in natural history collections. With probably less than 50 extant specimens, the Javan rhinoceros, Rhinoceros sondaicus, is a critically endangered species. It is rare even in museum collections, thus each newly discovered specimen is of conservation importance. Although the Indian (Rhinoceros unicornis) and Javan rhinoceros differ in size, skinfolds and skin texture, the two have been confused on several occasions in the recorded history of both species. Examples can be found in textbooks, zoological gardens and museums. As for the latter, identification of mounted specimens can be compromised by among other factors poor preservation of the skin. An example of such an ambiguous specimen is the Dublin Zoo rhinoceros (f 1865) housed in the Zoological Museum at Trinity College Dublin. Ever since it was mounted, it has borne a name plate that claims it represents a specimen of R. unicornis, but this is not necessarily supported by a number of morphological characters. With this study, we determine the identity of this one-and-a-half century old specimen by DNA sequencing a fragment of mitochondrial Cytochrome B.
20500095|Nocturnal migrations of silver eels were investigated daily at the Killaloe eel weir in the lower River Shannon during the silver eel fishing seasons of 1992-3 and 1993-4. Variations in the catches made in a series of coghill nets fished across the weir were analysed with regard to the total daily catch and the catch at different locations across the weir. The use of artificial lighting at a navigation arch in the eel weir was shown to reduce catches in nets placed at the arch.
20499910|Grazing pressures have increased on the uplands of the British Isles. This is particularly evident on the Antrim Plateau of north-east Ireland. The effects of grazing pressure on heathland vegetation and ground beetle assemblages was investigated experimentally. Between June and September in 1988 and 1989, enclosures (0.64ha) on three types of heathland community--low, medium and high density of Calluna--were grazed at one of four intensities equivalent to 0-4.5 Scottish Blackface sheep/ha. The effects of grazing intensity on above-ground biomass, individual species cover, botanical composition, sward structure and associated ground beetle assemblages were assessed using standard methods. At higher grazing intensities, percentage composition of green heather, live Gramineae species, live non-Gramineae species and other dead material declined. Live Calluna was reduced by increased grazing intensity once more nutritious species were depleted. Ground beetle assemblages differed with respect to heathland community, grazing intensity and trapping dates. Trapping success of the most abundant species, Nebria salina, increased with increasing grazing intensity. The effects of management changes on the ecosystem of the Antrim Plateau are discussed.
20694869|On 31 July 2004 a tornado that was unusual in several ways occurred in the west of Ireland. It had an anticyclonic, rather than the more normal cyclonic, rotation, and it occurred under relatively unpromising synoptic conditions, where there was a slack surface-pressure gradient close to the centre of a ridge of high pressure over north-west Europe. However, regional low-level wind shear and strong convergence are shown to have created a favourable environment over Co. Mayo, aided by a limited amount of convective available potential energy (CAPE) that accumulated beneath an inversion at 816hPa and by a strong vertical moisture profile. The role of the contrasting thermal properties between Lough Carra and the adjacent land surface in producing an anticyclonically rotating tornado from a horizontal vortex that developed within the sheared environment is considered. All of these features are found to be strongly localised. Comparisons are made with the non-mesocyclonic tornado environments documented in US research, and a number of contrasts are noted. The tornado track was only partially traceable due to the terrain, and it reached its widest point of 18m where it entered bogland after 0.75km.
20499924|The behaviour of whooper swans Cygnus cygnus at Rostellan Lake, Cork, was studied over the winter of 1991-2. Behavioural patterns were assessed by instantaneous scan sampling and focal sampling. No significant variation was found between the activity patterns of adult and first-winter swans, and thus the flock was treated as a single unit for subsequent analysis. Feeding and comfort activities accounted for 40% and 44% respectively of the total seasonal activity. The other major activities were vigilance and swimming. The main feeding strategies were upending and head and neck submerged whilst feeding on aquatic vegetation. Grazing on agricultural land was observed only once, and only in February. The diurnal feeding pattern varied over the study: sometimes there was a linear increase in the percentage of birds engaged in feeding as the day progressed, while on other occasions a pattern of bimodal peaks was observed.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.181|The headwaters of lowland agricultural catchments in Europe often consist of extensive networks of small field drainage ditches. In comparison to larger freshwater systems, these small habitats are likely to be highly impacted by man, both physically and chemically. Little research has been conducted on drainage ditch ecosystems despite their high percentage contribution to the total length of running water habitat in a catchment and their potential contribution to total catchment freshwater biodiversity. Here, we report on an investigation into the macroinvertebrate species richness patterns of drainage ditches in an intensive agricultural landscape in south-west Ireland. Despite high anthropogenic disturbance in the form of nutrient and fine sediment inputs this study revealed dynamic and diverse community assemblages. Our results highlight the large beta diversity associated with these small waterbodies. The ditch habitats were found to support high numbers of unique and rare taxa, including nationally rare and threatened species.
biolenviprocria.115B.2.137|This study presents evidence of the decline in European eel abundance in a transitional water body in the Northern Ireland from 19672013. The available historical data is from an important period, representative of the baseline abundance of eels in a transitional water body before recruitment collapse. The results from this study indicate the current eel population in the Foyle estuary is 3.38% of historical levels.
20500032|Samples of Mytilus edulis, together with samples of sediment and Fucus vesiculosus, were taken monthly from each of five shores on the south coast of the Shannon Estuary from March 1992 to December 1993 inclusive. Samples were digested individually and the levels of iron, zinc, manganese, cobalt, chromium and copper were determined using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Levels of metals were lower than previously published values from Irish east coast estuaries, including Dublin, except for a few high levels in M. edulis, which did not persist in the tissues and were probably lost through excretion, spawning or detoxification. Of the metals analysed iron showed the highest levels. This was attributed in part to the background levels of iron in sediment. On some occasions high metal levels in sediment did not lead to higher levels either in F. vesiculosus or in M. edulis, suggesting that metals in M. edulis may come from other sources, including anthropogenic inputs, in the estuary. On an international scale the levels in M. edulis of the six metals studied were relatively low in the Shannon Estuary. The longer-term monthly sampling regime followed in this study is important since it shows that occasional high levels, which may be detected by once-off studies, are not always maintained.
20499908|The late-glacial and Holocene vegetation history of the western lowlands of Donegal has been reconstructed from three lake sediment sequences, using pollen, charcoal, sediment, and pine stomata analyses. Plant colonisation began between 12,900 and 12,700 BP, and the same patterns of vegetation development, divided into three subzones, are recorded at each site during the late-glacial. Successive expansions of Juniperus, Betula and Corylus mark the beginning of the Holocene. Early woodlands were invaded by Ulmus, Quercus and Pinus between 9000 and 8200 BP. Closed-canopy mixed woodland developed and persisted in parts of western Donegal until after 5000 BP. In other areas which were marginal for tree growth, woodland contracted after the diversification phase and blanket peat spread. Alnus became established between 7200 and 6600 BP. The elm decline (5300-5100 BP) was followed by woodland instability and tree population fluctuations. Pinus expanded and reached its maximum distribution between 5000 and 4500 BP. Disturbance relating to human activity increased in the latter half of the Holocene and was the main controlling factor in the final woodland decline. Blanket peat spread gradually as woodland contracted, and the present treeless landscape was in existence 2400-1500 years ago.
20499983|Lady's Island Lake is a natural, percolating, coastal lagoon, isolated from the sea but subject to wide fluctuations in water-level and salinity as a result of more or less regular breaching of the dune barrier. Observations over seventeen years revealed changes in the salinity regime every two to four years, with poly-euhaline phases alternating with oligo-mesohaline phases. The dominant macrophytes were Ruppia cirrhosa or Potamogeton pectinatus, depending on the salinity. The fauna was rich by comparison with lagoons in Britain. Continuous shifts in species dominance linked to gradual changes in salinity were punctuated by sudden, more extensive changes resulting from tidal exchange, which sometimes caused mass mortalities of the resident brackish fauna. Populations recovered quickly, however, and are believed to have recolonised from peripheral refuges. There was no evidence of extinction of resident species and colonisation from neighbouring brackish waters was not discernible. The observed time-lag in the response of the community to changing conditions, and differences in the responses of the species, may explain the lack of correlation between species presence and environmental factors in many lagoonal studies. Snapshot studies for conservation purposes may misclassify brackish lagoons during a state of transition.
20499882|Plaice Pleuronectes platessa and rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss Walbaum were anaesthetised before killing and maintained at 1C, 10C, 20C and 37C during the onset of rigor mortis. The mean initial concentration of ATP in skeletal muscle was significantly higher in groups of rainbow trout (range 5.3  0.4mol/g to 7.5  1.2mol/g) than in plaice (range 2.7  0.4mol/g to 3.6  0.7mol/g). Similarly, the initial concentration of creatine phosphate in rainbow trout (range 4.7  0.8mol/g to 13.9  1.9mol/g) was also greater than in plaice (2.8  0.4mol/g to 5.5  1.9mol/g). This suggests that muscle of rainbow trout would be better equipped for the anaerobic provision of ATP in vivo than muscle of plaice. The rate of hydrolysis of ATP in muscle of both species decreased as the temperature was reduced from 37C to 1C. At temperatures at and below 20C an increase in the concentration of creatine phosphate occurred. The results did not suggest that a temperature of 1C may accelerate the rate of onset of rigor in these species, as has been reported previously. These differences may reflect difference in fibre type characteristics between fish species and/or differences in season of catching, methods of handling and the combination of temperature and high-energy phosphate potential. Results also illustrate the striking difference between fish and mammalian muscle.
20499985|The population structure and recruitment of the marine intertidal gastropod Melarhaphe neritoides (L.) were examined at a series of vertical stations on the exposed rocky shore at Carnsore Point, Co. Wexford, during summer. The data show that a settlement occurred during May/June, and suggest that it extended throughout most of the eulittoral zone. No recruitment was observed on open rock in either the Verrucaria or yellow lichen zones. Growth of the recent recruits appeared to be faster lower on the shore. Mean adult size was largest among the snails located highest on the shore and decreased downshore to the top of the eulittoral zone. Mean size then increased further downshore.
20504489|Twenty-two soils were assayed for unbuffered urease activity by incubation at 6C for 40h. The soils were also assayed using standard procedures employing buffered or unbuffered incubations at 37C. The soils had been in long-term pasture (n = 13) and long-term tillage (n = 9) and included seven mineral pasture--tillage counterparts. Mean urease activity in the 22 soils at 6C was 5.7mg urea-N kg soil h which was 7 times lower than that at 37C (unbuffered) and 12 times lower than that at 37C (buffered). The 6C assay agreed with the standard assays in its identification of the most active and least active soil groups and in identifying pasture soils as generally having higher activity than tillage soils. Measures of activity at 6C were correlated with the same individual soil properties as measures of activity at 37C. Activity at 6C was generally predictable from models containing the same combinations of soil properties as applied to the 37C assays. Although there were significant correlations between urease activities measured at 6C and those at 37C, there were large discrepancies between predicted and measured activities at 6C in individual soils. The results suggest that assessment of the time urea stays in soils at low temperatures, and hence the potential risk of urea leaching, is best achieved by measuring urease activity at low temperatures and not at the standard assay temperature of 37C.
20499925|Adult spider communities were sampled by pitfall trapping over a 24-month period in plots subjected to a range of grazing regimes on five vegetation types on a hill farm in County Antrim, north-east Ireland. Spider community composition was influenced by vegetation type and grazing regime. Variation in the number of individuals and species diversity was also apparent between vegetation types and grazing regime. Plots grazed by all herbivores were characterised by the predominance of species characteristic of disturbed land. Inbye land and areas where grazing had ceased had characteristic coloniser species. The spiders Erigone dentipalpis, Allomengea scopigera and Centromerita bicolor were trapped with greater success in vegetation types where grass species dominated.
20728594|The Map of the Natural Vegetation of Europe was compiled and produced by an international team of vegetation scientists from 31 European countries over the period 1979-2003. The final results are now available in printed and digital form (in German and English on an interactive CD-ROM) and they include maps of the potential natural vegetation of Europe at the scales 1:2.5 and 1:10 million, a hierarchically structured overall legend, a comprehensive explanatory text and standardised digital data sheets with detailed information on c. 700 mapping units. The digital database and special software programmes facilitate a multitude of analyses and uses in the fields of research, teaching, education, information and planning. Selected examples give an overview of the present use and application of the data in Germany: 1. classification of ecological areas at different scales for various purposes; 2. demonstration of the total range and subdivision of formations (using beech forests as an example) as a basis for transnational synsystematic classification and nature protection; 3. production and use of detailed maps of regions and countries (e.g. Germany and adjacent areas); 4. as a baseline for estimating the natural potential net primary production.
20694881|This study investigates methods to rejuvenate the flora of previously degraded field margins on a pastoral farm in County Longford. We also assess the effects of individual treatments on the abundance of various orders of invertebrates recorded within the experimental plots. Field margin treatments were 1.5m-wide unfenced control margins, 1.5m-wide fenced margins or 3.5m-wide fenced margins. Nutrient inputs were excluded from all of the experimental plots. The botanical composition of the plots was examined on four occasions between 2002 and 2004 using permanent, nested quadrats. Emergence traps were used to measure invertebrate abundance within treatment plots and the main sward. Results indicated that 1) exclusion of nutrient inputs had a positive effect on plant species richness within the field margins; 2) plant species richness decreased with increased distance from the hedgerow; 3) herb species richness was greatest in the 1.5m closest to the hedgerow; 4) greater abundance of invertebrates occurred within the 3.5m-wide margins; 5) successful control of Pteridium aquilinum was achieved through spot treatment with the selective herbicide 'Asulox'; and 6) a combination of management techniques such as cutting and grazing is likely to enhance plant species richness and facilitate the structural diversity of vegetation that is necessary for many invertebrate taxa.
biolenviprocria.117b.2.65|The objective of this study was to provide fisheries researchers with a cost-effective solution to estimate the weight of a particular fish species from the hypothesis that length and weight are strongly correlated. The aim was to estimate the weight from a given length through a lengthweight relationship/regression equation. Lengthweight (LW) regression equations were derived for ten of the most common fish species and two cyprinid hybrids encountered in Irish lakes and rivers (brown trout, salmon, roach, perch, eel, Arctic char, bream, pike, rudd, tench, roach x bream hybrids and roach x rudd hybrids) from an extensive dataset of approximately 228,000 individual fish over a ten-year period between 2005 and 2014. The data was collected during routine Inland Fisheries Ireland monitoring programmes from lakes and rivers across Ireland. The dataset of the three most abundant species on lakes and rivers was categorised into three alkalinity groups for further accuracy. Significant relationships were found between length and weight for all ten fish species and two cyprinid hybrids in all water body types, showing that length is a significant predictor of weight and the findings are reflective of other studies, making this a strong tool for estimating weight.
20500230|The mechanisms and procedures involved in the formulation of wildlife conservation policy are discussed with particular reference to the Wildlife (Amendment) Act 2000, the European Union (EU) Habitats Directive (Directive 92/43/EEC) and the National Biodiversity Plan (2002).
20694903|The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has a statutory role to support and coordinate environmental research in Ireland. Over the last ten years the EPA has supported research activities in a range of environmental areas. The objectives of this paper are to assess the achievements and impacts of a selected subset of EPA-funded projects on Ireland meeting its requirements in relation to Water Framework Directive (WFD) implementation (specifically targeted projects), and to assess how the EPA Water Research Programme contributes towards meeting the overall aims and targets of the EPA's STRIVE (Science, Technology, Research and Innovation for the Environment) Programme. The EPA Water Research Programme has been a key vehicle for funding areas of vital research in support of WFD implementation. It has supported environmental policy with the significant contribution made by EPA-funded researchers into the development of novel methodologies. The research has provided essential outputs, which have kept Ireland fully compliant with WFD deliverables. A 2007 communication from the European Commission on WFD-reporting performance placed Ireland first out of the 27 EU member states. The overall EPA Water Research Programme has also greatly contributed towards meeting the STRIVE Programme objectives and overall EPA vision of protected water resources.
41714032|The deliberate flooding of cutaway peatlands has resulted in the creation of 3700ha of new wetlands in the Irish Midlands. None of Ireland's cutaway wetlands have been designated as artificial water bodies for the purposes of the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC) (WFD). Nevertheless, ensuring that the created wetlands do not adversely affect downstream water quality or the potential of neighbouring designated rivers to achieve their environmental objectives under the WFD is of primary concern to environmental managers and regulators. Phytoplankton communities in four created wetlands were monitored over a 33-month period. The study aimed to assess whether phytoplankton communities in the created wetlands have the potential to be reliable indicators of chemical water quality. Longer term changes in the phytoplankton communities in two of the wetlands were also assessed. Indicator species analysis identified the presence of a number of algal species regarded as reliable indicators of eutrophic and mesotrophic water quality. Longer term trends indicated that the created wetlands have a propensity to develop phytoplankton blooms in the early years following flooding, in response to high ambient phosphorus concentrations. The data indicate a trend of improving water quality as the created wetlands mature and stabilise.
biolenviprocria.116b.2.1|The Lower River Shannon is a Special Area of Conservation (SAC) with bottlenose dolphins (
20499952|Sexual dimorphism in cranial form was investigated for a sample of 204 adult red foxes Vulpes vulpes from north-east Ireland. Using a combination of principal component analysis and discriminant function analysis, size variation and allometry was found to account for 65.29% of the between-sex variation. The crania of male foxes were larger, more elongate and had a relatively narrower post-orbital constriction than those of the female of the species. A set of discriminant functions allowed sexing of unsexed material with over 86% accuracy. Discriminant functions derived from English and Welsh fox populations were found to sex Irish foxes with 78.4% and 85.8% accuracy, thus indicating that discriminant functions may not be entirely population-specific. These findings were discussed in the light of other studies of dimorphism in the species and on the 'adaptive' nature of such shape variation in carnivores.
20500022|The nature and spatial distribution of hydrocarbons were studied in several Irish coastal and estuarine sites, using surface sediments and Mytilus edulis as environmental indicators. The hydrocarbon load of the Liffey Estuary was assessed in detail. The range of hydrocarbon levels varied from those below the detection limit to chronic petroleum contamination. The petroleum origin was determined by the presence of typical petroleum characteristics, i.e. high concentrations, unresolved complex mixtures and an odd/even carbon ratio (carbon preference index (CPI)) of approximately 1.0. Low concentrations of hydrocarbons in coastal areas contrasted with elevated concentrations of petroleum hydrocarbons in estuarine areas subject to anthropogenic activity. Liffey sediments were heavily contaminated. Mussels were the more effective indicator of hydrocarbon pollution at sites where the sediments were coarse and of low organic matter content.
20500240|The Avoca-Avonmore catchment contains some of the most polluted stretches of river in Ireland, with acid mine drainage having a profound impact on the lower 15km of river. An inventory of selected heavy metal concentrations in riverine sediments was used to assess the health of the river as well as to identify potential contaminated areas. Results reveal that the abandoned Pb-Zn mines in the upland catchment cause serious sediment contamination (maxima: Zn 50,352g g; Pb 18,547g g; Cu 426g g and Cd 147g g). Sediment enrichment factors were determined using German Sediment Quality Target Values (maxima: 252 Zn, 250 Pb, 123 Cd and 7.1 Cu g g) and catchment background values (maxima: 730 Zn, 1137 Pb and 19 Cu g g). The Cu-S mine, which releases acid mine drainage into the lower part of the catchment, has comparatively little effect on downstream sediment metal concentrations except for Fe, which results in extensive ochre deposition. Other anthropogenic sources, such as wastewater treatment plants, are also minor point sources of metals into the river system. The inventory has identified areas requiring restoration and protection within the 27 rivers comprising the catchment. Unlike water samples, where metal concentrations are normally below detection limits, sediment inventories provide a reliable assessment of long-time metal contamination in rivers.
20500227|Members of the Arctic char Salvelinus alpinus (L.) species complex were most likely the first freshwater fish to colonise Ireland after the last Ice Age. Once widespread and anadromous, they now form isolated populations, confined to inland freshwater lakes with suitable habitat (well-oxygenated clean water, gravel shores and adequate depth when in the presence of other fish species). Adapted to Arctic conditions, they are extremely sensitive to environmental changes within their range further south, in which Ireland lies. The greatest threats to their present survival in Ireland are interspecific interactions from introduced fish species, eutrophication, acidification and climate change. The rate of extinction of entire populations has increased over the last few decades, and immediate steps must be put in place to preserve our remaining discrete populations. As marginal populations at the southern edge of the species range in Atlantic Europe, Arctic char in Ireland potentially hold some of the oldest genetic material in western Europe for the species complex. Such populations may be an important source of genetic material for the long-term survival of the species. Isolated in their respective lakes/lake catchments since the last Ice Age, they are of both genetic and evolutionary interest to scientists. This paper draws attention to the limited ecological data available on Arctic char in Ireland and attempts to place Irish Arctic char populations in context with the rest of the species' range. Where possible, recent information is given on the various aspects of the biology, distribution and current status of the species.
20500226|The Irish lake populations of pollan Coregonus autumnalis Pallas are detached from other Arctic populations and exist at the southern extreme of the range of the species. They are landlocked relics of postglacial colonisation by anadromous forms. In Ireland, pollan exist in atypical habitats and temperature ranges for the species as a whole and are threatened with extinction by a range of potentially detrimental factors, including eutrophication and competition with introduced non-indigenous species. All but one of the four populations is critically endangered. This paper summarises current knowledge of pollan, the status of the four populations and actions proposed to protect and enhance the remaining stocks.
42912439|Small shallow lakes are a characteristic feature of blanket bog habitats. The biotic assemblages of these lakes can be particularly species rich, especially in terms of the aquatic invertebrate fauna. Despite their potential conservation value, relatively little is known about their physico-chemical or biological characteristics in northern Europe in comparison to other freshwater habitats, and their undisturbed reference conditions are still unknown in Ireland. We surveyed upland and lowland blanket bog lakes, across both sedimentary (sandstone) and igneous (granite) geologies, to compare baseline physico-chemical and biological conditions for blanket bog lakes in western Ireland. A comprehensive data set of water chemistry, Chydoridae, littoral macroinvertebrates and aquatic macrophyte taxa were collected from all lakes over a twelve-month period beginning in March 2009. The main difference in lake hydrochemistry was that the lowland lakes, situated at lower altitude and in closer proximity to the coast than the upland lakes, had significantly higher conductivity and major ion (sodium [Na], chloride [Cl], magnesium [Mg], potassium [K] and sulphate [SO]) concentrations because of the greater influence of atmospheric (sea spray) deposition. The upland lakes were also significantly cooler and had higher concentrations of total phosphorus (TP). Differences were also evident between the upland and lowland lakes in the chydorid, littoral macroinvertebrate and macrophyte communities, primarily caused by marinedriven hydrochemical variation and differences in benthic substrate. The chemical effect of marine deposition appeared to have a much greater impact on lake hydrochemistry and biology than either underlying geology or altitude. This is the first study of its kind to be carried out on blanket bog lakes in Ireland. More information is needed on the biology of such lakes, together with research on anthropogenic drivers of biotic communities, if significant loss of biodiversity associated with agriculture, peat extraction, burning, wind farm developments and conifer afforestation is to be prevented.
20694897|To assist in the status assessment of waterbodies in Ireland, new biological classification systems have been developed for seven biological element descriptors. These classification systems have been intercalibrated to ensure comparability of results across EU member states. Boundaries between high and good status and between good and moderate status have been established for each biological element parameter, all of which are consistent with the definitions in the Water Framework Directive. New standards developed for physico-chemical parameters, 16 relevant pollutants and 46 priority substances, which will replace existing standards, are set out.
20499870|Upper and Lower Lough Erne are two large eutrophic lakes which drain predominantly rural catchments in north-west Ireland. The inflowing rivers of both lakes have been sampled intermittently between 1974 and 1989 for phosphorus and nitrogen fractions, and the results of these sampling programmes have been examined for temporal trends in the nutrient inputs to the lakes. The total annual phosphorus loading to the lower lake varied between 146 tonnes and 270 tonnes phosphorus, and the nitrate-nitrogen loading between 1404 tonnes and 2812 tonnes nitrogen per annum. In 1989, the areal loss rates from individual river catchments varied between 0.24kg and 0.84kg total phosphorus/ha/yr and between 1.8kg and 6.8kg nitrate-N/ha/yr. The Colebrooke and Ballinamallard rivers both showed markedly higher nutrient loss rates than the other rivers and were also the only catchments to show an increase in loss rate with time.
20500024|Foraging calls of Leisler's bat Nyctalus leisleri were monitored, for sample periods of 15min, on eighteen nights from May to September at eighteen sites. Bats were recorded at all habitats, including canal, estuary/open water, roadside, street lights, orchard, mature trees, pasture, farmyard, railway embankment and stream. There was little indication of habitat preference, but street lights were used relatively often. Activity was most intense in the first third of the night, when airborne insects are most abundant, and was then independent of temperature. Thereafter activity was correlated with air temperature, particularly in the last third of the night, when elevated temperatures intensify a secondary peak in abundance of flying insects before dawn. A peak in activity was recorded on one night during lactation and on another night shortly after the young flew. There was a fall in activity in September. No Leisler's bats were detected over winter in early night monitoring at sites that had been most used in summer, possibly because the winters are mild in the study area and the bats migrate inland.
20500160|Biological communities perform a variety of functions within ecosystems, including regulation of climatic processes, breakdown of waste, recycling of nutrients, maintenance of soil fertility and provision of natural resources. Although exact numbers and timescales are difficult to determine, it is clear that biodiversity (species and habitat richness, genetic diversity and community complexity) is declining. Studies of biodiversity are thus assuming greater significance as ecologists try desperately to document global biodiversity in the face of unprecedented perturbations, habitat loss and extinction rates. How will such decline in biodiversity affect the biosphere and the quality of human life on the planet? Does biodiversity matter? Internationally, research has begun to investigate whether the current unprecedented losses in biodiversity will damage the functioning of ecosystems. This paper reviews this work and highlights the general patterns identified. Scientific evidence continues to show that, in general, biodiversity does influence the rates or nature of ecosystem processes, and a majority of studies have found that a reduction in biodiversity does have a negative effect on ecosystem function. The paper also considers the potential indirect effects of biodiversity losses on conservation, particularly in relation to fragmentation and critical transition zones between terrestrial and aquatic habitats.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The Birds and Habitats Directives are not pieces of water legislation but are integrally, legally linked to the Water Framework Directive (WFD). WFD plans must include measures to support the water-related objectives for some 44 water-dependent natural habitats and 22 species protected in Special Areas of Conservation, as well as water-dependent Special Protection Areas. In this opinion piece, it is suggested that insufficient consideration is being given to these linkages, despite the complementary ecological aims of the directives. WFD assessment, with its use of status categories and Ecological Quality Ratio scores, masks biological and ecological meaning, and its focus on relationships to pressure gradients appears to result in biology being used as a surrogate for chemistry. The complexity of WFD language also contributes to poor communication with other natural scientists and the public. Incorporation of nature conservation objectives and measures into the WFD requires an increased involvement of biologists in WFD characterisation, objective setting and planning.
20728624|The European otter (Lutra lutra L.) has a highly specialised diet that is composed predominantly of fish. The current study investigates the percentage composition of food items in otter spraints collected in six river catchments in Northern Ireland in 1980 and again from the same locations in 2003. Spraints contained significantly more salmonids than any other prey item. The composition of spraints differed among catchments. More salmonids and three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus L.) were found in spraints from the Glens of Antrim, while spraints from the Lagan catchment had significantly more eel (Anguilla anguilla L.). There were significantly more spraints containing non-fish food items in 2003 compared with 1980. These non-fish items were insects, amphipods, birds, rats (Rattus norvegicus Berkenhout) and lagomorphs. Increased consumption of non-fish items was apparent in all but one of the river catchments. The mean diversity of spraint composition was significantly greater in 2003 than in 1980. Therefore, our findings indicate that otters have diversified their diet since 1980 and now eat more non-fish prey.
20499869|Seventeen and 38 dipper eggs were collected from nests in south-west Ireland during 1990 and 1991 respectively and analysed for organochlorine insecticides, PCBs and mercury. Mercury occurred above the detection limit (0.01 p.p.m.) in over 70% of eggs in 1990 and 12% of eggs in 1991. DDT was not recorded, but its main derivative, DDE, was the most common organochlorine detected, with a mean level in contaminated eggs of 0.68 p.p.m. and a maximum of 3.20 p.p.m. TDE was detected only in eggs collected in 1990. HCB was recorded in only a single egg in 1990, but increased to 30% in 1991. The level of dieldrin (HEOD) in eggs differed between years. HCH was the least recorded organochlorine. There was a significant difference in PCB contamination between years, and the highest levels were recorded at moorland sites. The results are discussed in the context of monitoring mercury and organochlorines in freshwater ecosystems in Ireland.
23033878|Turloughs are temporary wetlands almost unique to the west of Ireland. A transect of six vegetation zones across a well-studied turlough in County Mayo was investigated. At each station along the transect, the relative frequency of vascular plants was recorded and environmental variables (soil pH, soil moisture, soil loss-on-ignition) and plant tissue concentrations of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) were measured. The aim was to test whether Ellenberg indices (weighted by community composition and recently corrected for use in the British Isles) are effective as surrogates of environmental variables on turloughs. Results indicated that each vegetation zone formed a distinct vascular plant community and suggest that the Ellenberg F index is indeed a good model for hydrological variables, but more work is needed before the Ellenberg N and R indices can be accepted as dependable surrogates for relevant environmental variables on turloughs.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.119|First and second order streams comprise 77% of the 74,000km of river channel in Ireland but monitoring stations are typically on third or higher order rivers. Ireland has over 12,200 lakes: 745 of these have been defined as water bodies for the Water Framework Directive and 222 lakes are included in the monitoring programme. The ecological status of unmonitored water bodies is extrapolated from the monitored network. Some 30% of the main-stem monitored river channel length fails to achieve good ecological status. Of this, half is impacted by diffuse pollution and half by point source pollution. Pollution from diffuse sources such as agriculture or scattered rural dwellings is more difficult to pinpoint than that from point sources such as wastewater treatment plants. A simple pathways hypothesis suggests that the risk of diffuse pollution is proportional to the length of river bank and thus, small stream channels comprising 77% of the total river network pose a challenge. The Small Stream Risk Score (SSRS), designed to pinpoint sources of diffuse pollution, is a simplified macroinvertebrate risk score for non-specialists. By comparing SSRS values for small streams immediately upstream of a polluted main-stem monitoring station the source can be narrowed down and pinpointed more accurately.
20694898|Article 6 of the Water Framework Directive requires member states to compile a Register of Protected Areas for water-dependent habitats and species lying within each river basin district. A further requirement is the definition of the ecological requirements of these habitats and species to meet conservation objectives and provide linkage to the parameters being used in the classification of water status. Under the NS SHARE (North South Shared Aquatic Resources) project, data for a range of morphological and physico-chemical parameters were collated from existing literature and from consultation with experts for 23 selected habitats and species. Individual data sheets were prepared under a range of headings, and the conservation requirements of each were summarised. The sheets indicate not only the sources of data available but also the major gaps and shortcomings that could be addressed through further research.
20499996|The activity pattern of a flock of coot Fulica atra at Cork Lough was studied during daylight hours over the winter of 1993/4 using instantaneous scan sampling. As an unknown proportion of the flock was out of sight at any time, the data are based only on visible birds. Swimming was the most important activity of visible birds, representing 38% of daylight hours, followed by feeding (36%). Surface feeding was the main foraging strategy, accounting for about 34% of time spent feeding during daylight hours. There was significant variation in activities both over the day and over the winter. Visible coot spent most of their daylight hours (94.2  0.7%) on water with a temporal variation in the mean percentage numbers being observed. Air temperature had no significant effect on behaviour. Increased precipitation resulted in an increase in resting and a corresponding decrease in the time devoted to preening. An increase in wind speeds was seen to result in an increase in grazing intensity.
biolenviprocria.114B.3.249|The contribution of ombrotrophic bogs to regional biodiversity is sometimes underestimated. Due to their acidic and nutrient-poor nature they present a unique and challenging environment for the fauna. Bog surfaces consist of a mosaic of terrestrial and aquatic habitats providing a range of environmental conditions. The open-water bodies and the associated invertebrate fauna have received limited attention in Ireland. This paper aims to gather together what is known about the macroinverterbate and microcrustacean communities present in these water bodies. The resulting list of taxa recorded by various studies indicates a community that includes both characteristic and generalist taxa. The diversity of groups such as Coleoptera and Heteroptera was relatively high; however, other groups including rotifers and Diptera, specifically the chironomids, need further attention if the biodiversity of ombrotrophic peatlands is to be fully characterised. The importance of habitat heterogeneity is also highlighted by a number of studies.
20500184|An existing method for estimating the turbidity of the Irish Sea has been used to estimate the mean annual water clarity in the Irish Sea from 1987-97. The method is based on a strong relationship found between the satellite-measured reflectance of light in the orange-red portion of the visible spectrum and water clarity parameters such as Secchi depth (Zd). Analysis of satellite reflectance imagery indicated there was interannual variability in the water turbidity within the Irish Sea as a whole, but no overall trend between 1987-97 has been established. In general, trends at any one location follow the overall pattern, although for the years 1988-90 there is interregional variability. The year-to-year variability in turbidity, however, has been positively correlated with changes in the mean annual regional wind strength and the storm index across the Irish Sea. The results provide evidence for the large-scale control of turbidity processes in coastal seas by the mean prevailing meteorological conditions.
20728593|The first scientific map of Irish vegetation was published in 1905; its preparation anticipated several protocols associated later with phytosociological mapping in continental Europe. This paper reviews some of the varied attempts to depict vegetation in Ireland since the sixteenth century by cartographers and landscape artists. This is a very diverse legacy, of uneven value to a vegetation scientist. Some of it may complement other sources of information (chiefly from palynology) on the nature of Irish vegetation, at least locally, over the past three centuries. Following the cartographic innovation of Pethybridge and Praeger in 1905, formalised (scientific) representations of Irish vegetation were set on a new course. Not until the 1970s, however, did the rather fitful progress of vegetation mapping become more sustained. Some of these activities in the past century are reviewed.
20799770|The Irish Pollan Coregonus autumnalis Pallas is unique in western Europe, with its current known distribution being limited to four lakes in Ireland; Lough Neagh and Lower Lough Erne in Northern Ireland and Lough Ree and Lough Derg in the Republic of Ireland. In this paper we report the first authenticated record of pollan in a fifth Irish lakeLough Allen, County Leitrim. Using hydroacoustic technology, combined with a ground-truth gill netting survey, abundance estimates show that the population is relatively small, numbering in the region of several thousand individuals. Captured fish ranged in age from 1+ to 4+, indicating reproductive success in each year over the previous four years. Threats to sensitive species such as pollan include eutrophication, competition with introduced species, land drainage and the resulting siltation of downstream lakes. Further detailed investigations on the status of this newly discovered population, including location of spawning sites, recruitment success and genetic relationship with other Irish populations, are crucial in informing management decisions with a view to protecting this unique and threatened fish species.
20500239|Substrates from four-and-a-half year old constructed wetlands built to treat wastewater from an active metal mine were analysed for elevated metal and sulphur concentrations by chemical sequential extractions and X-ray diffraction analyses. Amounts of Fe, Pb, Zn and S were quantified in substrates from the first cells of multi-celled (in-series) treatment wetland systems at three different depths. The analyses showed that the majority of metals removed from the wastewater were retained in residual immobile forms in the upper 0-5cm of the waterlogged anaerobic substrates. Although substantial concentrations of metals and sulphur were retained in the substrates, the amounts were generally not sufficient to allow accurate mineralogical identification by X-ray diffraction. Classification of the sediments using X-ray techniques was further confounded by the highly organic nature of the wetland substrates. These results suggest that chemical analyses of wetland substrates may still provide a clearer interpretation of metal accumulation over time, especially in wastewaters characterised by relatively low metal concentrations flowing through organically rich substrates. While X-ray diffraction can provide useful interpretation of sediment crystallography and mineralogy, there are limitations in using this technology to characterise young wetland substrates.
20500093|The "North Atlantic Oscillation" (NAO) is a winter phenomenon in which the north-south contrast in barometric pressure in the Atlantic shows interannual variability with approximately decadal cycles. Positive NAO index values are associated with increased wind speeds, temperatures and rainfall in northern Europe. The present study explored the possible impacts of the NAO in the west of Ireland. Data were obtained from two synoptic meteorological stations (Valentia, Co. Kerry, and Belmullet, Co. Mayo) and two lake systems (Lough Leane, Co. Kerry, and Lough Feeagh, Co. Mayo). Mean winter air temperature, wind speed, rainfall, relative humidity and cloud amount were all found to be positively related to the NAO index values. In contrast, the relationship between solar radiation and the NAO index value was negative. Interannual variation in surface water temperatures and soil temperatures was also found to be highly dependent on the NAO index value. An inverse relationship was found between winter chlorophyll in Lough Leane and the NAO. The processes that might link winter phytoplankton biomass to the NAO were not identified. However, the results establish that the signal of the NAO is discernible in lacustrine biological activity in the west of Ireland.
20504516|Breeding and wintering birds were censused on five lowland farmland plots in County Down, Northern Ireland, in 1972 and 1992. On both occasions the extent of field boundary habitat components within each plot was quantified. By comparing the data an attempt was made to relate changes in bird communities to field boundaries, so as to identify those attributes of the farmland habitat which had the greatest impact on the structure of bird communities. Variation over the twenty-year interval in the abundance of most common species was found to correlate with changes in the extent of some field boundary components, but not with others. This suggests that the extent of key field boundary components is of primary importance in determining the composition of farmland bird communities. Correlation and multiple regression analyses indicated that common species varied in their field boundary component preferences, and that these preferences varied seasonally. For these species, in general, feeding grounds and tall cover were most important during winter and breeding respectively. Results support the conclusion that severe trimming of some hedges may result in increased bird species richness in a plot.
20500111|The evolution of the Irish state's strategies for the protection of natural areas and their implementation in Ireland since European Conservation Year 1970 is discussed. For much of this period, official protection has relied on acquisition and public ownership of lands, enabling their direct management for conservation by state agencies. The number of national parks has increased from one to six, with a total area of over 50,000ha, and 78 statutory nature reserves, mostly state-owned, have been created. More recently, the use of regulatory and other mechanisms to conserve areas still owned and managed by private landowners has been emphasised. Areas of Scientific Interest (ASIs) listed in the 1970s were replaced by over 1100 proposed Natural Heritage Areas. EU directives have led to 110 Special Protection Areas (SPAs) for birds and 363 candidate Special Areas of Conservation (SAC). SACs cover ten per cent of the state, and marine sites add a further four per cent; all of these sites are legally protected from the date of their proposal. A number of issues deserving further discussion are raised, including questions about the kind of national parks and ecological management regimes that are needed, the justification for state acquisition of reserves, the scope for cooperation between the state and NGOs, the level of regulation required for private lands to achieve conservation objectives, and prospects for the creation of new or richer habitats.
20500194|Turloughs are temporary water bodies that are common in the karstic areas of south Galway and the east Burren complex and are listed as priority habitats in Annex 2 of the 1992 European Union Habitats Directive. The main threat to the conservation of the turlough habitat is damage by artificial drainage. The extensive flooding of rural communities by turloughs in 1994 resulted in public demands to reduce any future threat of flooding. Flood alleviation measures that involved the removal of surplus groundwater would potentially damage vegetation communities that occur around the upper fringes of turlough basins. Due to annual fluctuations in the extent of flooding of turlough basins, it has proved difficult to determine where the turlough vegetation communities effectively stop and where the terrestrial vegetation communities begin. We investigated a transect of the Hawkhill turlough, running from a higher area subject to occasional flooding through to an area 4m above the basin floor that receives several months of flooding each year. The vegetation cover was recorded in 1m  1m quadrats at intervals along this transect using the Domin scale. Distinctive zones of species were present, with an emergent aquatic community occupying the deepest zone, ephemerals occurring in the open mud community above the aquatic zone, a damp grassland community occurring at 2m from the bottom of the transect and a drier grassland community occupying the upper elevations 4-7m from the base. Ranunculus repens is one species that traverses the boundary between drier and seasonally flooded grassland; its leaf dissection, calculated as an index from digitised leaf outlines, increased with decreasing elevation. This association between leaf dissection and depth and duration of flooding could be used to identify zones within turlough basins that are governed by hydrological processes.
20500193|The relationships among macrofungi, vegetation and soil variables were assessed in a three-year study of sporocarp abundance in ten permanent plots in Dryas heath vegetation in the Burren. Ectomycorrhizal fungi associated primarily with Dryas octopetala constituted 83% of the sporocarp biomass but only 35% of the species number. One ectomycorrhizal species, Craterellus lutescens, constituted almost 50% of the total sporocarp biomass. Diversity of ectomycorrhizal sporocarps in the plots was positively correlated with the extent of Dryas cover, while diversity of saprotrophic species was positively correlated with extractable soil phosphorus. Differences in distribution patterns of saprotrophic and ectomycorrhizal species were evident between the plots. The distribution of sporocarps of the ectomycorrhizal species was dictated largely by the distribution of Dryas, but soil depth and organic matter also influenced the distribution of some Cortinarius species. Soil depth and soil type also influenced distribution patterns of sporocarps of saprotrophic species. Relationships between the plots based on macrofungal composition were very similar to relationships based on vegetation.
20500003|Twenty experiments were carried out in the south-east of Ireland on five intensively cultivated soils with low residual soil N (Index 1) over a four-year period (1990-3). Small increments of fertiliser N (12.5kg/ha), ranging from 75kg/ha to 175kg/ha (maximum 137.5kg/ha in 1990), were applied to the cultivar Blenheim in an effort to assess accurately the amount of N that could be applied to optimise the yield and quality ex-farm of spring-sown malting barley on different soils. Increasing increments of fertiliser N, up to a certain level, increased grain yield, but the response varied with season and to a lesser extent with site. There was a gradual and significant increase in grain N with increasing increments of fertiliser N in all experiments, but there were large seasonal and site differences in the concentrations of grain N recorded. Increasing increments of N also increased the amount of screenings. Optimum yields of acceptable malting quality (&lt;17.5g N/kg and &lt;80g/kg screenings) were obtained, on average, by applying 125kg, 112.5kg, 125kg, 100kg and 75kg N/ha, respectively, to the light gravelly soils at Oak Park, the medium--light sandstone soils at Whitegate, the medium-textured Ferns soils (Clonroche Series), the medium--heavy Knockbeg soils (Knockbeg Series) and the heavy Mulhuddart soils (Dunboyne Series), except in 1990 when grain N was seasonally high.
biolenviprocria.116b.2.1|A survey was conducted within the entire land catchment of the Munster River Blackwater where a total of 275 sites was surveyed within 146 squares (5  5km), 184 (66.9%) proving positive and 91 (33.1%) negative for Otter
20500067|The arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) populations in fumigated soil and AM coloniation of ash and sycamore were investigated in the main bare-root nursery in Ireland Only one AM spore type was found in the soil This was identified as Glomus claroideum (Walker and Vestburg 1998) and a single-spore culture has been lodged as BEG 62 In a sand/pot study using the single-spore culture as inoculum, both ash and sycamore showed no growth response to inoculation Ash seedling had 25% AM infection, which was characterised by abundant arbuscules, hyphae and occasional hyphal coils, but no AM infection occurred in sycamore In the nursery, chlamydospores of G claroideum increased in the soil between June-December, but there was a greater AM infectivity estimate based on the 'most probable number' test compared with AM spore counts Ash seedlings had an AM colonisation ranging 10-35%, whereas sycamore was sparsely mycorrhizal (&lt;2%) There was positive correlation between spore numbers of G claroideum and AM colonisation of ash growing in one part of the nursery converted from agricultural land but not in another, which had been cleared of forest.
20728606|This paper reviews the history and development of forests in Turkey. It considers the published literature and summarises extensive fieldwork in order to present an overview of the forest resource. The issues of landscape change and the associated historic drivers are addressed and the threats to these important and biodiverse landscapes, both now and in the past, are considered. The findings are placed in a wider context, and comparisons with wooded or forest landscapes elsewhere are drawn. It notes the impacts and influences of the transfer of perceptions, management cultures and priorities in approaches and actions from elsewhere. In particular, the contrasting situation in the United Kingdom is discussed with its implications for strategic developments. Suggestions for future priorities and for conservation action are put forward.
20499960|The breeding population of the roseate tern in north-west Europe-Ireland, Britain and France-suffered an almost continuous decline from a peak of 3812 nesting pairs in 1968 to 561 pairs in 1987, a reduction of 85%. The population then stabilised at 580-590 pairs, increasing to 686 pairs in 1994. Data are presented to suggest that a major contributory factor responsible for the period of steepest decline in the Irish and British population from 1968 to 1972 was increased mortality on the west African wintering grounds. Significantly higher recovery rates of ringed birds from west Africa occurred during the main period of decline. The population decrease affected colonies throughout the breeding range, suggesting a common factor at work. Productivity appears to have been normal during the population decline, and disturbances by human interference, predators, habitat loss and climatic effects do not appear to have been responsible for the period of steepest decline, but may have been contributory factors later as the population declined further. Levels of organochlorine residues in eggs and fish prey were low and unlikely to have had any effects on mortality or productivity rates. There is no evidence to suggest that the birds 'lost' during the population decline had moved away to new or unknown breeding grounds.
20728566|Alien invasive plants are high on the list of environmental factors negatively impacting on indigenous biota, particularly those of islands. Effective management of these plants is essential for conservation and restoration of native habitats and species. This process is currently focussed on preventing alien species reaching an island and controlling those alien species that have become invasive. It is recommended that there should also be an emphasis on identifying potentially invasive species from among those alien species already present on an island. This necessitates a biological recording programme for alien species, the optimal characteristics of which are described in some detail. The alien species found should then be profiled against existing autecological knowledge and other relevant characteristics. An assessment process needs to be established to identify high-risk alien species, i.e. target species, which merit a proactive response leading to eradication. Consideration is given to mechanisms that could be used to identify target species and determine how action could be implemented.
20504517|The study of the effect of activity on physiological rates (ammonia excretion, oxygen consumption and filtration) was carried out at ambient temperature and food level on two species of clams, Tapes philippinarum and Tapes decussatus, in the period 9 August 1992-6 October 1992. Clams in the experimental vessels exhibited various states of activity which were rated by identifying and scoring (0-4) the different parameters, including shell gape, siphon extension and foot protrusion. The scores assigned were well correlated with physiological rates (excretion, oxygen consumption and filtration) although the values given were non-linear. No significant differences between the two species in oxygen consumption or filtration rate were detected. However, the excretion rate of T. decussatus was significantly higher than that of T. philippinarum (P &lt; 0.05). In addition, the absorption efficiency of both species was positively correlated with particulate organic matter level in the seawater (P &lt; 0.001).
20694880|An ethogram of whistle types from the Shannon Estuary is presented. A total of 1715 whistles recorded over a three-year period between 2003 and 2005 were analysed. They were categorised into six fundamental shapes and 25 sub-categories. The most common whistle type encountered in the analysis was a simple rising tone. Whistles ranged in duration from 0.061 to 1.61 seconds. Whistle contour mean frequencies ranged between 13.21kHz and 7.71kHz, but there was a great deal of variability in all characteristics of the whistles within each category.
20499866|The dispersal of grains of cereal-size pollen and their recruitment to fossil deposits formed prior to the elm decline in the British Isles and Europe are poorly understood. Two modern pollen rain studies demonstrated that, along 60m of comparable transects, large pollen grains of wild grass taxa were distributed further and in larger quantities than cereal pollen of similar size. When values for cereal pollen in modern pollen rain after crop harvesting were compared with those in the top of an adjacent lake deposit it was apparent that the high levels of cereal pollen in the air were not reflected in the lake mud. All finds of cereal-size pollen in deposits which developed about the time of the elm decline must now be interpreted with caution.
23033940|Survey work on the stygobitic Crustacea (Malacostraca) species of Ireland was carried out in spring 2008, with funding from the Heritage Council's Wildlife Grant Scheme (Grant no. 16426). The survey, which concentrated on springs and caves, produced 26 records from 23 new locations. Most of the records were of Niphargus kochianus irlandicus, the commonest and most widespread of the four currently known Irish species. The Carrowmore cave system in County Sligo is currently the northernmost record for N. kochianus irlandicus in Ireland and for the genus Niphargus in Europe. Niphargus wexfordensis, previously only known from County Wexford was discovered at four new locations, including counties Cork, Kilkenny and Clare. The sole record of the tiny Microniphargus leruthi was from riverine interstitial gravels on the Dripsey River, Co. Cork. This is the third record of this species from Ireland, following its discovery in 2006. Sixty-five sites were sampled in total, and taxa lists include epigean (surface-dwelling) taxa found within the ground-water habitats.
20500041|Aspects of research work undertaken by the Wetland Ecology Research Group at University College Dublin are summarised here Wastes from mining activities generally contain high concentrations of heavy metals and other toxic substances Reclamation methods to treat these wastes include the use of wetlands, for revegetation of mine tailings under flooded conditions and for the treatment of tailings water Both natural and constructed wetlands are frequently employed for the treatment of mine wastes Through a complex array of plant, soil and microbial interactions contaminants, such as heavy metals and sulphates, can be successfully removed from wastewater Suitable vegetation can stabilise the tailings sediment, thereby preventing it from being dust-blown or leached into the surrounding environment. Our research suggests that these two techniques for treatment of mine wastes are successful and economically viable.
42912486|Lough Murree, a rock/karst barrier lagoon, is superficially isolated from the sea and seasonal variations in lake water level reflect precipitation and groundwater variation. Lake salinity is influenced by subsurface saline intrusions, occasional barrier overwash together with precipitation and groundwater inflow, leading to poikilohaline conditions. Palaeolimnological reconstructions in Murree support the supposition that the lagoon was once superficially connected to the sea around the mid-nineteenth century. Physical, chemical and biological proxies suggest an evolution to more freshwater conditions. Uncertainties about the timing of the transition persist because of an unresolved sediment chronology. The isolation of Murree from the Atlantic Ocean has promoted the formation of dense charophyte beds composed of lagoonal specialist species, which are able to tolerate large variations in salinity.
20500074|Lough Carra is a shallow limestone lake in County Mayo in the west of Ireland. It is situated in the Corrib catchment. The lake has been managed as a brown trout fishery since the 1950s, initially by the Inland Fisheries Trust and more recently by the Western Regional Fisheries Board. The results from a number of studies carried out by the Inland Fisheries Trust and Fisheries Boards are presented, including the findings of a 1972 bathymetric survey; data from long-term monitoring of mid-lake samples for chlorophyll and nutrients, ongoing since 1975; a four-year study on phytoplankton composition and biomass (1983-6) and vegetation surveys carried out in 1975 and 1996, the latter as part of a study on littoral processes in the large western Irish lakes, funded by the Environmental Protection Agency. The findings show the lake to be a very shallow hard-water system with low levels of photoplankton primary production. Diatoms dominated the algal crop in the autumn-spring period with genera of green algae and dinoflagellates present in summer. The submerged vegetation was dominated by species of the genus Chara. Extensive reed-beds, dominated by Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. ex Steud. grew on sheltered and on east-facing shores.
20504494|Statoblasts of two species of freshwater Bryozoa were collected from aquatic macrophytes in Renvyle Lough in western Ireland. Quantification in weed samples suggests that presence of spines on statoblasts improves the chances of a bryozoan remaining in a suitable environment, with on average 1.05 spinoblasts of Cristatella mucedo Cuvier being retrieved from every gram of pondweed, compared to 0.76 non-spinous floatoblasts of Plumatella repens (L.). Most of the weed samples contained only the American pondweed Hydrilla verticillata (L. fil) Royale, but where Myriophyllum alterniflorum DC was also present the number of spinoblasts found on vegetation increased. Statoblasts recovered from onshore winthrows of dead or dying pondweed were subjected to germination experiments to test their potential as survival mechanisms. It was found that 9.81% of C. mucedo statoblasts and 6.96% of P. repens statoblasts germinated successfully under laboratory conditions. C. mucedo statoblasts which hatched were larger than the average size of statoblasts for that species, while those of P. repens showed no difference between groups. The experiments indicate that statoblast viability, although low, may allow bryozoans to survive dry and unsuitable periods.
20499964|Mammalian prey of barn owls Tyto alba in various district electoral divisions in County Cork was examined against areas under cereals, sugar-beet, potatoes, other crops, hay, pasture, silage, rough grazing, woodland and the residual area--including farms of less than 5ha, commercial conifer stands and unimproved land--in those divisions. House mice Mus domesticus, the most variable constituent in the prey (&lt;1% to 75%) and occurring mainly around farmsteads, were strongly associated with other crops, the largest component of which is fodder beet. The latter is correlated with cereal-based fodder concentrates stored on farms, which, we argue, largely determine the population of house mice. Other consistent positive associations were between field mice Apodemus sylvaticus and residual area; pygmy shrew Sorex minutus and woodland; and common rat Rattus norvegicus and potatoes. Using polychotomous stepwise logistic regression, mathematical models were constructed with land categories as independent variables and numbers of the different prey species as dependent variables. Such models can predict prey from data on land use. The most important explanatory variable was other crops, particularly for house mice. Pasture, which provides minimal cover and food for small mammals, was not an explanatory variable. Refinements in the collection of data, to improve models, are suggested.
biolenviprocria.114B.1.35|Widespread hybridisation between roach (
20500108|Remarkable palaeosols of Neogene (probably Pliocene) and Pleistocene age have been identified in exposures at two sites on the northern flank of Cnoc Mordin near the head of Kilkieran Bay in County Galway. Both deposits contain pollen that has provided evidence of their age. The Pliocene soil overlies an irregular palaeosurface and probably drapes deeply weathered bedrock that was exhumed during the Neogene or earlier and subsequently modified by Pleistocene glaciations. Above the Pliocene soil lies a second palaeosol sandwiched between two diamictons, the upper of which is certainly glacigenic. If both diamictons are glacigenic, then the upper palaeosol, which is probably Early or Middle Pleistocene in age, marks an important horizon between two glaciations. This is the first identification of a Neogene surface on a rock type other than limestone in Ireland; its discovery is important because it allows part of Ireland's Tertiary surface to be elucidated, allowing a greater understanding of landscape evolution.
20500196|A year-long survey of Lough Bunny, a karst lake in County Clare, Ireland, was undertaken in 1992-3. Water transparency (as determined by Secchi disc depth), plant nutrients, chlorophyll a concentrations and phytoplankton were examined. High water transparency indicated that the euphotic zone extended over the majority of the lake and may, at times, have reached the deepest parts of the lake. Silicate-silicon and nitrate + nitrite-nitrogen showed marked seasonal changes with lowest values recorded in May 1992 and August 1992 respectively. Molybdate reactive phosphate-phosphorus showed no seasonality in concentration and was often below the limit of detection of the technique used. The maximum value obtained was 3.9g PO-P dm. Chlorophyll a concentrations were also low throughout the year, ranging from 0.5g dm to 2.6g dm, and these also showed no seasonal pattern of change. Cryptophyta were present in all samples and were often the most numerous group in the phytoplankton. Small dinoflagellates occurred throughout the year, with Ceratium species appearing in the summer months. Cyanobacteria were common and most abundant in late autumn. Dinobryon species were found throughout the year but mostly as single thecate cells and only occasionally as large arbuscular colonies. Diatoms were not well represented in the plankton. The Chlorophyta showed greatest diversity of species but were never abundant. Quantitative counts showed cell numbers in all groups to be low, which is reflected in the low chlorophyll a concentrations. On this evidence it is suggested that the lake is oligotrophic. A comparison with two published lists of the lake's plankton was made. There are extensive beds of Charophyta in the lake. A list of species is given. We suggest that utilisation of plant nutrients by the charophytes and benthic diatoms may be responsible for the water clarity and small phytoplankton populations.
20499962|Nutrient availability in two Irish fens and two blanket bogs was assessed by analysing soil samples for total and extractable N and P and mineralisation. A two-year (1989 and 1990) fertiliser application experiment with N, P or N + P was carried out to determine the growth-limiting nutrient(s). (i) The total N content of the soil ranged between 12.2g and 28.8g kg dry weight. The total P ranged from 0.14g to 0.75g kg. Both showed significant differences between all sites. Soil N/P ratios ranged from 16 in a fen up to 125 at a bog site, indicating a shortage of P. (ii) Extractable N-HO was significantly higher in the fens than in the bogs; however, N-KCl showed no differences. Extractable P appeared to be higher in bogs than in fens. (iii) The mineralised N (HO and KCl) was lower in the Kylemore fen than in the Kylemore bog, but the opposite was found for the Crossmolina fen, where released amounts were higher than in the Crossmolina bog. Released P (HO) was significantly higher in the fens than in the bogs; no differences were found for bioavailable P (P-lact). (iv) The response of biomass to fertilisation was greater in 1990 than in 1989. Combined N + P and P applications resulted in a significantly greater harvest in 1990 than the control. The amounts of nutrients per m increased significantly after P and N + P application but not after N application. The species composition remained the same. (v) The high N/P, C/N (17-32) and C/P (424-3946) ratios of the soil and N/P (13-28) ratios of plant material, combined with the increase in biomass and nutrients in plant material after fertiliser application, suggest P and/or N + P limitation of Irish mires.
20728607|Determination of the age structure of the present population of trees within a forest provides the means to infer the past population dynamics of the forest, which can in turn provide insight into how the forest can best be managed towards its conservation. This paper presents oak tree age-structure data from selected oak-dominated woodlands within Killarney National Park in south-western Irelandthe first study of its kind in Ireland. Tree-ring counts were obtained from 147 oak trees located in three oakwoods. Most sampling was concentrated in the remote western portion of the National Park. The modern oak population was revealed to have established during the 1790s (AD). Oak establishment proceeded through all succeeding decades until it ceased after the 1950s. The most frequent tree age class dated from the 1830s. Oak regeneration from the first half of the nineteenth century gave rise to the main body of the oakwoods present today. A second peak in oak establishment dated from the 1880s; this was confined to small clearings and woodland margins. A third, minor regeneration phase dated from the 1910s. The two later phases of regeneration appeared to be correlated with human disturbance, i.e. removal of oak timber and in some cases coppicing. The origin and development of these woods are discussed in the light of historical documentation and of palynological evidence.
20500237|Trichomanes speciosum, which was collected extensively during the Victorian fern craze, is one of the rarest pteridophyte species in Ireland and is protected by both the Wildlife Act, 1976, and the European Union Habitats Directive, 1992 [92/43/EEC]. Since the discovery in the wild of the independently living gametophyte generation of this species in 1989, the number of known sites for the species has increased, and this may have implications for its conservation status. Sexual reproduction of Trichomanes speciosum is a rare occurrence, but both the sporophyte and gametophyte generations reproduce vegetatively, thereby allowing the generations to persist independently. In the current study, CCA (canonical correspondence analysis) and TWINSPAN (two-way indicator species analysis) were used to determine whether the two generations had different ecological requirements in Ireland that could, in part, explain their differing distributions. The two generations were found to have different species associations; but for both generations, humidity, shade and elevation were found to be the most important factors in determining colony survival.
20500241|Temporal variability in neuston diversity and community structure in Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Co. Cork, was studied over a two-year period. Neuston sampling was carried out at different time scales in order to make between-year, seasonal and monthly comparisons and, in May 2003, at midday and midnight for six consecutive days to make daily and twelve-hourly (diel) comparisons. Three sampling tracks were established in Lough Hyne, each corresponding to a basin subject to different hydrographical environments. Neuston abundance and diversity (Shannon-Wiener index, H) were estimated for each timescale, and univariate analyses (ANOVA) revealed significant scales of temporal variation. There was significant monthly variation of neuston abundance within seasons, and this was dependent on site and year: summer months showed highest abundances, whereas lows were recorded in January of both years. Generally, higher concentrations of neuston were found at the two sites with reduced water circulation. Diversity maxima occurred during October and September of the consecutive years. The second sampling year showed greater diversity. At smaller temporal scales there was significant variation in neuston numbers and diversity, which was dependent on site, diel period and day. Higher abundances were generally found at night, whereas nocturnal neuston diversity was not always greater than that at midday. Multivariate analysis identified distinct nocturnal and diurnal assemblages, providing indirect evidence for vertical migration of certain taxa. Seasonal succession was evident, as was interannual variation. The community was dominated by 'temporary neuston' typical of neritic, boreal areas and was in a state of flux.
42912481|Global climate is rapidly changing and, while many studies have investigated the potential impacts of climate change on the distribution of woodland species in the wider European context, few have focused on the impacts of climate change on the distribution of woodland species in Ireland. This study evaluates the potential impact of climate change on the distribution of species characteristic of woodlands and assesses the implications for the conservation of woodlands in Ireland. Only some 2% of the land area of Ireland is covered in semi-natural woodlands, including communities which are conservation priorities such as bog woodland, alluvial forests and Taxus baccata (Yew) woods. We applied an ensemble of species distribution modelling techniques, using atlas data for 104 vascular plant, bryophyte, bird and butterfly species from Ireland, baseline climate data (1961-1990) and projected future climate data (HadCM3 GCM; 2031-2060), at a 10km resolution. Of the 104 species, 44 modelled well in at least 6 of the 8 models. Under a scenario of unlimited dispersal, almost 50% of species which modelled well were projected to lose climate space, with the largest range contraction projected for the butterfly Aphantopus hyperantus (Ringlet;  47.7%). The remainder were projected to have increased climate space, with Thecla betulae (Brown hairstreak) and Frngula alnus (Alder buckthorn) having the largest projected increases of 886% and 532% of their current ranges. When a scenario of limited long-range dispersal was considered, all species were projected to lose some of their current range, from a decrease of 52.4% for Carex strigosa (thin-spiked woodsedge) to a decrease of 10.9% for Saxfraga spathularis (St Patrick's cabbage). These results have significant implications for the future of woodlands in Ireland. Conservation management plans for these habitats need greater focus on potential climate change impacts in order to ensure these communities' long-term survival.
20728583|The main environmental impact of Irish agriculture on surface and ground water quality is the potential transfer of nutrients to water. Soil water dynamics mediate the transport of nutrients to water, and these dynamics in turn depend on agro-meteorological conditions, which show large variations between regions, seasons and years. In this paper we quantify and map the spatio-temporal variability of agro-meteorological factors that control nutrient pressures and pathways of nutrient loss. Subsequently, we evaluate their impact on the water quality of Irish rivers. For nitrogen, pressure and pathways factors coincide in eastern and southern areas, which is reflected in higher nitrate levels of the rivers in these regions. For phosphorus, pathway factors are most pronounced in north-western parts of the country. In south-eastern parts, high pressure factors result in reduced biological water quality. These regional differences require that farm practices be customised to reflect the local risk of nutrient loss to water. Where pathways for phosphorus loss are present almost year-roundas is the case in most of the north-western part of the countrybuild-up of pressures should be prevented, or ameliorated where already high. In south-eastern areas, spatio-temporal coincidence of nutrient pressures and pathways should be prevented, which poses challenges to grassland management.
20694843|An understanding of the chemical nature of P in soil is essential to the sustainability of agriculture in Ireland. This study used P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and wet-chemical analysis to characterise NaOHEDTA-extractable P in a grassland soil in south-east Ireland. Soil samples of 10cm depth were collected over five sampling days between September and December 2003. Total soil P (Pt) ranged between 723 and 819mg P kg soil, while Morgan's P (Pm) ranged between 3.4 and 12.5mg P l soil. Recovery rates of P extracted in the NaOHEDTA solution were high, ranging from 75 to 88% of soil Pt. Four distinct classes of P compound were detected in the P NMR spectra: inorganic orthophosphate ( = 6.72 to 6.85ppm, with a mean of 6.79ppm), orthophosphate monoesters ( = 3.83 to 6.11ppm), orthophosphate diesters ( = 0.32 to 0.54ppm) and pyrophosphates ( = 3.44 to 3.13ppm, with a mean of 3.26ppm). Distinct signals at 5.64, 5.39, 5.02 and 4.55ppm in the spectra showed the dominance of myo-inositol hexakisphosphate in the orthophosphate monoester region. Orthophosphate diesters were subclassified as phospholipids ( = 0 and 1.88ppm) and DNA ( = 0.09 to 0.10ppm). Over the three-month sampling period the mean percentages of the four main P functional classesinorganic orthophosphate, orthophosphate monoesters, orthophosphate diesters and pyrophosphatesin the soil samples were approximately 52, 42, 3 and 3%, respectively. The ratio of orthophosphate monoesters to orthophosphate diesters ranged from 10 to 19. Further research is required to assess the potential bioavailability of organic P (Po) in Irish grassland soils in order to understand its role in the transfer of P from agricultural soil to our water bodies.
20728626|Lake creation represents a major post-harvesting land-use option for industrial cutaway peatlands in Ireland, yet little is currently understood about the ecology of cutaway water-bodies, particularly at the microbiota level. The current paper describes for the first time the littoral zooplankton community in three contrasting artificial cutaway lakes and one natural bog lake. The study lakes, which were sampled on five occasions in 2003, contrasted strongly in their physico-chemical characteristics, nutrient states and trophic classifications. These trends reflected variations between sites in sediment types, water supply sources and catchment land uses. In the absence of fish, invertebrate predation by cyclopoid copepods (Tropocyclops prasinus) and cladocerans (Polyphemus pediculus) appeared to play an elevated role in structuring the zooplankton communities in the study lakes, in terms of abundance, species composition and size structure.
20694852|In Ireland agricultural activities have been identified as major sources of nutrient input to receiving waters, and it has been estimated that these activities contribute 75.3% of the N and 33.4% of the P found in these waters. The strategy at European level focuses on the prevention of nutrient loss by improved farm management. However, it does not focus on nutrient remediation or incidental nutrient loss from farmyard manures to surface water and groundwater. This review describes the impact of agriculture on the environment in Ireland and examines emerging technologies for agricultural waste-water treatment. An integrated approach at pretreatment and field stages for nitrate (NO) remediation and P control is recommended.
20694894|The Water Framework Directive (WFD) has been the catalyst for a considerable amount of data collection, analysis and research, covering a wide range of physical and biological characteristics and involving a wide range of scientific, social and management-related disciplines. This paper starts with a short description of the discipline of hydrology and then identifies the main hydrological aspects of work for the WFD, noting their ecological significance. It also provides some idea of the range of organisations and disciplines involved in the work and of the links between them. Of particular significance is the degree of cooperation between river basin districts in setting up working groups for special studies, helping to avoid overlaps in research.
20728577|Recent climate warming has been observed at the global scale, but by examining developmental stages of plant species (phenology) that are dependent on local climatic conditions, climate change at the local scale can be detected. There are four gardens in Ireland belonging to the International Phenological Gardens (IPG) network, which has recorded tree phenology for more than 30 years using a common collection of clonal tree species and cultivars. In this analysis two phenological stages were investigatedthe beginning of the growing season (BGS) and the end of the growing season (EGS) in nine tree cultivars in relation to ambient air temperature. The length of the growing season (LGS) was determined from the number of days between BGS and EGS. Structural time series analysis was used to describe trends in the data. Overall BGS was the most responsive phenophase and was shown to start earlier in more recent years for some species at all sites. It is shown that these observations are due to recent climate change in the form of spring warming, particularly in the south-west of the country. Due to the limited number of observation sites and differences between species responses, we suggest that extrapolation of the results to larger geographical areas should be performed with caution.
20499868|Maps at 1:20,000 scale, showing peatland types in Northern Ireland, which were derived by aerial photograph interpretation, have been converted into a database of areas of peatland types per 1km square, using the Ordnance Survey grid. The proprietary Scientific Information and Retrieval database management system was used for primary data storage, PC ARC/INFO to store other data files and UNIRAS for mapping out. These choices were based on data and computing resources available at the time and anticipated needs in making the database a resource for ongoing environmental research. The paper demonstrates that, using the database, a variety of peatland types (variables), individually or in combination, can be analysed statistically and in maps; rare types can be located quickly and spatial patterns of common types described. Explanations of such patterns start to emerge by analysis of the database and can be pursued by Geographical Information Systems. The database can provide a context for changes to the peatland; an example is the progress of machine extraction. Use of a 1km square database is well suited to regional scale analysis, and to complement the local detail of the original peatland survey maps.
20728617|Grey squirrel, Sciurus carolinensis, populations have been subjected to various degrees of control in the woodlands of Ireland and Britain since their introduction. The populations readily recover, but the recolonisation rates and other ecological effects of the culls have not been fully examined. Monthly live trapping programmes were used to monitor the grey squirrel populations in two woodlands. Culls, where as many grey squirrels as possible were removed by trapping, were conducted on five occasions; three in one woodland and two in the other. The squirrel populations recovered within ten weeks in four of the five culls. Post-cull populations tended to consist of unmarked adult squirrels that had entered from outside the woodland. One cull attempted in the autumn was not a success, as capture rates were low and the population had returned to its pre-cull levels within three weeks. Many young squirrels entered the population following this cull. Some long-term repercussions of the culls were evident, even after the population density had recovered. The age profile changed, with the removal of breeding females reducing the numbers of young squirrels for the following year. Breeding levels were also reduced as the recolonising populations were slow to start breeding. Home ranges of surviving squirrels expanded if the population density remained at a reduced level, and core areas often shifted following a cull.
20504491|Dunkellin estuary, Galway Bay, is a shallow embayment, where the dominant process is tidal mixing. The abundance and distribution of the meroplankton were studied monthly between December 1984 and June 1986 using Clarke--Bumpus plankton samplers fitted with 0.16mm aperture nylon-mesh nets. During the sampling period, salinity ranged between S4.5 and S34.5, water temperature between 4C and 18C, and chlorophyll a between less than 1mg m and 29mg m. Meroplankton, all of coastal/marine origin, accounted for 58% of zooplankton numbers recorded during the sampling period. Meroplankton abundance showed a marked seasonality, with a pronounced early spring peak from February to April. Early spawners included larvae of barnacles, polychaetes, gastropods, eggs and larvae of fish and ephyrae of Aurelia aurita. Cyphonautes larvae and the hydromedusae Rathkea octopuncata and Phialella quadrata appeared later in April. Summer spawners included larvae of gastropods, echinoderms, ascidians, decapods and other species of hydromedusae. Abundance and diversity of meroplankton was lowest during the winter months. Barnacle nauplii were the most abundant group, accounting for 70% of meroplankton numbers. Polychaete larvae were next in importance in the inner estuary, while gastropods were more abundant at the seaward end. The relationship between meroplankton abundance and environmental variables is discussed.
23033877|The acidbase relations of plant (including algal) environments are complex, comprising geological processes as modified by biology including, especially over the last 200 years, man. Some habitats (e.g. high intertidal rockpools and some freshwater bodies) have pH variations of up to three units over a diel cycle as a result of photosynthesis and respiration. Other habitats, e.g. nutrient-poor open ocean habitats, have diel variations that are more than an order of magnitude smaller. Anthropogenic influences on acidbase relations of different habitats include the input to the atmosphere of gases that dissolve to produce acidic solutions. The quantitatively predominant gas is CO 2 , but SO 2 , NO x and NH y (via nitrification) can also be significant. The influence of the acidic gases in aquatic habitats (including the upper layers of peat bogs) and on terrestrial photosynthetic organisms alters the inorganic carbon speciation and pH around the photosynthetic cells. The calcified coralline marine red macroalgae, with benthic and unattached (maerl) life forms, have extracellular calcification; their calcification rate will decline in the future, with a more CO 2 -rich ocean and decreasing CO 3 2- concentrations. The marine planktonic coccolithophores have intracellular calcification, though the coccoliths themselves occur externally. While many coccolithophores show decreased calcification with increasing external CO 2 and the attendant decrease in external CO 3 2- , this is not universal. For both coralline red algae and coccolithophores the external CaCO 3 will dissolve when seawater becomes undersaturated with respect to the relevant crystal form of CaCO 3 . Overall, the effects of increased CO 2 alone are negligible or result in increased growth of non-calcified algae, while there is most generally a decreased growth of calcified algae.
20694872|Lampreys are endangered in Europe, and European states are legally required to take measures to ensure their protection. However, there is currently little information on the distribution of the three species present in Northern Ireland. Anecdotal records of adult lampreys were collated from anglers and other sources, and a systematic electrofishing survey was undertaken to establish the distribution of lamprey ammocoetes. Lampreys were found in seven of the nine Northern Irish river catchments. Brook lampreys (Lampetra planeri (Bloch)) were widely distributed, but the two anadromous species, sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus L.) and river lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis (L.)), were more limited in their distribution, possibly due to barriers restricting migration.
20499923|A sighting scheme was established during 1993 to determine the distribution and abundance of the basking shark in Irish waters. One hundred and forty-two sighting records were made of 425 individuals during 1993. Sightings were received from around the entire Irish coast, but concentrations were evident off the east, south-west and northern coasts. Sightings were made between April and November, but peaked in June and September. Although group size varied from one to twenty animals, most records were of single animals. Most sharks were between 4m and 6m in length, with only one under 2m. Twenty-eight records were of basking sharks entangled in fishing nets, usually surface gill-nets, and specimens were reported washed up on all coasts. A database, including historic records made before 1993, was established. When compared with historical accounts of basking sharks in Irish waters, the present study suggests that sharks are scarce in areas in which they were once fished and are now more abundant at other locations. They are appearing later in the year than previously reported. Surface sightings were correlated with sea surface temperatures, with a temperature of 11.5C being critical. Basking sharks appeared later along the north coast than along the south, and this was attributed to the timing of the spring plankton bloom in coastal waters.
23188061|The toxicity of oils to aquatic organisms has been widely investigated, but a systemic study of early life stages of fish is lacking and the effects on aquatic environments of various oils have been ignored. The integrative effects of four crude oils and four fuel oils on black porgy (Acanthopagrus schlegelii) exposed at three early life stages were investigated. Oils caused a significant decrease in survival rates for early life stages and the early life stages of black porgy stressed by oils were very sensitive and the toxicity of fuel oils was greater than that of crude oils. According to LC 50 values, the toxicity of crude oils and fuel oils on black porgy is as follows: (1) Embryo stage: F180 > F380 > F120 >  20 > TJ014 > TJ015 > TJ002 > TJ016; (2) Larvae stage: F180 > F120 >  20 > F380 > TJ015 > TJ002 > TJ014 > TJ016; and (3) Adolescent fish stage: F120 > F180 >  20 = TJ014 > TJ015 > F380 > TJ002 > TJ016. The differences among the three early life stages may be due to the different body structures and behaviours. Therefore, these results may assist in the aquatic environmental risk assessment of areas impacted by an oil spill.
20694845|Searches of Darwin's correspondence show that some 160 letters crossed between him and naturalists and others with an Irish address. While few in number, compared to Darwin's 14,000 other known letters, some of this correspondence provoked frequent exchanges between Darwin and his closest collaborators, occasionally leading to amendments to The origin of species or becoming material for Darwin's other publications. The absence of Darwin references in the contemporaneous Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy or journals of the Royal Dublin Society, where local naturalists published their work, has to be viewed together with the absence in those journals of references to the Irish famines. Other publications of a broader cultural focus engaged both topics in a lively way. Darwin's correspondence was also surveyed for the subject of the island of Ireland, in relation to observations on the distribution of a small group of plants common to Asturias in northern Spain and to the south and west of Ireland, but absent elsewhere in Europe. Patterns of distribution of mitochondrial and Y-specific human DNA markers in western Europe that overlap the distribution of these Asturian plants suggest a common cause for both sets of observations. A modern hypothesis based on these DNA findings is supported by the observations made 150 years ago.
20694871|Visual surveys and acoustic monitoring of harbour porpoises were conducted between July and October 2007 within the Blasket Islands' candidate Special Area of Conservation (cSAC) to derive density estimates and acoustic-detection rates. A total of 44 sightings of 102 individual harbour porpoises were recorded on 74 tracks with a total distance of 389km. Density estimates  SE, determined using DISTANCE software, ranged from 0.71 to 3.39 porpoises per km, giving abundance estimates ranging from 162  120 to 768  198, depending on the number of sightings per day. The most robust estimate of 303  76 (coefficient of variation = 0.25; 95% confidence interval 186494) was calculated using the combined data from each track line. There were indications of a seasonal increase in abundance from July through to September. Passive acoustic monitoring was carried out through the deployment of self-contained click detectors called T-PODs. One month's acoustic data were acquired from two sites, and data were extracted as Detection Positive Minutes per day and per hour for analysis. Detections were logged for every day of deployment at both sites. This survey provides the first information on the spatial distribution of harbour porpoises in the Blasket Islands' cSAC, as well as baseline data from which to monitor abundance and distribution.
20504493|The activity pattern of a flock of moorhens at Cork Lough was determined during the winter of 1992-93 using instantaneous scan sampling. Data were collected mostly during daylight hours and the principal activities were recorded. Feeding was the most important activity of observed birds, representing 38% of time, followed by swimming (23%) and walking (18%). Grazing was the main foraging strategy, accounting for 75% of time spent feeding. There was significant variation in activities both diurnally and over the winter. In general, birds spent more time on land than on water. Anthropogenic sources of terrestrial and aquatic disturbance were recorded and related to moorhen activities.
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|Groundwater discharge is a major pathway for the delivery of freshwater and nutrients to surface water bodies. In recognition of the significance of groundwater as a potential pollution pathway and the challenges of localising and assessing inputs that are diffuse and highly variable, robust and effective GIS and remote sensing methodologies to facilitate national and water-body-scale assessments of the potential for groundwater discharge are presented. Firstly, lake water bodies were classified according to likelihood to receive groundwater discharge, defined within a GIS relative to a number of simple criteria including underlying aquifer type and presence of geologic faults, springs and other karst features. The approach facilitated a time- and cost-effective screening of over 800 lakes, which was completed to prioritise subsequent analyses of potential groundwater lake interactions using remotely sensed imagery. Surface water temperature and temperature anomaly maps generated using satellite imagery revealed thermal signals potentially indicative of groundwaterlake interactions. Furthermore, the results showed that larger (more negative) thermal anomaly values were associated with the higher likelihood classes. This research helps to set the foundation from which key knowledge gaps on the interaction between groundwater and lakes in Ireland can begin to be addressed.
20500185|Afforested catchments with acid bedrock are particularly susceptible to surface-water acidification. Liming has been used throughout Europe and North America as a means of mitigating the adverse effects of increased acidity of surface waters. One of the principal aims of liming is to increase alkalinity and pH to ensure suitable conditions for fish survival, in particular salmonids. This review examines the range of available liming methods in detail with specific emphasis on their potential use in afforested catchments in Ireland. The most promising method is the stream doser system because the dose rate can be varied automatically in response to changing stream conditions. Other methods worthy of further investigation include the spreading of lime on forest floors and the direct addition of limestone to stream beds. However, a better understanding of hydrological factors is required before a full assessment of terrestrial liming strategies can be made.
biolenviprocria.114B.1.1|Twenty-seven tufa-forming (petrifying) spring sites were found in ten valleys during a survey of the Slieve Bloom Mountains in 2007 and twenty are described. A site was defined as having active tufa formation inextricably associated with calcifying bryophyte species. This involved a total area of 0.15ha but there is estimated to be twice this amount of the habitat in the study area. Several morphological types were identified which were mainly the result of a low to very low flow of water on steep to gentle slopes, but bryophyte/tufa complexes also occurred on vertical faces, in flat areas and on small waterfalls. Sources of calcium in the area are Carboniferous Limestone-derived glacial drift and limited calcareous strata within the Old Red Sandstone bedrock. The living molluscan fauna, which included the rare
23033871|The diversity and distribution of Agaricomycete species in the Republic of Ireland (ROI) is examined and the records are compared with similar records from Northern Ireland, England, Scotland and Wales. The number of Agaricomycete species recorded from Ireland is much lower than in the other countries examined. The ROI has 100, 700, 1300 and 2200 fewer species than Northern Ireland, Wales, Scotland and England respectively. When species records according to major taxonomic clades are examined, it is evident that under-recording of Agaricomycete species from the ROI is common throughout all of the clades. Estimates of potential Agaricomycete diversity in the ROI indicate that 25 of the 26 counties have less than half of their likely Agaricomycete diversity recorded. Agaricomycete clades that have been reasonably well recorded and those that suffer from severe under-recording in Ireland have been identified, and preliminary lists of the 50 most common Agaricomycete and of possibly threatened Agaricomycetes in the ROI have been created. One of the main reasons for the low number of species recorded in the ROI is the lack of both professional and amateur mycologists conducting periodic surveys. This paper makes recommendations as to how the true Agaricomycete diversity of Ireland can be discovered.
20499943|Between 1988 and 1992, 69 sites from a total of 132 examined in County Dublin yielded charophytes. Sites ranged in size from canals and reservoirs to cattle drinking troughs and included locations of flowing, still and standing water. Eleven species of Charophyta, covering the genera Chara, Nitella and Tolypella, were recorded. In addition, physico-chemical analysis for a number of variables was carried out on water samples from 32 locations which yielded charophytes. The findings are discussed in relation to previous records for the vice-county and to aspects of the ecology of the recorded species as reported in the literature.
40716309|The aim of this study was to examine the seasonal variation in biomass, total nitrogen (Tot-N) and total phosphorus (Tot-P) content of Phragmites australis in a three-cell, free-water surface (FWS) constructed wetland in western Ireland and to investigate the effects of harvesting on its biomass and nutrient content. One cell of the wetland was divided into two plots: one plot, measuring 80m , was completely harvested on 16 June 2005, while the other plot, the control plot, remained uncut throughout the study duration. Completely randomised 0.64m areas within each plot were harvested to water level at intervals of approximately one month over an eight-month study period, and the shoot biomass and nutrient content were measured. In the control plot, the plant biomass, total nitrogen and total phosphorus content peaked in August. In the June-cut plot, the shoot biomass, total nitrogen and total phosphorus content peaked in September. The mean rate of dry matter production, defined as the mean daily rate of dry matter production per unit area per day between harvests, attained maximum rates of 12.8g m d and 4.2g m d for the control and June-cut plots, respectively, indicating that annual harvesting of emergent vegetation may not have any beneficial effect on biomass production or nutrient content under Irish climatic conditions.
biolenviprocria.116B.1.1|The island of Ireland (Ireland and Northern Ireland) has a long history with the plant pathogenic oomycete genus
biolenviprocria.117b.1.1|Mealybugs (Pseudococcidae) are widely distributed insects that damage a large variety of fruits, vegetables and other crops throughout the world. The soft and thin-skinned fig (
biolenviprocria.116b.3.1|The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Water Research Programme is focused on major environmental challenges and the provision of evidence, knowledge base and policy relevant solutions. By ensuring that its research programme is relevant, flexible and responsive, by making the research more accessible, and by involving the key actors in the co-design, monitoring and evaluation of the research, the EPA plays a key role in providing the evidence base to inform and support policy. The EPA Water Research Programme has also developed high quality research capacity and supported innovation that is internationally respected. The EPA supports the Irish research community in competing for European funding (e.g. Horizon 2020, Water Joint Programming Initiative (JPI)), and to date, the Irish research community has performed strongly in the water area. Over the coming years, the EPA Water Research Programme will ensure that it aligns itself with the latest priorities identified in the 2016 EPA State of the Environment report, the policy requirements at national and international level, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the Water JPI Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda, in addition to the upcoming Horizon 2020 research priorities.
20500103|The evidence for a succession of pronounced and abrupt climate oscillations during the last glacial cycle is discussed, and ideas about the causal mechanisms underlying these oscillations are reviewed. Special attention is paid to the sequence of climatic events that characterised the last glacial-interglacial transition (the LGIT--dated to c. 15 to 11.5ka BP) because the climatic events that occurred during this period can usually be quantified and dated more precisely than earlier climatic events. A study of the evidence from the LGIT might, therefore, throw light on the mechanisms driving some of the earlier abrupt climatic events. The evidence from ice-core, marine and terrestrial records for the LGIT is briefly reviewed, and the precision with which the records can be dated and correlated is considered. Some conclusions about the behaviour of climate in the north Atlantic region during the LGIT are drawn, and the importance of improved geochronology in future international palaeoclimate research agenda is highlighted.
20694888|The Water Framework Directive is the most important piece of European water legislation to date. It arose from the need to consolidate water policy and to integrate water-resources management, recognising the interrelationships between water quality and quantity, ground-water and surface water, an aquatic ecosystem approach and catchment-based management. The natural drainage-management units used are called river basin districts (RBDs). Eight RBDs have been established on the island of Ireland, including three international districts. The status of waters is assessed by comparison to undisturbed reference conditions. A range of aquatic biological quality elements are assessed. The directive aims to maintain 'high status' where it exists, to prevent any deterioration in the existing status of waters and to achieve at least 'good status' in relation to all waters by 2015. The roles of various public authorities in implementing the directive in Ireland and the mechanisms for NorthSouth coordination in relation to international districts are outlined in this paper. The importance of public consultation in the planning process is also described. The success of implementation to date is charted through a series of deliverables, and a brief outline of impending tasks is included. The role of strategic environmental assessment of river basin management plans is outlined, and progress to date is described.
20799781|The insects are the most diverse organisms on this planet and play an essential role in ecosystem functioning, yet we know very little about them. In light of the Convention on Biological Diversity, this paper summarises the known insect species numbers for Ireland and questions whether this is a true reflection of our insect diversity. The total number of known species for Ireland is 11,422. Using species accumulation curves and a comparison with the British fauna, this study shows that the Irish list is incomplete and that the actual species number is much higher. However, even with a reasonable knowledge of the species in Ireland, insects are such speciose, small, and inconspicuous animals that it is difficult to assess species loss. It is impossible to know at one point in time the number of insect species in Ireland and, although it is useful to summarise the known number of species, it is essential that biodiversity indicators, such as the Red List Index, are developed.
biolenviprocria.117b.2.77|The noble false widow
20500030|The length, age and growth rate of female silver eels trapped in the Burrishoole system, western Ireland, were investigated in 1987 and 1988. Length ranged from 40cm to 100cm, and age from 8 to 57 years. Of the total sample of 8612 eels measured, 0.7% were larger than 62cm: 0.6% in 1987 and 0.7% in 1988. Annual growth rates were generally faster for the larger eels (&gt;62cm). The growth curve for eels 62cm decreased annually, approaching an
20504522|Worm pipefish (Osteichthyes, Syngnathidae) are common members of the ichthyofaunal community on rocky shores in western Europe. However, there has been little research into their biology and ecology. Male Nerophis lumbriciformis, like all syngnathids, brood eggs to hatching on a modified area on their abdomen. Worm pipefish are engaged in reproductive activity from January to October. During this period approximately two-thirds of the mature fish are capable of reproduction. Egg-bearing males carry a mean of 49.5 eggs (SE  1.4) in each brood. Male reproductive potential is dependent on the resources available to female pipefish for the generation of oocytes (clutch). While there was no significant difference in the median numbers in broods or clutches, the number of oocytes in female ovaries (55.17  1.77 (SE)) exceeds mean brood size. It is hypothesised that female pipefish are capable of mating with more than one male. The operational sex ratio (ratio of available males to females) from April to June is heavily biased towards female pipefish. Therefore, male pipefish become a reproductively-limiting resource for females during these months.
20799780|This is an account of the changing status of palourde Tapes decussatus, which occurs in patches associated with a distinctive granulometry that are isolated along the Irish littoral. The species briefly entered the official marine landings statistics in 1975 in anticipation of a high harvest value to coastal communities. The 'clam boom', which peaked in 1975-1976 was, however, quickly followed by collapse. Later capture statistics were confused with those of a cultured species, the Manila clam Tapes semidecussatus, and these statistics are elucidated. T. decussatus is near the limit of its northsouth range in Ireland, where the species is in retreat. This paper investigates nine beds in Counties Donegal, Galway and Kerry. Some had been examined thirty years previously. The density, year class frequency and growth rates of the species were measured in each to ascertain the reasons for its brief commercial performance and to assess its current status. The age of individuals ranged from 0 to 16+ years. Clam beds had a density of 17-116g m; age at full recruitment was seven years in commercial samples. T. decussatus has a eulittoral range on the sea shore and is associated with sheltered coastal topography. The species lives within a poorly sorted mixed granulometry of mud, sand and gravel, which is described in quantitative terms from some sample locations and compared with two other common inshore facies: Spisula sand and fine sand associated with Ensis siliqua. T. decussatus was often found in close proximity to fresh water inflows and it can survive eutrophic conditions and toxic algal blooms. Despite its low densities, T. decussatus was the quantitatively dominant bivalve wherever it occurred. The species responds to favourable growing conditions, but throughout Ireland site-specific growth rates were very similar. There was no evidence of exceptional annual spatfalls having contributed to the populations that were examined. It is proposed that the population structures described are of a k-selected species that is long lived and replicates by low but regular annual recruitments. The majority of the biomass resides in the older age classes and these are targeted for harvest; once they have been intensively exploited, T. decussatus populations are very slow to recover.
20728584|From May to September 2004 a survey of cetacean distribution and relative abundance was conducted on board a 'ship of opportunity'a vessel used as a survey platform but not chartered for this purposeoff the west coast of Ireland. In total, 508 hours of survey effort were completed, with 304.2 hours in Beaufort sea-state 3 or less. Two hundred and thirty one sightings of eight speciescommon dolphin Delphinus delphis (L.), Atlantic white-sided dolphin Lagenorhynchus acutus (Gray), bottlenose dolphin Tursiops truncatus (Montagu), harbour porpoise Phocoena phocoena (L.), Risso's dolphin Grampus griseus (Cuvier), pilot whale Globicephala melas (Traill), minke whale Balaenoptera acutorostrata (Lacepede) and fin whale Balaenoptera physalus (L.)were recorded, totalling 2,933 individuals. The greatest diversity and relative abundance were recorded on the Rockall Bank where Atlantic white-sided dolphin was the most abundant species. The common dolphin was the most abundant species recorded on the continental shelf to the south-west of Ireland, while the relative abundance of cetaceans off the north coast was very low. The data suggest that cetacean species composition and relative abundance can vary greatly between adjacent marine habitat types and over relatively small geographical distances.
20728578|We assess the status and diet of otters in Northern Ireland in 2002. Signs of otter presence were noted at 65% of 441 sites surveyed. This figure suggests a decline in signs of otters since the 1980s. Highest occurrence of signs of otters was around lakes, with coastal sites having the lowest occurrence. Percentage occurrence of signs of otter varied considerably with respect to catchment. The highest levels were in Lough Melvin, County Fermanagh, and around the Foyle catchment, County Londonderry; fewest signs occurred along the Antrim coast. Signs of otter occurrence were higher in larger rivers and at unpolluted sites (68%) as compared to polluted sites (57%). Over 50% of otter spraints were composed of stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus), salmonids and cyprinids, with stickleback constituting the most frequently occurring prey category. The frequency of occurrence of eels (Anguilla anguilla) in otter diet was found to be consistently higher in spraints collected from smaller streams across all land class groups. The frequency of occurrence of most prey items differed significantly with catchment with the exception of salmonids, which occurred consistently in spraints collected throughout all catchments in Northern Ireland. The current investigation confirms that otters remain widespread in Northern Ireland. However, otters may be feeding on less profitable prey items. Further investigations into the relationship between water quality, prey availability and prey selection are required to fully understand the factors affecting otter diet in Northern Ireland.
20500066|Lough Bunny is a permanent lake in a karstic limestone area of County Clare in the west of Ireland. A survey of the lake was carried out from November 1992 to October 1993. The maximum depth recorded was 14m and the mean depth was 2.7m. The lake has no riverine inflow or outflow but is fed from springs and drains through sinkholes at the northern end of the lake. Studies by other workers have shown that this water discharges into the Rockvale river. Accordingly, Lough Bunny should be considered as part of Hydrometric Area number 29, the Galway Bay South East catchment. Pronounced seasonal variations in lake level, conductivity, alkalinity and pH were noted during 1992 and 1993. Median values for conductivity, alkalinity and pH were 324S cm, 2.85meq dm and 8.06, respectively. Highest values were recorded during the winter months, suggesting flushing of karst aquifers into the lake, and lowest values were recorded during the summer months. Hardness ranged from 195mg CaCO dm to 250mg CaCO dm. An estimate of the heat budget (3.2kcal cm) was similar to values found for lakes in the same area, but unlike the other lakes, Lough Bunny was always well mixed and did not develop any thermal stratification during the study period. Oxygen saturation was generally close to 100% throughout the lake.
41714042|Uplands and peatlands are of high conservation importance and, while grazing animals are a key management tool for conservation, grazing-related damage can easily occur. Damage to European uplands is most notable in Britain and Ireland, where Scottish Blackface is the dominant hill sheep breed. Therefore, if conservation strategies that address concerns of grazing-related damage are to be strengthened, the Scottish Blackface is a good subject and a better understanding of their resource use would be advantageous. While previous habitat selection studies of hill sheep have depended on direct observation, this particular study uses Global Positioning System tracking collars to determine ewe locations. The study site is on a mountainside in western Ireland that is dominated by blanket bog (52.8%) and wet heath (35.3%). Habitat mapping and ewe range and resource selection analyses indicated that habitat selection was significant (P< 0.05), typically acid grassland is selected most followed by wet heath, with blanket bog habitats selected least. Seasonal variation in habitat selection was also evident. These results (1) corroborate the findings of previous work elsewhere on plant community/habitat selection and (2) provide additional information that can be used to strengthen existing or new hill grazing management models that are used to aid decision-making. In particular, management plans should take into consideration the availability (both in terms of total area and connectivity) of the preferred sheep habitats and specifically consider grazing pressure in and between those habitats.
biolenviprocria.117b.2.1|Management of wildlife is often a contentious issue in which stakeholders are increasingly influential. The European hare (
biolenviprocria.114B.1.13|Recent decades have seen an increase in the number of woodpigeon frequenting cities and urban areas. Relatively few studies have assessed the nest site location, predation and breeding success rate of urban woodpigeons, and no such study exists in Ireland. The current study found that nest site location had a significant impact on the nest predation rates of an urban population of woodpigeon. Urban woodpigeons had a selective preference for nesting in evergreen trees, despite the fact that these nests suffered a significantly higher rate of predation than nests located in deciduous trees. Furthermore, woodpigeons nesting higher above the ground (at a height greater than five metres) suffered significantly lower rates of predation than those nesting closer to the ground (below five metres).
20499928|A new census catalogue of Irish lichens, based on vice-county distribution, enumerates 1050 lichen taxa (including four subspecies, thirteen varieties and two forms) and 25 taxa of lichenicolous fungi and non-lichenised fungi. A significant proportion of the vice-county distributional data assembled is derived from earlier records, the present status of which has not been determined. An appendix lists 31 taxa omitted from the census catalogue; although many of these are based on published records which have proved erroneous, a few, if confirmed, will be additional to the Irish lichen flora.
20500031|Exploitation of intertidal Zostera spp by Pale-bellied Brent geese Branta bernicla hrota in Strangford Lough, Co. Down, was studied with respect to feeding method employed, plant parts exploited, the quality of the forage, and assimilation efficiency. Most Brent geese feeding activity involved digging behaviour, which, along with faecal analyses, indicated that birds were exploiting above (shoot) and below ground portions (rhizome) of the food plant. Nutritional information indicated that while rhizome was lower in overall energy, it contained more accessible energy in the form of water soluble carbohydrate and was lower in indigestible fibre than shoot. Feeding experiments indicated that Brent geese feeding on whole plants of Zostera noltii achieved 43% assimilation efficiency. Dig feeding of intertidal Zostera spp by Brent geese is likely to significantly increase the amount and quality of the forage available. Why dig feeding is not employed on all intertidal systems, and its potential effects on the food plants are discussed.
20499940|An ecological survey of hedges in Northern Ireland was carried out to study their structure and botanical composition in six contrasting study areas and to determine the major factors affecting their plant species composition. The survey revealed that most hedges were gappy and that only 55% were managed. Management was most common on intensively farmed lowland field boundaries and roadsides. Regional diversity was pronounced, with the relatively unmanaged hedges of County Fermanagh associated with the greatest species diversity. Hedges in other, more intensively farmed areas were less species-rich. Townland hedges, one of the oldest and most structurally complex hedge types, were found to have a greater tree and shrub species diversity and were associated more with woodland plant species. Multivariate classifications of four hedge elements (trees and shrubs, ground flora, ditches, and field margins) were used to describe hedge composition. Species-rich hedges were characterised by woodland plant species, whilst competitive grasses dominated the species-poor hedges. Unmanaged, structurally intact hedges (with less than 10% gaps) were the most species-rich, as were hedges associated with field parcels of semi-natural vegetation. Stepwise multiple regression showed that wide hedges and low soil nitrogen contents were the best predictors of a high hedge ground flora diversity. The results indicate that where farm rationalisation involves hedge removal, the more structurally complex hedges should preferentially be left, if the objective is to maintain species diversity. They also emphasise the need to decrease the intensity of hedge management and to maintain a wide headland between the hedge and its associated land use.
20499926|An overview of small-sedge vegetation in Ireland is presented. This vegetation is generally species-rich and dominated by low-growing cyperaceous and juncaceous species, with an obvious bryophyte ground layer. The synthesis is based on analysis of 270 relevs collected during a field survey in different parts of Ireland, combined with a further 241 relevs taken from published and unpublished accounts of Irish vegetation, and includes a synoptic table for the class in Ireland. The vegetation is referred to two orders within the class Scheuchzerio-Caricetea nigrae, each of which contains a single alliance. Small-sedge communities of poor fen and bog flushes are assigned to the Caricetalia nigrae and the Caricion curto-nigrae, an alliance with five associations in Ireland: Carici curtae--Agrostidetum caninae, Caricetum magellanicae, Sphagneto-Juncetum effusi, Sphagno-Caricetum lasiocarpae and Drepanoclado exannulati--Caricetum aquatilis. Small-sedge communities of mineral-rich flushes and base-rich fens are referred to the Caricetalia davallianae and Caricion davallianae, which again has five associations in Ireland: Carici nigrae--Juncetum articulati, Campylio-Caricetum dioicae, Schoenetum nigricantis, Calliergo-Caricetum diandrae and Juncetum subnodulosi. Discussions are presented of the relationship between the Scheuchzerio-Caricetea and other phytosociological classes, and of the relationship between the classificatory scheme presented for Ireland and the schemes included in the British National Vegetation Classification and CORINE Biotopes Classification. The character and differential species found useful in distinguishing the syntaxa and a diagnostic key for these communities in Ireland are presented.
20499897|Lower Lough Erne (109km) was sampled for nutrients and chlorophyll a from 1985 to 1991 at a sampling station over the deepest (maximum depth 65m) portion of the lake known as the Broad Lough. The results were as follows. 1. Phytoplankton in the Broad Lough were unlikely to be nutrient-limited; winter soluble reactive phosphorus phytoplankton, of c. 35g P l- were rarely depleted to less than 10g P l- by spring and summer phytoplankton, the annual nitrate minima were  130g N l-, and the soluble reactive silica minima were  0.4mg SiO l-. 2. Light attenuation was high owing to water colour and non-algal particulates, with ratios of photic zone volume and mixed depth volume close to 0.2. Variations in the mixed depth between years owing to temperature stratification had little influence on the underwater light regime and could not be related to inter-annual differences in mean summer chlorophyll a which ranged between 3g and 15g l-. 3. Total phosphorus concentration averaged 48.5g P l- between 1985 and 1991 compared to 47.5g P l- between 1974 and 1975. 4. Deoxygenation of the hypolimnion was insufficient to cause anoxia and year-to-year variations in dissolved oxygen of the hypolimnion were related to the duration of thermal stratification. There was no evidence to indicate that nutrient release from the sediment into the hypolimnion or into the lough as a whole was a significant factor in the nutrient balance of the lough.
20500065|In Ireland a reliable source of king scallop (Pecten maximus (L.)) spat needs to be found in order to support a stable scallop aquaculture industry. The aim of this study was to investigate whether Bantry Bay was a suitable site for the collection of scallop spat using artificial collectors. The study was conducted over a three-year period (1995-7) comparing sites within the bay, types of collectors and depths. Overall the amount of spat collected was not economically viable and varied between sites and between years. The most effective collector had the largest surface area. Depth was also an important factor since collectors must be placed at least 2m above the seabed to avoid heavy fouling, siltation and predation by crabs.
20499974|Mixed flocks of pale-bellied Brent geese (Branta bernicla hrota) and wigeon (Anas penelope L.) feeding on intertidal Zostera spp were studied during October 1993 with respect to tidal position, feeding method and duration, and competitive interactions within and between species. Owing to many disturbance incidents affecting the use of the site by wildfowl, only complete data on flow tides were presented. Brent geese fed over a greater period of the tidal cycle than wigeon. Differences in feeding methods indicated that Brent geese exploited the rhizomes, which are energetically more profitable than the shoot on which wigeon fed. Aggressive interactions were recorded within species but there were no records of aggression between species. More subtle competition for space, however, may have occurred during feeding. Brent geese could reach Zostera spp for a short period after increasing depth of water prevented access by wigeon. However, individual wigeon were observed foraging near feeding Brent geese, picking up the scraps of material discarded by the latter, and small numbers of wigeon may benefit from the presence of the geese. These benefits for some individual wigeon are not considered to compensate for the disadvantages to the latter species population as a whole in feeding on poorer-quality food for a shorter period of the tidal cycle. This disadvantage is likely to have contributed to the decline in the wigeon population on Strangford Lough, Co. Down, while numbers of Brent geese have been maintained at a high level.
20500075|A survey of red and grey squirrel habitat associations in Northern Ireland was conducted between September 1994 and August 1995. Two hundred and sixty-one sites were visited and a list of habitat characteristics for each site was noted. Multiple discriminant function analysis of the habitat type was employed to group squirrel occurrence, while contingency analysis examined independence of habitat type and squirrel species presence. Habitat associations differed between the two species. One-way ANOVAs of habitat data suggested that sites occupied by red squirrels only were predominantly coniferous, at higher altitude and latitude and much larger in area than sites occupied by grey squirrels only, which were mostly deciduous. When both species were sympatric, sites were more likely to be coniferous and larger in area than sites occupied by either species. Grey squirrels were less frequent than expected in upland plantations and more frequent than expected in parkland and gardens; the opposite was true for red squirrels. The mean distance between sites with only red squirrels and the nearest site with grey squirrels was greater than the mean distance between sites with only grey squirrels and the nearest site with red squirrels. An approach to conserving the red squirrel in view of the continued expansion in the grey squirrel's distribution in Ireland is discussed.
20499993|Nine experiments were conducted on three different soil types in the south-east of Ireland over a three-year period to examine the effect of six commercially-available nitrogenous fertilisers (some containing sulphur) and foliar-applied sulphur on the grain yield and quality, ex-farm, of spring-sown Blenheim malting barley. Five of the N fertilisers (calcium ammonium nitrate, Super Net, Chilian nitrate of soda, ammonium sulphate nitrate and 18.6.12 NPK compound) applied at the same rate of N (100kg/ha) gave similar yields and grain N levels. Urea, even when worked into the soil at sowing time, gave significant yield reductions in six of the experiments when compared with the other five N sources. The urea-treated plots gave significantly lower grain N levels in only one of the experiments. The type of N fertiliser had little or no effect on the amount of grain screenings. The sulphur-containing nitrogenous fertilisers, Super Net and ammonium sulphate nitrate, gave significantly greater yields than the non-sulphur-containing calcium ammonium sulphate (CAN) in two of the three experiments on the light-textured sandy soil only, but had no effect on grain N or grain size. Foliar-applied sulphur had little effect on grain yield or quality.
20504525|The open-water plankton form a complex food web that is crucial to the cycling of nutrients through the ecosystem. This food web consists of two interconnected loops: the classical grazer loop and the microbial loop. Here, we describe in detail the seasonal composition and biomass of the planktonic food web of six Irish shallow lakes. The lakes were sampled three times in 2000, and the biomass of zooplankton, phytoplankton, ciliates, flagellates and bacteria was measured. Total biomass ranged from 0.08g C ml to 1.47g C ml, and a significant portion of the biomass comprised microbial elements. Zooplankton biomass was generally highest in April, corresponding with large amounts of Daphnia. With the exception of zooplankton, all other group biomasses were correlated with physicochemical parameters indicative of nutrient status.
42912482|The potential of forest roads to enhance habitat diversity within plantation forests is an important conservation issue. If properly managed, these open spaces allow structurally diverse vegetation to grow at the road-verges, which may support greater invertebrate abundance and species richness, increasing overall forest biodiversity. We investigated spider diversity along road edges in young plantation forests in Ireland, the influence of road-verge vegetation and the consequences of doubling the standard forest road-width currently used in Ireland. Active ground-dwelling spiders were studied in eight Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) plantations using pitfall trapping one year after planting and five years after planting. A total of 16,741 spiders were caught, from which 141 species were identified from 14 families. Ten spider species of conservation importance were found in the road-verges demonstrating their importance as habitats for spider diversity. We found no difference in ground-dwelling spider diversity between road-verge and forest interior plots at this stage in the rotation. We found no advantage or disadvantage of increasing the road-width of forest roads for ground-dwelling spider diversity of young plantation forests. The findings of this study are discussed in the context of the management of plantation forests for biodiversity conservation and associated forest policy development.
20499944|Four alien, host-alternating cynipids (gall-wasps), Andricus quercuscalicis, A. kollari, A. lignicola and A. corruptrix, are present on oak in Ireland. The first three species are much more widespread within the island than published records and putative dates of introduction suggest; A. corruptrix is still rare and scattered (e.g. Kerry and Dublin). The probability of finding A. quercuscalicis at a site was increased by the presence of Turkey oak and was influenced by geographic location (higher in the east and the south). For A. kollari, the probability increased with southerliness and with the presence of certain other cynipid species (Neuroterus numismalis, A. curvator and A. lignicola). For A. lignicola the probability increased with easterliness and with the presence of the other two common alien gall-formers, A. kollari and A. quercuscalicis. While it is impossible to separate the effects of differences in dispersal ability from differences in the length of time that species have been found in Ireland, the distributional limits of the three commoner alien gall species, coupled with their frequency of occurrence within these distributional limits, suggest that A. quercuscalicis exhibits the lowest rate of spread and that A. lignicola exhibits the highest. A. kollari can be found a long way from the nearest Turkey oak and has almost certainly been in Ireland for the longest period. The species richness of oak-feeding cynipids (native and alien) was greater in eastern Ireland, probably as a result of higher population densities of oak, and higher in sites where more species of oak were present. Of the four kinds of oak, it was the presence of Quercus robur and Q. cerris that had the largest positive effect on cynipid species richness.
20500203|Evaluation of the long-term cumulative impacts of fish farming requires long-term data sets. In this study, we analysed water-quality monitoring data collected monthly from 1993 to 1999 and information on phytoplankton available since 1951. Seventeen parameters were measured in water at the farm and control sites: namely oxygen, nitrite, nitrate, ammonia, total phosphorus (TP), soluble reactive phosphate, chlorophyll a, suspended solids, pH, biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, alkalinity, silicate, total nitrogen (TN), conductivity, colour and temperature. Lake bed sediments and water at the cages were analysed for TP, TN and organic carbon in 1988, 1990 and 1998. The phytoplankton indicate that there have been no changes in the oligotrophic status of the lake since 1951. There were no trends in water quality over the past fifteen years. Except for ammonia, no other significant differences in water parameters between farm and control sites were detected. Chemotherapeutants were not detected. Several parameters were more variable in near-shore water samples than in fish cages and open-water control sites. There was seasonal variation in water parameters and a thermocline in summer. At the fish cages, ammonia was elevated above and oxygen depleted below the thermocline. These levels were not a risk to fish health and were not of environmental concern, nor were they close to permitted levels. In sediments there were no significant correlations between TP and TN and none between lake depth or distance from the cages. Overall, this study shows that salmon culture can be conducted in a freshwater lake for over thirteen years without polluting either the water or lake bed.
20728609|Alvars are habitats characterised by thin soils on limestone bedrock. The largest alvar area in the world is the Stora Alvaret, land (25,500 hectares), which is characterised by the presence of several plant communities of high conservation value. Emigration at the end of the nineteenth century reduced land-use intensity resulting in scrub encroachment, mainly by Juniperus communis L. This later accelerated, leading to abandonment because grazing in the low-productivity pastures was uneconomic. Monitoring in permanent plots over a twenty-year period (1971-91) showed an increase in juniper cover over time and a clear correlation with a decline of other vascular plant species. This resulted in a gradual loss of both a valuable mosaic structure and a high level of bio-diversity in the landscape. An EU funded LIFE project (1996-99), which examined the effects of grazing and scrub clearance, is outlined. Various management techniques were tested and evaluated, providing valuable information for the present large-scale restoration and management programme supported by the European Union agri-environment schemes. In 1994 less than 60% of the Stora Alvaret was grazed. By 2005 this had increased to 98%. The reintroduction of grazing has resulted in a significant increase in the abundance of twelve out of 72 vascular species in permanent plots (1997-2001). Sheep and cattle numbers increased in land during the last decade, whereas they decreased in Sweden as a whole over the same period. Sixteen nature reserves have been established in Stora Alvaret, and a functioning alvar pasture landscape has been re-established. Almost all alvars in land have been designated as Natura 2000 areas.
20499966|Wetlands are effective filters for metal-containing water owing to the high metal-binding affinity of their soils. At Glendalough, Co. Wicklow, drainage from abandoned zinc/lead mines is still acting as a source of metals. Part of the mine drainage flows into a nearby marsh. The accumulation of metals in the marsh was investigated. A similar marsh without metal inflow at Lough Dan, Co. Wicklow, was included in the study as an unpolluted control. Porewater and soil samples were taken throughout the marsh. Analyses were carried out for pH and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in porewater, and for zinc, arsenic, iron, lead and cadmium in porewater and soil. Results showed a decrease in concentrations of zinc, arsenic, lead and cadmium with increasing distance from the source, indicating an accumulation of these elements in the marsh. Iron does not show this trend but concentrations in porewater correlate with DOC, suggesting that DOC affects the mobility of iron. The results further indicate that the longevity of wetlands used as so-called helophyte filters is in the order of centuries rather than decades.
20728623|Hair tubes were investigated as an indirect means of monitoring red and grey squirrel populations and estimating squirrel densities. Hair tube surveys and live trapping was carried out in six sites, three conifer and three mixed conifer/broadleaf, four of which had both red and grey squirrels resident. Hair tubes detected both red and grey squirrels in these four sites, but no grey squirrels were detected with trapping. Reasons for this are discussed. These results suggest that hair tubes are an effective method for monitoring red and grey squirrel populations and the spread of grey squirrels in different site types. Calibration between hair tube surveys and live trapping was only carried out with red squirrel data. The proportion of tubes visited by red squirrels and densities estimated from live trapping were correlated (r = 0.846, d.f. = 6, P = 0.034). The generalised linear model, assessing the relationship between the two monitoring methods, revealed a significant relationship (P < 0.001); however, the proportion of used tubes explained very little of the variation within the model (42%). The use of hair tubes as means of estimating squirrel densities is unclear, and further calibration of red squirrel data and initial calibration of grey squirrel data is needed.
20728568|The EU Water Framework Directive (2000/60/CE) legislates for catchment level sustainable water management, including the protection of the aquatic environment, with the specific aim of attaining 'good ecological status'as defined in Annex V of the directivefor all surface waters by 2015. Ecological status is assessed by monitoring elements of the aquatic biota, together with physicochemical and morphological parameters. The deviance of these factors from undisturbed reference conditions is used to determine ecological quality based on five classes. Member states must develop and implement ecological monitoring systems to enforce the Water Framework Directive by 2006. The typology and ecoregion-specific methodologies in the Directive are used to characterise surface water bodies in order to establish type-specific reference conditions and develop effective monitoring systems. However, the present ecoregion concept is widely regarded as too broad. This is particularly true of the IbericMacaronesian ecoregion. Macaronesian freshwater systems are unique due to their volcanic origin, oceanic situation, catchment morphology and the presence of distinct freshwater communities. Issues concerning Macaronesian freshwater ecosystems under current WFD criteria include the character of Macaronesian freshwater ecosystems, their biodiversity value and the development of reliable ecological monitoring methods. These findings suggest that Macaronesia should be considered as a separate ecoregion.
23188067|The badger is an ecologically and economically important species. Detailed knowledge of aspects of the ecology of this animal in Ireland has only emerged through research over recent decades. Here, we review what is known about the species' Irish populations and compare these findings with populations in Britain and Europe. Like populations elsewhere, setts are preferentially constructed on south or southeast facing sloping ground in well-drained soil types. Unlike in Britain, Irish badger main setts are less complex and most commonly found in hedgerows. Badgers utilise many habitat types, but greater badger densities have been associated with landscapes with high proportions of pasture and broadleaf woodlands. Badgers in Ireland tend to have seasonally varied diets, with less dependence on earthworms than some other populations in northwest Europe. Recent research suggests that females exhibit later onset and timing of reproductive events, smaller litter sizes and lower loss of blastocysts than populations studied in Britain. Adult social groups in Ireland tend to be smaller than in Britain, though significantly larger than social groups from continental Europe. Although progress has been made in estimating the distribution and density of badger populations, national population estimates have varied widely in the Republic of Ireland. Future research should concentrate on filling gaps in our knowledge, including population models and predictive spatial modelling that will contribute to vaccine delivery, management and conservation strategies.
20500224|Three lamprey species occur in Ireland: sea lamprey, Petromyzon marinus (L.), river lamprey, Lampetra fluviatilis (L.) and brook lamprey, Lampetra planeri (Bloch). All three species are listed under Annex II of the EU Habitats Directive (Directive 92/43/EEC), thereby requiring member states to designate Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) for their protection. The juvenile or ammocoete stages of all three species construct burrows in river sediment and feed on organic material. After metamorphosis, both the sea and river lamprey migrate downstream to the sea, where they feed on fish. The brook lamprey does not migrate to the marine environment, and the adults do not feed. Lampreys are a primitive group of fishes, and they have been little studied in Ireland. However, recent interest in the group, principally driven by their inclusion in the EU Habitats Directive, has led to the initiation of several studies to collect basic information on their ecology in Ireland. This information will provide the basis for the development of meaningful conservation plans for all three species in Ireland. This paper collates the information resulting from these studies, which should assist in developing appropriate conservation plans for these species.
20500174|The present paper provides an update of the distribution and status of Arctic char in Ireland, concentrating on records over the last 30 years. Our understanding of Arctic char ecology has increased somewhat, and threats to Irish populations are outlined. Ominously, approximately one-third (24) of all known native Irish populations (70) are now most likely extinct. The status of another 21 populations is unknown. Char have been deliberately or inadvertently introduced into at least six water bodies. Reductions in water quality because of agricultural and domestic pollution, introductions of alien fish species and lake acidification dominate the causes of extinction. Conservation measures are proposed to help protect the remaining populations.
20499867|The onset and duration of brooding, fecundity, and the timing of larval release and settlement were investigated for the common intertidal barnacle, Semibalanus balanoides (L.), at two sheltered rocky shores (Ballyloughaun and Grattan Road) in Galway Bay over the period 1987-92. Throughout the investigation, brooding began within one or two days of 23 October. A significant correlation between brood number and aperture length was established for barnacles from Ballyloughaun. At Grattan Road in 1989-90, however, the relationship was not significant. Naupliar release began during the period mid-February to mid-March and ended in late March/early April, depending on year and location. Settlement times for the cyprids varied from year to year and was complete by early May. Maximum numbers of cyprids were observed 9-17 days after the beginning of settlement. The pattern observed in Galway Bay is broadly similar to that seen in other European locations but with some differences in timing. The infection rate of brooding S. balanoides by the isopod parasite Hemioniscus balani averaged 7%.
