10.2307/2388472|Clone structure, growth characteristics, and reproductive behavior of individual ramets and clones were investigated over a 3 yr period for Geonoma congesta ("cana de danta"), an abundant understory palm of the Atlantic lowland forest in Costa Rica. The 0.6 ha study area contained 123 clones. Mean clone size was 7.1 ramets; only 3 percent of the clones sampled had more than 20 ramets. Within a clone, new ramets are produced sporadically, 1 to 4 ramets at a time. Ramet mortality is often associated with physical damage from falling trees, lianas, and branches. Less than 30 percent of the ramets with stems were erect. Over 58 percent of stemmed ramets were bent or otherwise leaning; whereas, 11.6 percent had been forcibly smashed to the ground. Ramets produced on average 10.1 new leaves and abscised 9.7 leaves in 3 yr. Rates of leaf production and leaf abscission did not vary significantly among ramet stage classes. Stem elongation was greatest in shorter, younger ramets. In taller, older ramets, leaf size and number decreased over the study period. Reproductive clones comprised 64 percent of the clones in 1986; whereas, only 24 percent of individual ramets reproduced. Ramets that reproduced every year had significantly larger leaves and substantially greater crown leaf area than the other reproductive classes. Stage classes with the greatest frequency of reproduction exhibited the greatest decrease in both crown size and leaf size. Individual ramets are estimated to live an average of 60-70 yr; whereas, clones may persist for 100 yr or more. The growth form of Geonoma congesta ensures that clones persist despite a high incidence of ramet mortality and damage. Moreover, at least one ramet within a clone is likely to reproduce every year, although individual ramets may not reproduce every year. Patterns of growth and reproduction in G. congesta are consistent with the hypothesis that the growth of young, deeply shaded sprouts is supplemented by production from older, taller stems.
10.2307/2989720|Four species of bats have been reported to modify leaves of various plants to produce tents for daytime roosts. Herein we report tent-making by a fifth species, Artibeus jamaicensis (Chiroptera: Phyllostomatidae) In addition we report bat tents from Scheelea rostrata, Geonoma congesta. Bactris wendlandiana, and Asterogyne martiana, four species of palms not previously known to harbor them. A review of the plants used by bats for tents reveals a preference for species with a broad leaf surface, though pinnate leaf forms may also be used. Tents may provide effective protection from predators through total concealment or through the disruptive pattern presented. Tents in species with broad leaves probably require less effort for construction and provide better protection from the weather.
40891351|Suspended soils in forest canopies are thought to harbor a substantial fraction of canopy biomass and many arboreal specialists, but do forest floor generalist predators with high vagility also use this habitat? We tested the hypothesis of no difference between forest floor and suspended-soil predatory mite faunas (Acari: Mesostigmata) in an Australian rain forest. Our results show that instead of being habitat generalists, many predatory mites partition soil into two main strata: soil suspended aboveground irrespective of height (0.5-20 m) and soil on the ground. Of 53 species of Mesostigmata in suspended soil, 53 percent (28 species) were absent from or rarely found on the ground. This increased to 60 percent (15/25 species) if only common species are considered. Among these 15 'suspended-soil specialists', all but the three least abundant were found throughout the arboreal strata. Moreover, ten species also occurred in litter accumulated on the surface of decaying logs or boulders close to the forest floor. Thus, although the arboreal predatory mite fauna is distinct from that on the forest floor, it is not restricted to the high canopy: even slightly elevated substrate appears acceptable as habitat for these suspended-soil specialists. Our data suggest that a substantial portion of a rain forest's soil and litter fauna is held above the forest floor.
10.2307/2388200|In the predominantly monoecious genus Begonia, pollen is the only floral reward to pollinators. To investigate the hypothesis that female Begonia flowers attract pollinators by mimicking male flowers, we studied floral display and pollinator behavior in a population of the protandrous perennial herb Begonia involucrata at Monteverde, Costa Rica. The stigmas of the female flowers are bicornute and dark yellow, strongly resembling the anthers of male flowers. The petaloid sepals of male flowers are somewhat larger than those of female flowers, but the number of open flowers does not differ between male- and female-phase inflorescences. Both male and female inflorescences have a sweet odor. Trigona grandipennis, the most frequent flower visitor in the study population, consistently showed a strong preference for male-phase inflorescences; on average, individual male inflorescences received 3.4-9.6 (median 7.2) times as many visits as female inflorescences during five different observation periods. Moreover, visits to male flowers lasted about ten times longer than visits to female flowers (mean 29.8 versus 2.6 seconds). Although visits to female flowers were infrequent and brief, fruit set averaged 76 percent and seed set 57 percent. A hand-pollination experiment indicated that seed set was pollen limited (1.4 times higher after supplemental pollination), but that fruit set was not. Taken together, the striking similarity in male and female flower display, the selective pollinator behavior, and the relatively high levels of fruit and seed set support the hypothesis that the rewardless female flowers of B. involucrata mimic male flowers and are pollinated by deceit.
10.2307/2388684|Observations and experiments show that Erioscelis emarginata (Dynastinae, Scarabaeidae), the sole pollinator of Philodendron selloum (Araceae), is guided at dusk to the inflorescences in their female stage by a combination of olfactory and visual stimuli. At close range, visual stimuli are induced by olfactory stimuli and the beetles orient themselves by the light inner side of the spathe. Light models are more attractive than dark ones. Nonfragrant spathes or spathe models, which are put closest to the odor sources, are most visited. Odoriferous inflorescences in the female stage emit stimuli for Erioscelis that are present to remain, while in male-stage inflorescences such stimuli are absent. Light inhibits beetles from leaving male-stage inflorescences.
10.2307/2388953|The stem allometry (tree height versus stem diameter) of four tree species found in a North Queensland rainforest was examined. These species were dicotyledonous trees, two of which were classed as early successional species and two as later successional species. No significant differences (P > 0.05) were found in the stem allometry of dicotyledonous trees of the same successional status. However, significant differences (P < 0.05) in stem allometry were found when comparing species of different successional status. Later successional species, but not early successional species, were found to be "elastically similar" to a theoretical buckling limit. The relationship between stability safety factors and tree height indicated that both early and later successional species have large buckling safety margins when of low stature. At medium statures (subcanopy), early successional species display a moderate buckling safety margin while later successional species exhibited their lowest buckling safety margin. At tall statures (canopy and above), early successional species exhibited their lowest buckling safety margin while later successional species had moderate buckling safety margins. Stem allometry may be influenced by a tree's life-span, wood density, and environmental conditions in its crown region.
10.2307/2388171|Espeletia schultzii (Compositae) Wedd., a caulescent rosette species common above treeline in the Venezuelan Andes, retains dead leaves on the stem. Plants with bare stems have a higher probability of dying than control plants during the dry season.
10.2307/2989787|The overlooked genus Llerasia Triana (Compositae), which was synonymized with Vernonia by Bentham, is here reinstated and included in the Astereae. Its identity with the section Diplostephioides (Benth. & Hook.) Bl. of genus Haplopappus and its separation from this genus are discussed. The name Neosyris Greene is also a synonym. A key is given for the eleven species of Llerasia, which are trees, large shrubs, or woody lianas of the Andean forests. The intertropical distribution of the genus is emphasized. The distribution of the true remaining Haplopappus species is split into two areas, one North American, the other Chilean-Argentinian. Eight new specific combinations are proposed and a new species (Llerasia hutchisonii) is described.
10.2307/2989661|Very slow sucker shoot regeneration rates are recorded for Vaccinium Consanguinium, Hypericum caracasanum, Chusquea subtesselata, and Castilleja irasuensis three years after a fire at 3300 m elevation in Costa Rica. Colonization after the fire was very slow; three years later there were still large patches of bare ground. Decomposition of stems killed by the fire was so slow that many were still intact and upright after three years.
30043077|We studied changes in a population of red-footed Amazonian tortoises, Geochelone carbonaria, consequent to isolation in an insular forest fragment. Altered age structure, population density, and body growth rate are shown here for the first time to be associated responses. Age structure was strongly biased toward juveniles and growth rates were reduced compared to the mainland. Our data suggest that density-dependent processes induced by habitat fragmentation changed demography and life history parameters in a scant 16 years.
10.2307/2388709|Adult and subadult red-bellied tamarins (Saguinus labiatus) were tested for responses to the odors of predatory and non-predatory neotropical mammals. Methylene chloride extracts of the feces of the jaguar (Panthera onca), margay (Felis wiedi), jaguarundi (Herpailurus yagouaroundi), tapir (Tapirus terrestris), paca (Cuniculus paca), and agouti (Dasyprocta fuliginosa) were presented to tamarins on wooden dowels in their enclosures. Untreated dowels and dowels treated with methylene chloride served as controls. Chemicals from predators elicited more sniffing and avoidance than did those of the non-predators or controls. The tamarins gave alarm calls to margay scent, a response not observed with the other extracts. The responses to predator chemicals were exhibited by captive-born individuals, suggesting that experience with a predator is not necessary for tamarins to distinguish between the fecal scents of predatory and non-predatory species.
30043202|I studied the reproduction of the 9 g nectarivorous bat Glossophaga commissarisi (Phyllostomidae: Glossophaginae) in relation to its food choice in a Costa Rican lowland rain forest over more than 2 yr. Reproduction was bimodal with birth peaks in April/May and October/November. The first birth peak coincided with a period of frugivory, whereas the second occurred during a period of almost exclusive nectarivory. All adult females recaptured in consecutive reproductive periods were reproductively active on both occasions, indicating that individual G. commissarisi females regularly reproduce twice per year at the study site. Throughout the annual cycle the mean testis length of the males correlated best with the proportion of females lactating, suggesting a. post partum estrous pattern. Animals became reproductively active at about 1 yr of age. Fecal samples showed that females consumed significantly more insects than males. /// Se estudi la reproduccin del murcilago nectarvero Glossophaga commissarisi (Phyllostomidae: Glossophaginae) en relacin a sus preferencias alimenticias en un bosque lluvioso de tierras bajas en Costa Rica por ms de dos aos. La reproduccin fue bimodal con picos de nacimiento en abril/mayo y octubre/noviembre. El primer pico de nacimiento coincidi con un periodo de frugivora, mientras que el segundo ocurri durante un periodo exclusivo de nectarivora. Todas las hembras adultas recapturadas en periodos reproductivos consecutivos estaban reproductivamente activas en ambas occasiones. Indicando as que cada hembra de G. commissarisi regularmente reproduce dos veces al ao en el sitio del estudio. Durante todo el ciclo annual el promedio de la longitud de los testculos de los machos se correlacion mejor con la proporcin de hembras en lactancia, sugiriendo una norma de post partum estro. Los animales se vuelven reproductivamente activos cerca de un ao de edad. Examen de muestras fecales indicaron que las hembras consumen significativamente ms insectos que los machos.
30043115|The co-extinction of interdependent species in relation to massive, long-term habitat disturbance has not been thoroughly investigated. Using logistic regression analyses, we examined the relationship between the loss of butterflies and their specific hostplants from the tropical island of Singapore and report the probable occurrence of their co-extinctions at the community level. Our simulation shows that the number of extinct butterfly species is expected to increase exponentially with that of extinct hostplants. The close association between butterflies and their hostplants suggests that the preservation of whole habitats is urgently needed if we are to avoid the possible cascading effects of Species (co-) extinctions.
2663933|Litter disappearance was examined before (1989) and after (1990) Hurricane Hugo in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico using mesh litterbags containing abscised Cyrilla racemiflora or Dacryodes excelsa leaves or fresh Prestoea montana leaves. Biomass and nitrogen dynamics were compared among: (i) species; (ii) mid- and high elevation forest types; (iii) riparian and upland sites; and (iv) pre- and post-hurricane disturbed environments. Biomass disappearance was compared using multiple regression and negative exponential models in which the slopes were estimates of the decomposition rates subsequent to apparent leaching losses and the y-intercepts were indices of initial mass losses (leaching). Cyrilla racemiflora leaves with low nitrogen (0.39%) and high lignin (22.1%) content decayed at a low rate and immobilized available nitrogen. Dacryodes excelsa leaves had moderate nitrogen (0.67%) and lignin (16.6%) content, decayed at moderate rates, and maintained the initial nitrogen mass. Prestoea montana foliage had high nitrogen (1.76%) and moderate lignin (16.7%) content and rapidly lost both mass and nitrogen. There were no significant differences in litter disappearance and nitrogen dynamics among forest types and slope positions. Initial mass loss of C. racemiflora leaves was lower in 1990 but the subsequent decomposition rate did not change. Initial mass losses and the overall decomposition rates were lower in 1990 than in 1989 for Dacryodes excelsa. Dacryodes excelsa and C. racemiflora litter immobilized nitrogen in 1990 but released 10-15 percent of their initial nitrogen in 1989, whereas P. montana released nitrogen in both years (25-40%). Observed differences in litter disappearance rates between years may have been due to differences in the timing of precipitation. Foliar litter inputs during post-hurricane recovery of vegetation in Puerto Rico may serve to immobilize and conserve site nitrogen.
10.2307/2387903|Field studies on seed dispersal by fish in the inundated Amazonian vegetation were carried out in a varzea forest of the Rio Madeira in Humaita, Amazonas. Of the 33 plant species studied, 16 had seeds or fruits regularly dispersed by fish, and in 17 species the seeds were usually destroyed when eaten. Seeds dispersed by fish belong to flowering plant groups which are relatively primitive, whereas those that are destroyed are more advanced; a result which confirms that ichthyochory is an archaic form of dispersal within primitive angiosperms that has been maintained in inundated tropical regions. The high frequency of ichthyochory is associated with nutrient-poor Amazonian waters, where fish depend substantially on allochthonous material such as seeds and fruits which fall into the water. The homogeneity of the inundated vegetation in Amazonia may be the result of migratory fish dispersing diaspores.
10.2307/2989803|Male Euglossa imperialis (Apidae, Euglossini) were marked after capture at cineole, a compound in orchid floral fragrances. Recaptures revealed that a large number of males may be available for pollination of a given orchid and that individual bees may remain at one locality throughout a morning and may be recapturable at that site over a period of several days.
30043276|Structural and floristic components of vegetation and fruit production were examined to evaluate the relative importance of each vegetation aspect on patterns of habitat use and to determine whether differences in degree of frugivory would affect sensitivity of birds to vegetation components. Abundances of 12 bird species were quantified in four different habitat types in the Southeastern Atlantic rain forest of Brazil using captures with mist nets. Structural and floristic traits and fruit production were sampled within plots along the mist net lines. Best explanations for the variation in species abundance were obtained by different combinations of the vegetation components (generalized linear models, Akaike information criterion; R2 mean values = 0.48,  AlCc = 0). Although each species had a particular preference for some vegetation variables, floristic components stood out in those relationships, generating models with a stronger explanatory capacity (ir > 0.40) and higher levels of empirical support ( AlCc = minimum values). The variation in bird sensitivities to the floristic component was associated with bird dependence on a fruit diet: there was a correlation between the explanatory capacity of models built with only floristic composition and a species' degree of frugivory (Spearman rank correlation, r = 0.66, P = 0.04), indicating that floristics had a higher effect in more frugivorous birds. For the other vegetation components, there was no clear pattern with statistical support. These results indicate that sensitivities of bird species to vegetation aspects are associated with their dependence on a fruit diet.
10.2307/2387882|Solitary and group-foraging patterns were observed in the lesser spear-nosed bat, Phyllostomus discolor, while visiting flowers. Observations made at flowering plants of Lafoensia glyptocarpa and two species of Bauhinia in southeastern Brazil suggest that these patterns may be related to the number of flowers or amount of food presented by a given plant.
40863788|We argue that there is not enough science to appropriately support many of the conservation measures currently being proposed, and hence, we cannot be sure of the objectivity of the conservation actions being implemented. The objectivity claimed to be underlying conservation actions is more assumed than real. We also suggest that the approach to conservation is driven more by moral commitments than by tested concepts, and it is further biased by our anthropocentric evaluation of ecological processes and their outcomes. Conservation science is a young subject, which needs to be nourished while it continues to feed on its roots-ecology and evolutionary biology.
30045516|We studied the impact of hunting on monkey species in the Ta National Park and adjacent forests in Cte d'Ivoire. The average wild meat consumption per capita per year was assessed from market surveys and interviews. We determined that the amount of primate wild meat being extracted in the Ta National Park and surrounding forests was 249 t in 1999. Hunting pressure was the highest on the larger primate species such as red colobus, Procolobus badius, black and white colobus, Colobus polykomos, and the sooty mangabey, Cercocebus torquatus atys. Estimates of population densities were based on line transect surveys. The maximum annual production of each species was calculated using the Robinson and Redford model (1991) and assuming unhunted conditions. Comparing current harvest levels with the maximum sustainable yield suggests that harvest of red colobus monkeys (Procolobus badius) is sustainable, whereas current off-take of the black and white colobus (Colobus polykomos), the sooty mangabey (Cercocebus atys), diana monkeys (Cercopithecus diana), and Campbell's monkeys (Cercopithecus campbellt) exceeds sustainability by up to three times. /// Nous avons tudi l'impact de la chasse sur les espces de singes dans le Parc National de Ta et ses principales forts priphriques en Cte d'Ivoire. La consommation moyenne de viande de brousse par capita et par an a t estime  partir d'tudes de marchs et d'interviews. Nous avons estim la quantit de viande de gibier d'origine simienne extraite du Parc National de Ta en 1999  249 t. La pression de la chasse tait plus forte sur les espces de singes de plus grande taille telles que le colobe bai, Procolobus badius, le colobe noir et blanc, Colobus polykomos, et le cercocbe enfum, Cercocebus torquatus atys. Les estimations de densit de populations ont t faites par la mthode des transects. La production annuelle maximale de chaque espce a t calcule en utilisant le modle de Robinson et Redford (1991) en supposant des conditions sans chasse. La comparaison des prlvements avec la production maximale soutenable suggre que le prlvement en cours des colobes bais (Procolobus badius) est soutenable alors que celui de colobes noirs et blancs (Colobus polykomos), des cercocbes enfums (Cercocebus torqatus atys), des cercopithques dianes (Cercopithecus diana) et des mones de Campbell (Cercopithecus camp belli) excde le seuil de durabilit de jusqu' trois fois.
30045377|The Neotropical little fire ant, Wasmannia auropunctata, is notorious for its negative impacts on the native biota of tropical islands, such as the Galapagos and New Caledonia, where it has been introduced. Here, I evaluate the impact of exotic W. auropunctata populations on continental Africa. I surveyed ants at nine sites in Lop National Park in Gabon, Central Africa, and found a highly significant correlation between ant diversity and length of infestation by W. auropunctata. I found many more native ant species present in areas not infested with W. auropunctata (39.0  4.6) compared with areas infested by W auropunctata for approximately 5-10 yr (7.0  6.2 and 1.7  1.2, respectively). In infested areas, W. auropunctata made up the bulk of specimens collected in every plot. This study demonstrates that the threat posed by W. auropunctata to biodiversity is as serious in continental ecosystems as it is in the more fragile island ecosystems of previous studies. Introductions near waterways are particularly devastating: in Lop, the infested territory is most extensive along waterways and occurs in a pattern that strongly suggests moving water facilitates colonization. /// La petite fourmi rouge, Wasmannia auropunctata, est rpute pour ses impacts ngatifs sur la biocnose indigne des les tropicales o elle a t introduite, comme aux les Galpagos et en Nouvelle-Caldonie. Cette tude value les consquences des populations exotiques de W. auropunctata en Afrique continentale. En chantillonnant la myrmcofaune dans neuf sites au Parc National de la Lop au Gabon, j'ai trouv une forte corrlation entre la diversit de fourmis et la dure coule depuis l'arrive de W. auropunctata. Les espces de fourmi indignes sont beaucoup plus nombreuses dans les zones encore vierges (39.0  4.6) en comparant avec les sites envahis depuis environ 5 et 10 ans (7.0  6.2 et 1.7  1.2, respectivement). Dans les sites envahis, W auropunctata reprsentait la majorit des spcimens rencontrs dans chaque chantillonnage. Cette tude met en vidence la menace pose par W auropunctata aux cosystmes continentaux, tout comme l'ont montres les tudes antrieures pour des cosystmes insulaires plus fragiles. L'implantation prs des cours d'eau est fulgurante:  la Lop, l'essentiel du territoire envahi est situ le long des cours d'eau, suggrant un transport facilit par l'eau.
10.2307/2389203|Forest structure and the use of feeding and nest trees by Ratufa indica were assessed at a disturbed and an undisturbed riverine habitat in Bori Wildlife Sanctuary, central India. There were differences in the availability of large trees between the sites. However, despite these differences in forest structure, R. indica at both sides showed similar preferences for feeding in trees greater than 150 cm in girth at breast height (GBH) and with heights greater than 15 m. A preference for larger trees was also observed in the use of nest trees. Though the species may be able to adapt to disturbed forests, there is preferential use of tall mature trees and dependence on canopy continuity. The assessment of forest structure is essential in determining habitat suitability for grant squirrel.
10.2307/2389104|Substrate and elevation fundamentally affect the primary successional fate of plant communities on Mauna Loa Volcano, Hawai'i. Native perennial grasslands dominated by Deschampsia nubigena form after initial forest development within well-defined elevational limits on pahoehoe lava flows. Woody vegetation continues to dominate at both higher and lower elevations. Woody vegetation is also dominant at all elevations of 'a'a flows. The exotic perennial grass. Anthoxanthum odoratum. has invaded sites where D. nubigena is a major component of the vegetation.
10.2307/2989671|The hypothesis that an isolated plant is less prone to attack by insect seed predators than a similar plant growing in dense stand was tested and supported by data derived from a study of the mimosaceous legume Calliandra grandiflora.
10.2307/2387887|The leaf-top herbivore guild of Heliconia spp. is a particularly good subject for the examination of host colonization because individuals may be monitored easily for extended periods of time. Studies of the guild on H. imbricata in Costa Rica and on H. latispatha in Ecuador reveal substantial variation in the rates of colonization among plants. The variation is explained best by the insects' response to environmental conditions, in particular, light and moisture.
4132966|We assessed species richness and composition of ant assemblages in adjacent montane forest and secondary (anthropogenic) grassland habitats in the central plateau of Madagascar. We used five quantitative methods (leaf litter sifting, two types of pitfall traps, beating low vegetation, and soil digging) and compared methods within and across habitats. Sample-based and occurrence-based accumulation curves demonstrated that the efficiency of ant inventory methods is habitat specific. Litter sifting, however, was the single most efficient method in both habitats. Overall, our analyses of the relative efficiency of methods recommend the use of sifting and beating in the montane forest site, and sifting alone in the grassland site. In four of five methods, more species were collected in the grassland site (31 spp.) than in the forest site (26 spp.). Occurrence-based accumulation curves based on all methods demonstrated that species richness was similar in the two habitats, reaching a maximum difference of approximately one species. Only five species were shared between the grassland and forest sites. The presence of a high number of ant species restricted to the grassland site (18 spp.) is the first record of high endemism in this habitat in Madagascar and may have strong implications for the reconstruction of the natural vegetation types at the time humans arrived. Their presence suggests that a comparable open habitat, such as montane woodland, shrubland, or thicket, was present on Madagascar long before humans developed the secondary grasslands less than 2000 years ago. These results are contrary to the "classical hypothesis" that the central plateau was a continuous region of closed forest. These results support the hypothesis that the montane regions, including the central plateau, once contained areas of habitat with an open structure and that the endemic ants now found in the secondary grasslands were originally native to such a habitat.
10.2307/2388395|Ants were sampled using pitfall traps in two replicate 1 ha plots of each of three experimental fire treatments (annually burned, biennially burned, and unburned for over 14 years) in a eucalypt-dominated savanna of tropical northern Australia. The ant fauna was extremely diverse, with 81 species from 24 genera recorded. Species were classified into functional groups based on habitat requirements and competitive interactions, with the most important groups being dominant species of Iridomyrmex (11 species, 14-63% total ants in traps); generalized myrmicines (mostly species of Monomorium and Pheidole; total of 22 species, 11-61% total ants in traps); hot climate specialists (species of Melophorus. Monomorium ("Chelaner") and Meranoplus; total of 14 species, 1-16% total ants in traps); cryptic species (many genera; total of 13 species, 2-27% total ants in traps); and, opportunists (mostly species of Rhytidoponera and Tetramorium; total of 11 species, 3-12% total ants in traps). Ant communities in the annually burned plots were characterized by relatively high numbers of dominant Iridomyrmex, hot climate specialists and opportunistic Rhytidoponera aurata, and low numbers of generalized myrimicines and cryptic species. The reverse was true for unburned plots. Many species were common under one fire regime, but were rarely or never recorded under the other. These differences were attributed to structural changes in the habitat caused by fire, and in particular to the levels of litter accumulation and insolation on the ground. These changes influenced ants directly, but also had important indirect effects through their influence on the abundance of dominant Iridomyrmex, and therefore on competitive interactions. The ant communities in the biennially burned plots were generally intermediate to those of the unburned and annually burned plots. However, one was more similar to those in the annually burned plots, while the other resembled those in the unburned plots. These results demonstrate that different fire regimes have a major influence on one of the most important faunal groups in tropical savannas, and this has important implications for conservation management in these ecosystems.
10.2307/2388288|Chestnut mannikin (Lonchura malacca), an Estrildine finch recently introduced in Puerto Rico, is a widespread Southeast Asian species. In its native habitat it frequently nests in vegetation over water, but in Puerto Rico it usually nests in dense sugar cane. In a marsh ecosystem in Humacao, mannikins nest in clumps of Cyperus spp. growing on top of stumps in a lagoon (depth = 50 cm). Their nests are in sedge clumps that are in shallower water and on higher stumps, and that are taller, wider and denser than clumps without mannikin nests. Nests were usually placed on the south side of the clump, with the entrance facing open water. The predator protection offered by nesting over water may account for nests being placed in relatively open sites.
10.2307/2387794|Eulaema bombiformis, E. meriana, and E. seabrai form part of a Mullerian mimetic complex in the Amazon basin, and all three are exceedingly similar in that region. In eastern coastal Brazil all three species are found, but they are not mimetic there, and are easily distinguished. In coastal Venezuela and northern Central America, E. meriana and E. seabrai form part of a different mimetic complex, and are easily distinguished from E. bombiformis, but show the same color pattern as E. meriana in coastal Brazil (the "flavescens" pattern). It is thought that these mimetic complexes evolved in isolation in Pleistocene refugia, and that the "bombiformis" pattern of Amazonia has invaded trans-Andean Colombia and southern Central America, where it is replacing the "flavescens" pattern in E. meriana and E. seabrai. Critical features are illustrated, and a key to the species Eulaema is presented, together with taxonomic and biological notes.
30043253|Decomposition is a critical process for nutrient release and accumulation of soil organic matter in disturbed soils, such as those found on landslides. I conducted a decomposition experiment on five landslides in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico as part of an investigation of the successional roles of two of the most common plant colonists to landslides, Cecropia schreberiana Miq. (Cecropiaceae) a pioneer tree species, and Cyathea arborea (L.) Sm. (Cyatheaceae) a pioneer tree fern. I compared leaf litter decomposition over one year and the initial and 1-yr chemistry for both species. Initial litter chemistry differed between the two species, as Cecropia had slightly higher nitrogen (9.2 mg/g) than Cyathea (8.2 mg/g) and higher lignin (28.6%) than Cyathea (26.0%), but water-soluble carbon and nonpolar extractable carbon (fats and oils, waxes, chlorophylls) were higher in Cyathea than Cecropia. Total carbon, acid-soluble carbon, total phosphorus, and pH did not differ significantly between leaf litter species. Across all five landslides, Cyathea (k = 0.93  0.06) leaves decomposed significantly faster than Cecropia (k = 0.68  0.06). The differences in these species leaf litter decomposition rates and chemical composition could potentially influence organic matter dynamics and nutrient cycling rates in these early successional systems. /// La descomposicin es un proceso crtico para la liberacin de nutrientes y la acumulacin de materia orgnica en suelos perturbados, tales como los que se encuentran en derrumbes. Realic un experimento de descomposicin en cinco derrumbes en las Montaas de Luquillo en Puerto Rico para investigar el rol de sucesin dos plantas comunes en derrumbes, Cecropia schreberiana Miq. (Cecropiaceae) una especie de rbol pionero y Cyathea arborea (L.) Sm. (Cyatheaceae) un helecho arborescente pionero. Compar la tasa de descomposicin foliar durante un ao, la qumica foliar incial y luego despues de un ao para las dos especies mencionadas. La qumica foliar inicial difiri entre las dos especies, ya que Cecropia tena el nitrgeno ligeramente ms alto (9.2 mg/g) que Cyathea (8.2 mg/g) y la lignina ms alta (28.6%) que Cyathea (26.0%), pero menos carbono soluble en agua y carbono no polar extrable (grasas y aceites, ceras, clorofila). El carbono foliar total, carbono soluble en cido, fsforo total y el pH no difirieron significativamente entre especies. A travs de los cinco derrumbes, las hojas de Cyathea (k = 0.93  0.06) se descompusieron significativamente ms rpido que las de Cecropia (k = 0.68  0.06). Las diferencias en las tasas de descomposicin de estas especies y la composicin qumica podran potencialmente afectar la dinmica de la materia orgnica y el ciclo de los nutrientes en estos sistemas sucesionales tempranos.
2663836|Most montane rain forests on the island of Hawaii consist of a closed canopy formed by Cibotium spp. tree ferns beneath an open canopy of emergent Metrosideros polymorpha trees. We used artificial seedlings to assess the extent to which physical disturbance caused by the senescing fronds of tree ferns and the activities of feral pigs might limit tree regeneration. Artificial seedlings were established terrestrially (N = 300) or epiphytically (N = 300) on tree fern stems. Half of the seedlings on each substrate were in an exclosure lacking feral pigs and half were in forest with pigs present. After one year, the percentage of seedlings damaged was significantly greater among terrestrial seedlings (25.7%) than epiphytic seedlings (11.3%). Significantly more terrestrial seedlings were damaged in the presence of pigs (31.3%) than in the absence of pigs (20.0%). Senescing fronds of tree ferns were responsible for 60.3 percent of the damaged seedlings. Physical disturbance is potentially a major cause of seedling mortality and may reduce the expected half-life of a seedling cohort to less than two years.
2663871|The mobile crane of the Surumoni project allowed for the first time ever a complete inventory and spatial description of the epiphytic vegetation of a tropical lowland rain forest plot (1.5 ha), at La Esmeralda on the upper Orinoco River, Venezuela. A total of 778 individual vascular epiphytes of 53 species was found, dominated by 19 orchid species and 14 species of Araceae. Fifty percent of all individual plants were obligate ant-garden epiphytes. The distribution of epiphytes was highly clumped and not random. The clumped occurrence of holoepiphytes (complete life cycle on host tree) was the consequence of the rarity of suitable phorophytes (host trees; e.g., size and age) in the plot and the preference of ants for gaps where most of the ant-garden epiphytes were found. In comparison, hemiepiphytes were distributed more evenly because of greater independence from tree suitability. The dispersal modes of epiphytes did not explain their distribution patterns. There was no consistent difference in distribution between anemochorous and zoochorous epiphytes, presumably because availability of suitable substrate is the more important factor for epiphyte establishment and growth. Whereas the vertical distribution of epiphytes could be attributed largely to deterministic factors such as physiological adaptation and requirements, horizontal distribution appeared to be governed by suitable substrate, which in turn seemed to be governed by stochastic gap formation.
10.2307/2388809|The problem of pitviper bite in field researchers working in Middle America (Mexico to Panama) was studied using case histories of nine biologists and one project employee bitten during the period of 1980 to 1991. All snakes involved were Bothrops asper Based on local tissue and systemic effects, seven cases were severe, three with permanent disability There were no fatalities. Although antivenom was administered intramuscularly as field treatment to seven victims and later intravenously as hospital treatment to nine as patients, its effect on outcome was uncertain. Nevertheless, intramuscular antivenom is recommended following an adult Bothrops asper bite when there are signs of envenomation and travel time to a treatment facility is more than four hours. The Extractor (Aspivenin) suction device may be of some benefit, but incisions, constricting bands, and electroshock should not be used. Having a prior plan of action and implementing it effectively is most likely to improve outcome. Three bites occurred during 1.5 million person-hours in the field with Bothrops asper at four field operations in Belize, Costa Rica, and Guatemala. Although risk of Bothrops asper bite to field researchers is low, it should not be ignored.
10.2307/2387760|Wood from buttresses of 48 species in 20 families of tropical trees was examined microscopically for the presence of reaction wood (RW), indicated by gelatinous fibers in place of normal wood fibers. Only Eschweilera (Lecythidaceae), Derris (Fabaceae), and three spp. of Ficus (Moraceae) had RW All other species, including one specimen of Guarea (Meliaceae) in which the buttress was under tension due to a leaning trunk, had normal wood structure. Wood from aerial roots, including stilt roots and flying buttresses, of 18 species in six families was similarly examined. A cylinder of well-developed RW occurred in aerial roots of nine species of Ficus and in stilt roots of Cecropia (Moraceae) Reaction wood also occurred on the upper side of stilt roots of Cecropia and Pourouma (Urticaceae) Contraction of the aerial roots of Ficus is related to RW However, although RW has been correlated with stresses in the wood of trunks and branches of many trees, RW cannot be related generally to a supportive role of buttresses in which stresses have been postulated previously.
10.2307/2989706|The study of the architecture and growth of tropical trees is a wide and almost new field of research involving many different branches of botany such as descriptive and experimental morphogenesis, phylogeny, taxonomy, and biogeography. An analysis of meristematic behavior and branching systems in tropical trees has led to the recognition of 21 architectural models. Some of these are exemplified in the present paper by two families, Myristicaceae, which are poor in architectural types, and Euphorbiaceae which are, by contrast, particularly rich.
27742802|Land conversion for agriculture is an increasing threat to biodiversity conservation, but its ecological effects on African birds is practically unknown. We investigated the impacts of agriculture on the diet and productivity of a small, disjunct population of Mackinder's eagle owls (Bubo capensis mackinderi) in central Kenya. Owl diet was determined by analysis of pellets and other remains and compared to small mammal populations estimated by live trapping in two habitats. Small mammal abundance was low and averaged 7.4 small mammals/ha in farms and 0.5 small mammals/ha in grassland. Owls consumed a wide diversity of prey. The majority were mammals (87%) followed by birds (7%) and insects (5%). The percentage of small mammals in owl diet correlated positively with the relative abundance of small mammals during monthly trapping sessions. Diet composition did not influence owl breeding success. Farming activities affected owl diet composition through crop production. The amount of maize, peas, and carrots growing in farms was correlated with the abundance of Mastomys sp. and Procavia sp. in the owl's diet. Agricultural activities had a large effect on Mackinder's eagle owl diet by increasing the abundance of certain small-mammal prey and attracting owl prey to farms, though farming practices harmful to owls were observed.
41241882|For organisms involved in specialized ecological interactions, the potential exists to have congruent evolutionary histories, such that diversification within one lineage of organisms parallels diversification within another. This model of shared evolutionary history has most often been explored in a bitrophic context, particularly with plants and specialized herbivorous insects, though also with other ecological partners such as vertebrate hosts and their invertebrate parasites. Recently, the possibility has been raised that evolutionary histories might be shared across more than two trophic levels, a phenomenon that we term a phylogenetic cascade. We review previous work on tritrophic diversification and discuss outstanding questions, with an emphasis on plants, caterpillars, and parasitoids, in diverse tropical communities.
41241885|In seasonally dry tropical forests, tree species can be deciduous, remaining without leaves throughout the dry season, or evergreen, retaining their leaves throughout the dry season. Deciduous and evergreen trees specialize in habitats that differ in water availability (hillside and riparian forest, respectively) and in their exposure to herbivore attack (seasonal and continuous, respectively). We asked whether syndromes of leaf traits in deciduous and evergreen trees were consistent with hypothesized abiotic and biotic selective pressures in their respective habitat. We measured seven leaf traits in 19 deciduous and 11 evergreen tree species in a dry tropical forest in Western Mexico, and measured rates of herbivory on 23 of these species. We investigated the covariance of leaf traits in syndromes related to phenology and associated physiology, and to anti-herbivory defense. We found evidence for syndromes that separated phenological strategies among four traits: toughness, water content, specific leaf area, and carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratios. We found a trade-off between two other traits: trichomes and latex. Overall, evergreen species exhibited lower rates of herbivory than deciduous species. Lower rates of herbivory were explained by a syndrome of higher toughness, lower water content, and higher C:N ratios, which are traits representative of evergreen trees. Phenology and trait syndromes did not exhibit significant phylogenetic signal, consistent with the hypothesis of evolutionary convergence among phenologies and associated leaf-trait syndromes. Our results suggest that deciduous and evergreen trees could respond to differential water availability and herbivory in their respective habitats by converging on distinct leaf-trait syndromes.
10.2307/2388542|Marked individual Tengella radiata spiders showed low and variable rates of weight gain in the field in old lowland forest in Costa Rica. Calibration studies of weight gained on controlled diets in captivity and rates of metabolism allow extrapolation of field results to probable rates of predation in the field. The prey capture rate for this species is apparently substantially lower than those of other similar sized spiders.
10.2307/2387775|The aerial stilt roots of Socratea exorrhiza allow this palm literally to pick itself up and "walk" out from under fallen limbs and obstacles that are major hazards for immature palms. The lower trunk and older roots rot away and are left behind as the tree sends out new roots and moves away from its germination point.
30045509|Studies of zoochorous seed dispersal systems often consider crop size, yet seldom consider the kinds and amounts of fruits surrounding parent plants (the fruit neighborhood) when attempting to explain among-plant variation in fruit removal. We studied avian frugivory at 24 Schefflera morototoni trees from February to May 1998 in central Puerto Rico. The number of fruits removed by avian seed dispersers per visit was similar among focal trees (typically 2-4). In contrast, visitation rate was highly variable (range: 0-71 visits per 4 h). We used multiple regression analyses to evaluate the relative roles of crop size (focal tree ripe fruit abundance) and fruit neighborhood variables (measured within 30 m of focal trees) in affecting visitation to focal trees by avian frugivores. Visitation rate was positively related to crop size (although this variable was only significant in one of four regression models considered) and negatively related to the presence or abundance of conspecific fruits, suggesting that trees competed intraspecifically for dispersers. Relationships between visitation and heterospecific fruits were mixed-some kinds of fruits appeared to enhance visitation to focal trees, while others seemed to reduce visitation. In most regression models, neighborhood variables had larger effects on visitation than focal tree fruit crop size. Our results highlight the important effects of local fruiting environments on the ability of individual plants to attract seed dispersers. /// Los estudios de sistemas dispersadores de semillas zoocoras por lo general consideran el tamao de la cosecha, sin embargo, raras veces consideran los tipos y cantidades de frutos en los alrededores de las plantas madres (las frutas del vecindario) cuando intentan explicar entre plantas, la variacin de extraccin de frutos. Nosotros estudiamos la frugivoria de aves en 24 rboles de Schefflera morototoni entre Febrero y Marzo de 1998 en la parte central de Puerto Rico. El nmero de frutos removidos en cada visita por las aves dispersadoras de semillas fue similar entre los rboles focales (tpicamente de 2 a 4). En contraste, la proporcin de visitas fu muy variable (intervalo = 0-71 visitas cada 4 horas). Nosotros utilizamos anlisis de regresin mltiple para evaluar el rol relativo del tamao de la cosecha (rboles focales con abundancia de frutos maduros) y variables en frutos del vecindario (medidos dentro de los 30 m de los rboles focales) en el efecto de visitas por aves frugvoras a los rboles focales. La proporcin de visitas estuvo positivamente relacionado con el tamao de la cosecha (aunque esta variable fu solamente significativa en uno de los cuatro modelos considerados) y negativamente relacionado a la presencia y a la abundancia de frutos coespecficos, sugiriendo que los rboles compitieron intraespecficamente por los dispersores. Las relaciones entre visitas y frutos heteroespecficos fue mixta -algunos tipos de frutos parecen promover las visitas a los rboles focales, mientras que otros parecen reducir las visitas. En la mayora de los modelos de regresin, las variables de "vecindario" tuvieron un mayor efecto sobre las visitas que en el tamao de la cosecha de frutos del rbol focal. Nuestros hallazgos enfatizan la importancia que pueden tener los efectos de los ambientes locales de frutos en la habilidad de plantas individuales en atraer dispersadores de semillas.
30043049|Natural hybrids between Ficus septica and two closely related dioecious species, F. fistulosa and F. hispida, were confirmed using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) and chloroplast DNA markers. Ficus species have a highly species-specific pollination mutualism with agaonid wasps. Therefore, the identification of cases in which breakdown in this sophisticated system occurs and the circumstances under which it happens is of interest. Various studies have confirmed that Ficus species are able to hybridize and that pollinator-specificity breakdown can occur under certain conditions. This study is the first example in which hybrid identity and the presence of hybrids in the natural distribution of parental species for Ficus have been confirmed with molecular markers. Hybrid individuals were identified on three island locations in the Sunda Strait region of Indonesia. These findings support Janzen's (1979) hypothesis that breakdown in pollinator specificity is more likely to occur on islands. We hypothesized that hybrid events could occur when the population size of pollinator wasps was small or had been small in one of the parental species. Later generation hybrids were identified, indicating that backcrossing and introgression did occur to some extent and that therefore, hybrids could be fertile. The small number of hybrids found indicated that there was little effect of hybridization on parental species integrity over the study area. Although hybrid individuals were not common, their presence at multiple sites indicated that the hybridization events reported here were not isolated incidences. Chloroplast DNA haplotypes of hybrids were not derived solely from one species, suggesting that the seed donor was not of the same parental species in all hybridization events.
41241937|Edge effects along tropical forest-pasture margins are thought to cause a shift toward early successional characteristics of the understory forest vegetation. We tested this idea by sampling vegetation at five forest sites in northeast Costa Rica each of which had edges that were established over 20 yr earlier. Four of these sites had been selectively logged. We sampled woody plants > 0.2 and  1.3m height in 54 m within 0.2 ha plots at edges (N = 14), and at 150 m (N= 11) and 300 m from edges (N = 9). Composition and diversity did not vary with edge distance. Abundance of tree regeneration, mainly of canopy and emergent species, increased at edges. Abundance of lianas and slow-growing tree species did not differ significantly across the sampling locations. Weighted mean wood density varied little, with a reduction at edges for canopy species. Palms were less abundant at edges, but not less species rich. At edges, these plant assemblages maintain many of the characteristics of forest interior vegetation, though the changes observed may indicate ongoing functional change. Degradation of forest-pasture edges is not a universal feature of tropical forest fragmentation, and forests with high rates of natural turnover might have a high capacity to maintain themselves within forest edges alongside pasture.
10.2307/2387771|Variation in modern maize relates to recent and ancient cultural events. Large complexes of maize races are usually characteristic of certain cultural regions and help to define boundaries and histories. Most of the regions were established by 2000 years ago; clear differentiation of maize must have also occurred by then. Twenty-four racial complexes, numerous sub-complexes, and six regions have been defined here and elsewhere. Most of the complexes seem descended from seven ancestral types plus continual teosinte introgression. Spreading and interaction of these ancient types has had as important consequences as their isolation within regions. Testing of the component hypotheses will be done through continued interdisciplinary study.
41241896|Calandrinia galapagosa (Portulacaceae) is a threatened plant endemic to San Cristobal Island, Galapagos. The species is threatened by goat herbivory: less than 1300 individuals remain in nine populations, three of which have been fenced for protection. It is not known whether these three populations are genetically representative of the species at large or whether the three distinct color morphs exhibited by the species represent different taxonomic units. We measured the frequency of 113 polymorphic amplified fragment length polymorphism markers in 189 specimens representing three different phenotypes from all nine populations to relate the genetic structure of the species to both its geological history and morphological variation. The analysis revealed high diversity within populations and low, but significant, differentiation between populations. In addition, no genetic diversification was observed across color morphs. We conclude that (1) regular gene flow has historically occurred between populations, and (2) individual color morphs are not separate taxa. We identify another population that should be fenced to ensure maximal protection of genetic variation. Our research serves as a case study of using population molecular genetics for optimizing protection strategies for rare plants in tropical archipelagoes affected by introduced herbivores.
2388835|The occurrence and distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds (CSM) in the mantle of dead organic matter (literally a "canopy soil") at the bases of large epiphytes were studied in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of northeastern Puerto Rico. CSM were isolated from 18 of 50 samples collected from this microhabitat, and four different species were recovered. Dictyostelium purpureum was the single most abundant species and represented almost half (48%) of all clones isolated during the study. Total densities (clones/g) averaged only 38 in the five forest types examined, but densities > 75 were recorded for two forest types. Relative abundance of CSM in canopy soils of the five forest types followed the same general pattern displayed by these organisms in forest floor litter, but a particular species was not necessarily common to both microhabitats in a given forest type.
27742867|One of the most significant challenges in developing a predictive understanding of the long-term effects of hurricanes on tropical forests is the development of quantitative models of the relationships between variation in storm intensity and the resulting severity of tree damage and mortality. There have been many comparative studies of interspecific variation in resistance of trees to wind damage based on aggregate responses to individual storms. We use a new approach, based on ordinal logistic regression, to fit quantitative models of the susceptibility of a tree species to different levels of damage across an explicit range of hurricane intensity. Our approach simultaneously estimates both the local intensity of the storm within a plot and the susceptibility to storm damage of different tree species within plots. Using the spatial variation of storm intensity embedded in two hurricanes (Hugo in 1989 and Georges in 1998) that struck the 16 ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot in eastern Puerto Rico, we show that variation in susceptibility to storm damage is an important aspect of life history differentiation. Pioneers such as Cecropia schreberiana are highly susceptible to stem damage, while the late successional species Dacryodes excelsa suffered very little stem damage but significant crown damage. There was a surprisingly weak relationship between tree diameter and the susceptibility to damage for most of the 12 species examined. This may be due to the effects of repeated storms and trade winds on the architecture of trees and forest stands in this Puerto Rican subtropical wet forest.
20492568|Mature tropical forests are disappearing and secondary forests are becoming more abundant, thus there is an increasing need to understand the ecology and management of secondary forests. In the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, seasonally dry tropical forests are subject to frequent fire, and early-successional stands are extremely dense. We applied vegetation thinning (removal of all stems &lt; 2 cm in diameter) to hasten secondary succession and open the understory to reduce the fire ladder in an 11-yr-old stand. We quantified the effect of vegetation thinning on above- and belowground carbon over 5 yr. Aboveground carbon included all standing vegetation and belowground carbon included fine roots and organic carbon in the Oi, Oe, and Oa soil horizons. Trees with diameter of 2-10 cm and &gt; 10 cm had higher carbon accumulation rates in thinned plots than in control plots. Carbon stored in the Oi-horizon and the Oe &gt; 2 mm fraction remained significantly higher in thinned plots even 5 yr after treatment. Carbon in fine roots was significantly higher in thinned plots, and radiocarbon (C) data suggest that fine roots in thinned plots were recently produced in comparison with fine roots in control plots. We did not find significant differences in total ecosystem carbon after 5 yr (126  6 and 136  8 Mg C/ha, respectively). These results suggest rapid carbon recovery and support the hypothesis that young tropical forests thinned to hasten succession and reduce the fire hazard may have only a short-term negative impact on carbon accumulation in vegetation and soils.
30043264|We compared the allometry of two contrasting late-successional dipterocarp species to test whether a monolayer (shade-toleran)--multilayer (shade-intolerant) model applies to pole-sized trees. Crown traits of the more shade-tolerant species (Vatica micranthd) did not conform to either of the familiar monolayer or multilayer models for pole-sized trees, but instead were consistent with a "persistent multilayer" model. Species differences in crown traits may be influenced more by future rather than present light environments.
41241917|Quantifying ecosystem carbon stocks is vital for understanding the relationship between changes in land use and carbon dioxide emissions. Here, we estimate carbon stocks in an area of miombo woodland in Mozambique, by identifying the major carbon stocks and their variability. Data on the biomass of tree stems and roots, saplings, and soil carbon stocks are reported and compared with other savannas systems around the globe. A new allometric relationship between stem diameter and tree stem and root biomass is presented, based on the destructive harvest of 29 trees. These allometrics are combined with an inventory of 12,733 trees on 58 plots over an area of 27 ha. Ecosystem carbon stocks totaled 110 tC/ha, with 76 tC/ha in the soil carbon pool (to 50 cm depth), 21.2 tC/ha in tree stem biomass, 8.5 tC/ha in tree coarse root biomass, and 3.6 tC/ha in total sapling biomass. Plot-level tree rootrstem (R:S) ratio varied from 0.27 to 0.58, with a mean of 0.42, slightly higher than the mean reported for 18 other savanna sites with comparable aboveground biomass (R:S = 0.35). Tree biomass (stem+root) ranged from 3.1 to 86.5 tC/ha, but the mean (32.1 tC/ha) was well constrained (95% CI 28-36.6). In contrast, soil carbon stocks were almost uniformly distributed and varied from 32 to 133 tC/ha. Soil carbon stocks are thus the major uncertainty in the carbon storage of these woodlands. Soil texture explained 53 percent of the variation in soil carbon content, but only 13 percent of the variation in woody carbon stocks. The history of disturbance (fire, elephants, logging/charcoal production, and shifting cultivation) is likely to decouple changes in woody carbon stocks from soil carbon stocks, mediated by tree-grass interactions.
10.2307/2389184|From July through November 1988 and 1989, apple snail (Pomacea doliodes) and freshwater crab (Dilocarcinus dentatus) populations were surveyed in rice plantations and seasonal wetlands (or "esteros") in the llanos of Venezucla to determine seasonal changes in density and size. Rice plantation sites had significantly higher densities and larger snails than did estero sites. Snail density did not differ significantly between months or years. In contrast, the density and size of freshwater crabs varied significantly by month but not between habitats or years: crabs were smaller and in greatest numbers at the beginning of the rainy season, and then declined in density but increased in size by November. The sex ratio of D. dentatus was skewed towards females, a ratio which was consistent across habitats and months. Fluctuations in snail and crab density and size are discussed in relation to the effects of wetland flooding regimes on the life history characteristics of these animals.
10.2307/2388027|The Serrania de Macuira (865 m) is a small mountain range rising from the arid lowlands of the Guajira peninsula on the Caribbean coast of Colombia. It supports on its summits a cloud forest which is isolated from the nearest extensive moist area by at least 250 km. Palaeoclimatic and geological evidence indicates that the cloud forest is of recent origin and has never been connected to other moist regions. Hardly any of the 126 species of vascular plants in the cloud forest are found in the surrounding dry lowlands, and it is suggested that long-distance dispersal accounts for their presence in the Serrania de Macuira. Forty-one percent of the flora is adapted for internal dispersal by birds, 39 percent for wind dispersal, and 5 percent for external carriage by birds (or mammals) A small percentage show no obvious adaptations for dispersal, but these nevertheless have small propagules and in some cases may have been accidentally introduced by man.
10.2307/2989693|Seventy-eight species of free-living invertebrates are known to inhabit caves in Puerto Rico. Of the 52 determined species, 23 are also known from the American mainland, 6 are West Indian, and 23 are endemic to Puerto Rico. Sixteen of the endemics are known from non-cave habitats, while the non-endemic species are usually known associated with caves in other parts of their range. Ninety percent of the total fauna is troglophilic, with only two definitely troglobitic species known. In feeding habits, the fauna is composed of 55 percent guano scavengers, detritivores, and herbivores, and 45 percent predators. Most, if not all the fauna, including the troglobites, probably has a short history of association with Puerto Rican cave habitats dating only since the Pleistocene. The species make-up of the troglophilic component of the community is dynamic and liable to change, even over short time spans, and hence can serve as an experimental system for the study of principals of island zoogeography.
30043645|This study analyzes host plant use and obligate myrmecophily in Hallonympha paucipuncta, an endemic butterfly of the Cerrado. Larvae of H. paucipuncta are polyphagous, using at least 19 species of plants in 10 families. All larvae found were being tended by Crematogaster ants. Spatial distribution of larvae and tending ants were strongly aggregated, suggesting an influence of ants on oviposition and/or larval survival. Implications of obligate myrmecophily in the evolution of polyphagy in Riodinidae are discussed. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2387918|The tribe Rhizophoreae (Rhizophoraceae) includes the largest taxonomic assemblage exclusively of mangroves, with 4 genera and about 18 species. Rhizophora is pan-tropical; Bruguiera, Ceriops, and Kandelia have an Indo-Malayan distribution. All species have the same basic floral structure, but field observations demonstrate a wide variety of pollination mechanisms. Variation in such features as size and orientation of flowers, number of flowers per inflorescence, number of stamens, time of stamen dehiscence, and method of pollen discharge can be shown to have direct relevance to pollination biology. Pollen vectors may be predominantly wind (Rhizophora, as deduced from circumstantial evidence) or animals (remaining genera, as observed directly). An explosive method of pollen release occurs in Bruguiera and Ceriops tagal, but is modified to suit a range of flower visitors such as birds in the large-flowered Bruguiera species (e.g., B. gymnorrhiza) or butterflies and other insects in the small-flowered Bruguiera species (e.g., B. parviflora) and moths in Ceriops tagal. Ceriops decandra lacks the explosive mechanism of pollen release, as does Kandelia. Since these taxa often form mixed communities a high degree of partitioning of pollinator resource is achieved.
30045465|Long-term bird population changes in response to natural or anthropogenic factors have been relatively well documented in the temperate zone, but rarely in the tropics, where there are few long-term data sets. Here, we analyze a 25-yr sequence of records of two species of Lophura pheasants, Siamese Fireback L diardi and Silver Pheasant L. nycthemera in Khao Yai, Thailand's oldest national park. These data suggest that the number and proportion of detections of the lowlands-inhabiting L. diardi have increased significantly in relation to those of the higher elevation inhabitant L. nycthemera. Environmental factors mediated by changing climate are the most plausible explanation for the changing proportions of sightings of the two species. Further work is needed to explore in detail microhabitat selection of these birds and whether changes in microsite conditions on the forest floor or other factors are driving the observed distribution. Long-term monitoring of the avifauna along an elevational gradient is also recommended in tandem with increased monitoring of local climatic conditions. Abstract in Thai is available at http://www.blackwelhsynergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388259|We studied the dynamics of the seedling community in the Luquillo Experimental Forest during one year following Hurricane Hugo, to look at the effect of three litter treatments (continuous litter removal, unaltered litter quantity [control] and continuous litter addition), on seedling emergence, growth, density, and mortality. Total seedling densities (for both newly emerged and established seedlings) were highest in the litter removal treatment, suggesting that litter is a major constraint to recruitment of seedlings. However, species differed in their responses to the three treatments: species characteristic of early succession (Chionanthus domingensis and Cecropia schreberiana ex. C. peltata) were densest in the litter removal treatment, while densities of species characteristic of late succession either did not increase (Sloanea berteriana) or declined (Dacryodes excelsa) in the litter removal treatment. Height growth was lowest and mortality generally highest for seedlings in the litter removal treatment. Variability in species responses to litter after the hurricane may lead to changes in the species composition of the forest.
30045435|Seed dormancy may be disadvantageous for gregariously semelparous plants because it disrupts the high levels of reproductive synchrony necessary for success. Alternately, it may provide a bet-hedging option for an otherwise 'all eggs in the one basket' reproductive strategy. Rapid germination of seeds upon hydration has been demonstrated for a range of tropical, semelparous bamboos, but the fate of seeds that failed to germinate promptly has been inadequately investigated. We demonstrate prompt germination of seeds upon hydration and the absence of a dormant seedbank in a long-lived, gregariously semelparous bamboo, Bambusa arnhemica, from monsoonal northern Australia. However, we refute the suggestion that seed dormancy is necessarily maladaptive in a gregariously semelparous plant. Rather, caryopsis dormancy may not be possible in a seasonally moist tropical climate. Given an inability to adjust or bet-hedge their germination, bamboo germinants must cope with the vagaries of the monsoonal climate, a factor that may contribute to the general restriction of bamboos to regions with higher rainfall.
10.2307/2388532|This study examines whether structural and floristic attributes of plants recolonizing large gaps (50-200 m width) differ from those of plants in adjacent, mature North Queensland rain forests. Plant attributes were observed in a sequence of contiguous large gaps of increasing age abutting mature simple notophyll vine forest in Lake Eacham National Park, near Atherton, North Queensland, Australia. Certain structural attributes of species inhabiting 7 yr old recolonizing rain forest sites differ significantly from those of intermediate age (50 yr) or mature (100 yr+) forest. From the recent forest edge to older, interior sites, average leaf size increases, and leaves are more commonly sclerophyllous, upward tilting and dorsiventral. The incidence of bird-dispersed species is greatest in the 50 yr site; plants with ant- and passive-dispersal modes decrease toward the older, interior forest sites, while cassowary- and mammal-dispersed species increase. Floristic changes along the age sequence indicate a successional return toward mature forest composition. Alpha diversity is 118 species/0.1 ha for the mature forest, and beta diversity is 6.7 half-changes. Concentration of dominance decreases toward the mature site. The differences in structural features of recolonizing edge species suggest that structural attributes of species in large gaps are not a random subset of the available gene pool.
41058537|This paper reports a study on species richness and composition of Tumbesian dry forest communities. We tested two alternative hypotheses about species assemblage processes in tropical dry forests: (1) species assemblage is determined by the filtering effect of environmental conditions and (2) species assemblage is determined by facilitative processes along the gradient of water availability, and thus, species richness and evenness increase as water becomes limited. In addition, we also explored the effect of climate and soil conditions on species composition in tropical dry forests. Species composition was sampled in 109 plots in terms of cover and tree diameter at breast height. Climatic, edaphic, topographic and anthropogenic degradation variables were obtained for each plot. We used generalized linear models and canonical correspondence analyses to evaluate the effect of environmental variables on species composition, richness and evenness. Water availability negatively affected richness and significantly determined the species assemblage. Species richness increased from ridges to valleys and evenness increased at higher altitudes. Soil characteristics showed no effect on richness and evenness but soil moisture, nitrogen concentration and soil temperature explained significant fractions of species composition. Although timber extraction and livestock in our study area were of low intensity, it negatively affected richness but had only a minor effect on species composition. Our results suggest that species composition in these endangered tropical dry forests may be at least partially explained by the stress-gradient hypothesis, with higher species richness at drier conditions probably induced by facilitation processes.
10.2307/2989728|Species specific floral fragances that can be associated with particular pollinators are produced by the flowers of species of Catasetum. Fourteen of the 39 compounds produced by Catasetum flowers have been identified. The compounds are alpha-pinene, beta-pinene, myrcene, 1,8-cineole, ocimene, linalool, methyl benzoate, benzyl acetate, d-carvone, methyl salicylate, 2-phenyl ethyl acetate, nerol, 2-phenyl ethanol, and methyl cinnamate. In Catasetum and other genera of orchids pollinated by male euglossine bees, differential fragrance production is the primary barrier to hybridization among otherwise interfertile species. Those orchids which produce distinct fragrances and attract different pollinators are considered separate species. By these criteria. Catasetum dilectum (Panama) and C. dilectum (Ecuador) are separate species. This is also true of Catasetum barbatum (Brazil) and C. barbatum (Ecuador). Fragrance analysis has proved most useful at the specific and infraspecific level. In the genus Catasetum it has also indicated sources of potential hybridization and has clarified the taxonomic status of several putative hybrids. Five main types of isolating mechanisms are found in the genus Catasetum: 1. geographical, 2. mechanical, 3. ethological, 4. seasonal, and 5. ecological. One or several of these mechanisms may be operative between two or more species.
27742823|Secondary forests are a vital part of the tropical landscape, and their worldwide extent and importance continues to increase. Here, we present the largest chronosequence data set on forest succession in the wet tropics that includes both secondary and old-growth sites. We performed 0.1 ha vegetation inventories in 30 sites in northeastern Costa Rica, including seven old-growth forests and 23 secondary forests on former pastures, ranging from 10 to 42 yr. The secondary forest sites were formerly pasture for intervals of &lt; 125 yr. Aboveground biomass in secondary forests recovered rapidly, with sites already exhibiting values comparable to old growth after 2130 yr, and biomass accumulation was not impacted by the length of time that a site was in pasture. Species richness reached old-growth levels in as little as 30 yr, although sites that were in pasture for &gt; 10 yr had significantly lower species richness. Forest cover near the sites at the time of forest establishment did not significantly impact biomass or species richness, and the species composition of older secondary forest sites (&gt; 30 yr) converged with that of old growth. These results emphasize the resilience of tropical ecosystems in this region and the high conservation value of secondary forests.
30043284|The leaf beetle Aplosonyx ancora cuts circular trenches on the underside of leaves of their aroid host plants before feeding. Latex is exuded from these cuts and the beetles feed intermittently on these isolated tissues, apparently avoiding the latex. Circular feeding holes occur only in Araceae in which latex is contained in cells or vessels with cells bridging adjacent files ("anastomosing laticifers"). The phylogeny of Araceae and the restricted host records suggest a coevolutionary arms race and parallel phylogenesis between Aplosonyx and its aroid hosts.
10.2307/2388474|Flowering and fruiting phenology were studied for thorn woodland (annual precipitation of 1179 mm) and thorn scrub (annual precipitation of 578 mm) stands in northeastern Venezuela. The global phenology of each vegetation type was assessed using multivariate techniques (ordination and chronological clustering). All species and their respective phenophases were analyzed simultaneously. The flowering of trees and tall shrubs occurred in both vegetation types at the end of the dry season and lasted throughout the entire rainy season. Short-duration rains late in the dry season may have triggered and synchronized flowering. Fruiting activities of trees and tall shrubs occurred in all months, whereas fruiting maturation was limited to the dry season and the beginning of the rainy season. The fluctuation in the abundance of fruits was related principally to the production of a large amount of dry, lightweight seeds during the dry season, whereas fleshy and dry, heavyweight fruits were more or less steadily produced throughout the year. This suggests an adaptation to favor wind dispersion of seeds during the dry season when the vegetation is leafless, as well as the maintenance of animal populations as dispersal agents throughout the year. Periods of similar phenological characteristics were statistically defined and compared to annual rainfall and soil moisture. Annual reproductive phenology was more synchronized for thorn scrub than for thorn woodland. This may be due to the fact that thorn scrub vegetation is subjected to more severe drought conditions and consequently responds more punctually to the reappearance of rain or soil moisture.
10.2307/2388281|The mean individual flower longevity (MFL) was determined for 110 species at Monteverde, Costa Rica. Taxonomic constraints at the family level were the most important determinant of flower longevity. Family membership explained 73 percent of the variance in floral longevity compared to 2.6 percent among genera within families. There were trends in flower longevity associated with various ecological factors hypothesized to be important: bee-pollinated species had lower MFL than hummingbird and moth-pollinated species; MFL was negatively correlated with plant size (trees < shrubs < herbs); large flowers persisted longer than small flowers; MFL was higher in species with over 50 ovules per flower than in species with few ovules. However, when correlations due to taxonomic relatedness were eliminated, none of the ecological factors had a significant effect on flower longevity. There was no difference in MFL in two climatically distinct communities surveyed. The overall mean flower longevity (2.7 days) falls midway between that of tropical lowland species (1 day) and montane species (4-8 days) and thus is consistent with global patterns described by Primack (1985).
10.2307/2388557|Three males and one female leopard cat were radio-collared and followed for periods of 1-13 months in Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary, Thailand. The cats had overall home ranges from 1.5-7.5 km$^2$ with core areas of 0.7-2 km$^2$ A female leopard cat utilized an area of 6.6 km$^2$ over 13 months while a male leopard cat, who shifted ranges, used 7.5 km$^2$ over 3.5 months. Cats followed for longer periods of time generally showed larger overall ranges. The cats were active 50 percent of the time and displayed arrhythmic activity patterns. Leopard cats followed for at least several months showed seasonal variation in movement and ranging patterns. Fourteen prey items were identified in the feces of leopard cats, with small mammals, particularly Maxomys surifer, dominating the prey. Leopard cats preferred resting and moving on the ground, utilizing dry deciduous dipterocarp forest proportionally less than dry evergreen or mixed deciduous forest. Annual fires that help maintain the dry deciduous dipterocarp forest in the study area may affect both short and long term survival of leopard cats.
10.2307/2388492|The floral nectary exudate of Lycium cestroides Schlecht.-a psychophilous and ornithophilous South American shrub-includes amino acids, proteins, reducing acids, and sugars. It is hexose dominant with 57.38 percent glucose, 34.39 percent fructose, and 8.21 percent saccharose. Lipids, phenols, and alkaloids are not present, although vegetative parts produce alkaloids. This is the first complete report of nectar composition for a species of this genus.
10.2307/2388234|Inflorescence morphology, phenology, and pollination of the ecologically dominant and economically important babassu palm (Orbignya phalerata) were studied in northern Brazil. The breeding system of this species is complex. Inflorescences are either morphologically staminate or androgynous. In a functional sense the former are invariably male and the latter generally female, although an intermediate, functionally hermaphroditic type occurs rarely. Individual trees vary from exclusively staminate to predominantly androgynous. In the populations studied, flowering peaked in the rainy season (January-May). Three lines of evidence led us to consider self-pollination extremely rare. First, functionally hermaphroditic inflorescences exhibited protogyny: pistillate flowers were receptive during the first 48 hr following anthesis, and staminate flowers released pollen only thereafter. Second, seed set did not occur in androgynous inflorescences that had been isolated from external pollen sources. Third, simultaneous flowering of staminate and androgynous inflorescences in individual palms was rare. Despite the high abundance and diversity of insects visiting inflorescences, detailed observations indicated that the only likely insect pollinator is the nitidulid beetle Mystrops mexicana. This species occurs in abundance on both flower types and was observed in babassu at sites up to ca 600 km distant, indicating that the association is widespread. Fruit set in inflorescences that had been bagged to exclude insects but not wind-borne pollen indicated that wind pollination also occurs. The latter appears to be more common in such relatively open sites as pastures. The combination of two pollination syndromes clearly enhances this species' adaptability to a wide range of habitats. Evidence from other studies suggests that the combination of entomophily and anemophily may be a recurring phenomenon in palms.
30044049|The high degree of isolation of forest "islands" relative to "continental" forested areas creates a naturally fragmented landscape in the savanna ecosystem. Because fragmentation can affect the intensity and quality of biological interactions (e.g., seed dispersal) we examined the abundance and species richness of seed rain produced by birds and bats in three different parts of forest islands (center, edge, and exterior) located at the Estacin Biolgica del Beni, Bolivia. Despite the fact that we found higher species density of seeds in the seed rain at the center of forest islands, when comparing species richness corrected for observed differences in density, species richness was higher at the edge of islands. The three parts of the islands did not differ in total number of seeds. Three genera (Byrsonima, Ficus, and Piper) contributed the most seeds to the seed rain. We found differences in the abundance of dispersed seeds probably because of the variation related with the disturbance line, where the savanna matrix interacts with the forest islands. Carolila perspicillata, Carolila brevicauda, and Sturnira lilium were the bats that contributed most to seed dispersal within forest islands, and Schistochlamys melanopis and Tyranneutes stolzmanni were the most important birds. The movement of seeds produced by bats and birds within forest islands of the savanna is crucial to assure the continuity of ecological process and dynamics of these forest islands. /// El alto grado de aislamiento de las "islas de bosque" en relacin a reas "continentales" boscosas crea un paisaje naturalmente fragmentado en el ecosistema de sabana. Debido a que la fragmentacin puede afectar la intensidad y calidad de interacciones biolgicas (e.g., dispersin de semillas) estudiamos la abundancia y riqueza de la lluvia de semillas producida por aves y murcilagos en tres partes distintas de las "islas de bosque" (centro, borde y exterior) localizadas en la Estacin Biolgica del Beni, Bolivia. A pesar de que encontramos la mayor densidad de especies de semillas en el centro de las "islas de bosque", al comparar la riqueza de especies corregida por las diferencias en densidad observadas, determinamos que la riqueza es mayor en el borde de las "islas de bosque". En relacin con la abundancia, no encontramos diferencias entre las tres partes de las "islas de bosque" al considerar el nmero total de semillas. Tres gneros (Byrsonima, Ficus, y Piper) contribuyeron la mayor cantidad de semillas a la lluvia de semillas. Econtramos que existen diferencias en la abundancia de semillas dispersadas probablemente debido a la distancia a la lnea de disturbio, donde la "isla de bosque" interacta con la matriz de sabana. Tres especies de murcilagos (Carolila brevicauda, Carollia perspicillata, y Sturnira lilium) y dos especies de aves (Schistochlamys mehnopis y Tyranneutes stolzmanni) fueron los mayores contribuidores a la dispersin de las semillas en las "islas de bosque". El movimiento de las semillas producida por murcilagos y aves en "islas de bosque" ser fundamental para asegurar la continuidad de los procesos ecolgicos y la dinmica de estas "islas de bosque."
10.2307/2663966|Biological aspects of the development of the buttonwood mangrove, Conocarpus erectus L., from Barra de Tecoanapa, Guerrero, Mexico are described. Litterfall, flowers and seed production, leaf turnover, decomposition of leaves, and the optimal use of this species by the local community are quantified. Conocarpus erectus produces mean litterfall of 2.6 g/m
10.2307/2388730|The standing levels of herbivory on the foliage of seedlings were measured for 52 species from Los Tuxtlas forest in southeastern Mexico. The level of damage averaged 10 percent or less; only a minimum of the sample showed extensive damage. Several types of damage to foliage were distinguished; some species displayed a predominance of one type, whereas other species sustained a variety of types. Besides pathogenic and physical damage, insects were the herbivores responsible for all of the damage. The interspecific variation in levels of herbivory could not be explained on the basis of plant life history or growth form. We suggest that plants with different life histories employ equally successful (or unsuccessful) antiherbivore mechanisms.
2388885|Ceratosolen silvestrianus and C. arabicus are two species of agaonine fig wasps that co-occur in the figs of Ficus sur in West Africa. Our work in the Ivory Coast shows that both are active pollinators, and that they may be found together in the same syconia. In our study area, C. silvestrianus is much more abundant than C. flabellatus. We found no competitive effect for oviposition sites on C. silvestrianus, and hypothesize that habitat preferences allow the coexistence of two sympatric active pollinators in the same Ficus host in the Ivory Coast.
10.2307/2388163|Foraging by mantled howling monkeys (Alouatta palliata) and leaf-cutting ants (Atta colombica) is compared with regard to plant species harvested, plant parts harvested, statistical patterns in foraging effort, seasonal variation in foraging effort, daily foraging patterns, and foliage height attacked. This comparison is possible because intensive, year-long studies of foraging by three colonies of A. colombica and by a group of A. palliata were conducted in the same study area (Hacienda La Pacifica) in the Guanacaste Province of Costa Rica. The results show that howling monkeys and leaf-cutters differ in each of the categories mentioned above, yet share many foraging patterns. Both organisms are generalist herbivores, but are also selective. Both leaf-cutters and howlers harvest a variety of plant parts including mature leaves, new leaves, fruit, and flowers, and both cut more mature leaves and fruit in the rainy season and more new leaves and flower parts in the dry season. Both organisms prefer new leaves to mature leaves if given a choice. Nevertheless, howling monkeys and leafcutters prefer different plant species. Of seven rank correlations between monkey and ant preferences, three were negative, and the best positive correlation was 0.100, which was not significant. In addition, based on yearly averages, howlers harvest more new leaves and fruit and fewer mature leaves than do leaf-cutters. These results are compared with recent theoretical predictions concerning feeding behavior in generalist herbivores.
10.2307/2989729|A study of morphology and crossing behavior was made with Solanum hirtum, S. hirsutissimum, S. pseudolulo, S. quitoense, S. tequilense, S. topiro (two varieties), and S. vestissimum. Solanum quitoense, the "naranjilla" or "lulo," and S. topiro var. topiro, the "cocona" or "topiro," are cultivated for their edible fruits; the others are all wild species. Crosses have been attempted between the species in all possible combinations; four were successful. Hybrids between S. tequilense and S. topiro show considerable sterility and meiotic irregularities. Hybrids of S. quitoense with S. hirtum, S. tequilense, and S. vestissimum show slight reductions in fertility and have a normal meiosis. The hybrids were obtained most readily with S. hirtum; those with S. vestissimum were obtained only through embryo culture. Fertile intraspecific hybrids were obtained between different accessions of S. pseudolulo, S. quitoense, S. tequilense, and the two varieties of S. topiro. No fruits were secured in crosses between the accessions of S. hirtum from Costa Rica and Trinidad. A numerical taxonomic analysis was carried out to study relationships. Solanum tequilense proved to be the species most similar to S. quitoense.
10.2307/2387730|This paper examines the life history and growth relationships of Cichla ocellaris, a predatory South American cichlid. Data from extensive field studies in Gatun Lake, Panama, where C. ocellaris was introduced, present a complete life history for this species from pair formation through parental care of the young. These data are relevant to fish management and culture efforts, since C. ocellaris is one of the few New World cichlid species which is exploited commercially. New interpretations of the evolution of parental care patterns in cichlids, and the possible significance of latitudinal differences in parental care patterns among guarders, are included. Creel surveys allow comparison of length/weight ratios from native habitats in Brazil and Venezuela, non-native lacustrine habitats in Panama and Hawaii, and non-native riverine habitats in Panama. These results indicate that the potential for short-term harvest of cichlid production is higher in lake habitats, but for long-term continuous harvest, it is greater in rivers.
30043162|We assessed the effects of Azteca alfari presence on herbivory and growth of saplings for two Amazonian Cecropia species. For both species, rates of herbivory were low and did not differ between ant-removed and ant-maintained plants. Plant growth, measured over six months, was also similar among treatments. This is the first experiment to show that in its native mainland habitat, Cecropia may suffer low incidence of attack by insect herbivores in the absence of associated ants. /// Ns testamos os efeitos da presena de Azteca alfari sobre a herbivoria e crescimento em arvoretas de duas espcies de Cecropia, na Amazonia. Para ambas espcies, as taxas de herbivoria foram baixas e no diferiram entre plantas que tiveram as formigas removidas ou mantidas. O crescimento das plantas, medido aps seis meses, tambm foi similar entre os tratamentos. Este  o primeiro experimento que mostra que em seu hbitat natural, Cecropia pode sofrer baixa incidncia de ataque por herbvoros na ausncia das formigas associadas.
10.2307/2388444|Data on founding queens and established ant colonies of eight Peruvian rain forest myrmecophytes suggest that ants compete interspecifically for host plants. Plant-ants show negative interspecific associations on plants with actively foraging colonies, but not on plants housing only founding queens or incipient colonies. In several ant-plants, small and large individuals regularly have different ants. Experimental evidence indicates that one ant species may deterministically replace another over time on Clidemia heterophylla, but the pattern may have different explanations in other myremecophytes. Among five myrmecophytes with long, dense stem trichomes, sizes of the most frequent ant associates are positively correlated with trichome spacing. Ants larger than a threshold body size cannot move readily through the trichomes without first cutting trail networks. Many obligate plant-ants appear to be species requiring special forms of protection from competing and predatory ants. Preferential nesting by such ants on plants with protective trichomes may explain the frequent co-occurrence of inhibitory trichomes and domatia in a number of ant-plant genera.
40891348|Lowland Amazon is climatically one of the least seasonal regions on the planet, but little is known about how this is reflected in ecological seasonality. The central objective of this study was to determine whether seasonal fluctuations in the availability of fruit resources in Neotropical forests are sufficiently marked to affect the ecology and physiology of frugivorous bats. Seasonal variations in the overall bat abundance and in the captures, body condition, and reproductive activity of the two most abundant species, Carollia perspicilbta and Artibeus planirostris, were studied within a region of central Brazilian Amazonia dominated by a mosaic of nonflooded (terra firme) and seasonally flooded forests (vrzea and igap). Concurrent seasonal changes in fruit availability were measured. The abundance of fruits was markedly seasonal, with far fewer resources available during the low-water season. There was a positive correlation between fruit and bat abundance. Overall, bats did not increase the consumption of arthropods during the period of fruit shortage. In A. planirostris, the body condition declined when fruits were scarcer. In both C. perspicillata and A. planirostris, foraging and reproductive activity were positively correlated with fruit availability. Consequently, the results suggest that resource seasonality is sufficiently marked to affect frugivorous bats and force them to make important eco-physiological adjustments.
2389031|Myrrhinium atropurpureum has unusual floral characteristics: sweet, juicy petals, long vivid stamens, and absence of nectar and odor. This uncommon syndrome is morphologically and anatomically described. Floral phenology is also described, and censuses of flower visitors are provided. The main pollinators are frugivorous passerine birds, which are attracted by the petals. This type of floral reward is very uncommon and seems to be restricted, in South America, to Myrrhinium, Feijoa (Myrtaceae) and Calceolaria (Scrophulariaceae). The possible origin of the pollination mechanism is discussed.
30043640|I analyzed a natural experiment of competition involving a dominant herb in Tinigua Park, Colombia. Pharus virescens is a dominant monocarpic grass that synchronously produces seeds once every 5 yr, after which all individuals die. I found no difference in species richness, density, or diversity comparing plots with and without the grass in 381 quadrats (4 m2) and there was no negative relationship between the abundance of the grass and that of other plants. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388476|To investigate the causes of striking sexual dimorphism in the harlequin beetle (Acrocinus longimanus), we carried out a study of the behavior and morphology of two widely separated populations (in French Guiana and Panama). Males of this species possess greatly elongated forelegs which exhibit strong positive allometry with body size (elytra length). Males use their forelegs in fights with other males and in guarding females and oviposition sites. Field data on fighting and mating success suggest that sexual selection favors large size in males. However, the direct targets of selection were masked by high correlations between traits of the elytra, forelegs, and antennae. Sexual selection appears to be driven by intense male competition to monopolize suitable sites for egg deposition. Female harlequin beetles are highly selective in choosing only recently dead or dying trees for oviposition (Moraceae and Apocynaceae). Despite marked geographic variation in coloration, host trees, and climate, the two populations did not differ in mean size and extent of sexual dimorphism. We suggest that sexual selection in this species is sufficiently intense to override any effects of differing ecological factors.
10.2307/2388124|In Samoa, the species Freycinetia reineckei Warburg occasionally produces bisexual spikes and flowers. The Pandanaceae, or screw-pine family, was previously believed to be entirely dioecious. The significance of this finding to phylogenetic theories concerning the family is briefly discussed.
2663859|A high frequency of dieback and mortality was found in Rhizophora mangle (red mangrove) in coastal mangrove forests of southwest Puerto Rico. Eight plots were established in a variety of mangrove environments to assess the extent and severity of the dieback and mortality. The imperfect fungus Cytospora rhizophorae was isolated consistently from stem dieback and associated canker tissues. No other pathogenic microorganisms were isolated. Pathogenicity was demonstrated in greenhouse and field inoculation experiments with C. rhizophorae using young R. mangle seedlings. In field studies of seedlings inoculated, mortality was 33 percent, and greenhouse mortality was as high as 50 percent. Cytospora rhizophorae was isolated consistently from diseased mangrove tissue; the fungus was grown in pure culture and then inoculated into healthy red mangroves, causing cankers. Koch's postulates were fulfilled by infecting R. mangle with C. rhizophorae, producing disease symptoms, and successfully re-isolating C. rhizophorae from the diseased tissue. This is the first documentation of the pathogenicity of C. rhizophorae associated with mortality in red mangrove. In the coastal mangrove forests of southwest Puerto Rico, C. rhizophorae may play an important role in the frequency of dieback and mortality in R. mangle, producing slow stem diameter growth and causing frequent stem and root wounds.
10.2307/2388274|Hurricanes are common, potentially catastrophic events for ecosystems in the Caribbean. We synthesize the work reported in this issue, together with the existing literature, to discuss effects of hurricanes on Caribbean ecosystems and to highlight priorities for future work. Comparisons of the impacts of hurricanes on different ecosystems are made difficult by the lack of detailed meteorological data, lack of prehurricane ecological data and differences between studies in types and timing of measurements made. Effects of recent hurricanes on Caribbean forest ecosystems include: defoliation, ranging from complete in lowland wet forest in Nicaragua after Hurricane Joan to negligible in parts of Jamaican montane forest after Hurricane Gilbert; felling of trees by uprooting and snapping (80% in Nicaragua to 14% in Jamaica); and tree mortality, which is rarely recorded and generally low (13% in the Yucatan following Hurricane Gilbert to 3% in Puerto Rican montane forests following Hurricane Hugo). Damage to individual trees varies with topographic location, stand characteristics, tree size (large ones uprooting and small ones snapping in Dominica during Hurricane David, but not in Jamaica), and species characteristics (such as wood density), but it is difficult to generalize about these factors. Effects on animal populations are both direct and through reductions in food supplies. Frugivorous and nectarivorous birds were more severely affected than insectivorous species in the Virgin Islands and Jamaica. There is little information about hurricane effects on insect populations, but populations of two species of walking sticks in Puerto Rico declined sharply after Hurricane Hugo. Numbers of adults of one frog species in Puerto Rico quadrupled after Hurricane Hugo, but numbers of juveniles were severely reduced by the storm. Effects of hurricanes on the physical environment include modified microclimates due to increased light penetration through defoliated canopies and landslides triggered by rainfall. Increased litterfall led to increases in some soil nutrients, and fine root biomass was drastically reduced in a Puerto Rican montane forest. Recovery of forest ecosystems from hurricanes depends on a combination of seedling growth and resprouting of canopy trees. In several studies, seed germination was promoted by higher light and/or higher temperature, but seedling mortality also increased. The relative importance of newly germinated seedlings, advance regeneration, and regrowth of damaged adults has not been studied. The few long-term studies of adult trees show the expected decline in the proportion of pioneer and intolerant species with time after disturbance. Hurricanes may be the most important factor controlling species composition and some aspects of ecosystem dynamics in the Caribbean; there is much still to be learned, and we suggest some priorities for future research.
10.2307/2388700|Amazon logging has been traditionally restricted to floodplain forests, but the Amazon highway system now permits the logging of the interfluvial forest. In an assessment of a mechanized, selective logging operation in Para state, eastern Amazonia, 30-50 m$^3$ of wood volume were removed per ha. This amounted to four to eight trees per ha, or one to two percent of all tree stems $\geq$ 10 cm dbh. The profits were considerable (the land owner made 9000 in the logging of 52 ha over a 21-day period); but in the process of extraction, 26 percent of all the pre-harvest trees $\geq$ 10 cm dbh were killed or damaged (e.g., 12% lost their crowns, 11% were uprooted by bulldozers, and 3% suffered substantial bark scarring). Total canopy cover was reduced by almost one-half (from 80$% to 45%) and 8% of the forest area was scarred by logging roads. If logging continues at its present rate, all of Para state could easily be logged within the next 80 years. Strategies to promote the responsible use of Para's forest do exist; all that is lacking is the political will to bring them to life.
30043644|We studied the potential role as seed disperser of the pacu fish (Piaractus mesopotamicus, Characidae) in the Pantanal of Brazil. The most important food item in the diet of the pacu in the wet season was fruits of the palm Bactris ghucescens found in the guts of 73 percent of all fishes collected (N= 70). We found a positive relationship between fish length, weight, and gape size and the number of intact seeds in their gut. Therefore, large pacus are especially important in dispersing B. glaucescens seeds within the studied system. Since the best seed dispersers are the largest fishes, which are preferred by commercial fisheries, we predict that the ongoing over fishing in freshwater ecosystems will have major impacts on the dispersal system of fish-dependent plants. We suggest that it is paramount to change the attitudes in fisheries management of fruit-eating fishes and urgent to evaluate the impact of fishing on forest regeneration.
30045490|We present data on sample richness, relative abundance, and community structure of a leaf litter amphibian assemblage from globally important miombo-mopane woodlands characteristic of western Tanzania. We describe patterns of diversity across major habitat types and between different seasons from an annual pitfall-trapping campaign. We recorded 28 species of amphibians, which is significantly higher than existing richness estimates for other miombo woodland sites elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa. We found that cultivation of native habitat reduces frog diversity, a conclusion that has important implications in light of the rapid conversion of miombo woodland for agriculture and fuel-wood across much of southern and central Africa. Many species showed strongly ansynchronized patterns of seasonally in relative abundance, which has significant implications for the establishment of successful monitoring programs and biodiversity surveys. These conclusions emphasize the importance of stratified long-term sampling in biodiversity studies and demonstrate that superficial levels of sampling effort can lead to erroneous conclusions regarding patterns of diversity in amphibian communities. The relatively poor focus on herpetofaunal research in African miombo-mopane woodland is out of proportion to its ecological and conservation significance.
10.2307/2388320|A study of nest site and habitat preferences of five tree-hole nesting bee species of the genus Centris (family Anthophoridae) was conducted in 1986 at the Lomas Barbudal Biological Reserve in the Costa Rican dry forest. Centris bees, which are important pollinators of a large proportion of the dry forest flora, were lured to artificial traps in a habitat monitoring study and an experimental preference study, which tested for exposure to sun, nest hole diameter, and height above ground level. The habitat monitoring study demonstrated that C. bicornuta, C. vittata, and possibly C. trigonoides had an overall preference for the more shaded riparian and/or mesic forests. Centris bicornuta also showed some preference for oak forests, whereas C. nitida had a clear preference for this habitat. Centris analis had no obvious preference for particular habitats. The experimental study demonstrated that three Centris species had a strong preference for shaded sites and an 8 mm nest hole diameter; no preference was indicated for height above ground level. A preliminary study of temperature relationships suggested that temperatures around 40$^\circ$C were lethal to early instar bee larvae. The temperature studies also suggested that shaded habitats had more optimal temperatures for Centris development. Overall results of this investigation were considered within the framework of available habitat area. It was estimated that the preferred shaded habitats, riparian and mesic forests, accounted for only $\sim$13 percent of the total land area at Lomas Barbudal. The nonpreferred habitats, such as the dry deciduous, extreme dry, savanna and regenerative forest habitats accounted for $\sim$86 percent of the Reserve area. Thus, it appears that a relatively low percentage of the land is supporting most of the nesting habitat(s) for this specialized group of Centris bees.
2663995|As Neotropical forests are increasingly converted to agriculture (especially pastures), little is known about the impacts on microbial biodiversity. To assess such impacts, I compared spore abundance and diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in soils from lowland evergreen forests and pastures in Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Species composition, dominance-diversity curves, and Simpson's diversity indices were similar for both forest and pasture soils. Of 28 distinct fungus morphospecies, 11 produced more spores in pasture, while only 1 produced more spores in forest. According to species-accumulation curves, local AMF species richness did not significantly decline following conversion of forest to pasture. Because pastures contained a surprising abundance and diversity of AMF spores compared to native forest, a lack of mycorrhizal fungi is unlikely to limit plant succession, restoration, or reforestation in the pastures studied. At the regional scale, however, species-accumulation curves showed significantly greater gamma (G) diversity of spores in forest. In addition to these trends in diversity, species that sporulated more in pasture tended to have small spores, while the one species that sporulated more in forest had the largest spores. Similarly, only large-spored fungi (>300 m) showed any seasonal variation in spore abundance, being more common in the wet season.
30043050|Pollinator visual systems differ considerably among broad groupings such as bees, bats, and birds, and it has been proposed that factors shaping the diversity of flower color in tropical plants include differences in pollinator perceptual abilities. Within the pollinators of the Neotropics, one major difference between taxa is that hummingbirds perceive color well across a broad range of wavelengths from 300-660 nm whereas most bees perceive color well over a narrower range spanning 300-550 nm. Thus, hummingbirds can see red and other long-wavelength reflection much better than bees. Another factor that could potentially influence flower color in tropical forests is the difference in light availability among habitats such as gaps, canopy, and forest understory. I conducted a survey of floral color in four Neotropical forests using a portable spectroradiometer to provide an unbiased measure of color reflectance. The primary pollinator agents and light habitats of each plant species were classified using primary literature or accounts of direct observations by experts. Flower color was not influenced by differences in light availability between open and closed habitats but was influenced by pollinator visual systems. Specifically, insect flowers reflected across a broad range of the spectrum but hummingbird flowers reflected mostly long-wavelength light (typically median wavelength > 585 nm). Thus, hummingbird-pollinated flowers are not tuned specifically to hummingbird color sensitivity but instead may decrease conspicuousness to bees and other insects that have poor visual sensitivity to long-wavelength color. /// Existen considerables diferencias entre el sistema visual de los diferentes grupos de polinizadores, como las abejas, murcilagos, y aves. La diferencia en la habilidad perceptiva del polinizador ha sido propuesta como uno de los factores determinantes de la diversidad en la coloracin de las flores en plantas tropicales. El rango de longitud de onda percibido por los polinizadores es una de las mayores diferencias entre los taxones: los colibres perciben el color entre un rango de 300 y 660 nm, mientras que las abejas lo hacen en un rango que vara entre 300-550 nm. Por consiguiente los colibres perciben el rojo y otras longitudes de onda mayores mucho mejor que las abejas. Otro factor potencial que podra estar influyendo en el color de las flores en los bosques tropicales es la diferencia en la disponibilidad de luz entre hbitats como claros de bosque, dosel, y sotobosque. Llev a cabo un estudio sobre la coloracin floral en cuatro bosques neotropicales. La reflectancia del color fue medida utilizando un espectro-radimetro porttil, obteniendo as mediciones de alta precisin. Los agentes polinizadores primarios y los ambientes de luz para cada especie de planta fueron clasificados usando referencias literarias y expertos locales. El color de las flores no vari entre los hbitats abiertos y los cerrados. Sin embargo se encontraron variaciones relacionadas con el sistema visual de los polinizadores. En particular, las flores polinizadas por insectos reflectaron dentro de un amplio rango del espectro mientras que las de los colibres lo hicieron dentro de longitudes de luz mayores (longitud de onda media > 585 nm). Por lo tanto las flores polinizadas por colibres no concuerdan especficamente con la sensibilidad al color de los mismos, en cambio son menos conspicuas para las abejas y otros insectos con menor sensibilidad visual a las mayores longitudes de onda.
30043237|This study documents the stingless bees' (Meliponinae) recent displacement in the Yucatan (Quintana Roo, Mexico) and the effects of human-induced ecosystem disturbance on bee diversity. Point observations of flower-visiting bees were made along transects in three communities with different degrees of human-induced ecosystem disturbance. The community with the greatest anthropogenic disturbance had lower overall species richness of stingless bees and the highest degree of dominance of the Africanized honeybee (Apis mellifera scutellata), while the area with the most intact ecosystem had the highest diversity of stingless bees, though A. mellifera was still the dominant species. We observed aggressive competitive behavior involving physical attacks by A. mellifera against stingless bees, indicating that Africanized honeybees are adopting new behaviors to compete better with dominant native pollinator species. /// Este estudio, realizado en el estado de Quintana Roo, Mxico, tuvo como objetivo determinar las causas del reciente desplazamiento de las abejas sin aguijn (Meliponinae) en la regin del Yucatn y los efectos de la destruccin del ecosistema sobre la diversidad de las abejas. Los mtodos de investigacin incluyeron observaciones de polinizadores visitando plantas a lo largo de transectos en tres comunidades con diversos grados de alteracin del ecosistema. La comunidad con el mayor grado de perturbacin ecosistmica tuvo menos riqueza de especies de abejas sin aguijn y un alto grado de dominancia de la abeja africanizada (Apis mellifera scutellata), mientras que el sitio con el ecosistema mejor conservado tuvo la mayor diversidad de abejas sin aguijn, aunque Apis mellifera sigui siendo la especie dominante. En varias ocasiones se observ un comportamiento agresivo involucrando ataques fsicos de Apis mellifera contra abejas sin aguijn el cual representa un nuevo patrn de comportamiento para las abejas Apis. Estas observaciones indican que las abejas africanizadas estn adoptando nuevos comportamientos para competir mejor con las otras especies de polinizadores dominantes.
41057999|Among vertebrates, anuran amphibians represent the highest number of species associated with bromeliads and possess a range of ecological, behavioral, and morphological specializations to life in these plants. Despite the importance of bromeliads as biodiversity amplifiers, and their diversity in some habitats, studies of the relationship between anurans and these plants are scarce in Brazil. Here, we investigated the way anurans select and use bromeliads in a threatened coastal habitat. We analyzed data from 23 standardized samples of the anurans associated with the bromeliad Neoregelia cruenta in the Restinga de Maric, State of Rio de Janeiro, Southeastern Brazil. We found nine anuran species using these bromeliads, representing the highest richness reported for a Brazilian restinga. We identified a general pattern of bromeliad usage, where plants located at the edges of scrub patches (exposed to the sun) were more frequently occupied by anurans than those located more to the center (in the shade). There is strong evidence of an active selective process based on the quality of the water stored in the rosette, which differs between plants depending on their position in the scrub patch. Although the number of individuals varied during the period of study, the frequency of bromeliads used was constant, indicating that plant occupation follows a regular pattern throughout the year. Furthermore, the high frequency of bromeliads used by anurans during the whole year highlights the importance of considering these plants in developing conservation programs concerning the protection of anurans.
10.2307/2388954|It is common lore that saplings of tropical rain forest trees have larger leaves than do adult trees; however, there is very little data available to quantitatively evaluate such ontogenetic changes in leaf size. To address this issue, we measured randomly sampled fully expanded leaves from saplings and adult trees in 51 species found in primary lowland tropical rain forest at Pasoh Forest Reserve, West Malaysia. Length and width of the leaf laminae were measured on 8 leaves/tree of 3 saplings and 3 adults of each species, using fallen leaves to sample the adult trees of larger species. Of the species examined, about half (26/51) exhibited smaller leaves on adult trees than saplings, while 13 species had larger leaves on adults, and 12 species showed differences of <10 percent on an area basis. The direction and degree of ontogenetic changes in leaf size was related to tree stature: understory treelets tended to have larger leaves as adults, while canopy trees tended to have smaller leaves as adults than as saplings. However, a few canopy species deviated from this pattern, having significantly larger leaves on adult trees. For one such canopy species (Garcinia nervosa) and a smaller-statured congener (G. malaccensis) we sampled leaves from trees spanning a wide range of size classes. Both species exhibited a non-monotonic relationship between leaf size and tree size, showing a peak in leaf size at stem diameters close to the species-specific size at reproductive onset. We suggest that decreases in leaf size following reproductive onset may in many cases result from the physiological effects of carbon allocation to reproductive structures, rather than adaptive acclimation to altered light regimes.
10.2307/2989651|The parameters of prey capture and competition are remarkably simple to measure in the larval ant lion (Neuroptera: Myrmeliontidae) There exists a thirteen- to fifty-fold difference in food availability (mg. prey available/mg. predator) between the largest and smallest individuals. The larva grows to the optimal size as a food getter, but no larger before metamorphosing. A special distribution of ant lions minimizing competition is hypothesized and observed. The ant lion does not conform to the concepts of limiting similarity or niche variation.
10.2307/2388531|The forest structure and soils of two sites in Amazonian Ecuador were characterized to determine whether the gap incidences reported elsewhere are applicable to different forests and soil types. The forest in the less fertile site had lower maximum canopy height and a smaller percentage of area in gaps (1.4% of area with highest canopy <2 m) than the forest in the more fertile site, where the higher percent area in gaps (5.1%) was due to both more gaps and larger gaps. The difference in gap incidence between the sites is probably due to differences in tree stability caused either by differences in soil structure or by shorter canopy and/or greater root density associated with the less fertile soils. We conclude that it is unsafe to generalize about gap regimes.
30043283|We investigated insects associated with flowerfalls from seven tree species belonging to the Brazil nut family (Lecythidaceae) in the lowland rain forest of French Guiana. Freshly fallen androecia were collected from the forest floor and incubated in rearing chambers. Over 1300 insects representing 21 families were collected from the caged flowers, including abundant Diptera and Coleoptera, five moth morphospecies and four species of lycaenid butterflies. These insects feed on androecia. We also documented the presence of predators and parasitoids, indicating an additional trophic level.
30045392|We examined the impact of substrate, population density, and sexual composition on female reproductive success in harvested populations of the tropical understory palm Chamaedorea radicalis. Leaf harvest for the international floral greenery trade does not kill palms, but has been shown to reduce flowering frequency and has been projected to reduce population growth. Because radicalis is dioecious and wind-pollinated, a reduction in flowering density from leaf harvest or other anthropogenic factors may lower pollen movement between flowering conspecifics and lower fruit production. Such reduced fecundity in harvested populations can contribute to an Allee effect, where the per capita rate of population growth declines at low density. We tested for these effects by sampling C. radicalis along transects in ten populations, spanning a range of densities, during May (flowering peak) and August (fruiting peak) 2002. We applied path analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM) to test a set of hypothesized relationships between substrate, female size, several population parameters, and female fecundity. SEM models revealed that female fecundity was not dependent on any measure of population density or sexual composition, providing no evidence for an Allee effect. The strongest model (R2 = 92.9%) related C. radicalis reproductive output only to substrate, female size, flower number, and proportional fruit set. This model revealed that palms on rock outcrops were larger, produced more flowers, and had higher proportional fruit set than palms on the forest floor. This finding suggests that protection of females on outcrops should enhance population growth and viability.
10.2307/2387746|Costa Rican range horses break the hard, ripe fruits of Crescentia alata with their incisors and swallow the small seeds imbedded in the sugar-rich fruit pulp. The seeds survive the trip through the horse and germinate in large numbers where horses have defecated. The ripe fruits required about 200 kg pressure to break, and fruits that were too hard for the horses to break required 272 to 553 kg to break. Unbreakable fruits had thicker hulls, and their presence provides an example of how a fruit trait may serve to spread seeds among more than one kind of large dispersal agent.
30043085|Variation in climate and soils results in inter-site differences in the assemblages of tree life history strategies within a community, which has important implications for ecosystem structure and dynamics. I investigated interspecific and inter-site variation in wood specific gravityan easily measured indicator of tree life history strategyin four Neotropical forests and analyzed its correlates. Mean wood specific gravity (oven-dry weight divided by fresh volume, sometimes also referred to as wood density in the literature) differed significantly among sites, varying inversely with soil fertility and independently of rainfall, seasonality, and temperature. Mean wood specific gravity values were much higher at Kilometer 41, Manaus, Brazil, where soils are extremely poor, than at Cocha Cashu, Peru, Barro Colorado Island, Panama, or La Selva, Costa Rica, where soils are better and mortality rates of trees are higher. Within sites, wood specific gravity varied widely among species. On Barro Colorado Island, among-species variation was significantly, albeit weakly, negatively correlated with sapling and tree mortality and relative growth rates. Altogether, the results suggest that the distribution of tree life history strategies in a community varies substantially among sites, with important consequences for community and ecosystem properties such as aboveground carbon stores. /// La variacin climtica y edfica da lugar a diferencias entre sitios con respecto a los ensambles de las estrategias de historia de vida de los rboles de una comunidad, lo cual tiene consecuencias importantes para la estructura y la dinmica del ecosistema. Investigu la variacin interespecfica y espacial en la gravedad especfica de la Maderaun indicador de fcil medicin de la estrategia de historia de vida de los rbolesen cuatro bosques neotropicales y analiz sus factores asociados. La gravedad especfica media de la madera (el peso seco dividido por el volumen fresco, frecuentemente llamado "densidad de la madera" en la literatura ecolgica) fue significativamente diferente entre sitios, variando inversamente con la fertilidad del suelo, e independientemente de la precipitacin, la estacionalidad, y la temperatura. La gravedad especfica media de la madera fue mucho ms alta en Kilmetro 41, Manaus, Brasil, donde los suelos son extremadamente pobres, en comparacin con Cocha Cashu, Per, Barro Colorado, Panam, o La Selva, Costa Rica, donde los suelos son mejores y las tasas de mortalidad de los rboles son ms altas. Dentro de los sitios, la gravedad especfica de la madera vari extensamente entre especies. En Barro Colorado, la variacin entre especies estuvo correlacionada negativamente, aunque slo dbilmente, con las tasas de mortalidad y de crecimiento relativo de los rboles juveniles y adultos. En conjunto, los resultados sugieren que la distribucin de las estrategias de historia de vida de los rboles en una comunidad vara sustancialmente entre sitios, con consecuencias importantes para caractersticas comunitarias y del ecosistema tales como las reservas de carbono.
20492525|Studies of tropical rain forest beta-diversity debate environmental determinism versus dispersal limitation as principal mechanisms underlying floristic variation. We examined the relationship between soil characteristics, terrain, climate variation, and rain forest composition across a 3000 km area in northeastern Costa Rica. Canopy tree and arboreal palm species abundance and soils were measured from 127 0.25-ha plots across Caribbean lowlands and foothills. Plot elevation, slope, temperature, and precipitation variation were taken from digital grids. Ordination of forest data yielded three floristic groups with strong affinities to foothills and differing lowland environments. Variation in floristics, soil texture, and climate conditions showed parallel patterns of significantly positive spatial autocorrelation up to 13 km and significantly negative correlation beyond 40 km. Partial Mantel tests resulted in a significant correlation between floristic distance and terrain, climate and soil textural variables controlling the effect of geographical distance. Separate comparisons for palm species showed significant correlation with Mg and Ca concentrations among other soil factors. Arboreal palm species demonstrated a stronger relationship with soil factors than did canopy trees. Correlation between floristic data and geographical distance, related to seed dispersal or unmeasured variables, was not significant after controlling for soil characteristics and elevation. Canopy trees and palms showed differing relationships to soil and other environmental factors, but lend greater support for a niche-assembly hypothesis than to a major role for dispersal limitation in determining species turnover for this landscape.
10.2307/2389238|Male tiger beetles continue to ride in amplexus on the backs of females after copulation. In scrub forest of peninsular India, the duration of this post-copulatory behavior was significantly different among five syntopic, congeneric species. Field and laboratory tests showed generally that males were present in the mating area at a higher proportion than females and that males remained mounted on females significantly longer when another male was present than when pairs were alone. These results are consistent with the interpretation of this amplexus as mate guarding. Four tests of comparative behavioral and ecological conditions were then used to explain the differential duration of amplexus observed among these co-occurring tiger beetle species: operational sex ratios, harassment and potential displacement of mating pair by unmated males, duration of female stay in mating area following copulation, and distance between mating area and oviposition site. Species differences in duration of female stay in the mating area after copulation and to a lesser degree operational sex ratios predicted amplexus duration for three of the species. The distance between mating area and oviposition site predicted the amplexus duration of the final two species. Probability of disruption by unmated males and frequency of male displacement during mating had little or no relation to any of the species differences in amplexus duration.
27742805|We combined phylogenetic and biogeographic data to examine the mode of speciation in a group of African monkeys, the Cercopithecini. If allopatric speciation is the major force producing species, then there should be a positive relationship between the relative divergence time of taxa and their degree of geographic range overlap. Alternatively, an opposite relationship between divergence time and geographic range overlap is consistent with sympatric speciation as the main mechanism underlying the cercopithecin radiation. We collected biogeographic and phylogenetic data for 19 guenon species from the literature. We digitized geographic range maps and utilized three different phylogenetic hypotheses based on Y chromosome, X chromosome, and mitochondrial (mtDNA) data. We used regressions with Monte Carlo simulation to examine the relationship between the relative time since divergence of taxa and their degree of geographic range overlap. We found that there was a positive relationship between relative divergence time and the proportion of geographic range overlap between taxa using all three molecular data sets. Our findings provide evidence for allopatric speciation being the common mode of diversification in the cercopithecin clade. Because most of these primates are forest adapted mammals, the cyclical contraction and expansion of African forests from the late Miocene to the present has likely been an important factor driving allopatric speciation. In addition, geographic barriers such as the Congo and Sanaga rivers have probably played a complementary role in producing new species within the clade.
40863799|A variety of arthropods, particularly insects, have developed myrmecophilous interactions with ants to gain access to resources and/or for protection. Among these myrmecophiles, only a few examples have been documented in the Coccinellidae, most of them involving species able to feed on ant-tended Hemiptera. We report here a new case of obligate myrmecophily in the coccinellid Diomus thoracicus. Larvae are invariably and exclusively found in the nests of the ant Wasmannia auropunctata and seem to rely on ant brood as their only food source. Not only do ant workers show no aggressiveness toward the D. thoracicus larvae in their behavioral interactions at the colonial level, but also at the species level; while coccinellid adults are always attacked. The integration of the larvae inside of the ant nests is based on their chemical mimicry of the host's cuticular cues. Therefore, given the presence of the D. thoracicus larvae inside of the ant's nest, their prdation on Wasmannia brood and their chemical mimicry, this species can be considered a specific parasite of W. auropunctata. Overall, this new case of myrmecophily not only specifically involves a highly invasive ant species, but also provides insights into the evolution of myrmecophily and myrmecophagy in coccinellids.
30043040|The effect of host plant inundation on survivorship of Symmeria paniculata's galling herbivores was investigated in Central Amazonian floodplain forest. The majority of submerged galls were alive (62% of morphospecies 1 and 70% of morphospecies 2). Survivorship was similar between submerged leaves and new leaves that were never submerged. Some submerged galls were eaten by fish. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of galling insect survivorship under severe flooding. /// O efeito da inundao da planta hospedeira na sobrevivncia dos herbvoros galhadores de Symmeria panicuhta foi investigado numa floresta inundvel da Amaznia Central. A maioria dos insetos galhadores submersos estava viva (62% para morfoespcie 1 e 70% para morfoespcie 2). A sobrevivncia foi semelhante entre folhas submersas e folhas que nunca foram submersas. Algumas galhas submersas foram predadas por peixe. Este  o primeiro estudo que relata sobrevivncia de insetos galhadores  rigorosa inundao.
30043270|The nectar resource environment across which nectarivores forage may be patchy and variable. To understand the sources and consequences of such a variation, nectar production was investigated in Calliandra longipedicellata. Nectar was measured once a month throughout a 3-mo winter season in two successive years at three sites. We also conducted diurnal and nocturnal field observations to describe visitation rates of floral visitors, and a pollinator exclusion experiment to evaluate diurnal and nocturnal pollination at the three sites. In all populations, nectar secretion was primarily nocturnal, although flowers produced some nectar during the day. Sugar production per flower varied significantly at both the seasonal and population levels, although nectar production rates and a well-defined afternoon to morning production pattern were consistent across months, populations, and years. Average nectar production rates were high compared to other Calliandra species, and to most hummingbird- or hawkmoth-pollinated plants in the region. Flowers were regularly visited by hawkmoths, bats, hummingbirds and various diurnal insects, and all populations had similar rates of visitation. Nocturnal insects had the highest overall visitation rates (three times as high as those by diurnal insects). Fruit production varied among pollination treatments and populations, and significant differences were found in fruit production when flowers exposed to both diurnal and nocturnal visitation were compared to flowers exposed only to diurnal visitation. Our results and the bright-red staminal filaments of longipedicellata indicate lack of specialization for particular pollinators.
2663885|Data on fruit abundance and ecological overlap among Ateles belzebuth, Lagothrix lagothricha, Cebus apella, and Alouatta seniculus were gathered during 13 months at Tinigua National Park (Colombia), in an effort to test the following hypotheses concerning competition for fruits. Coexistence is possible because: (1) during periods when fruit availability is limited, the species utilize different resources; and (2) the species have different fruit preferences independent of fruit production in the forest. Differences were found in resource use (diet and habitat) for all four species. Despite these differences, all four devoted large proportions of time feeding on fruit. Fruit abundance influenced their activity patterns. Ninety percent of all interspecific aggressive interactions (N = 69) were seen in fruiting trees. The first hypothesis was best supported, given that all species significantly increased their intake of the vegetative parts of plants during periods of fruit scarcity. Fruit partitioning during periods of scarcity was observed clearly only for one pair of species (C. apella and L. lagothricha). In general, the second hypothesis was not supported as a mechanism for reducing competition because most fruit species were consumed by more than one primate species. Fruit preferences, however, may be particularly important in explaining differences in niche overlap between the most ecologically similar species: A. belzebuth relied heavily on the fruits of one palm species (Oenocarpus bataua) during periods of fruit scarcity and abundance, while L. lagothricha completely ignored this fruit.
10.2307/2989750|Sixty species of beetles in the family Scarabaeidae were attracted to dung and carrion traps set near Leticia, Amazonas, Colombia, in 1972 and 1974. Diversity remained fairly constant in forested areas of terra firma, with 11 species comprising the great majority of individuals. Bait preference was low, being most pronounced between dung and carrion with little difference between human and monkey dung. However, human dung was most attractive in terms of both numbers of individuals and species. In a five-day period dung traps lost much of their attractiveness. There was no evidence of a "trapping-out" effect. Forested areas of terra firma had a scarab fauna approximately five times as diverse as areas flooded annually. Forest clearing drastically reduced both numbers of species and individuals, only six species being taken in traps set in clearings. However, four of these six species were not taken in any of the forest areas. This reduction of the coprophagous fauna in clearings drastically slows the removal of dung from the surface of the ground, increasing the number of potential breeding sites for flies and greatly increasing the possibility of helminth infections in man and other animals.
10.2307/2387789|In three fruit crops of Costa Rican lowland deciduous forest figs, the mean number of pollinating agaonid female wasps which entered the figs was 1.07, 2.97, and 1.72 (93, 53, and 52 percent, respectively, of the figs received only 1 wasp). In these crops, the males would be quite likely to mate with their sisters since mating occurs in the fig before the newly emerged females leave. In one crop, there was a mean of 7.2 potential mothers per fig (maximum of 32 wasps per fig), and it would appear that the offspring within one of these figs would be of much more heterogeneous percentage. However, since the first wasps to enter the fig probably do most of the pollinating and ovipositing, I suspect that these figs also have only a few mothers for most of the offspring that they contain.
10.2307/2388552|Soil respiration was studied in the elfin cloud forest and in the dry deciduous forest of Serrania de Macuira, Guajira Peninsula, Colombia. At the end of the 1985 rainy season, soil respiration was significantly higher (P < 0.001) in the cloud forest (mean daily CO$_2$ evolution = 511 mg CO$_2$ m$^{-2}$ hr$^{-1}$) than in the dry deciduous forest (251 mg CO$_2$ m$^{-2}$ hr$^{-1}$). In both forests, carbon dioxide evolution was higher during the night than during the day. The differences between day and night values in the cloud forest were attributed to the daily variation in fog interception. Day and night values differed more in the cloud forest than in the deciduous forest. High soil respiration rates in the cloud forest as compared to the deciduous forest were attributed to the relatively high temperature (24$^\circ$C), and water content of the soils (31%), and to the abundant earthworms (64 earthworms m$^{-2}$).
10.2307/2387663|Cultivated Camellia taxa form a stable polyploid series with a basic chromosome number of 15. There are a few aneuploid exceptions. The majority (70.8%) of the cultivated Camellia species are diploid (2n=30). Three diploid species and four polyploid species of cultivated Camellia studied also included cultivars or clones which showed intraspecific polyploids. The species described as Camellia japonica consists of triploid and diploid cultivars. Twenty-three out of the 30 polyploid clones of Camellia japonica examined (76.7%) are triploid or hypo-triploid. This situation is probably due to human selection for the large flowers characteristic of triploids. In Camellia sinensis six out of eight polyploid clones examined (75.0%) are triploid or hypo-triploid, a circumstance also probably due to human selection for the large leaves characteristic of triploids. Camellia japonica cv. `Ville de Nantes' and C. japonica cv. `Donckelarii' are diploid, but they produce triploid-like gametes because of some unknown factor or factors. Autotetraploid-like clones are also found in some intervarietal hybrids of Camellia japonica.
10.2307/2388253|The forests and soils at Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF), Puerto Rico, are frequently disturbed by hurricanes occurring at various frequencies and intensities. We have derived a forest version of the Century soil organic matter model to examine the impact of hurricanes on soil nutrient availability and pool sizes, and forest productivity in the tabonuco forest at Luquillo. The model adequately predicted aboveground plant production, soil carbon, and soil nitrogen levels for forest conditions existing before Hurricane Hugo. Simulations of Hurricane Hugo and of an historical sequence of hurricanes indicated a complex pattern of recovery, especially for the first 10 yr after the hurricanes. After repeated hurricanes, forest biomass was reduced, while forest productivity was enhanced. Soil organic matter, and phosphorus and nitrogen mineralization stabilized at higher levels for the LEF than for hurricane-free tabonuco forest, and organic soil phosphorus was substantially increased by hurricanes. Results from these simulations should be regarded as hypotheses. At present there is insufficient data to validate the results of hurricane model simulations.
30043251|Leaf and fig phenology (including leafing, flowering, and fruiting) and syconium growth of Ficus racemosa were studied in Xishuangbanna, China. Leaffall and flushing of F. racemosa occurred twice yearly: in mid-dry season (December to March) and mid-rainy season (July to September). The adult leaf stage of the first leaf production was remarkably longer than that of the second. F. racemosa bears syconia throughout the year, producing 4.76 crops annually. Asynchronous fig production was observed at a population level. Fig production was independent of leafing. Fig production peaks were not evident, but fluctuation was clear. Diameter growth rates of syconium were normally higher in early developmental stages than in later stages, and reached a peak coinciding with the female flower phase. The mean  SD of syconium diameter of the female flower phase was 2.19  0.36 cm, and reached 3.67  0.73 cm of the male flower phase. Syconium diameter and receptacle cavity quickly enlarged at the female and male flower phases. Monthly diameter increment of the syconium was primarily affected by average monthly temperature, rather than rainfall or relative humidity.
30043224|In 1998, we measured the effects of Hurricane Georges after it passed over long-term research sites in Puerto Rican dry forest. Our primary objectives were to quantify hurricane effects on forest structure, to compare effects in a large tract of forest versus a series of nearby forest fragments, to evaluate short-term response to hurricane disturbance in terms of mortality and sprouting, and to assess the ability of hurricanes to maintain forest structure. We sampled damage from 33 plots (1.3 ha) across a 3000-ha tract of forest as well as in 19 fragments. For stems with 2.5-cm minimum diameter, 1004 stems/ha (12.4%) suffered structural damage, while 69 percent of the undamaged stems were at least 50 percent defoliated. Basal area lost to structural damage equaled 4.0 m2/ha (22%) in south-facing native forests. Structural damage and defoliation increased with stem diameter and were more common in certain dry forest species. South-facing forests and those on ridgetops incurred more damage than north-facing forests or those comprised primarily of introduced species. Stem mortality was only 2 percent of all stems after 9 mo. Structural damage did not necessarily result in stem mortality. Hurricane-induced mortality was not associated with stem height or diameter, but was ten times greater than background mortality. Basal sprouting was proportional to the amount of structural damage incurred in a stand. Forest fragments experienced the same patterns of hurricane effects as the reference forest. The low, dense structure of Caribbean dry forest can be maintained by hurricane damage to larger stems and induction of basal sprouting to generate multistemmed trees. /// En 1998 medimos los efectos del Huracn George despus de que paso por sitios localizados en Puerto Rico y dedicados a la investigacin a largo plazo. Nuestros objetivos fueron cuantificar los efectos de huracanes en la estructura del bosque y comparar estos efectos en un bosque especfico con una serie de fragmentos de bosque que se encontraban en la proximidad a nuestra rea de estudio. La evaluacin de la respuesta rpida del bosque seco debido a los efectos de huracanes se exploro en trminos de la mortalidad y regeneracin, as como se estudi la habilidad de los huracanes de mantener la estructura del bosque. Para este estudio de muestreo, 33 parcelas con daos (1.3 ha) a lo largo de una seccin de 3000 ha de bosque as como en 19 fragmentos de bosque. En tallos con 2.5 cm de dimetro, 1004 tallos/ha (12.4%) sufrieron dao estructural, mientras que el 69 porciento de los tallos no daados fueron al menos en un 50 por ciento defoliadas. Perdidas en rea basal debido al dao estructural fue equivalente a 4.0 m2/ha (22%). Bosques con pendientes en direccin sur y aquellos en los topes de las colinas presentaron mas daos que bosques con pendientes orientadas hacia el norte o aquellos que estaban constituidos principalmente de especies introducidas. Mortalidad en los tallos fue solamente un 2 porciento despus de 9 meses, as como tambin se encontr que el dao estructural no contribuy a la mortalidad de tallos. Mortalidad inducida por el huracn no se encontr asociada con el dimetro o altura de los tallos o bien su dimetro, pero fue 10 veces ms grande que la mortalidad de control. Los fragmentos de bosques experimentaron el mismo comportamiento que el bosque de referencia.
10.2307/2388975|The biomass and nutrient content of two steepland watersheds were estimated using allometric equations and nutrient concentrations derived from a subsample of the vegetation. Prior to the passage of Hurricane Hugo in September 1989, the watersheds had a total vegetative biomass of 301 tons/ha, 75 percent of which was aboveground. The total nutrient content of this vegetation was 907, 49, 644, 653, and 192 kg/ha for N, P, K, Ca, and Mg, respectively and varied with topographic setting. Concentrations per unit dry weight of P (0.16), K (2.49), Ca (2.13), and Mg (0.62) in aboveground vegetation were similar to other steepland tropical forests, while the concentration of N (2.9) was greater. Following the passage of Hurricane Hugo, the standing aboveground biomass was reduced to 113 t/ha and the aboveground nutrient content of the forest was reduced 45 to 48 percent.
10.2307/2389072|We studied the phenology of leaf production and loss, flowering, and fruiting on Henderson Island, a raised limestone island situated at 24
2663861|To examine interspecific variation in the intensity of ant defense among three sympatric species of obligate myrmecophytes of Macaranga (Euphorbiaceae), we measured the ratio of ant biomass to plant biomass, ant aggressiveness to artificial damage on host plants, and increase in herbivore damage on host plants when symbiont ants were removed. Increase in herbivore damage from two- and four-week ant exclusion varied significantly among the three species. The decreasing order of vulnerability to herbivory was M. winkleri, M. trachyphylla, and M. beccariana. The ant/plant biomass ratio (= rate of the dry weight of whole ant colonies to the dry weight of whole aboveground plant parts) and ant agressiveness also varied significantly among the three species; the orders of both the ant/plant biomass ratio and ant aggressiveness were the same as in the herbivory increase. These results indicated that the intensity of ant defense differs predictably among sympatric species of obligate myrmecophytes on Macaranga. In addition to the interspecific difference in the total intensity of ant defense, when symbiont ants were excluded, both patterns of within-plant variation in the amount of herbivore damage and compositions of herbivore species that caused the damage differed among species. This suggests that the three Macaranga species have different systems of ant defense with reference to what parts of plant tissue are protected and what herbivorous species are avoided by ant defense. Thus, it is important to consider the interspecific variation in ant defense among Macaranga species to understand the herbivore community on Macaranga plants and the mechanisms that promote the coexistence of multiple Macaranga myrmecophytes.
2389037|Two bat species, Leptonycteris curasoae and Glossophaga longirostris, are the principal pollinators of at least two of the three species of columnar cacti that grow on the semiarid island of Curacao, Netherlands Antilles. I examined the importance of the cacti in the diets of the bats and found that 85-91 percent of their diet samples contained cactus pollen and seeds. At least 43 percent of the samples from each species contained cactus pollen and/or seeds exclusively. Leptonycteris curasoae consumes nectar and pollen of Ceiba pentandra and Agave spp. at the beginning of the dry season and G. longirostris also consumes a few other plant products in the wet season, but both bat species depend nutritionally on cacti. Female bats give birth to one pup per year, and the periods of parturition and lactation in each species correspond to peaks in the reproductive phenology of the two most abundant columnar cactus species. From personal observations and a review of the literature, I determined that bats were unlikely to fly to the mainland to feed, although L. curasoae may do so. I conclude that the interdependence of bats and cacti is suggestive of coevolution, and that columnar cacti are critical for the survival and persistence of nectar-feeding bats on Curacao.
2389163|Striking variation in ant occupation of a faculative ant-plant, Conostegia setosa (Melastomataceae), was found at three scales: local spatial, geographic, and temporal. C. setosa provides housing for ants and grows in groups of stems (clones). The ant occupants of 14 C. setosa clones were censused four times over a 14-mo period at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, and twice over a 9-mo period at the Nusagandi Station,Panama. Twelve faculative ant species occupied C. setosa stems at La Selva, compared to six faculative and one obligate species at Nusagandi. Occupancy (as % of stems ever occupied/clone) was higher at Nusagandi (median = 89%) compared to La Selva (65%). Occupancy varied among clones at La Selva but not at Nusagandi. C. setosa clones differed between sites, with larger clones and more small stems/clone at La Selva. Occupancy was influenced by clone structure; larger clones contained more ant species at both sites and had lower occupancy at La Selva. Occupancy was highest in larger stems and lowest in small stems at both sites. Temporally, percent occupation/clone did not differ among censuses at either side, but overall occupancy was lower in the dry season at La Selva. Turnover in ant occupants was higher at La Selva than at Nusagandi. The variation observed in this study is likely due to a number of factors, including differences between sites in plant population structure and history, differences between and within sites in ant faunas and their nesting requirements, and changes over space and time in microclimatic variables. Such high variation at multiple scales draws attention to the importance of long-term comparative studies of faculative animal-plant interactions.
10.2307/2387889|Liana (woody vine) loads on 20 trees (dbh >20 cm) were determined for each of 24 species on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Three species were consistently free of lianas. Trees of predominantly liana-free species were more flexible and had longer leaves than trees of species that more often carried lianas. It is suggested that because lianas are likely to slow host-tree growth rates and may increase tree mortality rates, characteristics that help trees to shed or avoid lianas are advantageous in liana-rich forests.
30043060|Radiocarbon dating and
40863778|Early European naturalists saw Amazonian landscapes as pristine, but modern research has found a complex historical ecology, similar to that of other tropical and temperate regions. Although the pristine myth has been thoroughly debunked, too many biodiversity researchers fail to incorporate historical ecology into their analyses. For a world society out of balance with its natural resource base, careful interpretation is essential to understand trends, including impoverishment of planetary biodiversity. If world society avoids civilizational collapse, parts of Amazonia's historical ecology can contribute to future sustainability and improved survival of its biodiversity.
27742840|Understanding the impact of hunting on wildlife populations is crucial to achieving sustainability and requires knowledge of prey abundance responses to different levels of exploitation. While the abundance of primates has been shown to respond independently to hunting and habitat, habitat is rarely considered simultaneously when evaluating the impacts of hunting. Furthermore, the importance of these two factors in determining the abundance of other species has not been well investigated. We evaluate the independent effects of hunting and habitat on the abundance of a diverse assemblage of species, using a series of predictions and data from a study in Equatorial Guinea. Line transect surveys in sites of varying hunting intensity and habitat, and weekly interviews with hunters on current hunting effort in each site, were conducted. We also consider the role of past hunting, and discuss the interrelationships between hunting and habitat variables. We show that for primates, hunting is important in determining abundance, while for rodents and duikers, habitat is more important. Our findings show that the effects of hunting and habitat on abundance vary greatly between species, are often confounded and require an approach that isolates their independent effects to determine the true impact of hunting. Conservation managers must consider and incorporate habitat heterogeneity when managing hunting systems, taking into account the way in which the relative importance of these factors can vary between species.
10.2307/2388262|Patterns of damage caused to trees $\geq$3 cm dbh in Jamaican montane rain forests by Hurricane Gilbert were described in a series of permanent plots over a study area of 2.5 km$^2$, sampling 0.3 ha. Damage was assessed in the plots 19-23 mo after the hurricane. Low overall levels of damage occurred compared with studies of hurricane damage elsewhere; stem mortality = 8.1 $\pm$ 1.4 percent; uprooted stems = 5.8 \pm 1.3 percent; broken stems = 8.5 $\pm$ 1.2 percent. The highest levels of damage were found on southern slopes and the ridge crest of the Blue Mountains, as the range protected forests on the northern slopes from the full force of the hurricane, which struck from the southeast. However, mortality and uprooting did not conform to a pattern that could be linked to topography. I conclude that while hurricanes are fairly frequent events in Jamaica (return period ca 15 yr), their effective return periods to particular areas of forest are likely to be longer because of local differences in exposure.
10.2307/2388411|Monthly samples, taken over 19 months, examined the composition, density, and seasonality of invertebrate litter faunas in an upland tropical rain forest. Arthropods represented 96.0 percent of the total sample number. Numbers of invertebrates increased with an increase in precipitation and there were significantly more individuals in samples during the wetter months. Numbers declined when litter became dry and/or sparse or oversaturated. Fluctuations in invertebrate litter populations appeared to relate to rainfall, litter moisture content, leaf fall, and rates of decomposition. Comparisons were made with similar studies carried out elsewhere in tropical rain forests. The present investigation is part of a study of the breeding and foraging ecology seasonality of Australian upland tropical forest birds.
41241927|The inclusion of carbon stock enhancements under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) framework will likely drive a rapid increase in biosequestration projects that remove carbon from the atmosphere through rehabilitation of degraded primary rain forests. Such projects could also present an important opportunity to reverse losses of biodiversity from degraded rain forests, but concern has recently been expressed that management interventions to increase carbon stocks may conflict with biodiversity conservation. Focusing on a large-scale rain forest rehabilitation project in northern Borneo, we examine: (i) how intensive rehabilitation of selectively logged forests affected patterns of bird community composition and (ii) whether changes in vegetation structure explain observed shifts in avian guild structure and species composition. Bird composition differed between unlogged, naturally regenerating logged, and rehabilitated logged habitats, with the avifauna of rehabilitated forest more similar to that of naturally regenerating forest. Crucially, rehabilitation did not adversely affect either those species that declined after logging or those species that are IUCN Red Listed. Rehabilitation reduced the prevalence of vines and shrubs within regenerating forest, and across all habitats, the abundance and species richness of all birds and of obligate frugivores were positively related to vine prevalence. In contrast, the abundance and richness of frugivoreinsectivore generalists and of salliers were negatively related to vines, suggesting that avifaunal responses to forest rehabilitation were attributable to liberation cutting of vines. Management intervention to increase carbon stocks had little adverse effect on avian biodiversity and we therefore argue that rain forest rehabilitation should play a strong role in future REDD+ agreements.
2389147|Mangroves in disparate families produce viviparous seedlings (propagules) that are attacked by many crab and insect predators both before and after dispersal. While post-dispersal predation is viewed as an important factor in structuring many mangrove communities, pre-dispersal predation rates and agents have been characterized for few species. Ten species of mangrove and 3299 propagules were surveyed for pre-dispersal propagule predation at 42 sites around the world. Pre-dispersal predation rates were variable among sites and species, ranging from 0 to 93 percent within stands, with a global total predation rate of 23.3 percent (across all propagules examined) and a mean level of 28.3 percent across sites. Grapsid crabs, Coleoptera and Lepidoptera were the primary predators identified. Forests near human population centers and stands occurring at high intertidal sites exhibited higher levels of propagule predation than those in unpopulated or low-intertidal sites. Predation rates on a species were weakly, negatively correlated with conspecific seedling density at a site. To explore temporal variation in, and ramifications of pre-dispersal predation for propagule growth and abscission dynamics, Rhizophora mangle propagules were monitored over two years at three sites in Belize, Central America. Predation did not significantly reduce hypocotylar growth of germinated propagules on the parent tree, but nearly doubled the abscission rate of premature propagules. Pre-dispersal propagule predation is a ubiquitous feature of mangrove forests world-wide, and must be accounted for in estimates of reproductive output, stand health, and propagule availability for forestry and restoration efforts.
40891354|Jaguars (Panthera onca) and pumas (Puma concolor) are sympatric across the entire jaguar range, where they coexist in increasingly fragmented landscapes under threat of persecution mainly in response to livestock predation. Pumas are known to inhabit a greater variety of natural habitats than jaguars, but little is known about the influence of anthropogenic factors on the coexistence of these two similar-sized cats. This study compares habitat use of jaguars and pumas in Belize, Central America, using 1380 jaguar and puma photo captures from 3 yr of camera trapping, comprising 64-74 individual jaguars and an unknown number of pumas. Jaguars and pumas did not differ in their use of a large block of relatively homogenous secondary rain forest. However, pumas were scarce outside this forest block, whereas jaguars were detected throughout the human-influenced landscape. Reasons for this discrepancy may include differential tolerance to human disturbance, and resource limitation for pumas outside the forest block. Intra-specific variation in jaguar activity in the form of sex-dependent habitat use was detected across the landscape. Male jaguars were detected at more locations than female jaguars and more frequently at each location, with a declining difference from a 50-fold greater detection in the protected forest, through forest buffer, savannah, pastures, to negligible difference in the disturbed forest.
40863745|Papua New Guinea (PNG) has become the focus of climate change mitigation initiatives such as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, but defensible estimates of forest carbon are lacking. Here we present a methodology for estimating aboveground forest carbon, and apply it to a large Permanent Sample Plot system maintained by Papua New Guinea Forest Research Institute. We report the first estimates of forest carbon in lowland tropical forest in PNG. Average aboveground carbon in stems > 10 cm diam. for 115 selectively harvested 1-ha plots in lowland tropical forest was 66.3  3.5 Mg C/ha (95% CI) while for 10 primary forest plots the average was 106.3  16.2 Mg C/ha. We applied ratios based on field observations, in-country studies, and the literature to estimate unmeasured pools of aboveground carbon (stems < 10 cm diam., fine litter and coarse woody debris). Total aboveground carbon was estimated at 90.2 and 120.8 Mg C/ha in selectively harvested and primary lowland forest, respectively. Our estimate for primary tropical forest is lower than biome averages for tropical equatorial forest, and we hypothesize that frequent disturbances from fire, frost, landslides, and agriculture are limiting carbon stock development. The methodology and estimates presented here will assist the PNG government in its preparedness for mitigation initiatives, are of interest to communities that are seeking to participate in voluntary carbon markets, and will encourage transparency and consistency in the estimation of forest carbon.
2388821|This study investigated the importance of gap formation in mangrove swamps on the island of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, in order to understand better both natural processes of forest development and the effects of harvesting trees for firewood in these wetlands. Measurements were concentrated in seven plots located near four rivers: three in fringe zones and four in basin zones. Each plot was a cluster of five points and covered an area of ca 1.3 ha. From every point in each of the seven plots, the nearest canopy gap 10 m
10.2307/2387753|The daily input of plant macro-nutrients in bulk precipitation was measured over a 16-month period at Siguatepeque, Honduras. Total annual inputs of all elements were small relative to those recorded elsewhere in the tropics, a difference which is attributed to the low rainfall of the area, its elevation, and its remoteness from the ocean. Input patterns were highly irregular with most of the annual influx of each element taking place on only a few rain days. A major influx of all elements was recorded at the start of each wet season, and one period of exceptionally high cation input during the wet season is tentatively attributed to volcanic activity. Despite the irregularity of nutrient influx, calculation of a daily water balance for the area shows that a large proportion of elements received can normally be retained temporarily in soil-moisture storage. However, effective capture of these by ecosystems probably requires rapid plant uptake. We suggest that plants occupying infertile tropical soils may be strongly selected for the ability to absorb irregular pulses of atmospheric nutrients.
30044904|To the discussion on secondary succession in tropical forests, we bring data on three under-addressed issues: understoiy as well as overstory changes, continuous as opposed to phase changes, and integration of forest succession with indigenous fallow management and plant uses. Changes in vegetation structure and species composition were analyzed in secondary forests following swidden agriculture in a semideciduous forest of Bolivian lowlands. Twenty-eight fallows, stratified by four successional stages (early =1-5 yr, intermediate = 6-10 yr, advanced = 12-20 yr, and older = 22-36 yr), and ten stands of mature forests were sampled. The overstory (plants  5 cm diameter at breast height [DBH]) was sampled using a 20 x 50 m plot and the understory (plants <5 cm DBH) in three nested 2 x 5 m subplots. Semistructured interviews provided information on fallow management. Canopy height, basal area, and liana density of the overstory increased with secondary forest age. The early stage had the lowest species density and diversity in the overstory, but the highest diversity in the understoiy. Species composition and abundance differentiated mature forests and early successional stage from other successional stages; however, species showed individualistic responses across the temporal gradient. A total of 123 of 280 species were useful with edible, medicinal, and construction plants being the most abundant for both over- and understories. Most of Los Gwarayo preferred mature forests for making new swidden, while fallows were valuable for crops, useful species, and regenerating timber species. /// Presentamos datos sobre tres temas poco atendidos sobre la sucesin secundaria en los bosques tropicales: cambios en el sotobosque y el dosel, cambios continuos en vez de fases sucesionales, e integracin de la sucesin con manejo indgena y usos de plantas. Se analizaron los cambios en la estructura de la vegetacin y de la composicin de especies en bosques secundarios, provenientes de la agricultura migratoria, de bosques semicaducifolios en las tierras bajas de Bolivia. Se muestrearon veintiocho barbechos, ordenados en cuatro estados sucesionales (temprano =1-5 aos, intermedio = 6-10, avanzado = 12-20 y tardo = 22-36), y 10 parcelas de bosque maduro. El dosel (plantas  5 cm dap) fue muestreado en parcelas de 20 x 50 m y el sotobosque (plantas < 5 cm dimetro) en tres subparcelas anidadas de 2 x 5 m. Entrevistas semi-estructuradas informaron sobre el manejo indgena. La altura del dosel, el rea basal y la densidad de lianas incrementaron en el dosel con la edad del bosque. El estado sucesional temprano present la menor riqueza y diversidad de especies para el dosel, pero la ms alta diversidad en el sotobosque. La composicin de especies y la abundancia de individuos diferenciaron a los bosques maduros y el estado sucesional temprano de los otros estados; sin embargo, las especies tuvieron respuestas individuales en el gradiente temporal. Un total de 123 de las 280 especies fueron tiles, con plantas comestibles, medicinales y para construccin como las ms abundantes en el dosel y sotobosque. La mayora de Los Gwarayo prefiri bosques maduros para establecer nuevas chacras mientras que los barbechos fueron valiosos para cultivar, para plantas tiles, y para la regeneracin de especies maderables.
20492564|This paper describes a severe outbreak of a Lepidopteran defoliator, Lusura altrix (Stoll 1782), on Brazil nut trees in Central Amazonia. The pest outbreak appeared to succeed abnormal weather conditions, and defoliation was sufficient to disrupt normal phenological patterns.
2663992|Entomophagy in the riodinid butterfly tribe Eurybiini is demonstrated for the first time. Alesa amesis caterpillars and adults possess behavioral and morphological traits for feeding on Homoptera nymphs, and oviposition by A. amesis females is mediated by the combined presence of Camponotus femoratus ants and homopteran nymphs. Caterpillars are entirely entomophagous, and do not eat plant tissues. Alesa amesis caterpillars have distinct behaviors for feeding on their prey, and for soliciting and drinking honeydew secretions from homopteran nymphs. The leg lengths of entomophagous Alesa caterpillars are shown to be longer than phytophagous relatives. The legs of Alesa are used for prey handling and soliciting honeydew secretions. We suggest that elongation of the thoracic legs has been a general consequence of entomophagy in butterfly caterpillars. This study clarifies our understanding of A. amesis and its interactions with multiple species, and points to behavioral and morphological traits important to interpreting the evolution of entomophagy among caterpillars. Our observations establish the likelihood that other members of Eurybiini may be entomophagous, and suggest that entomophagy may have evolved independently among the Nymphidiini and Eurybiini.
10.2307/2388898|Accumulations of organic material can be found in the crowns of trees in tropical wet forests. We investigated moisture and temperature patterns of dead organic matter in the canopy and of soil in the upper horizons of the forest floor over a 42-month period. Temperatures of the canopy material and forest floor soil fluctuated throughout the year (range = 11.5
10.2307/2388300|The two Sumatran wild bananas, Musa acuminata subsp. halabanensis and M. salaccensis, belonging to the different sections Musa and Callimusa respectively, have contrasting flowering traits corresponding to their different pollination syndromes: i.e., chiropterophily and ornithophily, respectively The M. a. halabanensis flowers, on pendent inflorescences with dark purple bracts, produced jelly-like nectar of 22-25 percent sugar concentration primarily at night, and were pollinated by the nectarivorous pteropodid bats, Macroglossus sobrinus. In contrast, the M. salaccensis flowers, on erect inflorescences with purplish pink bracts, produced dilute nectar of 18-21 percent sugar concentration primarily in the daytime, and were pollinated by the nectarivorous nectariniid birds. Arachnothera longirostris and Aethopyga siparaja. The flowering span of each female flower was 24-40 hr, while that of the male flowers was < 12 hr. Open flowers of both species contained significantly less outcrop of nectar than bagged flowers. Fruit weight and seedset of open M. salaccensis flowers were significantly more than those of bagged flowers and were significantly less than those of hand-pollinated flowers.
2663773|Increasing human activity in the Yucatan peninsula has led to declines in older stages of successional forest, threatening regional habitat diversity. To determine potential effects of this habitat loss on the region's avifauna, we examined the relative use of different forest stages by resident and migrant birds during the nonbreeding season. We used the fixed-width transect method to compare the distribution, abundance, and diversity of forest birds in early (five to ten years old), mid (15-25 years), and late (>50 years) successional forests in the state of Campeche, Mexico, in the south-central part of the peninsula. All stages of successional forest had highly similar bird assemblages and did not differ in bird abundance or diversity. Both migrant and resident birds occurred across the successional gradient. The majority of habitat specialists, however, were resident birds restricted to late-successional forest, indicating that early secondary growth may not be suitable for all species. Furthermore, resident birds that typically participate in mixed-species flocks attained their greatest densities in the oldest forest habitat. Rapid recovery of pre-disturbance physiognomic features, in addition to high levels of habitat connectivity in the region, may contribute to similar bird communities across a range of successional stages. The high degree of edge characterizing much of the forest mosaic also may allow birds access to different seral stages. Loss of late-successional forest, however, is likely to adversely affect the subset of resident avifauna that depends on unique features of mature habitat such as snags, large trees, and climatic buffering. Conservation efforts in Campeche should focus on the specialized requirements of the most habitat-restricted species while preserving the current landscape mosaic characteristic of the small-scale shifting cultivation system.
30043154|Hypoxia (oxygen scarcity) is widespread in tropical freshwaters, particularly in dense swamps, and may be an important factor structuring benthic macroinvertebrate communities. Macroinvertebrates show a diversity of respiratory modes ranging from atmospheric breathing to trachal gill breathing, and these adaptations affect their ability to use hypoxic water. The objectives of this study were to (a) describe the benthic macroinvertebrate community from ten swamp and river sites in Kibale National Park, Uganda, (b) determine the degree to which dissolved oxygen explains variation in abundance of respiratory groups (taxa with a similar respiratory mode) among sites, and (c) test for significant seasonal variation in the abundance of the numerically dominant respiratory groups. Macroinvertebrates from monthly collections over a two-year period were identified to the lowest taxonomic level necessary to place them in functional respiratory groups. Across all sites, both the relative and absolute abundance of atmospheric breathers (e.g., pulmonate snails and nepids) and mantle/ctenidia breathers (primarily fingernail clams) were negatively correlated with dissolved oxygen, while the abundance of trachal gill breathers (e.g., anisopterans and zygopterans) was positively correlated with dissolved oxygen. We did not detect significant seasonal trends in catch per unit effort of numerically dominant respiratory groups. Dissolved oxygen concentration was a good predictor of the abundance of some respiratory groups and may be a key factor in maintaining the structure and diversity of these assemblages.
30043128|Detrimental effects of introduced honeybees (Apis mellifera L.) on native plant pollination have been predicted based on their observed deterrence or expulsion of native pollinators or their depletion of floral resources. Here, a case is reported in which floral visitation by the introduced honeybee affects male fitness and probably fruit and seed production of a tropical tree without affecting the resource sought by the native pollinator. Clusia arrudae is a dioecious species and is pollinated by individuals of Eufriesea nigrohirta that visit its flowers to collect resin. Male flowers, however, are also visited by individuals of A. mellifera, which remove ca 99 percent of their pollen grains. When E. nigrohirta leaves flowers previously visited by A. mellifera, they carry on their bodies less than 0.1 percent of the pollen grains carried by bees leaving flowers not visited by the honeybee. This may explain why the frequency of A. mellifera at male flowers is negatively correlated with the number of seeds produced by female flowers. This novel situation may affect other plants offering alternative rewards for pollinators, such as resins, oils, and aromatic compounds. /// A polinizao de espcies nativas de plantas pode ser prejudicada em decorrncia das visitas da abelha introduzida Apis mellifera. Isto tem sido previsto com base em registros de situaes em que esta abelha impede o acesso de polinizadores nativos ou os expulsa das flores e tambm pelo fato dela exaurir os recursos florais. Clusia arrudae  polinizada por Eufriesea nigrohirta que busca resina em suas flores. Apis mellifera visita as flores masculinas de Clusia arrudae e remove cerca de 99 percento dos gros do plen da flor visitada. Quando E. nigrohirta visita flores j visitadas por A. mellifera, ela carrega em seu corpo menos de 0.1 percent dos gros de plen carregados por abelhas que visitam flores ainda no visitadas por A. mellifera. Isto pode explicar porque a freqncia de A. mellifera em flores masculinas  negativamente correlacionada com a quantidade de sementes produzidas por flores femininas. Esta  uma situao que ainda no havia sido registrada e que pode afetar outras plantas que oferecem recursos alternativos para o polinizador, como resinas, leos, e compostos aromticos.
10.2307/2388901|Carex runssoroensis, a tussock-forming sedge, is a dominant of peatlands endemic to the alpine zone of several East African mountains. Species composition, vertical structure, interspecific associations, plant biomass, plant and soil nutrient content, and redox potential were assessed in Carex runssoroensis fens from comparable altitudes on Ruwenzori Mountains and Mount Elgon. Fens from Mount Elgon exhibit higher species richness, more pronounced vertical structure, higher density of smaller tussocks, and lower content of nitrogen in the biomass. Ruwenzon fens are characterized by a smaller number of species, large Carex tussocks with higher nitrogen content and intervening hollows with a high proportion of mosses. The differences seem to be related to different climatic conditions in the two mountains: Mount Elgon is generally drier, with occasional fires burning even through peatlands; whereas, the Ruwenzon Mountains are more humid, resulting in almost constant flooding of some local peatlands.
2388824|Survival and growth of seedlings and sprouts were assessed in three plots for 16 mo following the slashing and burning of a tropical deciduous forest in Jalisco, Mexico. We encountered a total of 47 species: 21 seedling species and 35 sprout species. Calliandra formosa and Piptadenia flava were the most common seedling species; Bursera arborea, Cordia alliodora, and Piptadenia constricta were the most common sprouts. Colubrina triflora, Diphysa occidentalis, and Cnidoscolus spinosus had limited sprouting ability. Twenty-six species were represented by one seedling or one sprout. Thirty-eight percent of the seedlings were tree species, 59 percent were shrub species, and 2 percent were vines species. In contrast, 86 percent of the sprouts were from trees and 13 percent from shrubs. One year after the initial measurements, 29 percent of the seedlings and 13 percent of the sprouts were dead. Each of the seedling means (number of stems/individual, height and diameter of the tallest stem, and elliptical crown area) was significantly smaller (P < 0.05) than that of sprouts at all three measurement periods, but relative growth rates were similar. Total canopy area of seedlings had a larger relative increase than did the canopy area of sprouts. The presence of seedlings increased species diversity compared to calculated diversity excluding seedlings. Timing of fruit dispersal in relation to the date of burning and the high number of Leguminosae species in the forest appeared to favor seedling establishment for some species.
10.2307/2387828|Although the North American seed harvesting ants of the genus Pogonomyrmex have been studied for many years, this is the first report of the ecology of a South American species. The entire distribution of P mayri seems limited to desert or very dry forest in northeast Colombia. Colonies are of moderate size for the genus. averaging 603 workers per nest. Nest density, however, is high, resulting in a biomass comparable to that of Pogonomyrmex with much larger colonies. Nests have hidden entrances and consist of only two levels and a few chambers. Nest relocation in the area studied was frequent and executed within four or five hours. Unlike most Pogonomyrmex so far studied, P mayri is not granivorous, but rather relies mostly on dead arthropods for food.
40863749|Several members of the most ancient living lineages of flowering plants (angiosperms) inhabit humid, woody, mostly tropical habitats. Here we assess whether one of these forest types, the cloud forests of Mexico (CFM), contain a relatively higher proportion of phylogenetically early-diverging angiosperm lineages. The CFM houses an extraordinary plant species diversity, including members of earliest-diverging angiosperm lineages. The phylogenetic composition of CFM angiosperm diversity was evaluated through the relative representation of orders and families with respect to the global flora, and the predominance of phylogenetically early-or late-diverging lineages. Goodness-of-fit tests indicated significant differences in the proportional local and global representation of angiosperm clades. The net difference between the percentage represented by each order and family in the CFM and the global flora allowed identification of clades that are overrepresented and underrepresented in the CFM. Early-diverging angiosperm orders and families were found to be neither over-nor underrepresented in the CFM. A slight predominance of late-diverging phylogenetic levels among overrepresented clades, however, was encountered in the CFM. The resulting pattern suggests that cloud forests provide habitats where the most ancient angiosperm lineages have survived in the face of accumulating species diversity belonging to phylogenetically late-diverging lineages.
10.2307/2989629|Bats and about 230 species of birds are nocturnal and all rely to varying degrees on insects, insects and vertebrates, or fruit as principal food supplies. Bats appear effectively to dominate the aerial nocturnal adaptive zones of fruit and insect eating, although they are more effective as small rather than as large insectivores. In most tropical locations, either owls or bats are regular consumers of fish; bats which feed on terrestrial vertebrates and the bird families Podargidae, Aegothelidae, and Nyctibiidae seem to occupy the adaptive zone of small owls, but these bats and birds are limited anatomically from replacing larger owls. Bat hawks (Falco rufigularis and Macheiramphus alcinus) and some carnivorous bats may be the only regular aerial predators of bats. The use that many bats make of night roosts as locations for food consumption, and the nocturnal roosting habits of some diurnal birds may represent adaptations for avoiding nocturnal, volant predators.
10.2307/2387742|The terrestrial hermit crab Coenobita compressus appears to detect and approach aggregations of conspecifics. Since this hermit crab tends to form clusters surrounding a food item, an individual approaching an aggregation will often discover a desirable piece of food. This study provides quantitative field evidence for the use of social facilitation in foraging by C. compressus.
10.2307/2387783|Surface soil in five different habitats contained a stock of viable seeds awaiting suitable conditions for germination. Samples from under a mixed evergreen rain forest canopy included seeds of seral species not represented at the collection site. Seeds of species of Aralia, Macaranga, Mallotus, Melastoma, and Trema, all seral trees, germinated in soil samples from up to 175 m from the nearest source tree, and from as much as 20 cm below the soil surface. The amount of seed in the soil was much greater than the annual rate of seed rain measured, and indicated that a store of seral tree seed can be built up over several years under primary forest.
30043094|Las interacciones entre plantas e insectos pueden ser afectadas por la fragmentacin de los hbitats. En este estudio, realizado en el Chaco Serrano de Argentina, investigamos los efectos de la fragmentacin sobre la cantidad de semillas abortadas, depredadas y sanas de Acacia aroma y Cercidium praecox. Encontramos que los efectos de la fragmentacin fueron diferentes en cada especie. A medida que se redujo el rea del fragmento, aument el nmero de semillas abortadas en A. aroma, mientras que la depredacin pre-dispersin disminuy y la cantidad de semillas sanas aument en praecox. El aumento de semillas abortadas en los fragmentos pequeos no produjo un nmero menor de semillas sanas disponibles para la dispersion. En las dos especies, los niveles mximos de depredacin por parte de brquidos fueron cercanos al 35 por ciento, mientras que la aborcin de semillas no super el 7 por ciento. Debido a los altos niveles de dao y la especificidad de los brquidos, los cambios producidos por la fragmentacin pueden ser muy importantes para las poblaciones de estas dos especies. Los efectos de la fragmentacin sobre la polinizacin y la depredacin pre-dispersin de semillas de estas fabceas pueden generar una mayor disponibilidad de semillas para su posterior dispersin en ambientes fragmentados. /// Habitat fragmentation can have consequences on plant reproduction through several interactions with insects. We studied the effects of habitat fragmentation in the proportion of aborted, predated and undamaged seeds of Acacia aroma and Cercidium praecox. We performed this study in the Chaco Serrano of Argentina. We found that fragmentation effects differed between species. In small patches, the number of aborted seeds of A. aroma increased and the number of pre-dispersal predated seeds and undamaged seeds of C. praecox decreased and increased, respectively. However, higher numbers of aborted seeds in small patches did not lead to fewer available seeds for dispersion. For these species, seed predation by bruchids was about 35 percent and aborted seeds were around 7 percent. Because of the elevated levels of damage and the high specificity of bruchids, the changes caused by habitat fragmentation may be very important for the populations of these two species. Habitat fragmentation effects on pollination and pre-dispersal seed predation of these legumes may determine higher availability of seeds for dispersion in fragmented habitats.
10.2307/2387651|Soil nutrients and nitrogen turnover were measured in two soil chronosequences on the Kilauea and Mauna Loa volcanoes, Hawai'i. Organic carbon and nitrogen accumulated rapidly in sites derived from volcanic ash and more slowly in sites derived from pahoehoe; a minimum of 22 kg Nha
4132894|Species composition shifts in mangrove forests may alter organic matter dynamics. The purpose of this study was to predict the effect of species replacements among mangrove trees on organic matter dynamics in a mangrove forest on the island of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia. We were particularly interested in elements of the carbon cycle that affect peat accumulation rates, organic matter exports to the estuary and coral reef systems, and soil microbiology. We compared organic matter production and decomposition rates among three mangrove species that commonly grow in similar hydrogeomorphic settings: Rhizophora apiculata BL, which is selectively harvested; Bruguiera gymnorrhiza, which may gradually replace Rhizophora; and Sonneratia alba, which is producing few mature fruits. Sonneratia had significantly higher rates of root production (estimated with ingrowth chambers) than Bruguiera or Rhizophora. Sonneratia foliage had significantly faster decomposition rates and significantly lower lignin:nitrogen ratios than Bruguiera foliage. Live root mass was positively correlated with ingrowth and soil carbon, although soil carbon and ingrowth were not significantly correlated with each other. Humic acid concentrations were significantly higher in Sonneratia rhizospheres than in either Bruguiera or Rhizophora rhizospheres and were positively correlated with root ingrowth. The species changes taking place on Kosrae are likely to result in lower rates of root production and foliage decomposition, and more refractory carbon pools in soil.
2389142|Seed weight, days to germination and seed viability were observed for 99 species growing in the Western Ghats of Karnataka, India. Seed size was strongly correlated with days to germination; smaller seeds germinated faster than larger seeds. Species which flowered during the rainy season had lighter seeds than species which flowered during the dry season. It was also found that seed size and viability of seeds were related to the season of fruiting. Species which fruit during the rainy season had heavier seeds and shorter viability than species which fruit during the dry season. These flowering and fruiting patterns and varying seed sizes are argued to be adaptations to the time of dispersal, time of moisture availability in the habitat and seedling survival.
10.2307/2989633|Floral robbers are categorized as nectar-foraging, nectar-foraging-perforating, and pollen-foraging. Trigona fulviventris is a nectar-foraging-perforating robber of yellow flowers of Lantana camara. Flower head maturation of L. camara is centripetal and flowers turn from yellow to reddish-orange, resulting in inflorescences of central yellow flowers with peripheral orange and reddish-orange ones. In the laboratory, seed set occurs only after cross-pollination; in the field, the presence of orange and reddish-orange flowers is related to decreased nectar robbery of yellow flowers. Co-evolution of L. camara, its butterfly pollinators, and T fulviventris has presumably involved increased nectar production of this plant to feed both its pollinators and robber.
10.2307/2388341|We report data on population structure, growth, mortality, and distribution among microhabitats of Dipteryx panamensis (Papi-lionoideae), an emergent tree of tropical wet forest at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. We studied all seedlings (1980 cohort) on a 1-ha plot from 7 months to 5 yr post-germination. Population structure was determined by complete inventory of non-seedlings on a 4-ha plot. Growth, microsite distribution, and 2-yr survivorship were measured for individuals obtained by systematic searches of >150 ha of primary forest (="extensive sample").At 7 mo post-germination, 147 seedlings remained on the 1-ha plot; only two were in gaps (sensu Brokaw 1982). The 4-ha population averaged two individuals/ha >300 mm in diameter, but included only one tree 100-300 mm in diameter. In the extensive sample, the 117 individuals >300 mm in diameter showed a continuous distribution of diameters. Seedling mortality was 97 percent from 7 mo to 5 yr post-germination. Rates of mortality decreased with increasing diameter; 104 of 105 individuals $\geq$100 mm in diameter survived 2 yr. Diameter growth of individuals $\leq$10 mm in diameter averaged <1 mm/yr, while individuals 100-700 mm in diameter averaged 5-8 mm/yr. Diameter growth was positively correlated with crown position (Dawkins and Field 1978) for individuals $\leq$100 mm in diameter. Both diameter growth and height growth were higher in building-phase forest than under mature forest canopy. In the extensive sample, only one of 93 trees $\leq$300 mm in diameter was in a gap. All but one juvenile $\leq$100 mm in diameter (N = 83) had at least one crown of another plant above it, and most crowns were lit from the side, not from overhead. Five of the six Dipteryx 100-300 mm in diameter had vertically lit crowns. The continuous distribution of adult diameters and relatively rapid growth of large juveniles and small adults indicate that Dipteryx is regenerating in situ, and is therefore not a relict of past regional disturbance, as has been hypothesized for some emergents. Long-term measurements of juvenile growth and survival in relation to microhabitat are necessary to adequately describe the regeneration of tropical rain forest trees.
10.2307/2387761|The Cecropia seedbank (consisting of seeds of C. sciadophylla and C. obtusa) under pristine Surinam lowland rain forest has been studied from 1970 to 1978. The germination of Cecropia seeds is strongly induced by normal daylight; Cecropia seeds also show a moderate germination in darkness with fluctuating temperature (20-30
10.2307/2388609|A three-dimensional mapping and harvest method for aboveground biomass is described to characterize spatial distribution patterns of vine or liana individuals. Distance, height, and compass measurements are utilized for delimitation of one-meter-sided imaginary cubes, where liana stem length and leaf area can be measured and harvested later for biomass determination. The methodology, exemplified with the mapping of two individuals, was suitable to detect how stem and leaves of both lianas used differently their volume of space, and by harvesting leaf biomass within each cube, it allowed to detect leaf area index patchiness in the individuals and within the forest. In Liabum caducifolium. leaf area was distributed in patches within the forest, while in Heteropterys palmeri leaf area was on top of the forest canopy This proposed methodology, particularly if combined with other ecological and/or physiological measurements, may allow better insights of individual two- and three-dimensional space distribution, modular demography, ecological requirements, and environmental constraints within the forest.
4132942|All confirmed records of entomophilic pollination in cycads are for species in the Zamiaceae. This paper presents details of entomophily in both species of Bowenia in the Stangeriaceae. Seed set in female cones from which wind and water-borne pollen, but not insects, was excluded, indicates that pollination is obligately entomophilous. The pollination vectors are Miltotranes weevils and the relationships are species-specific and possibly coevolutionary.
30044951|This synthesis builds on the preceding articles of this Special Section and has three goals. We first review the nascent literature that addresses indirect effects of hunting for tropical forest plant communities. Next, we highlight the potential indirect effects of hunting for other groups of organisms. Our final goal is to consider what could be done to ameliorate the demographic threats to harvest-sensitive game species caused by unsustainable hunting. Three conclusions are possible at this time concerning the impact of hunting for tropical forest plant communities: (1) Hunting tends to reduce seed movement for animal-dispersed species with very large diaspores; (2) Hunting reduces seed predation by granivorous vertebrates for species with large seeds; and (3) Hunting alters the species composition of the seedling and sapling layers. The cascading effects of hunting are already known to affect bruchid beetles and dung beetles and are likely to affect other, nongame taxa. To ameliorate these problems, several lines of research should be further explored to facilitate the development of game management plans including: (1) alternative use of sources of animal protein; (2) income supplementation for local people from sources other than wild meat; (3) outreach and extension activities for communities; (4) recognition and facilitation of the shifting of attitudes towards hunting; (5) implementation of community-based wildlife management programs in regulated-use areas such as extractive reserves; and (6) landscape-scale conservation planning that maximizes the source-sink dynamics of harvested and unharvested game populations and enforces game regulations in strictly protected areas.
10.2307/2388453|Unlike its congeners, which are primarily raptors of open habitats, the Mauritius Kestrel (Falco punctatus) is morphologically and behaviorally specialized for hunting in closed tropical forest. Through convergent evolution, this small falcon has come to look and hunt more like a true hawk of the genus Accipiter than a typical kestrel. It shows specialized hunting behavior, such as sun-oriented attacks, for capturing arboreal geckos, one of its principal prey. Mauritius Kestrels are more sexually dimorphic in size than other kestrels, probably because of "ecological release" in an insular environment, and there are differences in the types of prey taken by the sexes.
10.2307/2388506|I assessed nesting success and productivity of seven montane forest birds in Malawi (Africa) from observations of adult behavior and fledglings. This is because visits to nests appeared to increase predation in some species. Secondary productivity (0.4-1.9 young/breeding pair) was low as a result of small clutches, short breeding seasons and, in some species, low nesting success. Most species were capable of replacing failed clutches, but second broods were suspected in only one species, the moustached green tinkerbird (Pogoniulus leucomystax). In the majority of species the first breeding attempt was delayed until the age of 2 years. Unfavorable environmental conditions in some seasons were associated with decreased secondary productivity, and some pairs even refrained from attempting to breed. There is evidence of nonbreeding adults in 21 species. In two closely-studied passerine species, the adult nonbreeding element constituted 50-80 percent of the population, reducing the overall productivity to 0.15-0.5 young per 2 adults.
2663839|The diet of dingoes (Canis familiaris dingo) in the Australian Wet Tropics was examined by analyzing 383 dingo scats collected throughout the region for the presence of mammal prey remains. The scats yielded 29 native and 4 introduced mammal prey species from 14 families. The most important species in terms of percentage occurrence in the scats were Melomys cervinipes (22.2%), Isoodon macrourus (17.0%), Perameles nasuta (12.5%), and Thylogale stigmatica (12.5%). The most important families were Muridae (37.1%), Peramelidae (29.5%), and Macropodidae (25.8%). Examination of small-scale habitat preferences revealed species that preferentially use the forest edge ranked significantly higher in the diet than those that do not, and species that are terrestrial ranked higher in the diet than those that are arboreal. Relative abundance was also a significant factor in the ranked dietary occurrence of each species, with abundant species ranked significantly higher than those that are less abundant. These results suggest that dingoes in the Australian Wet Tropics are opportunistic predators of a wide variety of mammal species, with abundant terrestrial and forest edge-dwelling taxa the most susceptible to predation.
10.2307/2388923|Stomach contents of five syntopic, obligate army-ant-following birds (Gymnopithys salvini, Rhegmatorbina melanosticta, Myrmeciza fortis, Phlegopsis nigromaculata, and Dendrocincla merula) from a site in depto. Pando, Bolivia, were studied. The species studied are highly intra- and interspecifically aggressive and are similar in foraging behavior. Diet composition and prey size differed little among species and were in general unrelated to trophic morphological characters or dominance status. Stomachs of dominant species, however, had greater numbers of prey items than stomachs of subdominants; this was the major dietary difference discovered within this obligate ant-following assemblage. The opportunistic resource-use pattern of these species is similar to that of other groups of species, such as some carrion or fruit-eaters, or temperate-zone insectivores during resource flushes, that rely on temporally or spatially superabundant resources. It differs from predictions based on bill length or body size.
10.2307/2388867|This paper examines the influence of the availability and distribution of suitable display habitat on male display dispersion and social organization in the ochre-bellied flycatcher, Mionectes oleagineus (Aves, Tyrannidae). M. oleagineus is a lek breeding bird in which there is variable male display dispersion, with both lekking and solitary males present in the same population. Approximately 50 percent of males do not hold display territories, behaving instead as floaters. Discriminant function analysis performed on measures of vegetation structure showed that the vegetation of territories could be described and distinguished from that of nonterritory plots. These results suggest that males choose a particular habitat type for their display territories. The vegetation of 11 percent of 135 plots sampled along line transects fit the description of display territory habitat. Neither the availability, nor the distribution of such territory-like plots indicate an influence on male display dispersion. It seems unlikely, therefore, that the availability and dispersion of suitable habitat have been important in driving the evolution of lekking, or in structuring male social organization in this population.
2663838|Hurricanes have been assumed to reduce the reproduction of plants, either directly by leaf stripping and stress or indirectly by reducing pollinators. I examined the pollination and fruit set of a common shrub, Bourreria succulenta, after hurricanes on San Salvador island, Bahamas. Contrary to the assumption of resource limitation, B. succulenta showed unusually prolific flowering after Hurricane Lili stripped leaves from most of the plants in October 1996. I predicted that the abundant flowering would saturate pollinators and that fruit set would be pollination-limited. Fruit set was strongly pollination-limited by 71 percent. Butterflies are probably the major pollinators and were present at the site, but they rarely visited B. succulenta flowers even though flowers were brimming with nectar. Nectarivorous birds (Bananaquits and Bahama Woodstars) visit B. succulenta flowers, but their populations were decimated by Hurricane Lili and they rarely visited flowers during this time. Fruit set was also severely predation-limited; a moth caterpillar (Gelechiidae) was extremely abundant and ate buds, flowers, and fruits, causing a further 68 percent reduction in fruit set. Together, pollination limitation and predation limitation reduced fruit set to only 7 percent or less. Predation was also intense in 1999 after Hurricane Floyd and resulted in 11 percent fruit set or less. Whether or not hurricanes were the cause of limited pollinators or abundant predators, the resulting low fruit set could have population effects because hurricanes can provide opportunities for the recruitment of new plants. These results emphasize that understanding plant-animal interactions may be necessary for predicting the effects of hurricanes on plant reproductive success, which may affect subsequent recruitment. Species on small islands like San Salvador (150 km
30043103|The species-rich mist-belt grasslands of southern Africa have been severely reduced in extent as a result of commercial afforestation, thus confining many endemic plants and animals to small populations in habitat fragments. We investigated the influence of various environmental factors on seed production and seedling recruitment in remnant populations of the endangered grassland herb Gerbera aurantiaca (Asteraceae). Experiments with color traps showed that Eriesthis beetles, which appear to be the primary pollinators of G. aurantiaca, were most abundant in the two largest extant populations. Seeds are produced in a very small proportion (typically < 10%) of the ca 80 female florets in a capitulum. The mean number of seeds produced in undamaged capitula was found to be significantly lower in small than in large populations. Pollen limitation was evident from a significant overall increase in seed set after supplemental pollination in three populations over two seasons. The proportion of capitula containing seed predators did not differ markedly among populations or years, but lepidopteran larvae, which destroy all of the seeds in a capitulum, were most abundant in the two largest populations in 2003. The presence of juvenile plants varied markedly among populations, but this could not be linked firmly to estimates of seed production. Clonal growth is likely to contribute to the persistence of small isolated populations of G. aurantiaca, even when seed production is severely compromised by pollen limitation and predation.
2663982|We used aerial photographs to measure long-term loss of forest cover in dry to mesic forests at Pu'u Wa'a Wa'a on the island of Hawai'i. The aerial extent of dense forest decreased 62 percent between 1954 and 1994, and the area covered by grassland increased by 237 percent. We then used field data and modeling to evaluate the consequences of removing cattle to the composition, biomass, and flammability of the grass community. Field studies of exclosures demonstrated that grazing reduced biomass of kikuyu grass (Pennisetum clandestinum) from 770 to 229 g/m
20492486|Visual cues in fruit displays from foliage, accessory structures, and ripe fruit color are known to be important in attracting bird seed dispersers to ripe fruit, but the role of color in unripe fruit has not been thoroughly studied. Here, we tested the effects of unripe fruit presence and fruit abundance by offering fruit of a Neotropical tree, Ardisia nigropunctata (Myrsinaceae), in bunches of mixed unripe and ripe fruit and bunches of all-ripe fruit. Additionally, foraging bird species identification and behavior information was collected. Contrary to expectation, birds removed more fruit from all-ripe bunches with the most fruit than from contrastingly colored fruit bunches. We therefore discuss alternate explanations for unripe fruit colors in mixed bunches.
10.2307/2989714|In the Royal Chitawan National Park, Nepal, the tiger (Panthera tigris) and the leopard (Panthera pardus) coexist in the riverine forest/tall grass vegetation types. These two big cats differ in the size of prey killed, use of vegetation types, and in activity periods. Although the tiger's weight is four times that of the leopard, coexistence is reportedly not the general rule. A comparison of the results from Chitawan with Kanha National Park (India), where resident tigers occur but leopards are only transients, and Wilpattu National Park (Sri Lanka), where there are leopards but no tigers, indicates that coexistence in Chitawan is facilitated by a large prey biomass, a larger proportion of the ungulate biomass in the small size classes, and by the dense vegetation structure. Some consequences of predator size and the role of interspecific dominance are discussed.
10.2307/2388263|Hurricane Gilbert struck the northeastern portion of the Yucatan Peninsula in an area where we have been conducting studies of the vegetation and avifauna in a dry tropical forest since 1984. All trees in our study area were completely defoliated and most suffered heavy structural damage. Although few trees were killed outright, many died over the next 17 months, especially those that had been heavily damaged. Tree recovery was rapid as relative diameter growth for most species for the first year after the hurricane were greater than average diameter growth rates for three of the five prehurricane years. Biomass of litterfall (leaves and wood less than 10 cm in diameter) and nutrients generated by the hurricane exceeded the totals produced during any of the five previous years. The hurricane increased the mass and nutrients in coarse woody debris (wood greater than 10 cm in diameter) by approximately 50 percent. Mortality caused by fire was much greater than mortality caused by the hurricane.
2388879|Mangrove forests of Bahia Las Minas on the Caribbean coast of Panama were affected by large oil spills twice over the last 30 yr. Lethal and sublethal damage to these mangroves by the two spills was evaluated from aerial photographs, and in the field. The first spill occurred in 1968 when the tanker Witwater broke up and sunk, releasing 2.8-3.8 million liters of diesel oil and Bunker C fuel oil, and killing 49 ha of mangroves or 4 percent of the mangroves in the bay. The second was in 1986 when a land tank at the Refineria Panama ruptured, releasing at least 8 million liters of crude oil, and killing 69 ha of mangroves or 6 percent of those in the bay. In each case, the areas affected most were the low to mid intertidal zone dominated by Rhizophora mangle. The extent and location of deforestation was site- and spill-specific, notably influenced by prevailing wind and tidal conditions. Some areas were deforested twice. Possible sublethal damage to surviving forests was assessed for the 1986 spill, noting that areas of unusually "open" canopy exceeded 307 ha. Field studies, reported elsewhere, confirmed that canopy leaf biomass decreased in "open" canopy sites where oil concentrations in surrounding sediments increased. Therefore, in 1986, a further 34 percent of mangrove forests in the bay probably suffered damage from oiling, and the sum of these partially damaged forests plus the deforested areas more closely represents the total area of damage. It appears that only 18 percent of trees oiled in this bay eventually died, and the total area of damaged mangroves after the large 1986 oil spill was 5-6 times greater than the deforested areas alone.
20492466|Plant community composition is the combined result of species-specific competitive abilities and the availability of propagules. For epiphytic plants, current hypotheses consider that dispersal-related factors are most important. By controlling seed dispersal constraints, we experimentally examined whether the community composition of epiphytic bromeliads in a tropical premontane area is determined during early phases of seedling recruitment. Also, we tested whether establishment success was related to eco-physiological traits of the species. A total of 7200 seeds were artificially affixed on several host trees in two secondary forest patches and in a mature forest stand. Four bromeliad species with differing physiological characteristics (CAM, C-CAM, and C) and habitat preference (secondary vs. primary forest) were selected. We found that differences in seed germination probability among habitats and species were not likely to influence community assembly. After 2 yr, seedling survival and plant development were relatively higher in the early-successional forest. Seedling establishment success was not associated with specific physiological and morphological adaptations or habitat preference of the studied species. Our results were not consistent with the described community composition and rates of population recruitment of the studied species in the same successional habitats. The results support the hypothesis that chance and historic events related to seed dispersal have an important influence on community assembly of epiphytic plants. In addition, differences in growth rates and reproductive turnover among species are expected to influence the relative abundance and recruitment rates in a particular habitat.
30045464|Forest fragmentation and selective logging can influence the life cycle of tropical tree species at several levels, e.g., by lowering pollination, by limiting seed dispersal, and by increasing seed predation. Understanding human-induced modifications in ecosystem processes such as seed predation is essential for conservation management of threatened species. We studied the impact of forest fragmentation and selective logging on seed predation of the endangered tree Prunus africana in the tropical rain forest of Kakamega, Kenya. We quantified the activity of seed predators in the main forest, forest fragments, and in sites of different logging intensity in the dry and rainy seasons of 2003 and 2006. Further, we performed predation experiments with single and groups of P. africana seeds in the same sites. We recorded a tendency toward higher activity of seed predators in the main forest compared to fragmented sites. Single seeds, in contrast to groups of seeds, had marginally significantly higher predation rates in intensively logged compared to moderately logged sites. Overall, predation rates showed little relationship to seed predator activity and were highly variable among years and seasons. Additional studies on seedling establishment and survival are needed to predict whether the endangered tree is able to maintain sustainable populations in Kakamega Forest. Only by studying all processes in the life cycle is it possible to develop sound management strategies for the species.
10.2307/2388705|The three primate species of Santa Rosa National Park, Costa Rica (Ateles geoffroyi, Alouatta palliata, Cebus capucinus) have diets in which fruits are major components. All three primate species defecated seeds of many fruiting species; the majority of which (60%) germinated under experimental conditions. The sampling of seed traps placed throughout the forest indicated that, on average, 392 large seeds that passed through the stomachs of monkeys fell weekly per hectare of forest floor. However, the dispersal performed by the primates may not be the final stage of dispersal for many of these seeds. By constructing artificial dung piles containing seeds it was shown that 51.8 percent of the seeds were either removed by secondary dispersers, or killed by seed predators within 5 days of being placed in the forest. The rate of seed removal varied depending on the seed species.
10.2307/2989771|The formerly abundant caimans of the central Amazon region have nearly become extinct because of the demand for their hides. Inhabitants of the region have discovered, to their surprise, that the fish populations in certain mouth-lakes have diminished following the disappearance of the caimans; even piranhas have decreased in number. Close interdependence exists, or seems to have existed, between caimans and the fish in the limnologically very extreme, central Amazonian water bodies, in the manner outlined below. Those tributaries of the Amazon which do not come from the peripheral regions, but arise in the tertiary central Amazonian plains, are so extremely poor in essential electrolytes that primary production is scarcely possible in them. The food chain is based on organic material which enters the water from the surrounding forests. In addition, swarms of fish originating in the electrolyte- and nutrient-rich waters of the Amazon River and its bordering flood basins migrate into the usually broadened, lake-like lower reaches of these rivers to breed. Many of the fish serve as prey here for the predatory fish, turtles, caimans, and aquatic mammals. Part of this allochthonous food is immediately transformed into nutrients by rapid metabolism. These nutrients support a limited primary production, and serve as the basis for building up a food chain which, in turn, benefits the rising generation of fish. The greater and more differentiated is the biomass in these electrolyte-poor water bodies, the more stable seems to be the biocenosis. For the more numerous and varied are the single components of the biotic communities, the more efficient must be the biological filters for the allochthonous sources of nutrition which they form.
10.2307/2388905|Discrete (i.e., one-time) measurements of the levels of herbivore damage on the foliage of trees (16 species) were made for three consecutive years in the Chamela dry forest. There was a marked similarity in the overall levels of damage despite the fact that there were considerable climatic differences among years and that some of the species showed at least one significant among-year difference. In one of the three years of study, long-term measurements of damage (i.e., on individually marked leaves) were also made to assess within-year variation (by calculating the rates of herbivory early and late in the wet season) and to assess the reliability of the discrete measurements. With this type of measurement the mean leaf area loss of the studied species was 17 percent. This value is higher than the values commonly reported for tropical forests. An outstanding example of defoliation was that of Jatropha standleyt. with 73 percent leaf area eaten. There was a very marked within-season variation in the rates of herbivory: during the early part of the rainy season the mean rate (0.352% leaf area eaten per day) was considerably higher than late in the season (0.097). Analyses of leaf nitrogen and water content early and late in the season indicated that these components of the nutritional quality of the foliage decrease as the season progresses. The discrete measurements of herbivory underestimated the true (long-term) values of leaf damage. A discrepancy ratio long-term/discrete measurement varied considerably among species with an overall mean of 1.99 Thus, in general, discrete measurements underestimated herbivory by half. It appears that the major cause of the underestimates of the discrete measurements is that the leaves of some species are eaten completely and thus missed in a one-time measurement. Another disadvantage of the discrete measurements is that information on the timing of damage is lost. This study showed that folivory is not only concentrated to the season of leaf availability, but that it occurs within an even more restricted period.
30043074|Edge creation has a pronounced influence on the understory vegetation, but the effects of edges on seedling species recruitment are still poorly understood. In Central Amazonia, 919 years after fragmentation, we recorded species richness and net seedling recruitment rate in 1 ha blocks exposed to none, one, or multiple edges within forest fragments. One-hectare blocks were located in the center (no edge), the edge (one edge), the corners (two edges) of 10 and 100 ha fragments, and in a 1 ha fragment (four edges). In 1991, we counted all tree seedlings 5100 cm tall found within permanent 1 m2 plots located within the 1 ha blocks. In May 1993, we manually removed all seedlings that were smaller than 1 m tall from the permanent plots. Six years and five months later (October 1999), all new seedlings recruited into the plots were counted and classified into distinct morphospecies. Species richness of recruited seedlings, scaled by total seedling density, declined from the center to the edge, the corner blocks, and then to the 1 ha fragment. Overall, the four-edged, 1 ha fragment had the poorest species richness and the non-edged 100 ha central block the highest. The total number of recruited individuals was 40 percent less than that previously present, with the 100 ha corner having the lowest recruitment. Pairwise comparisons showed that species similarity was related to edge number for the 100 and 1 ha fragments. Species rank/abundance curves showed that a subset of species was common in all blocks within the fragments, and that the 100 ha center held more rare species than any other 1 ha block. This study demonstrated that, in a given fragment patch, the number of tree seedling species recruited varied inversely with the number of edges. /// A formao de bordas influencia drasticamente a vegetao de sub-bosque, mas os efeitos sobre recrutamento de espcies de plntulas ainda so poucos conhecidos. A riqueza de espcies e a taxa de recrutamento de plntulas na Amaznia Central em um perodo de 919 anos depois da fragmentao foram quantificadas em parcelas de 1 ha expostas a uma, nenhuma e vrias bordas dos fragmentos. Estas parcelas de 1 ha foram distribudas no centro (sem borda), na borda (urna borda), na esquina (dois bordas) de fragmentos de 10 e 100 ha e em um fragmento de 1 ha (quatro bordas). Em 1991, contamos todas as plntulas de espcies arbreas, de 5 a 100 cm de altura dentro das parcelas permanentes de 1 m2. Seis anos e cinco meses depois (1999) todas as plntulas novas recrutadas foram contadas e classificadas em morfoespcies. A riqueza de espcies de plntulas recrutadas foi maior no centro, seguida de bordas e depois de parcelas de esquina de fragmentos de 10 e 100 ha. O fragmento de 1 ha apresentou a menor riqueza de espcies e a parcela central de 100 ha a maior. O nmero total de indivduos recrutados foi 40 por cento menor que o quantificado anteriormente e o menor recrutamento foi observado na esquina do fragmento de 100 ha. Comparaes pareadas evidenciaram que a similaridade de espcies se relaciona com o nmero de bordas para os fragmentos de 100 e 1 ha. As curvas de amplitude/abundncia de espcies demonstrou que determinado grupo de espcies era comum em todas as parcelas de todos os fragmentos, sendo que o centro do fragmento de 100 ha apresentou, comparativamente, mais espcies raras. Este estudo demonstrou que quanto maior o nmero de bordas em um fragmento, menor o nmero de espcies de plntulas arbreas recrutadas.
10.2307/2388268|The abundance and distribution of anoline lizards were investigated in tabonuco forest in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico before and for 13 mo following Hurricane Hugo. The drastic reduction in canopy structure immediately following the hurricane confined anole activity to the lower few meters of the forest. Anolis stratulus, a canopy species, responded to changes in the distribution of suitable habitat structure while A. gundlachi, a forest interior species, apparently responded to changes in microclimate. One year posthurricane, A. stratulus had begun reinvasion of the forest canopy, and relative abundances of species at ground level proceeded toward prehurricane values. One year posthurricane, the total anoline minimum density at ground level was still substantially lower than prehurricane levels.
40891353|There have been few reports of invasions in continental rain forests, especially for exotic animals. This study provides original data concerning the potential of exotic drosophilid species to colonize the Amazonian tropical rain forest. To investigate if the structure of drosophilid assemblages differed in response to anthropogenic disturbance, we performed a taxonomic survey at six sites within the Yasuni National Park in Ecuadorian Amazonia along a disturbance gradient from pristine to clearcut artificial forest. A total of 7425 individuals from 34 species were collected of which seven species were exotic. There was significant variation in the assemblage composition along this disturbance gradient; 31 percent of which was explained by the presence of exotic species, particularly at the most disturbed sites, through nonmetric multidimensional scaling and SIMPER analyses. These results confirm the susceptibility of continental rain forests to invasion by exotic species. There is an urgent need to develop and implement monitoring systems, for example, based on drosophilid assemblage surveys, to detect exotic invasions in continental tropical forests.
30044015|We used plot-level manipulations and analyses to test the effects of food availability on the behavior and condition of resident dry-forest birds in Jamaica. Two control plots were monitored in each of 2 yr. Food was supplemented on five plots over 2 yr with piles of cut oranges distributed around plots, which served as a direct source of carbohydrates and water, and an indirect source of ground arthropods due to increased above-ground activity. We reduced ants on five plots over 2 yr; however, we found no difference in total ground arthropod biomass between control and reduction treatments, so we pooled these plots for analysis. We selected nine focal resident bird species for study of relative abundance, body condition, and breeding condition. Birds were sampled prior to, and 5 to 6 weeks after the initiation of treatments. Seven of nine species had higher relative abundance following food supplementation. Three species were recaptured more frequently in supplementation plots than in control plots. These abundance and persistence responses did not cause any changes in body condition. In one species, Bananaquit (Coereba flaveola), food supplementation resulted in higher concentrations of individuals in breeding condition. These results demonstrate a functional response to dry-season food availability and suggest a limiting mechanism. This study helps explain mechanisms by which bird populations respond to resource availability, and is the first successful plot-level food supplementation experiment for tropical forest birds.
20492533|Species richness and composition of bird assemblages found in the understory of undisturbed Neotropical forests vary at local and regional scales but the extent of that variation has not been well documented. Yet, such variation can be important for understanding patterns of diversity and for conservation. Here, we use capture data from two ca 100-ha study plots (sampled from March 2001 through March 2005) to compare understory assemblages at a local scale; nets on the plots were separated by approximately 1.7 km at the closest point. A total of 157 species (133 per plot) was represented in 6023 captures of 4001 individuals. After eliminating species not likely to be well-sampled with nets, there were 122 species total with 110 and 113 on the two plots, respectively. Species-accumulation curves and abundance-rank relationships were almost identical on both plots. Capture rates were high (53 and 56 birds captured per 100 mist-net-hours, mnh) on both plots. Distributions of species and individuals among families and genera were similar on the two plots but numbers of captures of some common species differed between plots in response to small-scale variation in environmental features. Indicator-species analyses selected seven species as more characteristic of one plot and nine as more characteristic of the other. At the regional level, understory assemblages were most similar to a site in Peru but differed from sites in Brazil, Venezuela, and, especially, Costa Rica. Dissimilarity in species richness per family was related to geographic distance only when Costa Rica was included in the analysis.
10.2307/2388065|Three species of flowers are used intensively by as many as seven species of diurnal and six species of nocturnal, non-flying mammals during the dry season in southeastern Peru. The possibility of a significant pollination role for these mammals is suggested by lack of severe damage to the flowers, heavy uptake of pollen on facial fur, and traplining behavior by several species. The heavy construction of these three flower species and the coincidence of their availability with a period of fruit scarcity suggest that they may be evolutionarily adapted to use by non-flying, omnivorous mammals.
40863790|How do we preserve biodiversity in low-governance environments, where relevant legislation is either absent or not enforced and where commercial interests are arrayed against conservation? Part of the answer lies in discovering multiple sources of governance and adapting the tools of conservation biology to exploit them. We focus on indigenous and forest-dwelling colonist populations and on rain forest tourism.
30044050|Although the use of modified roosts has been reported in more than 20 species of bats in the tropics, comparative studies of the roosting ecology of congeneric tent-roosting species are notably lacking. In the Paleotropics, this unique behavior has been described in two species belonging to the genus, Cynopterus: sphinx and C. brachyotis. However, it is not known whether tent roosting is an essential component of their roosting ecology, or whether the behavior is found in other members of the genus. In this study we characterize the roosting ecology of four sympatric species of Cynopterus in peninsular Malaysia and use these data to address two main questions. (1) Do all four species use modified roosts and, in those that do, is tent-roosting obligate or opportunistic? (2) Do species pairs overlap in roost preferences and roosting habitat and, if so, is there evidence for interspecific interactions in relation to these resources? We radio-tracked bats at two floristically distinct sites and located a total of 249 roosts. Interspecific roost niche overlap was minimal at both sites and we found no evidence for interspecific competition for roost resources at the local level. Species differences in roosting ecology were defined primarily by spatial separation of roosting habitats and secondarily by within-habitat differences in roost selection. Importantly, we found that although periodic use of modified roosts was a characteristic shared by all four species, most roosts were unmodified, indicating that tent roosting is a facultative behavior in Malaysian Cynopterus.
30043226|Although tropical wet forests are generally more diverse than dry forests for many faunal groups, few studies have compared bat diversity among dry forests. I compared ground level phyllostomid bat community structure between two tropical dry forests with different precipitation regimes. Parque National Palo Verde in northwestern Costa Rica represents one of the wettest tropical dry forests (rainfall 1.5 m/yr), whereas the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve on the Pacific coast of central Mexico represents one of the driest (750 mm/yr). Mist net sampling was conducted at the two study sites to compare changes in ground level phyllostomid bat community structure between regions and seasons. Palo Verde was more diverse than Chamela and phyllostomid species showed low similarity between sites (Classic Jaccard = 0.263). The distinct phyllostomid communities observed at these two dry forest sites demonstrates that variants of tropical dry forest can be sufficiently different in structure and composition to affect phyllostomid communities. At both dry forest sites, abundance of the two most common foraging guilds (frugivores and nectarivores) differed between seasons, with greatest numbers of individuals captured coinciding with highest chiropterophilic resource abundance. /// A pesar de que los bosques tropicales hmedos, en general, son ms diversos que los bosques tropicales secos para muchos grupos de fauna, pocos estudios han comparado la diversidad de murcilogos en los bosques tropicales secos. El presente estudio compara la estructura de la comunidad de los murcilagos filostmidos a nivel del suelo entre dos tipos de bosque tropical seco con diferentes regimenes de precipitacin. El parque Nacional Palo Verde esta localizado en el Noroeste de Costa Rica y representa uno de los bosques tropicales secos mas hmedos (con una precipitacin de 1.5 m/ao), mientras que la Reserva de la Biosfera Chamela-Cuixmala esta localizada en la costa oeste del pacfico de Mxico y representa uno de los bosques ms secos (750 mm/ao). Se realiz un muestreo con redes de niebla en los dos sitios para comparar los cambios en la estructura de la comunidad de murcilagos filostmidos a nivel de suelo. Palo Verde fue ms diverso que Chamela y se encontr la simultud de las especies filostomidos entre los dos sitio fue bajo (Classic Jaccard = 0.263). Las comunidades distintas de filostomidos observado en estos dos sitios de bosque seco demuestra que las variantes en el bosque tropical seco pueden ser suficientemente diferentes en estructura y composicin para poder afectar la comunidad de filostomidos. En ambos bosques secos la abundancia de lo dos gremios trficos ms comunes (frugvoros y nectarvoros) fue diferente en las estaciones, con un mayor nmero de individuos capturados coincidiendo con una mayor abundancia de recursos quiropterofileos.
10.2307/2388753|The origin of the deep pools of liquid held in the cuplike bracts of Heliconia imbricata (Heliconiaceae), in which flower bases and fruits are submerged, was examined. Strong evidence was obtained that bract fluid is primarily a plant secretion rather than accumulated rainwater. Drained bracts regained their original volumes by the next day regardless of whether they were protected from rain; an average drained bract accumulated over 11 ml of liquid overnight. Newly-opening bracts held on average over 9 ml of fluid, and evidence suggests that fluid continues to be secreted into bracts for weeks after they have opened. The average pH of the accumulated fluid was basic (averaging 7.8) relative to rainwater (pH 5.0). Bract fluid may function in defending flowers and fruits from herbivores, although physical factors of the bracts appear to be important as well.
30045494|Previous tests with essential oils from ripe chiropterochoric fruits suggested they can be used to attract and capture fruit-eating bats inside forest remnants. Here we evaluated the efficiency of these oils to attract frugivorous bats to open areas. We performed field tests with artificial fruits impregnated with essential oils of the genera Piper or Ficus that were attached to two groups of mist-nets set 50 m outside the border of a forest remnant. One group of artificial fruits received the corresponding oil isolated through hydrodistillation and the other received water only. Fruits with oils attracted significantly more fruit-eating bats, especially Artibeus lituratus that regularly crosses open habitats to reach other forest remnants. The highly significant attraction of A. lituratus by the oil of Piper was unexpected, since this bat is a specialist on Ficus fruits. We hypothesize that in habitats with no fruit available it is possible to attract frugivorous bats with the odor of several ripe fruit species. Furthermore, we verified that almost half of the individuals captured defecated seeds, indicating that the oils also attract recently fed bats, even when their preferred food is available nearby. This technique potentially may increase seed rain at specific locations, being particularly promising to restoration projects. /// Estudos anteriores realizados com leos essenciais extrados de frutos quiropterocricos maduros sugerem que estes podem ser utilizados para atrair e capturar morcegos frugvoros no interior de remanescentes florestais. No presente traballio ns avaliamos a eficincia destes leos na atrao de morcegos frugvoros para reas abertas por meio de testes com dois grupos de redes-de-neblina instaladas a 50 m de distncia de um fragmento florestal. Todas as redes receberam um fruto artificial (gneros Piper ou Ficus) em sua poro mediana, mas apenas um dos grupos recebeu o leo correspondente isolado por hidrodestilao; o outro recebeu somente gua destilada. Os frutos com leo atraram significativamente mais morcegos frugvoros, especialmente Artibeus lituratus. A atrao altamente significativa desta espcie pelo leo de Piper foi inesperada, considerando que este morcego  especialista em frutos de Ficus. Conseqentemente, ns sugerimos que em hbitats com nenhum fruto disponvel  possvel atrair morcegos frugvoros com o odor de diversas espcies de frutos maduros. Alm disso, quase a metade dos morcegos capturados defecou sementes, indicando que os leos tambm atraem individuos que se alimentaram recentemente, at mesmo quando seu alimento preferencial encontra-se disponvel nas proximidades. Esta tcnica tem o potencial de incrementar a chuva de sementes em locais especficos, sendo particularmente promissora para projetos de restaurao florestal.
10.2307/2388644|We censused all seedlings, saplings and adults in 0.1024 ha of Carapa guianensis (Meliaceae), a local dominant tropical canopy tree in the forest near Sao Luis, Maranhao, northeastern Brazil. The estimated adult density was 137 individuals/ha; however only 31 percent of the adults were larger than 44.9 cm dbh. The size class distribution of diameters was continuous. Based on Morisita's Index seedlings and juveniles (\leq 1.4 cm dbh) had the dispersion pattern of a population with "point sources" (Hubbell 1979, 1980). Subadults (> 1.4 cm and $\leq$ 15.9 cm dbh) and adults (> 15.9 cm dbh) showed a random dispersion pattern for all quadrat sizes. Seedling and juvenile per capita recruitment were negatively correlated with number of adults and adult basal area per quadrat. The per capita recruitment of subadults was also negatively correlated with adult basal area per quadrat. The lower per capita recruitment with increasing adult abundance was attributed to high mortality caused by predators, pathogens or adult interference. These results demonstrate the importance of small scale compensatory trends in the population structure of a tropical tree.
10.2307/2388175|The permanent pigmentation of the leaves of tropical rain forest herbs with anthocyanin has traditionally been viewed as a mechanism for enhancing transpiration by increased heat absorption. We report measurements to 0.1
2388891|We examined three disturbed, but distinctly different, sites on the historically forested eastern slope of the Sierra de Baoruco, Provincia de Barahona, Republica Dominicana, in order to evaluate the impact of habitat alteration on the composition of anoline lizard communities. Five species of Anolis (A. bahorucoensis, A. barahonae, A. coelestinus, A. cybotes, A. distichus) are known to occur in the immediate area of our study sites. Only three were found in the most substantially altered clear-cut site, whereas all five species occupied the most heterogeneous habitat, a coffee plantation characterized by a three-tiered canopy. Similarly, numbers of individuals of all but one species were greatest in the plot that most closely resembled the natural forests in this area. Calculated niche breadths, based on analysis of stomach contents, of the three species found in all sites increased with the degree of habitat alteration. The higher number of A. coelestinus in more heavily altered sites may be attributed to density compensation.
10.2307/2663963|Entire root systems of saplings of five canopy species and of six shrub and treelet species growing in lowland mixed dipterocarp forest at Andulau, Brunei were excavated and measured. Referring to a prior study at Gigante, Panama, two-way, fixed-factor ANOVAs were used to compare life-forms and sites. Rooting depth and the proportion of root surface area in the upper 20 cm of soil did not differ significantly between life-forms because some treelets/shrubs at Andulau were deep-rooted; all saplings studied were deep-rooted. The root:leaf area ratios of both saplings and treelets/shrubs at Andulau were significantly higher than those at Gigante. We attribute this strong difference to the lower soil content of available nutrients at Andulau where rainfall shortage is less severe and regular than at Gigante. Available data on life-form composition and mortality rates in large plots are consistent with our proposal that shallow-rooted shrubs and treelets are more vulnerable to drought than deep-rooted life-forms. We suggest that future studies of water use partitioning, wood anatomy, leaf morphology, and associations with neighboring plants would benefit from an explicit examination of their relation to rooting depth.
30044925|It has been suggested that the average canopy height of Madagascar's lowland rain forests is shorter and the average tree density is greater than in other tropical lowland rain forests of the world. The cause was hypothesized to be frequent cyclone disturbances. We compared the structure of the lowland rain forests in Madagascar to the structure described in published accounts of other tropical lowland rain forests. We found that the eastern coastal lowland forests of Madagascar have short canopy heights relative to that of many other lowland tropical rain forests, and that these Malagasy forests also have relatively high tree densities. On a worldwide basis, there is a significant correlation between short forest canopies and occurrence of tropical cyclones. The association between high tree density and occurrence of tropical cyclones is valid for Africa, but the pattern does not hold up globally. /// Il a t conjectur que la taille moyenne de la canope des forts basses ombrophiles de Madagascar est moindre, et que la densit des arbres est plus grande, que pour d'autres forts tropicales ombrophiles du monde. L'hypothse a t avance que les perturbations frquentes des cyclones en sont la cause. Nous avons compar la structure des forts ombrophiles de basse altitude de Madagascar avec la structure d'autres forts tropicales ombrophiles du monde. La hauteur de la canope des forts de l'est de Madagascar est relativement plus courte que celles de beaucoup d'autres forts tropicales humides de basse altitudes, et la densit des arbres est relativement leve. A l'chelle globale, il y a une relation entre courte canope et perturbations par les cyclones. La relation entre densit des arbres et perturbations par les cyclones est valide par cette tude seulement pour le continent Africain.
4132939|We compared the seed fate of two animal-dispersed, large-seeded timber species (Dipteryx panamensis [Fabaceae] and Carapa guianensis [Meliaceae]) in logged and fragmented forests with that for continuous forest in northeastern Costa Rica. For both species, we quantified rates of seed removal (an index of vertebrate predation) and the fate of dispersed seeds (those carried away from their original location that either germinated or were not subsequently removed within three months). We predicted that (1) fewer seeds would be dispersed by vertebrates in fragmented forest than in continuous forest due to low population abundances after hunting and/or loss of suitable habitat, and (2) seed predation rates would be higher in forest fragments than in continuous forest due to high abundance of small-bodied seed consumers. We compared three forest fragments currently managed for timber (140-350 ha) and a large reserve of continuous forest (La Selva, 1500 ha and connected to a national park). An exclusion experiment was performed (seeds placed in the open vs. seeds within semipermeable wire cages; 5 cm mesh size) to evaluate the relative roles of large and small animals on seed removal. Seed germination capacity did not differ among all four sites for both species. Removal of Dipteryx seeds was higher in forest fragments (50% removal within 10 days and related to the activity of small rodents) compared to La Selva (50% removal after 50 days). Also, more Dipteryx seeds were dispersed at La Selva than in fragmented forests. Contrary to our predictions, removal of Carapa seeds was equally high among all four sites, and there was a trend for more seeds of Carapa to be dispersed in fragments than in La Selva. Our results suggest that fragmentation effects on tree seed fate may be specific to species in question and contingent on the animal biota involved, and that management strategies for timber production based on regeneration from seed may differ between forest patches and extensive forests.
20492464|We analyzed successional patterns in a very dry tropical deciduous forest by using 15 plots differing in age after abandonment and contrasted them to secondary successions elsewhere in the tropics. We used multivariate ordination and nonlinear models to examine changes in composition and structure and to estimate forest recovery rates and resilience. A shrub phase characterized early succession (0-3 yr); afterwards, the tree Mimosa acantholoba became dominant. Below its canopy, sprouts and seed-regenerated individuals of mature forest species slowly accumulated. Canopy height, plant density, and crown cover stabilized in less than 15 yr, whereas species richness, diversity, and basal area continued to increase. The pioneer species group has very low diversity and the long-lived pioneer phase typical of humid forests is absent; species composition may therefore recover soon as suggested by convergence toward mature forest species composition. The time trend of plant density also differed from humid forests for it lacked its characteristic density decline, presumably because of differences in regeneration mechanisms between very dry and other less water-stressed forest types. As opposed to the prevailing hypothesis, resilience was not higher than in moister forests, and thus factors other than structure relative simplicity must be accounted for when assessing resilience.
30045508|Dispersal quality, an important component of seed disperser effectiveness, may strongly affect the rate of plant recruitment. Here we evaluated the quality of Cebus monkey dispersal by comparing the secondary removal fate and germination of fresh and Cebus-ingested seeds of nine tree species on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Overall, rates of secondary seed removal by vertebrates were low, with most Cebus defecations remaining undisturbed for extended periods on the forest floor. Only four of 30 feces were completely buried by dung beetles, and we found significantly higher vertebrate removal of defecated seeds than control seeds for only one species, Cordia bicolor. Seed germination varied greatly between plant taxa. Seeds of 3 out of 9 species showed significantly higher percent germination after monkey gut passage than control fresh seeds. Germination times tended to be shorter for defecated than for control seeds but were significantly different only for one of nine species, Cecropia insignis. Low rates of seed removal from Cebus feces, coupled with high germination probabilities, suggest high dispersal effectiveness for Cebus and contrasts strongly with patterns of post-dispersal seed fate recorded for other primate species. /// La calidad de la dispersin, un componente importante de la efectividad de un dispersor de semillas, puede afectar marcadamente la tasa de reclutamiento de las plantas. Aqu nosotros evaluamos la calidad de dispersin de los monos Cebus, comparando el destino de la remocin secundaria y la germinacin de semillas frescas y semillas ingeridas por Cebus para nueve especies de rboles en la Isla de Barro Colorado, Panam. En general, las tasas de remocin secundaria de semillas por vertebrados fueron bajas, con la mayora de las heces de Cebus permaneciendo sin perturbar por perodos prolongados sobre el suelo del bosque. Solo cuatro de 30 heces fueron completamente enterradas por escarabajos, y nosotros slo encontramos significativamente mayor remocin por vertebrados en semillas defecadas que de semillas control para una especie, Cordia bicolor. La germinacin de semillas vari ampliamente entre los diferentes taxa de plantas. Tres de nueve especies de semillas, mostraron un porcentaje de germinacin significativamente mayor luego de pasar por el tracto digestivo de los monos que las semillas frescas de control. Los tiempos de germinacin tendieron a ser mas cortos para las semillas defecadas que para las semillas control, pero fueron significativamente diferentes slo para una de nueve especies - Cecropia insignis. Bajas tasas de remocin de semillas de las heces de Cebus sumado a elevadas probabilidades de germinacin, sugieren alta efectividad de dispersin por Cebus, y contrasta fuertemente con patrones de destino post-dispersin de semillas para otras especies de primates.
30045372|Food resources are arguably the most common limiting factor for most species, yet little is known about how food quantity and quality interact to determine the size and distribution of wildlife populations. Frugivores may be limited by food quality since fruits, unlike leaves, are typically low in protein and minerals. Understanding the factors influencing frugivore population dynamics is particularly important due to rapid habitat loss and the need to construct informed management plans. Therefore, this study used redtail monkeys in Kibale National Park, Uganda as a model frugivore to (1) compare nutrient intake, reproduction, and habitat use patterns for three redtail groups in an unlogged and heavily logged area; and (2) examine relationships between nutrient intake and redtail population densities across five habitats. Feeding time and intake of crude protein, lipids, and minerals were higher in diets consumed by groups in unlogged areas than heavily logged areas. Intake of both copper and sodium intake was below NRC requirement levels suggested for macaques. Food availability in the unlogged areas was 3.5 times higher than the heavily logged area. Across five study sites, absorbable copper and the ratio of copper to caloric intake in redtail diets were significantly related to redtail population density. These results suggest that food quality is an important factor determining frugivore population density in anthropogenically disturbed frugivore habitats. Copper deficiency, which has been associated with population declines of wild herbivores, has the potential to be a key factor limiting densities of frugivores in tropical habitats.
10.2307/2388851|Our study addresses the influence of Tabebuia ochracea leaf variation on insect herbivores. We studied the roles of leaf size, age, and hairyness in the feeding choices of chewing and sucking herbivores. The T. ochracea studied belonged to a single clone, thus decreasing the potential influences of host plant genetic and chemical variation on herbivore choice. Young and mature leaves showed the same amount of damage from chewing herbivores in the field. Homopterans (Rhabdotalebra spp.) and hemipterans (Tingis tecomae) occurred primarily on large leaves. The leaf area consumed by grasshoppers in a laboratory experiment was higher on young leaves than on mature leaves. Nevertheless, there was no difference in the choice by Rhabdotalebra spp. and T. tecomae for young vs mature leaves of T. ochracea. Mature, large leaves were chosen over mature, small leaves by Rhabdotalebra spp. and T. tecomae. In a laboratory experiment, T. tecomae did not choose between leaf circles of same size taken from large or small leaves, indicating that the most relevant factor in its food choice was leaf size. Nevertheless, Rhabdotalebra spp. significantly chose leaf circles taken from large leaves, indicating that leaf trichome density was an important component in its food choice. The differential distribution of small and large leaves was important in the food selection by T. tecomae; whereas, trichome density was a relevant factor in food selection by Rhabdotalebra spp.
40891357|Reliable estimates of great ape abundance are needed to assess distribution, monitor population status, evaluate conservation tactics, and identify priority populations for conservation. Rather than using direct counts, surveyors often count ape nests. The standing crop nest count (SCNC) method converts the standing stock of nests into animal densities using a set of parameters, including nest decay rate. Nest decay rates vary greatly over space and time, and it takes months to calculate a site-specific value. The marked nest count (MNC) method circumvents this issue and only counts new nests produced during a defined period. We compared orangutan densities calculated by the two methods using data from studies in Sumatra and Kalimantan, Indonesia. We show how animal densities calculated using nest counts should be cautiously interpreted when used to make decisions about management or budget allocation. Even with site-specific decay rates, short studies using the SCNC method may not accurately reflect the current population unless conducted at a scale sufficient to include wide-ranging orangutan movement. Density estimates from short studies using the MNC method were affected by small sample sizes and by orangutan movement. To produce reliable results, the MNC method may require a similar amount of effort as the SCNC method. We suggest a reduced reliance on the traditional line transect surveys in favor of feasible alternative methods when absolute abundance numbers are not necessary or when site-specific nest decay rates are not known. Given funding constraints, aerial surveys, reconnaissance walks, and interview techniques may be more cost-effective means of accomplishing some survey goals.
10.2307/2388355|The Valley of Mexico shows no exposures of sedimentary marine or freshwater rocks, rich in calcium carbonate. Nevertheless, its flora contains a number of plant species with pronounced affinities toward soils derived from limestone, as shown by their behavior in other parts of their distributional areas. Within the Valley the distribution of these species shows evident links with the location of areas of intense soil erosion, at altitudes below 2600 m and in semi-arid conditions. The plants are found preferably in the northern half of the Valley and especially concentrate in the region of Huehuetoca. In this connection it can be observed that the presence of calcicolous plants in the area is correlated with exposures of lower soil layers, where accumulations of calcium carbonate occur. On the other hand, the relative abundance of these plants in the region of Huehuetoca can be explained in view of the proximity of limestone hills, which in some places are less than 1.5 km away from the Valley limits. It is concluded that at least the majority of calciphytes colonized the Valley of Mexico in recent (less than 4000 years ago) times, as a consequence of the activities of man, who caused an intense soil erosion through his expansion of agricultural activities into the hillsides.
10.2307/2388541|Larvae of most neotropical ithomiine butterflies feed on plants containing solanaceous alkaloids. Adults visit flowers or rotting parts of plants containing pyrrolizidine alkaloids. Previous studies by Brown (1984, 1985) showed that extracts made from wild caught adult ithomiines inhibit feeding by Nephila clavipes, a large orb-weaving spider, while extracts from larval food plants do not. I found in feeding experiments with one ithomiine species, Episcada salvinia, that most wild caught adults are rejected by N. clavipes, but laboratory reared larvae, pupae, and freshly emerged adults fed sucrose solution are not. Moreover, some adult male and female E. salvinia were chemically protected and unpalatable to N. clavipes when fed a sucrose solution containing heliotrine, a pyrrolizidine alkaloid. Freshly emerged adults exposed to flowers of plants reported to produce pyrrolizidine alkaloids may also gain unpalatability to N. clavipes.
30044028|Several studies in lowland tropical rain forests have documented effects of local-scale topographic variation on plant species distribution and abundance patterns. Few studies have compared the distribution patterns of more than one plant group, however, and even fewer have related these to measured physical and chemical soil characteristics. Here, we document such soil characteristics within a square 1-ha plot in Amazonian Ecuador, and compare them to the distribution patterns of terrestrial pteridophytes, angiosperm ground herbs, and palms. Substantial variation in soil properties was found within the plot. The three plant groups showed highly correlated floristic patterns within the 1-ha plot even after the effect of geographical distances had been taken into account. Mantel tests yielded significant correlations between edaphic patterns, as measured by distances in various soil and topographic characteristics, and floristic patterns. For all three plant groups, differences in elevation within the plot were highly correlated with floristic distances, and for terrestrial pteridophytes and palms, distances in soil calcium content and sand content were also important. Our results resembled those obtained at wider spatial scales with the same plant groups, which indicates that soil factors may play an important role for distribution and beta diversity of plants, even at the local scale. /// Varios estudios en bosques tropicales lluviosos han documentado los efectos de la variacin local de la topografa sobre los patrones de distribucin y abundancia de especies de plantas. Sin embargo, pocos estudios han comparado los patrones de distribucin en ms de un grupo de plantas, y an ms escasas son las investigaciones que relacionan stas a medidas fsicas y qumicas de las caractersticas de los suelos. En el presente estudio, documentamos estas caractersticas de suelos en una parcela cuadrada de 1 ha en la Amazonia ecuatoriana, y las comparamos a los patrones de distribucin de pteridofitas terrestres, hierbas angiospermas terrestres y palmeras. Se encontr una gran variacin en las propiedades de los suelos dentro de la parcela. Los tres grupos de plantas presentaron patrones florsticos altamente correlacionados dentro de la parcela an cuando se tom en cuenta el efecto de distancias geogrficas. Pruebas de Mantel resultaron en correlaciones altamente significativas entre patrones edficos, medidos como distancias en varias caractersticas de suelos y de topografa, y patrones florsticos. Para los tres grupos de plantas, diferencias en elevacin dentro de la parcela fueron altamente correlacionadas con distancias florsticas, y para pteridofitas terrestres y palmeras, distancias en el contenido de calcio y de arena en el suelo fueron importantes tambin. Nuestros resultados son parecidos a aquellos obtenidos en escalas espaciales mas amplias para los mismos grupos de plantas, indicando que factores edficos pueden ser importantes para la distribucin y la beta diversidad de plantas aun en una escala local.
30043187|Standardized sampling methods are essential for comparing species diversity and abundance patterns across different studies and sites. Although dung beetles are widely used as a focal taxon in biodiversity studies, nothing appears to be known about the effective sampling area of dung-baited traps. Mark-recapture experiments using Canthon acutus showed that at least 50 m between traps should minimize trap interference, and that wind affects trap detectability. Consequently, we propose a standardized dung beetle sampling design. /// Los mtodos de muestreo estandarizados son esenciales para comparar patrones de la diversidad de especies y abundancia entre diferentes estudios y sitios. Aunque los escarabajos coprfagos son utilizados ampliamente como taxon focal en los estudios de biodiversidad, aparentemente no hay conocimientos sobre el area efectiva de muestreo con trampas de cada cebadas. Utilizando experimentos de marca-recaptura con Canthon acutus como modelo, demostramos que una separacin de por lo menos 50 metros puede ser requerida para minimizar la interferencia entre trampas, y que el viento afecta la detectabilidad de las mismas. En base a los resultados, proponemos un diseo estandarizado de muestreo de escarabajos coprfagos.
30043058|I set up a 250 m plot and found after five years that (1) grass dominated by ferns and woody species was gradually increasing over time; (2) woody genera (Syzygium, Calophyllum, and Clidemid) common here have not been found elsewhere on the island and "successional" trees, such as Cecropia sp. and Shefflera sp., were completely absent; (3) smaller, earlier trees were also found away from the forest; and (4) the plot had multiple strata and was recovering forest structural characteristics such as productivity and richness.
10.2307/2989740|Data are presented which demonstrate (1) flight patterns of frugivorous birds are responsible for directional patterns of seed dispersal, (2) these patterns influence seed mortality, and (3) dispersal of seeds away from the parent tree is more likely to result from behaviors characteristic of obligate frugivores (Ramphastos sulfuratus and R. swainsonii) than opportunistic frugivore/insectivores (Myiozetetes similis and M. granadensis) Investment by the parent tree in a seed carried by a specialized frugivore is less likely to be wasted than investment in a seed carried by an opportunistic frugivore because specialists are more likely to carry seeds away from areas of high seed mortality than opportunists.
2389130|Two white-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) herds were radio-tracked for 5 and 13 mo, respectively, on Maraca Island Ecological Reserve, Roraima, Brazil. Home range size was 109.6 km
30045506|Reproductive phenology, floral biology, degree of self-incompatibility, and floral visitors of Erythrina falcata were studied in an Argentinean population. Flowering occurs during the dry season from late August to late October. Flower lifetime is 5-6 d. Phylogenetic studies indicate that E. falcata, together with E. fusca and E. crista-galli, are included in a basal clade within Erythrina. Its phylogenetic position, floral morphology, and nectar characteristics suggest a hummingbird-passerine mixed pollination system. The flowers are nontubular, and the vexillum (the upper petal of the corolla) covers the other remaining floral parts until displaced by a visiting passerine (Icterus cayanensis) or a hummingbird (Amazilia chionogaster). Both birds act as pollen vectors. Bees were observed as occasional pollinators. Nectar production begins at anther dehiscence and coincides with maximum stigmatic receptivity. The base of the keel forms a secondary nectar reservoir. Controlled pollinations showed that this species is self-incompatible, although a few fruits develop from selfing. Pollen:ovule ratio (43,200:7) is as expected for a xenogamous plant. Only 1 percent of the flowers set seeds under natural conditions. Possible explanations for the low reproductive success are discussed. /// La fenologa reproductiva, la biologa floral, el grado de auto-incompatibilidad y los visitantes florales de Erythrina falcata fueron estudiados en una poblacin argentina. La floracin ocurre durante la estacin seca desde fines de Agosto hasta fines de Octubre. El tiempo de vida de las flores es de 5 a 6 das. Estudios filogenticos indican que E. falcata, junto con E. fusca y E. crista-galli, estn incluidos en un ciado basal del gnero Erythrina. Su posicin filogentica, la morfologa floral y las caractersticas del nectar, sugieren un sistema de polinizacin mixto "colibr-paseriforme." Las flores son no-tubulares y el vexilo (el ptalo superior de la corola) cubre las partes florales restantes hasta que es desplazado por un paserino (Icterus cayanensis) un colibr (Amazilia chionogaster). Ambas aves actan como vectores de polen. Tambin las abejas fueron observadas como polinizadores ocasionales. La produccin de nectar comienza con la dehiscencia de las anteras y coincide con la mxima receptividad estigmtica. La base de la quilla forma un reservorio secundario de nctar. Polinizaciones controladas mostraron que esta especie es auto-incompatible, aunque pocos frutos se desarrollan autgamicamente. La proporcin Polen: vulos (43.200:7) es la esperada para plantas xengamas. Solo el 1 por ciento de las flores produjo semillas bajo condiciones naturales. Se discuten las posibles explicaciones del bajo xito reproductivo observado.
10.2307/2387855|The dispersal ecology of Stemmadenia donnell-smithii was studied in the tropical dry forest zone of northwestern Costa Rica. Fruit was most abundant late in the dry season and was eaten by 22 species of birds, many of which are primarily insectivorous. Stomach-content analyses substantiated our observations. Total crop size per tree and rate of fruit opening were greatest in pasture-edge trees and smallest in forest trees. Rates and percent of seed germination were highest for seeds from which the surrounding aril was removed, scarified seeds, and seeds which had passed through the digestive tract of a bird. The mean compositions of the fruit tissues were, aril: 7.9% ash, 63.9% lipid, 10.9% protein, 16.8% carbohydrate; seed: 3.4% ash, 31.4% lipid, 10.9% protein, 54.2% carbohydrate; husk: 17.0% ash, 24.0% lipid, 11.2% protein, 47.6% carbohydrate. The foraging behavior of birds taking S. donnell-smithii included hovering, and perching and reaching. Rates of pulp utilization in each habitat were relatively constant; all pulp plus seeds were removed in only a few hours. Calculations of daily energy expenditures suggest that Stemmadenia may provide up to 25 percent of the total energy requirement of individuals of several bird species. Interspecific displacements of birds at fruit were rare. Characteristics of S. donnell-smithii that enhance dispersal include peak fruit availability in dry season, slow rate of opening, seed protection until maturation by husk, bright color of arils, relative accessibility and ease of separation of seed from husk and aril from seed, and high nutritive value of aril. Energetically the plant expends the most calories for protection (husk), followed by expenditures for germination (seed) and dispersal (aril) However, on a calorieper-gram, ash-free, dry-weight basis, the plant puts the greatest amount of energy into aril for dispersal, followed by seed for germination, and then husk for protection. Percent nutrient composition and caloric content of seeds and husk were relatively uniform, whereas lipid, protein, and caloric content of aril tissue varied among samples from different fruits, habitats, and years. This variation may be important in allowing the plant to maintain protection and seed quality while maximizing seed production under varying environmental conditions.
4132895|This study examined the role of shading and cloud combing of moisture by scattered trees of the emergent conifer Araucaria laubenfelsii (Corbass.) in montane shrubland-maquis at Mont Do, New Caledonia, in facilitating the succession from shrubland to rain forest. Water collection experiments showed that these trees combed significant amounts of water from low clouds on days when no rainfall was recorded and deposited this moisture on the ground beneath the tree canopy. Analysis of photosystem II function in A. laubenfelsii and five other plant species using fluorometry revealed much lower photosystem stress in plants beneath scattered A. laubenfelsii than for individuals exposed to full sunlight in the open maquis. Transition matrix analyses of vegetation change based on "the most likely recruit to succeed" indicated that the transition from maquis to forest was markedly faster when emergent trees of A. laubenfelsii acted as nuclei for forest species invasion of the maquis. On the basis of these lines of evidence, it is argued that increased moisture and shading supplied to the area directly below the crown of isolated A. laubenfelsii trees in the maquis facilitates the establishment of both conifer seedlings and other rain forest tree and shrub species. In the absence of fire, rain forest can reestablish through spread in two ways: first, by expansion from remnant patches, and second, from coalescence of small rain forest patches formed around individual trees of A. laubenfelsii.
10.2307/2388920|Germination trials were carried out on surface and buried soil samples from the Krakatau islands, with the aim of characterizing the nature and variability of the short-term seed bank and the potential significance of long-term subsurface seed storage. Thirty-six species of seed plants representing the Krakatau flora germinated from the samples. The topsoil samples yielded the largest number of seedlings and species, and had a faster pace of germination. These samples were found to be locally similar to each other but disharmonic with the extant vegetation. Seeds germinated both from samples buried by land crabs and from soils buried by layers of volcanic ash deposited ca 1930-33 and 1952-53. Eleven species of seed plants germinated from four samples buried ca 1930-33, indicating that these seeds survived burial by volcanic ash for ca 60 years.
10.2307/2989737|In a mountain forest habitat in central Costa Rica, the cicadas Procollina biolleyi and Carineta sp. emerge each year, primarily during the wet season. There is tremendous yearly variation in the numbers of emerging Procollina, while the numbers of emerging Carineta are low and fairly stable from year to year. When Procollina emergence peaked during a year of high emergence, about 5 percent of the freshly eclosed cicadas were killed by the pathogenic fungus Entomophthora echinospora; the fungus was absent from this cicada during a year of low emergence, and it was not found on Carineta. The emergence of Procollina during this high year was characterized by skins being found rather uniformly distributed over large areas of forest floor, while skins of Carineta were always distributed in a very patchy fashion in very low numbers. Thus the pathogenic fungus kills a small portion of the locally abundant and numerically dense Procollina cicadas after they eclose, and the relatively rare Carineta escapes from such mortality. Implications of these findings for life histories of these cicadas are discussed.
30045455|The relationship between phenology and tree stem diameter increment is largely unexplored in tropical species, especially in wet tropical forests. To explore links between these phenomena, we measured stem diameter increment and phenology often canopy tree species from a range of functional types in the Atlantic lowlands of Costa Rica to test for seasonal and interannual patterns. We measured stem diameter increment using band dendrometers and visually assessed leaf and reproductive phenology monthly from 1997 to 2000. We categorized the species into groups based on patterns of leaf exchange and reproduction. Species were either deciduous with synchronous or asynchronous leaf drop, or evergreen with continuous or seasonal leaf flushing. Flowering occurred supra-annually, annually, or continuously. Of the ten species studied, four species, Cecropia insignis, Dipteryxpanamensis, Lecythis ampla, and Simarouba amara, had consistent seasonal stem diameter increment patterns in both years. Dipteryx panamensis and L. ampla were deciduous with synchronized leaf drop. Cecropia insignis was evergreen and produced new leaves continuously. Simarouba amara, also evergreen, exchanged leaves over a brief period once a year. We tested whether stem diameter increment was correlated to phenology using logistic regression. Leaflessness significantly explained patterns in stem diameter increment but reproductive phenology did not. Deciduous trees were 2.6-9.3 times more likely to grow less than average the month following leaffall than in months when trees had full crowns. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
2663856|Phenological characteristics of 453 individuals representing 39 tree species were investigated in two dry forests of the Lomerio region, Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. The leaf, flower, and fruit production of canopy and sub-canopy forest tree species were recorded monthly over a two-year period. Most canopy species lost their leaves during the dry season, whereas nearly all sub-canopy species retained their leaves. Peak leaf fall for canopy trees coincided with the peak of the dry season in July and August. Flushing of new leaves was complete by November in the early rainy season. Flowering and fruiting were bimodal, with a major peak occurring at the end of the dry season (August-October) and a minor peak during the rainy season (January). Fruit development was sufficiently long in this forest that fruiting peaks actually tended to precede flowering peaks by one month. A scarcity of fruit was observed in May, corresponding to the end of the rainy season. With the exception of figs (Ficus), most species had fairly synchronous fruit production. Most canopy trees had small, wind dispersed seeds or fruits that matured during the latter part of the dry season, whereas many sub-canopy tree species produced larger animal- or gravity-dispersed fruits that matured during the peak of the rainy season. Most species produced fruit annually. Lomerio received less rainfall than other tropical dry forests in which phenological studies have been conducted, but rainfall can be plentiful during the dry season in association with the passage of Antarctic cold fronts. Still, phenological patterns in Bolivian dry forests appear to be similar to those of other Neotropical dry forests.
10.2307/2388202|Amazonian ungulates, which include the red brocket deer, grey brocket deer, collared peccary, white-lipped peccary, and lowland tapir, consume large quantities of fruit and maximize nutritional gain by exploiting both pulp and seed. Amazonian ungulates often disperse seeds over short distances by spitting them out during mastication. The lowland tapir is the only ungulate that frequently disperses intact seeds through the digestive tract. Brocket deer destroy most of the seeds they consume by digesting them with rumen microbes, while peccaries crack seeds using their resistant teeth, strong jaw muscles, and thick skull bones. Defensive strategies of seeds include strength, chemical toxins, mast fruiting, fibrous lignin, and size variation. Brocket deer and peccaries have pregastric fermentation that may detoxify some secondary compounds of seeds. Small seeds occasionally pass intact through brocket deer and peccary guts. However, strong palm seeds that avert many mammalian predators are often destroyed by ungulates. The fibrous lignin that protects seeds of Jessenia bataua (Palmae) appears to be effective against ungulates which may explain its abundance in the study area.
10.2307/2663962|The goal of this study was to quantify litter interception on Astrocaryum mexicanum Liebm., an abundant and efficient litter-capturing palm. The study was done in a forest at Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, on the Gulf of Mexico coast. Palms were randomly selected and total litter retention was quantified by determining dry weight over two years. Litter interception by palms was 4.4 and 27.1 Mg/ha/yr for the first and second years, respectively, and accounted for 47.9 and 239.4 percent of the reported annual litterfall in the same area. Results showed that litter interception by plants is related to litterfall and should therefore be added to total litterfall in order to calculate the net primary productivity.
30043247|Lowland tropical forests once covered a large fraction of tropical southern China, but currently have an extent of ca 633, 800 ha, mostly in Xishuangbanna of southern Yunnan. The Xishuangbanna region has a typical monsoon climate with a mean annual temperature ranging between 15.1C and 21.7C, and precipitation between 1200 and 2500 mm. There is a pronounced dry season between November and April with frequent occurrence of heavy fog. Rainfall during the wet season between May and October accounts for over 80 percent of total annual precipitation. Water deposition from fog accounts for over one-third of total water input during the dry season in the forests, suggesting an important role that fog may play in pushing up the northern limit of tropical rain forest in Southeast Asia.
2663903|Interspecific and interannual variation in reproductive phenology was quantified for 50 common species of trees and shrubs from a mesic savanna near Darwin, northern Australia. The presence of buds, flowers, and fruit was noted over a 30-month period, from September 1992 to February 1995. Surveys were undertaken at monthly intervals for the less common species, and at bimonthly intervals for ten of the common trees and tall shrubs. The majority of species flowered each year at about the same time. There was no evidence of sub-annual or continuous regimes of reproductive phenology. There was no supra-annual carryover of seed-bearing fruit in the canopy of any species. The peak flowering periods were the mid to late dry season (July-August) and the transition between the dry season and the wet season (October-November). The two dominant trees-Eucalyptus miniata and E. tetrodonta-flowered during the dry season, thereby providing resources for some elements of the vertebrate fauna. Flowering and fruiting were uncommon at the end of the wet season (February/March), although two species that flower and fruit at this time (E. porrecta and Terminalia ferdinandiana) may provide resources to consumers at a time when floral or fruit resources are otherwise scarce. Because the peak of reproductive activity takes place during the late dry season, fruit maturity and seed dispersal have occurred prior to the onset of the rainy season for most species, and germination and seedling establishment potentially may take effect in response to the first rains. Late dry season fires, which tend to be extensive and intense, are a potential threat to the floral and fruit reserves within these savannas.
10.2307/2388648|To identify and describe the seasonal patterns of foliage phenology and arthropod abundance in a regenerating lowland wet forest of Costa Rica, monthly samples were taken for one year. Three arthropod sampling methods were used: sweep samples, gleaning of live plant material, and the collection and chloroforming of dead suspended leaves. A major flush of new leaves occurred at the beginning of the wet season, and a minor one towards the end of the wet season. Leaf fall and litter were greatest in the short dry season. Arthropod abundance was lowest in the middle of the wet season, probably due to the scarcity of new leaves then and to the direct physical effects of torrential rains. Seasonal patterns of arthropod abundance varied among taxa, and among sampling methods. In particular, the arthropod fauna of dead, suspended leaves showed little seasonality.
10.2307/2388018|Machaerium arboreum (Leguminosae), a liana of Panamanian lowland forests, sheds water from upper leaflet surfaces through thigmonastic and nyctinastic leaf movements. Experiments show that leaflets with acuminate tips have an improved water-shedding ability.
30043290|Drought is an important seedling mortality agent in dry and moist tropical forests, and more severe and frequent droughts are predicted in the future. The effect of drought on leaf gas exchange and seedling survival was tested in a dry-down experiment with four tree species from dry and moist forests in Bolivia. Seedlings were draughted and wilting stage and gas exchange were monitored. Drought led to a gradual reduction of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance over time, whereas respiration and photosynthetic water-use efficiency initially increased with drought and then declined. Seedlings gradually went through the different wilting stages, until they eventually died, but the trajectory differed for the four species. The strong relationship between wilting stage and photosynthesis means that simple field observations can provide valuable information on plant physiological performance. Three different drought strategies were identified. Dry forest species Ceiba samauma shed its leaves and survived. The moist forest species Cariniana ianeirensis postponed drought stress by having low rates of transpiration and high water-use efficiency. Dry forest Astronium urundeuva and moist forest Triplaris americana followed an opportunistic strategy; they are early successional species that can quickly grow to maturity but periodic drought can be lethal. Strikingly, dry and moist forest species did not differ clearly in their drought tolerance strategies.
30043144|Tropical ecosystems support a diversity of species and ecological processes that are unparalleled anywhere else on Earth. Despite their tremendous social and scientific importance, tropical ecosystems are rapidly disappearing. To help tropical ecosystems and the human communities dependent upon them better face the challenges of the 21st century, tropical biologists must provide critical knowledge in three areas: (1) the structure and functioning of tropical ecosystems; (2) the nature and magnitude of anthropogenic effects on tropical ecosystems; and (3) the socio-economic drivers of these anthropogenic effects. To develop effective strategies for conservation, restoration, and sustainable management of tropical ecosystems, scientific perspectives must be integrated with social necessities. Three principles for guiding tropical biological research are suggested: (1) broadening the set of concerns; (2) integration of biological knowledge with the social sciences and traditional knowledge; and (3) linking science to policy and action. Four broad recommendations are proposed for immediate action in tropical biology and conservation that are fundamental to all biological and social disciplines in the tropics: (1) assemble and disseminate information on life's diversity in the tropics; (2) enhance tropical field stations and build a worldwide network to link them with tropical field biologists at their field sites; (3) bring the field of tropical biology to the tropics by strengthening institutions in tropical countries through novel partnerships between tropical and temperate zone institutions and scientists; and (4) create concrete mechanisms to increase interactions between tropical biologists, social scientists, and policy makers. /// Los ecosistemas tropicales mantienen una diversidad de especies y procesos ecolgicos como ningn otro en la tierra. A pesar de su gran importancia a nivel social y cientfico, los ecosistemas tropicales estn desapareciendo rpidamente. Para ayudar a estos y a las comunidades humanas que dependen de ellos a encarar mejor los desafos del siglo 21, los bilogos tropicales deben proveer informacin crtica en tres reas: (1) la estructura y funcionamiento de los ecosistemas tropicales; (2) la naturaleza y magnitud de los efectos antropognicos sobre los ecosistemas tropicales; y (3) las fuerzas socio-econmicas de esos efectos antropognicos. Para desarrollar estrategias efectivas para la conservacin, restauracin y manejo sostenible de los ecosistemas tropicales, las perspectivas cientficas deben ser integradas a las necesidades sociales. Tres principios para orientar la investigacin en biologa tropical son sugeridos: (1) ampliacin del grupo de inters; (2) integracin del conocimiento biolgico con las ciencias sociales y el conocimiento tradicional; y (3) enlazar la ciencia con las polticas y la accin. Para una accin inmediata en biologa tropical y la conservacin, se proponen cuatro recomendaciones amplias que son fundamentales a todas la disciplinas biolgicas y sociales en los trpicos: (1) recopilar y diseminar informacin sobre diversidad biolgica en los trpicos; (2) mejorar las facilidades para la investigacin en los trpicos (estaciones biolgicas) y construir una red mundial que las una con los bilogos tropicales;(3) apoyar el campo de la biologa tropical fortaleciendo las instituciones de los pases tropicales a travs de la colaboracin con instituciones y cientficos de zonas templadas; y (4) crear mecanismos concretos para incrementar la interaccin entre bilogos tropicales, cientficos sociales y tomadores de decisiones. /// Os ecossistemas tropicais abrigam urna diversidade de espcies e de processos ecolgicos sem paralelo em qualquer outro lugar da Terra. Apesar de sua tremenda importancia social e cientfica, os ecossistemas tropicais esto desapa-recendo rpidamente. Para ajudar os ecossistemas tropicais e as populaoes humanas que dependem deles a melhor enfrentar os desafios do sculo 21, os bilogos tropicais precisam gerar conhecimentosruciais em trs reas: (1) a estrutura e o funcionamento dos ecossistemas tropicais; (2) a natureza e a magnitude dos efeitos antrpicos sobre os ecossistemas tropicais; e (3) as diretrizes scio-economicas destes efeitos antrpicos. Para se desenvolver estrategias efetivas para a conservaao, restauraao e manejo sustentvel dos ecossistemas tropicais, as perspectivas cientficas tem que ser integradas s necessidades sociais. Trs principios norteadores da pesquisa em biologia tropical sao indicados:(1) ampliar o conjunto de interesses; (2) integrar o conhecimento biolgico com o conhecimento tradicional e as cincias sociais; e (3) unir cincia com poltica e tomada de deciso. Quatro ampias recomendaoes sao propostas para aao imediata na biologia tropical e conservaao e que sao fundamentais para todas as disciplinas biolgicas e sociais nos trpicos: (1) organizar e disseminar informao sobre a diversidade biolgica nos trpicos; (2) consolidar as estaes de pesquisa de campo nos trpicos e construir urna rede mundial para ligar estas estaes e os bilogos tropicais atuando nelas; (3) levar o campo da biologia tropical para os trpicos pelo fortalecimento das instituies nos pases tropicais e atravs de novas parecerias entre estes pases e seus cientistas com os cientistas e as instituies de pases da regio temperada; e (4) criar mecanismos concretos para aumentar as interaes entre os bilogos tropicais, os cientistas sociais e os polticos tomadores de deciso.
10.2307/2388766|In Sabah, Malaysia, logging operations leave substantial areas denuded of vegetation and topsoil. These sites are prone to erosion and slow to become reforested. Stands of pioneer trees established in these heavily disturbed sites may provide environmental conditions that foster recruitment of persistent forest species. Results of a field experiment indicate that recruitment of pioneer trees in recently logged sites is limited more by site conditions than by availability of seeds. In lightly disturbed areas, where the canopy is open and soils are uncompacted, seed addition does not increase the density of pioneer tree seedlings; resprouting vegetation covers such gaps within 3 mo following logging. On landings and skid trails, pioneer seedling densities increase initially following seed addition but by 12 mo after seeding, densities of pioneer seedlings are similar to those on unseeded areas. High seedling mortality in seed addition plots on skid trails and landings indicate that conditions on these compacted and nutrient poor sites during the first year after logging are unfavorable for the persistence of pioneer seedlings. On log landings, seedlings recruit adjacent to debris and bark fragments more frequently than expected by chance. Eighty percent of artificial seeds sown on landings and skid trails were washed away by overland water flow after three storms. The scattering of bark fragments and other small debris over denuded sites may assist seed capture and increase seedling survival temporarily, but many seedlings die within a year. Improving harvesting practices to minimize the area scraped and compacted by heavy machinery will be more effective management than attempting to rehabilitate these areas following logging. The broadcasting of seeds of pioneer trees onto landings and skid trails immediately after logging may be a reasonable management option for hastening tree cover in denuded areas, but only if it is combined with site preparations that improve conditions for the survival of pioneer tree seedlings.
10.2307/2989755|A list of mammals known to occur in Belize was compiled by a search of the literature, by consulting persons who are working in Belize, and by collecting during the summers of 1972 and 1973. A total of 89 species is reported for this country, including representatives of 11 orders and 28 families.
10.2307/2387961|The hypothesis that the mythological meaning of Plica plica as "Lord of animals" and as a phallic symbol is due to the aberrant shape of its hemipenis, is verified by symbols (glyphs) drawn by the Indians. Another mythologically significant iguanid lizard, Uracentron azureum, has an identical hemipenis, thus paralleling the situation of P plica. How the Tucano Indians may have discovered the aberrant hemipenial structure of the lizards is discussed. One hypothesis is active genital display by P plica, so far unknown in reptiles.
10.2307/2388996|Hummingbird flower mites consume nectar and pollen in the flowers they inhabit and are transported on hummingbirds. This study, conducted at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica, measured the effects of the mite Proctolaelaps kirmsei (Gamasina: Ascidae) and of pollinating hummingbirds on nectar volume of Hamelia patens (Rubiaceae), by replicated exclusion experiments. The mites consume, on average, some 40 percent of the nectar produced by flowers, when hummingbirds are excluded. Mites and hummingbirds together consume about 85 percent of the nectar. Individual trees in the study differed significantly and independently in both nectar production and mite population density. These results help establish hummingbird flower mites as significant plant parasites-especially considering their concomitant role as voracious consumers of pollen (Paciorek et al. 1995)-as well as important competitors with hummingbirds for the nectar of their host plants. Published estimates of nectar production rates in mite host plants may be seriously in error, unless mites were excluded.
10.2307/2388977|Metrosideros polymorpha Gaud. (MYRTACEAE), `ohi`a, dominates pioneer dry forest communities in Hawai`i, while other tree taxa dominate later seral stages. Tree density is greater in the later seral communities, and the dominant species there exhibit significantly lower mid-day plant water potentials than Metrosideros from nearby pioneer communities. This pattern suggests that the greater water stress experienced by the later seral trees may be due to competition for limited water, and this may restrict Metrosideros from these sites. The replacement of Metrosideros in later seral stages of Hawaiian dry forests contrasts with its maintenance as the dominant canopy component in both early and late seral rain forest communities.
27742826|Litter-nesting ants are diverse and abundant in tropical forests, but the factors structuring their communities are poorly known. Here we present results of the first study to examine the impact of natural variation in flooding on a highly diverse (21 genera, 77 species) litter-nesting ant community in a primary Amazonian forest. Fifty-six 3  3 m plots experiencing strong variation in flooding and twenty-eight 3  3 m terra firme plots were exhaustively searched for litter-nesting ants to determine patterns of density, species richness and species composition. In each plot, flooding, litter depth, twig availability, canopy cover, plant density, percent soil nitrogen, carbon, and phosphorus were measured. Degree of flooding, measured as flood frequency and flood interval, had the strongest impact on ant density in flooded forest. Flooding caused a linear decrease in ant abundance, potentially due to a reduction of suitable nesting sites. However, its influence on species richness varied: low-disturbance habitat had species richness equal to terra firme forest after adjusting for differences in density. The composition of ant genera and species varied among flood categories; some groups known to contain specialist predators were particularly intolerant to flooding. Hypoponera STD 10 appeared to be well-adapted to highly flooded habitat. Although flooding did not appear to increase species richness or abundance at the habitat scale, low-flooding habitat contained a mixture of species found in the significantly distinct ant communities of terra firme and highly flooded habitat.
20492474|Black spider monkey Ateles chamek foraging data from eastern Bolivia are examined in relation to the size of fruit patches and the relative fruit density within the patch. In general, spider monkeys exhibited a preference for larger fruit patches and foraged for longer and in larger subgroups as patch size and relative fruit density increased. Nevertheless, results for specific resources revealed considerable variation in the primary variables influencing foraging behavior and subgroup size with certain specific resources more influenced by patch size, and others more influenced by relative fruit density. The results are discussed in relation to the foraging ecology of fission-fusion primate social systems and previous studies on the influence of patch size on primate foraging decisions.
30045434|Dead wood is a substantial carbon stock in terrestrial forest ecosystems and hence a critical component of global carbon cycles. Given the limited amounts of dead wood biomass and carbon stock information for Caribbean forests, our objectives were to: (1) describe the relative contribution of down woody materials (DWM) to carbon stocks on the island of St. John; (2) compare these contributions among differing stand characteristics in subtropical moist and dry forests; and (3) compare down woody material carbon stocks on St. John to those observed in other tropical and temperate forests. Our results indicate that dead wood and litter comprise an average of 20 percent of total carbon stocks on St. John in both moist and dry forest life zones. Island-wide, dead wood biomass on the ground ranged from 4.55 to 28.11 Mg/ha. Coarse woody material biomass and carbon content were higher in moist forests than in dry forests. No other down woody material components differed between life zones or among vegetation categories (P > 0.05). Live tree density was positively correlated with fine woody material and litter in the moist forest life zone (R = 0.57 and 0.84, respectively) and snag basal area was positively correlated with total down woody material amounts (R = 0.50) in dry forest. Our study indicates that DWM are important contributors to the total biomass and, therefore, carbon budgets in subtropical systems, and that contributions of DWM on St. John appear to be comparable to values given for similar dry forest systems.
30044021|The mechanisms underlying responses of invertebrates to forest edges remain poorly understood. Here, we use an experimental approach to investigate the predation rates on butterflies in two neotropical forest fragments. Neither distance from forest edge nor degree of forest openness affected predation rates on artificial caterpillars. The mean predation rate of artificial caterpillars on Barro Colorado Island (1500 ha) was significantly higher than that on Peninsula Gigante (2600 ha) likely due to density-dependent effects. Our study demonstrates the utility of artificial predation experiments for rapid assessment of relative lepidoptera predation rates in tropical forests. /// Los mecanismos subyacentes de como los invertebrados responden a los bordes del bosque permanecen poco entendidos. En este estudio usamos un enfoque experimental para investigar las tasas de depredacin en mariposas en dos fragmentos de bosque neotropical. Las tasas de depredacin de orugas artificiales no fue afectado por la distancia al borde del bosque ni por la densidad del bosque. El promedio de depredacin en orugas artificiales que encontramos en la Isla de Barro Colorado (1500 ha) fue apreciablemente ms alto que en Pennsula Gigante (2600 ha), probablemente debido a efectos dependientes de la densidad. Nuestro estudio demuestra la utilidad de experimentos artificiales de depredacin para la evaluacin rpida de tasas relativas de depredacin en lepidpteros en bosques tropicales.
10.2307/2388010|The Aguaruna Jivaro of the upper Maranon River Valley of north central Peru recognize a species of tree of the genus Licania which is new to science and described here as Licania cecidiophora Prance sp. nov. The tree, called duship in Aguaruna, is ethnobotanically significant in that it attracts an as yet unidentified insect which lays its eggs on the undersides of the tree's leaves. The developing insect leads ultimately to the formation of a gall. The galls are of major importance to the indigenous Aguaruna, who employ them in necklace production and who have traditionally used them in the manufacture of gigantic mail-like capes. Such employment of insect galls in human ornamentation has not, to our knowledge, been reported in the ethnographic literature for any human society.
10.2307/2387805|In the lowland deciduous and riparian evergreen forests of Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica, the insect seed predators are highly host-specific and display a variety of traits suggesting that the ways they use hosts are not randomly distributed. The vertebrate seed predators may feed on many species of seeds over the course of a year or within the animal population, but, at any one time or with any one individual, strong facultative host-specificity occurs. Furthermore, the vertebrates have a variety of species-specific behaviors that suggest specialization to overcome the defenses of particular seed species. Even the dispersal agents kill seeds as they pass through their guts, and the details of seed-defecation patterns should be important to the seed. Within this forest, leaf-eating caterpillars seem to be either specialized on one or a few species of plants, or spread over many. While an entire forest is never defoliated at one time, defoliations and severe herbivory occur with many plant species in various seasons or years. Herbivory by large herbivores is probably trivial when compared to that of the insects. Furthermore, the defenses that the large herbivores have to overcome may well have been selected for by both insects and extinct Pleistocene large herbivores. I suspect that many of the animal-plant interactions in this forest are not coevolved, and those that are coevolved will be difficult to distinguish from those that are not.
27742856|Forest transition theory bases its predictions of forest recovery in temperate regions primarily on macro-economic factors. In tropical countries, it is important to understand additional complex processes underlying forest recovery. Forest rehabilitationmeaning efforts to restore tree coveris an important contributor to forest recovery in many tropical regions. Forest rehabilitation itself is subject to multiple factors that influence its scale, effectiveness and outcomes. This paper reviews forest rehabilitation in six countriesBrazil, China, Indonesia, Peru, Philippines and Vietnam. The cases reviewed suggest that globally, forest rehabilitation efforts can be understood in four time periods, or eras, each with distinct approaches to forest rehabilitation and outcomes. Various factors that influence forest rehabilitation outcomes evolved during these eras. Current outcomes of forest rehabilitation can only be adequately predicted if the historical processes influencing forest rehabilitation are understood. The paper suggests that forest transition in the tropics needs to be analyzed not only in terms of macro-economic factors, but also in terms of the factors that influence forest rehabilitation outcomes as well as other processes that affect forest cover increase.
10.2307/2389111|Ants of tropical wet forests are common, yet practically unstudied, despite their importance in nutrient cycling and seed bank dynamics. I investigated the ecology of a leaf litter assemblage of twig-dwelling ants in lowland tropical wet forest and contrasted it with the better known ecologies of ground- and tree-dwelling ants. Nest densities at La Selva. Costa Rica were high (7 48 nests/m
2663821|Population density of Tapirus pinchaque was estimated in 7000 ha Parque Nacional Natural Los Nevados in the central Andes of Colombia. Eight variables were measured in 110 left rear foot prints of the mountain tapir: total length and width, and length and width of the three toes. This information was analyzed with Cluster Analysis by means of UPGMA and Euclidean distance using the scores obtained by means of a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) using the eight variables. Habitat availability was measured in 147,000 ha using aerial photographs taken during the 1950s and 1980s. The results of the cluster analysis showed that there are between 11 and 15 individuals, for a mean density of one individual for each 551  85 ha. The measurements of forest cover in the 147000 ha showed that habitat availability for the mountain tapir (montane forests and forestry plantations) increased 18141ha from the 1950s to the 1980s. This increment in forest cover seems to have a positive effect on the local population size of T. pinchaque, since in areas previously covered by pastures, there are now secondary forests where tapir's tracks and feces can be found.
30045489|We studied temporal dynamics of diverse moth ensembles (Arctiidae and Geometridae) in early and late succession stages of forest recovery in the montane zone of southern Ecuador. Moths were sampled using weak light sources (2 x 15 W tubes per trap) during three sampling periods (March-April 2002, wet season; October-November 2002, and August-October 2003, both "dry" seasons). Arctiid moth abundance hardly varied between sampling periods. Estimates of local diversity were lower in 2002 (wet and dry season) than in the dry season 2003, and ensemble composition was more strongly affected by sampling period rather than habitat differences. Geometridae ensembles revealed stronger temporal patterns. Geometrid abundance increased about twofold from the wet to the dry season, and temporal effects on species composition were far more pronounced that in arctiids. These differences might hint to variation in the dependence of geometrid versus arctiid larvae on ephemeral plant resources. Despite these significant temporal dynamics, in both families only a few of the more common species analyzed individually showed strong temporal changes in abundance. Almost all common species occurred as adults during all sampling periods. Therefore, even though temporal dynamics of moth ensembles are not negligible, both moth families are suitable "indicators" of community diversity and change along the succession gradient. Samoles must be large enough, however, and preferably should be collated over various times of the year and in parallel, to allow for valid statements about moth diversity and species compositions in relation to habitat differences. These recommendations undermine the validity of the concept of "rapid biodiversity inventories" for speciose tropical insect communities. /// La dinmica temporal de dos familias de polillas muy rica en especies arctiid y geometrid, fue investigada en estadios sucesionales tempranos y tardos de regeneracin del bosque, en un rea de la codillera Andina del sur de Ecuador. Las polillas fueron colectadas por atraccin a una fuente de luz dbil (2 x 15 W: luz negra y luz mezclada) durante tres etapas (marzo a abril 2002, estacin lluviosa; octubre a noviembre 2002 y agosto a octubre 2003, ambas poca seca). La cantidad de arctiid en el periodo de recoleccin apenas flucta. La estimacin de la diversidad local fue baja en el ao 2002 (estacin lluviosa y periodo seco) que durante el periodo seco 2003, y la composicin total fue ms influenciada por el perodo de muestreo antes que por las diferencias en el hbitat. El conjunto de Geometrid revel fuertes patrones temporales. La abundancia de geometrid se increment el doble desde el periodo hmedo al periodo seco. La dinmica temporal para Geometridae en general fue alta comparada con Arctidae y la diferencia de la composicin de especies en los hbitats tambin es muy fuerte. Esto indica, que la mayora de especies de Geometridae (en estado larvario) dependen ms de recursos efmeros (como flores, yemas apicales juveniles de las plantas) que Arctiidae. Sin embargo esta significativa dinmica temporal, existi en ambas familias solo unas pocas de las especies ms comunes analizadas individualmente mostraron fuertes cambios temporales en la abundancia. Casi todas las especies comunes ocurrieron como adultos durante todo el periodo de muestreo. Por lo tanto, aunque incluso la dinmica temporal de ambe s conjuntos no son insignificantes, ambas familias de mariposas nocturnas son "indicadores" apropiados de la diversidad de la comunidad y cambios a lo largo de la gradiente sucesional. Sin embargo, las muestras deben ser lo suficientemente grandes, y preferentemente deberan ser colectados en paralelo en diferentes periodos del ao, para permitir afirmaciones vlidas acerca de la diversidad de mariposas y la composicin de especies en relacin a las diferencias del hbitat. Estas debilidades en la validacin del concepto de "inventarios rpidos de biodiversidad" para comunidades de insectos tropicales ricos en especies.
40645593|Manu National Park of southern Peru is one of the most renowned protected areas in the world, yet large-bodied vertebrate surveys conducted to date have been restricted to Cocha Cashu Biological Station, a research station covering < 0.06 percent of the 1.7 Mha park. Manu Park is occupied by > 460 settled Matsigenka Amerindians, 300-400 isolated Matsigenka, and several, little-known groups of isolated hunter-gatherers, yet the impact of these native Amazonians on game vertebrate populations within the park remains poorly understood. On the basis of 1495 km of standardized line-transect censuses, we present density and biomass estimates for 23 mammal, bird, and reptile species for seven lowland and upland forest sites in Manu Park, including Cocha Cashu. We compare these estimates between hunted and nonhunted sites within Manu Park, and with other Neotropical forest sites. Manu Park safeguards some of the most species-rich and highest biomass assemblages of arboreal and terrestrial mammals ever recorded in Neotropical forests, most likely because of its direct Andean influence and high levels of soil fertility. Relative to Barro Colorado Island, seed predators and arboreal folivores in Manu are rare, and generalist frugivores specializing on mature fruit pulp are abundant. The impact of such a qualitative shift in the vertebrate community on the dynamics of plant regeneration, and therefore, on our understanding of tropical plant ecology, must be profound. Despite a number of external threats, Manu Park continues to serve as a baseline against which other Neotropical forests can be gauged.
10.2307/2388846|We examined patterns of mortality from long-term (up to 25 yr) forest inventory data collected from 17 0.25-ha plots representing mature tropical lowland moist forest and tropical lower montane moist forest life zones in Venezuela. Annual mortality rates varied greatly among plots and differed when mortality was calculated on a frequency basis (% stems dying annually) versus a biomass (% total aboveground biomass dying annually) basis. Mortality rates ranged from 0.5 to 3.3 percent (stems) and 0.1 to 3.9 percent (biomass). Annual mortality rate of stems versus mortality rate of biomass differed by as much as 20 percent within a plot; greater mortality rate of biomass on a yearly basis was attributable to the death of large trees. Annual percent mortality was independent of life zone, diameter class within life zone, and crown class. The majority of trees died standing (64%) followed by fallen (17%), snapped (11%), and other unknown causes (11%). Estimates of the mean half-life of all plots were 36.9 and 42.5 yr based on stems and biomass, respectively, in the tropical moist forest, and 39 3 and 36.3 yr, respectively, in the tropical lower montane moist forest. Large diameter classes had the longest half-lives. Similarity in stem and biomass based half-lives within a life zone suggests that although there is great variability at the individual plot scale, stems and biomass yield similar estimates of mortality at the larger life zone scale.
40863747|We assessed a general hypothesis of tropical tree diversity that predicts that species richness will be positively correlated with stand dynamism. Our analysis was based one of the largest and longest-running datasets on Amazonian trees (> 10 cm diameter at breast height), with data collected over a 23-yr period within 66 1 ha plots spanning a large (1000 km) landscape. Within these plots, maximum tree-species richness (329 species/ha) and Fisher's  values (227.5) were among the highest ever recorded. Contrary to the diversity-dynamism concept, tree species richness in our landscape was significantly and negatively associated with stand dynamism (measured as the mean rate of annual tree turnover). Because of this unexpected finding, we critically re-evaluated the relationship between stand dynamism and tree diversity across the Amazon basin and the tropics as a whole. With the inclusion of additional data we found that the relationship between stand dynamism and tree diversity becomes non-significant at larger spatial scales.
40863793|I contend that our values are muddled and misplaced. As a society, Nature is grossly undervalued relative to other commodities and priorities despite its integral and central role in our psyche and culture. The increasing dissociation of humans from nature, physically, intellectually and culturally, threatens the conservation ethic and all our efforts at conserving Nature in the long term, for human benefit or for its own sake. We need to reverse the increasing human isolation from the natural environment by encouraging our children and the wider public to engage with Nature. The formative experiences thus gained might, with time, change societal priorities in favor of a renewed conservation ethic.
30044029|Species diversity-environmental heterogeneity (D-EH) and species diversity-productivity (D-P) relationships have seldom been analyzed simultaneously even though such analyses could help to understand the processes underlying contrasts in species diversity among sites. Here we analyzed both relationships at a local scale for a highly diverse tropical dry forest of Mexico. We posed the following questions: (1) are environmental heterogeneity and productivity related?; (2) what are the shapes of D-EH and D-P relationships?; (3) what are individual, and interactive, contributions of these two variables to the observed variance in species diversity?; and (4) are patterns affected by sample size, or by partitioning into average local diversity and spatial species turnover? All trees (diameter at breast height 5 cm) within twenty-six 0.2-ha transects were censused; four environmental variables associated with water availability were combined into an environmental heterogeneity index; aboveground standing biomass was used as a productivity estimator. Simple and multiple linear and nonlinear regression models were run. Environmental heterogeneity and productivity were not correlated. We found consistently positive log-linear D-EH and D-P relationships. Productivity explained a larger fraction of among-transect variance in species diversity than did environmental heterogeneity. No effects of sample size were found. Different components of diversity varied in sensitivity to environmental heterogeneity and productivity. Our results suggest that species' differentiation along water availability gradients and species exclusion at the lowest productivity (driest) sites occur simultaneously, independently, and in a scale-dependent fashion on the tree community of this forest. /// Las relaciones de la diversidad de especies-heterogeneidad ambiental (D-HA) y diversidad de especies-productividad (D-P) rara vez han sido analizadas simultneamente, aunque este tipo de anlisis podra contribuir a un mejor entendimiento de los procesos asociados con cambios en la diversidad de especies entre sitios. En este estudio analizamos ambas relaciones a una escala local para un bosque tropical seco muy diverso de Mxico. Planteamos las siguientes preguntas: 1) estn relacionadas la heterogeneidad ambiental y la productividad?; 2) cuales son las relaciones entre D-HA y D-P?; 3) cul es la contribucin individual e interactiva de las dos variables a la varianza en diversidad de especies observada?; y 4) estos patrones se ven afectados por el tamao de la muestra, o por la particin de la diversidad en promedio local y recambio espacial de especies? Se censaron todos los rboles (DAP  5cm) dentro de veintisiete transectos de 0.2 ha; cuatro variables ambientales asociadas a la disponibilidad de agua se combinaron en un ndice de heterogeneidad ambiental; la productividad se estim utilizando valores de biomasa area en pie. Se realizaron regresiones simples y mltiples, lineales y no lineales. La heterogeneidad ambiental y la productividad no estuvieron correlacionadas. Consistentemente encontramos relaciones D-HA y D-P log-lineales positivas. La productividad explic una mayor fraccin de la varianza en diversidad de especies entre transectos que la heterogeneidad ambiental. No se encontraron efectos del nmero de rboles. Los distintos componentes de la diversidad mostraron una distinta sensibilidad a la heterogeneidad ambiental y a la productividad. Nuestros resultados sugieren la ocurrencia simultnea, independiente, y de forma dependiente de la escala de diferenciacin de especies a lo largo de gradientes de disponibilidad de agua y exclusin de especies de los sitios menos productivos (los ms secos).
10.2307/2387802|The outer canopy of a lowland tropical forest has a less buffered microclimate and more seasonal leaf phenology than the understory. Censuses were conducted from a canopy tower on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, to assess the composition and degree of seasonality of the canopy avifauna. The canopy avifauna shares many species with scrubby second growth; many common canopy species were also found frequently in more open areas. The rarest visitors to the canopy were primarily those from lower strata. Most common species were omnivorous, and restricted insectivores were poorly represented when compared to lower strata. This distribution is correlated with a taxonomic shift from the antbird-woodcreeper-dominated understory to a tanger-dominated canopy avifauna. A majority of common canopy species was significantly seasonal in abundance; the most seasonal resident species tending to be the omnivores. Two sources of overall fluctuation in birds using the outer canopy were an influx of small omnivorous tangers in the early dry to early wet season, and the presence of temperate-zone migrants, mainly Dendroica castanea, from late wet through the dry season.
41241933|Collecting freshwater zoological material for research purposes is common and necessary, but its impact on biological communities is often overlooked. We tested the impacts of a conventional ichthyological collection in small forest streams and showed that fish assemblages recover after a few months. We highlight ecological traits and habitat characteristics that might exacerbate the impacts of repeated removal of fish in long-term investigations, and advocate for the use of a capture-release approach whenever possible.
10.2307/2388206|Although there is a growing body of literature concerning the physiology of lizard eggs, this information is largely derived from laboratory experiments, and there have been few measurements of the environmental conditions in natural lizard nests. Unlike the nests of most lizards, the nests of some tropical iguanas are obvious and can be observed and experimentally manipulated. Nests of the Cuban iguana Cyclura nubila were instrumented, and weekly measurements of soil temperature, soil water potential, and the concentrations of O$_2$ and CO$_2$ were recorded. Nest temperatures were similar among nests and over a 24 hr cycle with temperatures around 31$^\circ$-32$^\circ$C. However, there was more variability in soil water potential among the nests, as they dried at different rates after a soaking rain near the beginning of incubation. Although the gaseous environments of the nests were distinctly different from aboveground ambient conditions, the levels of O$_2$ and CO$_2$ were less extreme than in the nests of larger reptiles (sea turtles and crocodiles). The CO$_2$ concentrations were found to be related to nest depth and, to a lesser extent, clutch size.
10.2307/2388436|In mountainous regions of eastern subtropical Brazil the amount of bulk atmospheric deposition reaching closed canopy forests may vary greatly in a small area. To measure variations in deposition to a forested basin near Rio de Janeiro we employed a simple technique of mounting collectors above the tree canopy. Experiments showed that the differences between means from such collectors as compared to those from collectors in clearings were <5 percent, <3 percent, and <17 percent for rainfall, sodium, and acidic deposition, respectively. The uncertainties were due primarily to local sampling variability and not to the effect of mounting the collectors at tree-top level. The primary sources of sodium and acidity were from outside the basin. Deposition rates were positively skewed; a few events dominated mean annual deposition. Rainfall and acidic deposition were uniformly distributed in the basin, while sodium varied significantly. Thus the distribution of collectors necessary to characterize atmospheric input to this type of forest depends both on the site and the component to be studied. The chief disadvantage of this technique is the effort necessary to clear occasional blockage of the funnel and tube.
3593193|Mistletoes are hemiparasitic plants that frequently depend on frugivores for seed dispersal; yet their seed dispersal ecology is still poorly known. The mistletoe Psittacanthus schiedeanus (Loranthaceae) was studied for a five-month period in cloud forest remnants in central Veracruz, Mexico, to determine its seed dispersal ecology. We hypothesized that dispersal ecology of this mistletoe species is directly affected by the fruit-eating bird abundance, and asked if this species is following the high-investment strategy as suggested by Godschalk (1983). To evaluate this, we determined the morphological and nutritional characteristics of mistletoe fruit, the availability of ripe fruits along the mistletoe fruiting phenology, and the abundance of fruit-eating birds. Because P. schiedeanus is dispersed by generalist rather than specialist birds, we asked if this mistletoe species is ripening fruits during the fruit scarcity time (with highest possibilities of being consumed and dispersed by birds). We compared P. schiedeanus ripe fruit production to the cloud forest tree leaf fall and fruit production. Psittacanthus schiedeanus matures its nutritious fruits from November to April, with a peak of abundance in January and February. We found a synchrony between the abundance of P. schiedeanus ripe fruits and the abundance of Gray Silky-flycatchers (Ptilogonys cinereus) and Social Flycatchers (Myiozetetes similis); however, this was not the case with Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum), although these birds play an important role in the mistletoe dispersal. The fruiting pattern of P. schiedeanus, together with the fact that it is an important food resource for generalist rather than specialist frugivorous birds, suggest that this mistletoe is using the nutrient investment strategy to attract dispersers during a time of fruit scarcity.
2663905|Dry forests in middle Cauca River valley (southwest Colombia) almost have been eliminated from the region and the last remnants are seriously threatened. This study shows the biological value of seven forest fragments, comparing their ant diversity with that of their surrounding matrices. Two intensive ant surveys were made in each forest fragment and its matrix between August 1994 and February 1995. Sampling effort was the same in each of the seven sites. We found that: (1) forest fragments are richer and more diverse than their respective matrices; (2) forests preserve a larger number of rare ant species than the matrices; and (3) the richer the forest, the larger the number of exclusive ant species it preserves. Therefore, these forests must be preserved to maintain regional biodiversity.
10.2307/2388083|Eared doves (Zenaida auriculata) migrate into the semi-arid Brazilian northeast toward the end of the wet season; there they breed in huge colonies of millions of birds and then disperse. Colonial breeding is clearly restricted to the thornscrub formation known as "Caatinga," and only occurs during the four-month period following the end of the rainy season. During their stay in the area, the doves depend primarily on Croton spp. seeds which are abundant but are an extremely clumped and unpredictable resource due to the extreme irregularity of the rainfall. Colonies are markedly short-lived and well-synchronized; the adults stay for about 60 days-long enough to complete only one successful breeding. Although the wooded vegetation would clearly permit nesting in trees, nests are built only on the ground; this practice is interpreted as an adaptation for speed in breeding. I suggest that cared doves might perform a sort of "itinerant breeding," in which individuals attempt to nest again in a different locality where a favorable seed production has occurred, following the geographical movement of the wet season. Because of the dependence of the Caatinga eared dove populations on Croton productivity patterns, it is suggested that the management policy aimed toward conservation of the species should not rely solely on protection of the breeding colonies but should also take into account the complex interrelationship among climatic irregularity, land use, and Croton seeds productivity.
10.2307/2989668|Hydnophytum formicarium, Myrmecodia tuberosa, Phymatodes sinuosa, and Dischidia rafflesiana are described as epiphytic myrmecophytes in low-productivity vegetation, growing on Sarawak white sand soils, which are fed by the relatively unaggressive ant Iridomyrmex myrmecodiae. The ants place large quantities of insect parts in the plants, which probably take up their decomposition products. Virtually all epiphytes in this community are trophically associated with a colony of I. myrmecodiae and one or more myrmecophytes, and it appears that there are not enough nutrients to support epiphytes unless they obtain extra nutrients from ants. Two conspicuous plant parasites, Dischidia gaudichaudii and Pachycentria tuberosa, take root in the debris dumps. In the light of these findings, it seems likely that the neotropical myrmecophytes with relatively unaggressive ant occupants are involved in a similar relationship. Experiments are needed to compare seed production or growth rate in epiphytic myrmecophytes that are occupied and unoccupied by I. myrmecodiae.
20492571|One of the least understood aspects of insect diversity in tropical rain forests is the temporal structuring, or seasonality, of communities. We collected 29,986 beetles of 1473 species over a 4-yr period (45 monthly samples), with the aim to document the temporal dynamics of a trophically diverse beetle assemblage from lowland tropical rain forest at Cape Tribulation, Australia. Malaise and flight interception traps were used to sample adult beetles at five locations at both ground and canopy levels. Beetles were caught throughout the year, but individual species were patchy in their temporal distribution, with the 124 more abundant species on average being present only 56 percent of the time. Climatic variables (precipitation, temperature, and solar radiation) were poorly correlated with adult beetle abundance, possibly because: (1) seasonality of total beetle abundance was slight; (2) the peak activity period (September-November) did not correspond to any climatic maxima or minima; or (3) responses were nonlinear owing to the existence of thresholds or developmental time-lags. Our results do not concur with the majority of tropical insect seasonality studies suggesting a wet season peak of insect activity, perhaps because there is no uniform pattern of insect seasonally for the humid tropics. Herbivores showed low seasonality and individual species' peaks were less temporally aggregated compared to nonherbivores. Canopy-caught and larger beetles (&gt; 5 mm) showed greater seasonality and peaked later in the year compared to smaller or ground-caught beetles. Thus seasonality of adult beetles varied according to the traits of feeding ecology, body size, and habitat strata.
30044956|The spatial distributions of many tropical arboreal ant species are often arranged in a mosaic such that dominant species have mutually exclusive distributions among trees. These dominant species can also mediate the structure of the rest of the arboreal ant community. Little attention has been paid to how diet might shape the effects of dominant species on one another and the rest of the ant community. Here, we take advantage of new information on the diets of many tropical arboreal ant species to examine the intra-and inter-guild effects of dominant species on the spatial distribution of one another and the rest of the tropical arboreal ant community in a cocoa farm in Bahia, Brazil. Using null model analyses, we found that all ant species, regardless of dominance status or guild membership, co-occur much less than expected by chance. Surprisingly, the suite of five dominant species showed random co-occurrence patterns, suggesting that interspecific competition did not shape their distribution among cocoa trees. Across all species, there was no evidence that competition shaped co-occurrence patterns within guilds. Co-occurrence patterns of subordinant species were random on trees with dominant species, but highly nonrandom on trees without dominant species, suggesting that dominant species disassemble tropical arboreal ant communities. Taken together, our results highlight the often complex nature of interactions that structure species-rich tropical arboreal ant assemblages.
10.2307/2389020|Between August 1981 and December 1987, 5176 black sea turtles (Chelonia agassizii) were tagged at the East Pacific rookeries of Colola and Maruata, Michoacan, Mexico. These two beaches are the most important continental areas for nesting and breeding for this species. Turtles were marked with metal and/or plastic tags on the flippers. As of December 1988, 47 recoveries farther than 100 km of the nesting area were documented. Most of the recoveries (28, 60%) were from south of Mexico, mainly from El Salvador (18, 38%) and Guatemala (6, 13%). Two were reported from Nicaragua, one from Costa Rica and one turtle was recovered as far south as Colombia. Nineteen recoveries were documented from Mexican waters, principally from the Gulf of California and adjacent waters. The remainder were from south of the nesting area, mainly from the Coast of Oaxaca. Of the 32 cases in which the circumstances of recapture were documented, 27 (84%) were incidental catches of which 14 (44%) were by fishing boats. In five cases the turtle was caught intentionally, four with gillnets and one was speared by divers. The extensive post-nesting dispersion of the black turtle involving the territorial waters of seven nations along more than 5000 km of coastline calls for a comprehensive international program for the conservation and research of this turtle in the East Pacific.
10.2307/2388774|Guanacaste seeds in Venezuela accumulate beneath parent trees presumably because of extinct seed dispersers. We asked if the number of eggs laid per seed by the bruchid beetle Stator generalis and factors affecting this oviposition pattern are consequences of seed accumulation. We compared patterns of oviposition to theoretical expectations and to another study on a congeneric bruchid which faced limited seed availability. Theory predicts bruchids should lay one egg per seed when many seeds are readily available and when there are only negative effects to multiple eggs on seeds. From collections of hundreds of seeds from beneath three trees, we found the median number of eggs per seed to range from 4 to 8.5, even though many seeds (33%) had zero eggs. These patterns of oviposition were non-random. Theory also predicts that when seeds are limited, more eggs per seed should be laid. Thus, the relatively high numbers of eggs per seed on guanacaste seeds could be an anachronism more appropriate for limited seed availability Alternatively, other factors associated with seed accumulation may cause increased egg densities. Indirect evidence suggests multiple oviposition may be more frequent, and that density dependent egg parasitism has changed from positive to negative, which selects for increased egg densities.
2663922|Given the abundance of litter-foraging ants and fallen fleshy diaspores on the floor of tropical forests, interactions involving them should be common and may render important consequences for the biology of the diaspores. In this study, we surveyed the interactions between ants and non-myrmecochorous diaspores along a 5-km transect in a lowland Atlantic rain forest of southeast Brazil. A diaspore is defined as any seed, fruit, or infructescence that constitutes the unit of dispersal of the plant. During two years of monthly samplings of naturally fallen diaspores, 886 ant-diaspore interactions involving 36 ant species and 56 different species of diaspores (range = 0.05-29.5 g) were recorded. The number of interactions was significantly and positively correlated with rainfall but not with mean temperature. The number of ant species recorded in the interactions was positively associated with both rainfall and temperature. Lipid-rich diaspores attracted a larger ant assemblage than those with lower contents of lipids. The seasonal pattern for ant-diaspore interactions in the Atlantic rain forest is predicted by well known seasonal patterns in ant activity and diaspore production. Other factors that also may affect the observed pattern are the massive and episodic fruiting of some plant species in which diaspores are especially attractive to ants, and a preference for lipidrich arillate seeds. Interactions between ants and fallen non-myrmecochorous diaspores may be especially common in lowland rain forests in which the abundance of ants is coupled with the year-round availability of fleshy diaspores.
40891350|Predicting responses of vegetation to environmental factors in human-altered tropical ecosystems requires an understanding of the controls on plant population expansion across landscapes (i.e., long-distance dispersal) as well as of factors affecting recruitment at local scales (i.e., microsite conditions). We studied the roles of light availability, habitat type, soil disturbance, and seed dispersal in a selectively logged forest in lowland Bolivia where the exotic forage grass Urochloa (Panicum) maxima is abundant on roads and log landings but does not invade felling gaps or unlogged forest. Shade-house trials and seed addition experiments with U. maxima revealed that this C grass thrives in high light but also grows in partial shade (10% full sun, but not 1% full sun), and that felling gaps, but not undisturbed forest, are suitable for grass establishment. To determine if seed dispersal by logging vehicles explains the discrepancy between actual and potential grass recruitment sites, we collected grass seeds that fell from trucks onto log landings located long distances (> 500 m) from established grass populations. Trucks dispersed an estimated 1800 alien grass seeds per log landing during the early dry season; automobiles also transported seeds of grass (135 seeds/vehicle). The seeds collected (and relative abundances) were the exotics U. (Panicum) maxima (97%) and Urochloa (Brachiaria) brizantha (2%), and the pan-tropical weeds Sorghum halapense (1%) and Rottboellia cochinchinensis (0.2%). Grasses invade this forest where disturbance coincides with seed dispersal by motor vehicles, while dispersal limitation apparently prevents invasion of many sites otherwise suitable for grass recruitment (i.e., felling and natural gaps).
10.2307/2388024|To investigate the storage relationships between and production of organic matter in tropical forests and climate, data on forest biomass, soil organic matter, litter storage, primary production, and litterfall were surveyed from the literature and organized using the Holdridge Life Zone system of classification. Ordinary least squares regressions were applied to all the data sets using the ratio of temperature to precipitation (T/P) as an index to climate and the independent variable. Total forest biomass (40-538 t/ha) gave a significant inverted U-shaped relationship with T/P, with peak values in the tropical moist forest life zone and lower ones in wetter and drier forest life zones. Soil carbon content (24-599 t C/ha) decreased exponentially and significantly with increasing T/P (i.e., from wet to dry forest life zones). No significant relationship was found between litter storage and T/P. Gross primary production (19-120 t/ha yr) decreased exponentially and significantly with increasing T/P. Neither net primary production (11-21 t/ha yr) nor wood production (1-11 t/ha yr) were related to T/P. The ratio of leaf litter production to net primary production (0.25-0.65) was inversely related to T/P, suggesting different strategies of allocation of the net primary production in different life zones. The relationship between total litterfall (1.0-15.3 t/ha yr, excluding large wood) and T/P was significant and its shape similar to that obtained for biomass versus T/P; litterfall was highest in tropical moist forest life zones and lower in wetter or drier ones. The linear relationship between biomass and litterfall suggested that the turnover time of biomass in mature tropical forests is similar for all life zones, and is of the order of 34 yr. To determine the role of tropical forests in the global carbon cycle, literature estimates of areas of tropical forests were placed into six life zone groupings. The total tropical and subtropical basal and altitudinal forest area of 1838 million ha was comprised of 42 percent dry forest, 33 percent moist forest, and 25 percent wet and rain forest life zone groups. Organic-matter storage data were also combined into the six life zone groups and the means for each group calculated. The product of forest areas in the six groups and the mean organic matter per unit area in the groups yielded a total storage of 787 billion t organic matter, with vegetation accounting for 58, soils 41, and litter 1 percent. About half of the total storage was located in the tropical basal wet, moist, and dry forest life zone groups. Litterfall data were treated in the same way as organic-matter storage, resulting in a total litter production in tropical forests of 12.3 billion t organic matter/yr. Most litter was produced in the tropical basal moist forest group (30%) and least in the tropical basal dry forest group (10%). Turnover time of litter in tropical forests was less than 1 yr. Lowest turnover times were in very wet (1 yr) and in dry (0.9-1.9 yr) life zone groups. Tropical forests play an important role in the global carbon cycle because they store 46 percent of the world's living terrestrial carbon pool and 11 percent of the world's soil carbon pool.
10.2307/2388036|Bamboos, or tree grasses, comprise the most diverse and certainly least-understood group of plants in the grass family. Herbaceous grasses that occur in tropical shaded forests share similar anatomical and morphological features with the bamboos, and with them make up the grass subfamily Bambusoideae. Both groups have been inadequately collected, the herbaceous bambusoid grasses primarily because the plants often appear sterile when in full flower, and the bamboos because they bloom so seldom. The bamboos of Asia have received far more attention taxonomically than those of the New World, where many new genera and species are now coming to light due to recent explorations. Numerous biological problems are presented by the Bambusoideae, such as the phenomenon of cyclic flowering, modes of pollination, and types of sleep movements in the leaves. Also numerous cytological questions remain to be answered. Wherever man has come into contact with bamboo he has found multiple uses for it, from food in the form of new shoots, to construction and papermaking. Apart from such practical uses as these, many members of the subfamily are cultivated as ornamentals. The genera of Bambusoideae that occurs in Asia, Africa and Madagascar, and the New World are listed.
2663805|Two of the main hypotheses to explain the distribution and special characteristics of tropical heath forest are nutrient and water limitation. A study was undertaken to investigate both factors on two sites under tropical heath forest (Badas Forest Reserve) and mixed-dipterocarp forest (Andulau Forest Reserve) in Brunei. Soil water potentials were monitored at depths of 20, 50, and 90 cm over wet and dry periods for five months at each site. The results showed the mixed-dipterocarp forest site to be drier at 50 cm depth compared to the tropical health forest site. There was no significant difference in water potentials between sites at 20 or 90 cm. Nutrient concentrations in the soil solution were monitored at the same depths over a seven-month period at the same sites. A 12-month litterfall study was also undertaken to monitor nutrient returns from the canopy at each site. The results of both studies suggest that the tropical heath forest site is poorer in nitrogen, but richer in calcium, than the mixed-dipterocarp forest site. The results for phosphorus are less clear, but do not suggest that its limitation is a significant factor at the tropical heath forest site compared to the mixed-dipterocarp forest site. Phosphorus and magnesium concentrations in the soil solution showed a strong positive correlation with sliding 30-day rainfall totals at both sites.
41241891|On the island of Lombok, Indonesia, three nectarivorous birds partially coexist: the two closely related and very similar Lichmera honeyeaters and a sunbird (Cinnyris jugularis). We investigated how these species segregated ecologically in areas where they coexisted by evaluating foraging visits and aggressive interactions at rich and poor nectar resources in different habitats (forest and open areas) along an altitudinal gradient (8001600 m asl). The two honeyeaters were partially segregated by altitude. In the zone of overlap, Lichmera limbata dominated the richest forest resources, while Lichmera lombokia dominated the richest resources in open land. The sunbird, C. jugularis, was only observed in open habitats and mostly at poor resource patches. In the three-species community in open habitats a dominance hierarchy was apparent with L. lombokia as the superior species and C. jugularis as the inferior species. Studies on how segregated species interact in their transition zone can help us to understand interactions between otherwise ecologically segregated species.
10.2307/2388458|Although the developing leaves of mango and cacao contain appreciable concentrations of anthocyanins not present in mature leaves, these compounds are a small proportion of the total phenolic concentration. For this and other reasons anthocyanins do not seem to be important in the developing leaves as: (1) a screen against ultraviolet radiation; (2) a mechanism for elevating leaf temperature; (3) a means of defense or aposematic coloration against herbivory; and (4) a part of any postulated physiological mechanism, as photosynthesis. Anthocyanic coloration may be a by-product of the metabolism of other flavonoid compounds in these rapidly growing organs.
4132917| We documented the floristic composition of pteridophytes (ferns and fern allies) and Melastomataceae in Yasun National Park, Amazonian Ecuador. Our main questions were: (1) Are the density of individuals, species richness, and/or species diversity (measured with Shannon's H') of the two plant groups related to edaphic differences? and (2) How many of the pteridophyte and Melastomataceae species are non-randomly distributed in relation to a soil base content gradient within terra firme (non-inundated forest). To answer these questions, we sampled 27 line transects of 500 x 5 m distributed in an area of ca 20 x 25 km. The study area included a permanent 50 ha plot established to monitor forest dynamics; thus, our results also provide information on landscape-scale floristic variability to which results from within the plot can be compared. A total of 45,608 individuals and 140 species of pteridophytes, and 4893 individuals and 89 species of the Melastomataceae, were counted in the transects. Both with pteridophytes and with Melastomataceae, a clear negative correlation was found between the amount of extractable bases in the soil and the number of plant individuals encountered in a transect. With Melastomataceae, species richness and species diversity also were negatively correlated with soil base content, but with pteridophytes they were not. More than 50 percent of the common species of both pteridophytes and Melastomataceae were nonrandomly distributed along the soil cation content gradient within terra firme. We conclude that while the species richness patterns observed in one plant group are not indicative of similar patterns in other plant groups, it seems likely that a substantial (but unknown) proportion of species belonging to other plant groups will be found to show distribution patterns that reflect edaphic preferences within terra firme forests. 
10.2307/2387793|Hemiparasitism is documented in a species of the Olacaceous genus Schoepfia. Excavation of plants of S. schreberi from Florida and the Bahamas revealed numerous haustoria of a more or less conical shape and up to 4.5 mm in width, possessing what appear to be numerous collapsed layers at an early stage. Ten hosts from eight different families have been identified, and, as is the case with most phanerogamic root parasites, it appears that S. schreberi lacks host specificity. This report brings to five the number of known parasitic genera of the Olacaceae, a family of some 35 genera.
20492577|Quantifying forest change in the tropics is important because of the role these forests play in the conservation of biodiversity and the global carbon cycle. One of the world's largest remaining areas of tropical forest is located in Papua New Guinea. Here we show that change in its extent and condition has occurred to a greater extent than previously recorded. We assessed deforestation and forest degradation in Papua New Guinea by comparing a land-cover map from 1972 with a land-cover map created from nationwide high-resolution satellite imagery recorded since 2002. In 2002 there were 28,251,967 ha of tropical rain forest. Between 1972 and 2002, a net 15 percent of Papua New Guinea's tropical forests were cleared and 8.8 percent were degraded through logging. The drivers of forest change have been concentrated within the accessible forest estate where a net 36 percent were degraded or deforested through both forestry and nonforestry processes. Since 1972, 13 percent of upper montane forests have also been lost. We estimate that over the period 1990-2002, overall rates of change generally increased and varied between 0.8 and 1.8 percent/yr, while rates in commercially accessible forest have been far higher--having varied between 1.1 and 3.4 percent/yr. These rates are far higher than those reported by the FAO over the same period. We conclude that rapid and substantial forest change has occurred in Papua New Guinea, with the major drivers being logging in the lowland forests and subsistence agriculture throughout the country with comparatively minor contributions from forest fires, plantation establishment, and mining.
10.2307/2389202|Anolis lizards (Iguanidae) were surveyed for malarial parasites on 14 islands in the eastern Lesser Antellies, St. John in the Virgin Islands, and Curacao and Aruba in the southern Caribbean. Two species of malaria were identified in 4859 lizards sampled from the 17 islands, Plasmodium floridense and P. azurophilum. There was no relationship between island size, elevation, or rainfall and the presence or absence of malaria. Some of the largest islands had no malaria, some large and small islands had one species, and some, including tiny Saba, had both species of Plasmodium. P. azurophilum was found throughout the Lesser Antilles from St. Martin to Grenada; P. floridense was restricted to the northern islands, not further south than Montserrat. Our results, combined with surveys from other areas of the Caribbean basin, show both species of malaria infect anoles from distantly related taxonomic groups, suggesting that the parasites have had an ancient with their lizard hosts.
40863752|The wet and dry seasons in tropical rain forests can differ in precipitation, soil moisture and irradiance more significantly than often assumed. This could potentially affect the water relations of many tree species that may exhibit either increased transpiration in the dry season as a response to the increased irradiance or decreased transpiration as a result of decreases in soil moisture and increases in atmospheric vapor pressure deficit (VPD). Atmospheric data, soil moisture data and sap fluxes in Iriartea deltoidea palms were measured in eastern Ecuador during the wet and dry seasons. There were no differences between total daily sap fluxes in I. deltoidea palms during the wet and dry seasons; however, evaporative demand was significantly higher in the dry season and therefore, transpiration was more restricted by stomatal closure during the dry season than the wet season. This is likely the result of larger atmospheric VPD during the dry season compared with the wet season and possibly the result of reduced soil moisture availability. Additionally, based on published tree abundances in this area, measured sap fluxes in I. deltoidea were scaled up to the hectare level. Transpiration from I. deltoidea palms was estimated to be around 0.03 mm/d, which could represent about 1 percent of total transpiration in this area of the Amazon rain forest. If climate change predictions for more lengthy tropical dry periods are realized, greater stomatal control of dry-season sap flux has the potential to become even more prevalent in tropical species.
2663827|This annotated bibliography is provided in order to assess the achievements and gaps in the literature on vegetative identification of woody plants in the tropics. The bibliography includes 258 references divided into general references (48), pantropical and multi-continental keys (4), Africa (46), Asia (53), Australia and New Guinea (21), and the Neotropics (86). Vegetative keys are not easy shortcuts to the identification of woody tropical plants to species. Identification of sterile material requires as much, if not more, training as that required for using keys that emphasize floral and fruit characters. Nevertheless, the literature surveyed in this bibliography may be helpful to biologists seeking references for the geographic region in which they work, models for the construction of vegetative keys and field guides, and/or the types of characters that should be observed in the field.
10.2307/2387904|Feeding strategies of Malaysian nectarivorous bats include trap-line foraging and territorial defense of resources. A high initial-visit rate with a subsequent leveling off of activity by bat pollinators is related to nectar parceling mechanisms of Oroxylum indicum (Bignoniaceae) flowers. Differing temporal patterns of visitation to Durio, Parkia, and Musa reflect different flowering strategies. Patterns of visitation to flowers may provide a useful comparative measure of bat pollination energetics in the New and Old World tropics.
10.2307/2989802|A 15-month study of the flowering season of the hummingbird flower community was conducted in an evergreen rain forest in the southeastern part of Mexico (Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz) This community comprised at least 11 species of hummingbirds and 26 species of flowering plants. The recorded blooming seasons of the plants show a period of abundant nectar resources for the hummingbirds from February to July with a peak in April, and a period of scarcity of flowers during the last four months of the year. Data are given on the ecological distribution and on the reproductive periods of the hummingbirds studied, and these are briefly discussed in relation to the flower seasonality.
2663929|Forest structure and tree species composition were studied in four Atlantic seasonal forest fragments ranging from 0.7 to 220 ha, isolated for more than a century in southeastern Brazil. Four physiognomic units were recognized within these fragments: (1) low forest, (2) bamboo forest, (3) high forest, and (4) mature forest. Tree density, basal area, and species diversity (Shannon-Wiener index) increased from low forest to bamboo forest to high forest to mature forest. Liana cover was highest in low forest. Gap-opportunistic species were the dominant ecological group in low forest, bamboo forest, and high forest, while shade tolerant canopy species formed the dominant group in mature forest. These structural and compositional features formed a gradient of forest development from the least developed low and bamboo forests to the most developed mature forest. Low forest is hypothesized to be in a stage of arrested succession and high forest a stage of degraded forest. A conceptual model is suggested to explain how these physiognomic units may be related to one another. Although these fragments were covered mainly by high and low forests and thus had a degraded structure, species diversity remained high in all of them. Fragments thus may undergo degradation long after isolation, even when they have been protected from human disturbance for a considerable period. Nonetheless, they also preserve important samples of local and regional floristic diversity for a long time after isolation.
20492465|The intensity of competition among forest tree seedlings is poorly understood, but has important ramifications for their recruitment and for the maintenance of species diversity. Intense competition among seedlings could allow competitively dominant species to exclude subordinate species. Alternatively, the low density and small stature of forest tree seedlings could preclude intense interseedling competition. In this case, other processes, such as size-asymmetric competition with adults, interactions with consumers, or neutral dynamics would prevail as those structuring the forest understory. We tested the intensity of, and potential for, intraspecific competition among tree seedlings of three species (Brosimum alicastrum, Matisia cordata, and Pouteria reticulata) in two Neotropical rain forests. We reduced stem densities by up to 90 percent and monitored individual growth and survival rates for up to 24 mo. Individual growth and survival rates were generally unrelated to stem density. Contrary to the predicted behavior of intensely competing plant populations, the distribution of individual heights did not become more left-skewed with time for any species, regardless of plot density; i.e., excesses of short, suppressed individuals did not accumulate in high-density plots. We further measured the overlap of zones of influence (ZOIs) to assess the potential for resource competition. Seedling ZOIs overlapped only slightly in extremely dense monodominant plots, and even less in ambient-density plots of mixed composition. Our results thus suggest that interseedling competition was weak. Given the low density of tree seedlings in Neotropical forests, we infer that resource competition among seedlings may be irrelevant to their recruitment.
10.2307/2387998|The average flower of Heliconia psittacorum, an herb pollinated by hermit hummingbirds on Trinidad, secreted 66.4  l of nectar. Variation among flowers was extremely high; of 215 flowers examined over a 15 day period, 29 secreted less than 10  l of nectar, whereas 24 secreted more than 120 microliters. The frequency distribution of nectar volumes was platykurtic. There was no spatial or temporal pattern to the appearance of "blanks" within the clone examined, although "bonanzas" occurred only on ramets growing in wet soil. This bonanza-blank pattern contrasts strongly with the uniformly large nectar volumes reported for other Heliconia species or other plants pollinated by hermit hummingbirds.
10.2307/2388051|In the lower montane forests of Monteverde, Costa Rica, at least 70 bird species rely on fruits to different degrees. We present over 700 records of birds feeding on the fruits of 171 plant species in a survey of a single site intended to complement Snow's (1981) world survey of fruit-eating by birds. The frequency with which birds visited plants and the characteristics of the fruits (dimensions, color patterns, nutritional traits) are also described. The number of bird species recorded feeding on the fruits of a particular plant species was positively correlated with the size of the plant and with its commonness. Because biases may also be introduced by observing plant species for different amounts of time, we distinguish those plant species that were thoroughly studied from others studied only casually. Plants in five genera (Acnistus, Citharexylum, Ficus, Hampea, and Sapium) attract more than 20 bird species; at about half of all plant species, we observed fewer than three bird species. These results should lead to a better understanding of the characteristics of neotropical fruits and the diets of fruit-eating birds.
10.2307/2388960|Local sampling of larval lepidopterans on Erythroxylum host plant species in tropical savanna (cerrado) revealed a high species richness with low abundance per species. Cumulative numbers of morphospecies with increasing sampling effort yielded no asymptotic level of richness in sampling periods lasting 6 mo, 7 mo, and 23 mo. Peak richness was reached at 31 species in 1992 and 19 species in 1993, on the three Erythroxylum species sampled: E. deciduum, E. suberosum, and E. tortuosum. Less than one larva was found per plant during all sampling times, with a mean of 0.28 species per plant in 1992 and 0.12 in 1993. The number of specimens of all species combined discovered per plant was very low at 0.10 per plant. Many plants remained unattacked on any sampling date with 12 percent, 8 percent, and 16 percent of plants attacked in the species listed in order above. In general, there was an increase in species found during the late dry season when new leaves were produced, but plant phenology seemed to exert only a small influence. Comparisons with temperate samples of a similar kind, in savanna vegetation at the same altitude, indicate a very different assemblage. Comparison was based on four criteria: richness was from two to over three times higher in the tropics, even though sampling had not produced an asymptotic accumulation of species; the number of morphospecies per plant individual was similar at the sites, although total richness was lower in the temperate savanna; the number of total individuals per plant was 11-fold higher in the temperate samples; and the percent of plants with larvae present was over four times higher in the temperate zone (mean of 49%) than in the cerrado (12%). The high richness of relatively rare species in the cerrado site poses challenges in understanding the reasons for such rarity, the organization of such assemblages, the gradient of species richness from low to high latitudes, the estimation of biodiversity, and conservation management.
10.2307/2388198|Current anthropogenic activities in Amazonia are resulting in the widespread occurrence of fire; an ecosystem that is believed to have evolved in a fire-free environment. Even in areas away from intensified human land use, warmer and drier climatic conditions could increase the probability of fire in tropical forests. In this study the capacity of tree species to sprout following fire in disturbed moist tropical evergreen forests was quantified. Additionally, mortality and the modes of survival of standing forest trees at four sites were measured. Crown mortality ranged from 64-97 percent. Eight months after fire, 36-69 percent of all trees present on the sites at the time of burning were dead (i.e., no sprouting occurred). Our of 124 species measured (500 total individuals), 46 percent had the capacity to sprout from subterranean tissues and 27 percent sprouted from epicormic tissues. Forty-one percent of the sampled species were found to lack any capacity to sprout vegetatively. The percentage of individuals that survived by sprouting varied among tree species. Survival of the 14 most common species encountered ranged from 15-83 percent. Survival also varied among sites and this was primarily attributed to differences in fire severity. Fire severity and plant mortality were greatest in selectively logged forests that were intentionally burned for pasture conversion (> 65% mortality). One ecological advantage of sprouting over establishment from seeds is rapid regrowth and a greater capacity for exploitation of limited resources in tropical forests. Mean sprout height was 0.8-1.6 m for 8-month old sprouts and 4.2 m for 20-month old sprouts.
30043149|Sixteen percent of tree stems 10 cm diameter or greater recorded in seven 1 ha plots in Rabongo Forest, Uganda had stem damage attributable to elephants (Loxodonta africana). We propose four strategies that may help tree species persist under these conditions: repellence, resistance, tolerance and avoidance. We sought and found evidence for each strategy. Large, shade-tolerant Cynometra alexandri dominated basal area (often >50%) and showed severe scarring. Nearly 80 percent of stems were small pioneer species. Scarring frequency and intensity increased with stem size. Stem-size distributions declined steeply, implying a high mortality to growth rate ratio. Tree species with spiny stems or with known toxic bark defenses were unscarred. Epiphytic figs escaped damage while at small sizes. Mid-successional tree species were scarce and appeared sensitive to elephants. Savanna species were seldom scarred. Taking stem sizeeffects into account by using a per-stem logistic modeling approach, scarring became more probable with slower growth and with increasing species abundance, and also varied with location. Pioneer and shade-bearer guilds showed a deficit of intermediate-sized stems. Evidence that selective elephant damage is responsible for monodominant C. alexandri forests remains equivocal; however, elephants do influence tree diversity, forest structure, and the wider landscape.
10.2307/2387757|Thirty-three species of termites were found in a riparian forest in the Southern Guinea savanna zone of Nigeria. Their total abundance and biomass was 2646 m
3593195|I compared species richness and habitat correlates of leaf-litter herpetofaunal abundance in undisturbed and selectively logged forests, and an abandoned pine plantation in Kibale National Park, Uganda. I sampled 50 randomly located 25 m
10.2307/2387699|Group formation of foraging reef fishes was induced with different quantities of preferred food: the algae that covers dead staghorn coral (Acropora cervicornis). The speed at which a species finds the food depends on its basic search patterns. Once a food patch is discovered, all species rapidly converge on the source, suggesting that individuals gain foraging cues (e.g., visual and auditory) from both conspecifics and other species. The largest food sources do produce the largest groups, but this result appears to be a product of increased group stability rather than an increase in the total numbers of fishes in the area.
10.2307/2389073|The reproductive phenology of the entire climber community (96 species of lianas and 40 species of vines) in a semideciduous forest in Southeastern Brazil (22
30044004|Sucrose, glucose, and fructose are the three sugars that commonly occur in floral nectar and fruit pulp. The relative proportions of these three sugars in nectar and fruit in relation to the sugar preferences of pollinators and seed dispersers have received considerable attention. Based on the research of Herbert and Irene Baker and their collaborators, a dichotomy between sucrose-dominant hummingbird-pollinated flowers and hexose-dominant passerine flowers and fruits was proposed. Data on sugar preferences of several hummingbird species (which prefer sucrose) vs. a smaller sample of passerines (which prefer hexoses) neatly fitted this apparent dichotomy. This hummingbird-passerine dichotomy was strongly emphasized until the discovery of South African plants with sucrose-dominant nectars, which are pollinated by passerines that are able to digest, and prefer sucrose. Now we know that, with the exception of two clades, most passerines are able to assimilate sucrose. Most sugar preference studies have been conducted using a single, relatively high, sugar concentration in the nectar (ca 20%). Thus, we lack information about the role that sugar concentration might play in sugar selection. Because many digestive traits are strongly affected not only by sugar composition, but also by sugar concentration, we suggest that preferences for different sugar compositions are concentration-dependent. Indeed, recent studies on several unrelated nectar-feeding birds have found a distinct switch from hexose preference at low concentrations to sucrose preference at higher concentrations. Finally, we present some hypotheses about the role that birds could have played in molding the sugar composition of plant rewards. /// Sacarosa, glucosa y fructosa son los azcares mas comunes en nctar floral y pulpa de fruta. La proporcin relativa de estos azcares en nctar floral y la pulpa de fruta han sido estudiadas en relacin a las preferencias de azcar de polinizadores y dispersores de semillas. Basandose en estudios de Herbert e Irene Baker y colaboradores se propuso la existencia de una dicotoma entre plantas con nctares ricos en sacarosa que son polinizadas por colibres, y plantas con nctares y frutos ricos en hexosas que son polinizadas por paserinos. Datos sobre la preferencia de azcares en varias especies de colibres (que prefieren sacarosas) comparados con una pequea muestra de paserinos (que prefieren hexosas) apoyan la existencia de la dicotoma propuesta. La dicotoma colibr-paserino fue enfatizada por ms de una dcada, hasta el descubrimiento de plantas sudafricanas con nctares ricos en sacarosa que son polinizadas por paserinos que prefieren sacarosa. Hoy sabemos que la mayora de los paserinos, salvo los miembros de dos ciados, pueden asimilar la sacarosa. La mayora de los estudios sobre preferencias de azcares han sido conducidos usando una sola concentracion de azcares en el nctar (ca 20%). Por lo tanto, carecemos de informacin sobre el papel que juega la concentracin de azcares en las preferencias de estos por las aves. Debido a que muchos procesos digestivos son afectados, no solo por la composicin de azcares, sino tambin por su concentracin, sugerimos que las preferencias por diferentes azcares dependern de su concentracin. Efectivamente, estudios recientes indican que diferentes aves prefieren alimentarse de hexosas a bajas concentraciones, y de sacarosa a altas concentraciones. Finalmente, presentamos algunas hiptesis sobre el papel que las aves pudieron haber tenido en la evolucin de la composicin de azcares del nctar y la fruta que consumen.
40863753|This study compares demographic parameters and population dynamics for high disturbance (maquis) and low disturbance (rain forest) environments of the montane conifer, Araucaria laubenfekii, in New Caledonia. The establishment, growth, survival and reproduction of ca 2500 individuals were followed in permanent plots over 10 yr. Growth and survival rates for A. laubenfehii show that it is a long-lived, slow growing tree, with evidence of suppression in the sapling size classes in mature rain forest. Growth rates for all size classes are generally faster in maquis than rain forest. Transition matrix analyses estimated positive rates of population increase ( values > 1), with populations expanding in maquis, and stable in mature forest. Araucaria hubenfehii is able to regenerate continuously in maquis and early successional rain forest, but recruitment is limited in older stands. Life table response experiment analyses showed that reproduction, and transitions from sapling to mature tree stage, contributed positively to  in maquis, but negatively in forest. Araucaria hubenfehii on Mont Do can be considered a long-lived pioneer, with early maquis colonizers helping to drive succession from maquis to forest. While opportunities for recruitment decline with time as rain forest sites develop a closed canopy, occasional gap phase recruitment, combined with disturbance by cyclones, landslides and fire, provide opportunities to ensure species persistence. Understanding contrasting population dynamics of A. hubenfehii in maquis and rain forest will better facilitate conservation management of this species, particularly given current high rates of land conversion and degradation in New Caledonia.
10.2307/2388686|I studied the natural history of a short-horned tropical forest grasshopper, Microtylopteryx hebardi Rehn (Orthoptera: Acrididae: Ommatolampinae) at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. M. hebardi is flightless as an adult, and hence has low dispersal capabilities, yet inhabits light gaps and other temporary habitats. Numbers of adult M. hebardi were relatively constant between gaps and during the seven month study period, and all life stages were found year-round. Host plant range of M. hebardi included 52 species in 16 monocot and dicot families, but the majority of feeding records and all oviposition records occurred in four related monocotyledonous families.
2663831|Although lack of seeds can limit forest recovery in abandoned agricultural lands, few studies have documented the patterns of seed rain and soil seed bank in active pastures. To determine if lack of seeds is a limiting factor, we studied the woody species composition of the seed rain and soil seed bank in an active pasture in Barranquitas, Puerto Rico. In addition, fruit production of 43 common shrub and tree species was monitored in the surrounding secondary forest. Seed rain was monitored for one year at -2, 0, 2, 4, 8, 16, and 32 m from the forest edge along six transects. The soil seed bank was sampled in January/February 1995 and October/November 1995 at the same distances from the forest edge along ten transects. Of the 35 species that produced fruits in the forest, 14 species were detected in the seed rain study and only 0.3 percent of the seeds and 3 species dispersed to more than 4 m from the forest edge. Two of the three species were dispersed by wind. The seed bank study showed a similar pattern with a dramatic decrease in seedling density and species richness with distance from the forest edge. More than 50 percent of the seedlings in the seed bank study were Trema lamarckianum. This study demonstrated that few seeds disperse into the pastures and even when a rare dispersal event occurs, species do not accumulate because of short-term seed viability and, possibly, high seed predation. Studies of early secondary forest regeneration have shown that in some cases, forest can recover rapidly in abandoned agricultural lands; but our results suggest that only a small subset of the forest species will contribute to the initial recovery process.
10.2307/2389235|The recruitment pattern of Vouacapoua americana (Caesalpiniaceae) and the relationship between growth and survival of recruits were analyzed from 1984 to 1991 on two 2500 m
10.2307/2389097|Landslides are common in mountainous regions of the Caribbean and are triggered by heavy rains and earthquakes, and often occur in association with human disturbances (e.g., roads). Spatially heterogeneous removal of both substrate and vegetation is responsible for a variety of patterns of ecosystem development and plant successional trajectories within Caribbean landslides. Soil nutrient pools in exposed mineral soils reach levels comparable to mature forest soils within 55 yr but soil organic matter recovers more slowly. Plant colonization of landslides depends on the availability of propagules and suitable sites for germination, soil stability, and the presence of residual or newly deposited soil organic matter and associated nutrients. Once initial colonization occurs, the rate and trajectory of plant succession on landslides is strongly affected by plant/plant interactions. We present two conceptual models of landslide succession that summarize the major processes and pathways of ecosystem development and plant succession on landslides. Additional work is needed to characterize interactions between spatially heterogeneous zones, controls over soil development, impacts of key plant species, and the role of animals on Caribbean landslides.
41241946|Experimental studies in temperate regions have revealed that competition and predation interact to shape aquatic communities. Predators typically reduce the effect of competition on growth and competitors provide alternative prey subjects, which may also alter predation. Here, we examine the independent and combined effects of competition and predation on the survival and growth of hatchling tadpoles of two widespread co-occurring Neotropical hylid frogs (Agalychnis callidryas and Dendropsophus ebraccatus). Using 400 L mesocosms, we used a 2  3 factorial substitutive design, which crossed tadpole species composition with the presence or absence of a free-roaming predator (Anax amazili dragonfly larva). Dragonflies were effective predators of both species, but had larger effects on A. callidryas survival. Both species had similar growth rates when alone, whereas A. callidryas grew 30 percent faster than D. ebraccatus when they co-occurred, suggesting interspecific rather than intraspecific competition had relatively stronger effects on D. ebraccatus growth, while the opposite was true for A. callidryas. Predator presence dramatically reduced growth rates of both species and erased this asymmetry. Results suggest that the effects of predator induction (i.e., nonconsumptive effects) on growth were larger than both consumptive and competitive effects. Our study demonstrates that predators have strong effects on both survival and growth of prey, highlighting the potential importance of predators in shaping prey populations and tropical aquatic food web interactions.
10.2307/2389050|Seedlings of three tree species of lowland tropical rain forest in Singapore grown in pots of forest soil at low irradiance were subjected to simulated drought and nutrient addition treatments. The gravimetric soil water contents applied during drought simulations were within the range found during an eight-month survey of soil moisture content at 10 understory sites in primary forest in Singapore. Aspects of plant growth and dry mass allocation were influenced strongly by simulated drought for all three species. Morphological responses to the low-frequency watering regime were similar to those described for herbaceous crop plants subjected to water shortage, and suggest that the tree seedlings used are capable of withstanding substantial periods of low soil water availability. In addition, analysis of covariance showed that height and leaf area growth of seedlings of Antidesma cuspidatum were limited by Mg and height growth of seedlings of Vatica maingayi by one or more macro-nutrients. These results suggest that tree seedlings of tropical lowland rain forests may be limited by the availability of soil resources, as well as irradiance, when growing in deep shade.
10.2307/2387666|Three cases are described of Cebus a. apella smashing the palm-nut of Astrocaryum chambira Burret in La Macarena National Park, Colombia. It is assumed that the monkeys were attempting to obtain food from these nuts in the form of endosperm, palm-nut "milk," and/or insect larvae. The exploitation of this abundant food resource by C. appella and not by any of the other seven sympatric primate species may give them a competitive advantage. This circumstance could partially account for the numerical superiority of C. appella at the time of our survey.
30043255|Mangroves are prone to bearing frequently the full brunt of hurricanes and tropical storms. The extent of destruction and early regeneration are widely studied. he purpose of this study was to add a long-term view of mangrove regeneration and assess the potential effects on mangrove horizontal zonation patterns of catastrophic destruction. Hattie, a category five hurricane, hit the Belizean coast in 1961. It passed directly over the Turneffe Atoll where our study area, Calabash Cay, is locates At four sites on this island, we analyzed mangrove forest structure along transects parallel to the shoreline within zones delineated by species dominance and tree height. We propose an index based on the Simpson index of diversity to express changes in the heterogeneity of the species dominance. Physical-chemical parameters and nutrient availability were also measured. The destruction levels were estimated by analysis of the distribution of diameter at breast heights of the bigger trees in the inland zones. Variations in species dominance among sites and zones could be explained by interactions of various factors. Further, different levels of destruction between the two sides of the island had a significant effect on current patterns of species and structural zonation at Calabash. We conclude that disturbance regime in general should be considered as a factor potentially influencing mangrove horizontal zonation patterns.
10.2307/2388742|At sites near Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil we measured the impact of forest fragmentation on populations of male euglossine bees. The visitation rates of 15 species of male euglossine bees to three chemical attractants were determined for continuous forest; isolated 1, 10, and 100 ha forest fragments; and a cleared area. For most species, visitation rate declined with fragment size, even though openings separating fragments and continuous forest tended to be narrow (as little as 100 m). Pre- and post-isolation comparisons for individual fragments exhibited the same trend. Bee species attracted to scents in the clearing differed from those of the forest indicating there was little potential for forest pollination by these clearing species. These results are discussed with respect to the impact of forest fragmentation on plant species richness and the design of natural and commercial forest reserves.
10.2307/2388673|An abrupt change of bruchid taxa, distribution, and host range is evident in central and southwestern Ecuador. There are several hypotheses supported by data. One is expanded host range of the genus Sennius, which is very specific to Cassia (s.I.) north of Colombia, but feeds in seeds of other genera and subfamilies of Leguminosae in South America. Stator testudinarius was found also to feed in Pithecellobium saman. Acanthoscelides isla has a disjunct distribution due to past geologic changes. It feeds in seeds of Rhynchosia spp. only in Panama, Costa Rica, and Ecuador. Endemism in a biogeographically isolated area is exemplified by Acanthoscelides siemensi which feeds only in seeds of Duranta dombeyana in one locality in Ecuador. Guilds of bruchids are discussed because Stator testudinarius and Pseudopachymerina spinipes replace other bruchids in the same seed guilds there. Based on our data, we hypothesize that the distribution of bruchids in Ecuador is due to geologic events and present floral composition.
30043124|We examined feeding by the mangrove tree crab Aratus pisonii in Tampa Bay, Florida, in relation to the percent dry weight of carbohydrate, protein, phenolics, condensed tannins, ash, carbon, nitrogen, carbon:nitrogen ratio, water content, and sclerophylly for leaves of the red mangrove Rhizophora mangle. Comparisons of leaf chemistry were made among leaves that experienced variable levels of crab damage. Because R. mangle is the crab's preferred food source based on damage patterns in the field, comparisons of R. mangle leaf chemistry were made in relation to that of the black mangrove Avicennia germinans and the white mangrove Laguncularia racemosa. We observed a negative relationship between level of leaf damage and percent dry weight of nitrogen, carbohydrates, condensed tannins, and sclerophylly. In contrast, a positive relationship was found between leaf damage and the carbon nitrogen ratio. The chemical constituents that provided the best explanation for differences in damage among the three mangrove species include condensed tannins, nitrogen, carbon:nitrogen ratio, carbohydrates, phenolics, water content, and ash. The results from this study suggest that chemistry only partially explains food preference by A. pisonii. It appears that A. pisonii feeding behavior and preference may be influenced by a more complex series of factors and interactions, which may include reproduction by, predation on, and interspecific competition with A. pisonii.
10.2307/2389054|We studied the inflorescence phenology, floral biology, insect visitation, and pollen transport of the vegetable ivory palm Phytelephas seemannii in tropical rain forest at the Pacific coast of Colombia. Inflorescences warm up before and during anthesis. Male inflorescences open mostly by day and females at night. Visitors include Coleoptera (Staphylinidae, Nitidulidae, Curculionidae, Scarabaeidae), Diptera (Drosophilidae, Sphaeroceridae), Hymenoptera (Apidae, Vespidae), and Acarina, which are attracted to the male inflorescences by pollen and breeding opportunities. Female inflorescences apparently offer no reward, and they attract visitors by odor mimicry. Pollination takes place from dawn and throughout the daytime, and is mostly carried out by three species of pollen-eating Amazoncharis (Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae) and by their predators, Xanthopygus (Staphylinidae: Staphylininae). Amazoncharis reproduces in the male inflorescences by constructing egg chambers in the fleshy receptacle of the flowers. This reproductive behavior resembles that of beetles in the closely related subtribe Gyrophaenina that reproduce in fleshy mushrooms, whose spores they eat. We suggest that the fleshy structure of the male flowers' receptacle in this species is an adaptation to the pollination by egg chamber constructing Alaeocharinae.
40645582|Herbivory rates are generally thought to be higher in tropical than in temperate forests. Nevertheless, tests of this biogeographic prediction by comparing a single plant species across a tropical-temperate range are scarce. Here, we compare herbivore damage between subtropical and temperate populations of the evergreen tree Aextoxicon punctatum (Olivillo), distributed between 30 and 43 S along the Pacific margin of Chile. To assess the impact of herbivory on Olivillo seedlings, we set up 29 experimental plots, 1.5 x 3 m: 16 in forests of Fray Jorge National Park (subtropical latitude), and 13 in Guabun, Chiloe Island (temperate latitude). Half of each plot was fenced around with chicken wire, to exclude small mammals, and the other half was left unfenced. In each half of the plots we planted 16 seedlings of Olivillo in December 2003, with a total of 928 plants. Seedling survival, leaf production and herbivory by invertebrates were monitored over the next 16 mo. Small mammal herbivores killed ca 30 percent of seedlings in both sites. Nevertheless, invertebrate herbivory was greater in the temperate forest, thus contradicting the expected trend of increasing herbivore impact toward the tropics. Seedling growth was greater in subtropical forest suggesting better conditions for tree growth or that higher invertebrate herbivory depressed seedling growth in the temperate forest. Invertebrate herbivory increased toward temperate latitudes while small mammal herbivory was similar in both sites. We suggest that comparison of single species can be useful to test generalizations about latitudinal patterns and allow disentangling factors controlling herbivory patterns across communities.
10.2307/2388204|The spatial distribution of herbivory, mines and galls was investigated within the crowns of the canopy tree Argyrodendron actinophyllum (Sterculiaceae) in a subtropical rain forest near Brisbane, Australia. Apparent leaf damage amounted to 11 percent of leaf area removed, was significantly higher in sun than in shade leaves, was not significantly higher in the upper crown (>25 m) than in the lower crown (15-25 m), and did not differ significantly among compass orientations. Leaf biomass removed by herbivores was significantly higher in the upper crown and in sun samples. Overall leaf damage, including leaflets entirely eaten and leaf-mining, ranged from 11 percent to 19 percent. However, actual leaf consumption was mainly restricted to young leaves, and amounted to about 16 percent; this was more dependent on the location of isolated, abundant, and sunny patches of young foliage than on local differences in foliar nutrient characteristics, such as total nitrogen and water content. Lepidopteran biomass and numbers were correlated with leaf damage in the samples. Leaf-mining, averaging 31 mines per m$^2$ of leaf area, was significantly higher in the lower canopy. Gall densities approached three galls per m$^2$ of leaf area. Galled leaves were significantly larger and less heavily grazed. Patterns of herbivory and leaf-mining observed are discussed in light of current information and theories relevant to insect-plant interactions in rain forests.
27742811|Conserving tropical ecosystems is one of the foremost challenges of the 21st century. Lately, conservation efforts have focused on advancing conservation through dialogue and interaction with and among diverse stakeholders. Knowledge sharing, and specifically the transfer of scientific knowledge, can raise ecological awareness among stakeholders and is necessary to facilitate dialogue, yet the communication of tropical scientific research to local stakeholders is rarely effectively implemented. Such a communication gap potentially undermines the conservation and management of natural resources. The papers in this special section highlight the difficulties and benefits of sharing ecological knowledge, as well as the underlying reasons for why a researchimplementation gap has arisen.
2663947|An ongoing study is being conducted to test the efficacy of the Anabat II detector and analysis system in obtaining reliable vocal signatures for the identification of non-phyllostomid species of bats. We sampled a wide range of elevations and associated habitat types throughout Belize. Anabat provides an instantaneous output of echolocation call structure with a laptop computer. Select sequences can be saved directly to the hard drive, avoiding extraneous noise and sound distortion commonly associated with tape recorders. To date, 18 of the 37 species known or expected to occur in the study region were identified by recognizable differences in the time-frequency characteristics of echolocation calls. In general, each family is recognizable by call structure patterns and species readily separated by frequency range parameters. Species that commute or forage at high altitudes are not susceptible to capture but are conspicuous by acoustic sampling. Further work is needed to determine limitations of the equipment, establish better sampling procedures, and develop a comprehensive library of vocal signatures incorporating the range of variation inherent in each species. As this work progresses, we predict the addition of hitherto unknown species occurring within the study region.
10.2307/2989704|The generic and tribal relations of Itzaea sericea (Standl.) Standl. & Steyerm. are discussed. Morphological and anatomical data are utilized in determining the relations of this Central American species. A list of synonymy and distribution is provided.
20492535|The impacts of tropical deforestation and forest degradation on SE Asia's biotas have been documented, but a quantitative synthesis is currently lacking. We examined the responses of biodiversity to anthropogenic forest disturbance by comparing key ecological attributes between undisturbed and neighboring disturbed forests. Based on data from four taxonomic groups (vascular plants, invertebrates, birds, and mammals), six broad measures of 'ecological health' (e.g., richness, abundance, and demographics), and a range of different impact types from 120 articles published, we calculated the proportion of pairwise comparisons in which the measure of ecological health was lower in impacted than in pristine sites, as would be expected if forest disturbance was detrimental. The explanatory power of correlates of disturbance sensitivity was assessed using an information-theoretic evaluation of a candidate set of generalized linear models (GLMs). Overall, 73.6 percent (95% CI = 70.8-76.2%) of 1074 pairwise comparisons supported the expectation that forest disturbance was detrimental to ecological health, with mammals being the most sensitive group. The median effect size was for pristine areas to have 22.2 percent higher ecological health than equivalent disturbed areas. The most responsive measure of ecological health was species richness (median = 28.6% higher in pristine), and agricultural areas were the most ecologically degraded (median = 35.6% higher in pristine). However, the GLMs revealed no marked differences overall between taxonomic groups, habitat impact types, or ecological health measures. Our finding implies that the sensitivity of biodiversity to forest disturbance is moderately high, but essentially universal, suggesting urgent forest conservation actions.
10.2307/2388526|Programs for desertification control have to be formulated in response to the specific causes of environmental degradation. A method is presented to identify the main cause(s) of desertification in countries depending highly on agriculture. Applied to the Sahelian countries, overexploitation of the natural resources through overpopulation is identified. This is illustrated by developments in animal husbandry As a consequence intensification of agriculture is a must. It is difficult to make the available technical options profitable in view of the socioeconomic conditions. Chances are negligible where natural resources are already degraded.
30045445|Hawaiian dominant tree species Metrosideros polymorpha, varieties glaberrima and polymorpha have glabrous and pubescent leaves, respectively. Sympatric populations at 2040 m elevation showed major differentiation beyond the pubescence itself. The varieties differed substantially in stomatal traits and in leaf composition, leaf water status, and instantaneous gas exchange rates, despite similarity in leaf and wood cross-sectional anatomy. Functional differentiation among varieties represents a possible mechanism facilitating the occupation of an exceptional ecological range.
30043113|We examined the effects of shrimp on insects in Puerto Rico by assessing insect assemblages in streams relative to varying shrimp densities and also by manipulating shrimp presence. Insect assemblages were typical of tropical island streams and insects were found in all stream habitats. Shrimp impacted insects directly via predation and competition and indirectly through removing particles from the water column. Variation in shrimp distribution is likely to be an important factor determining insect-assemblage structure in tropical streams. /// Examinamos los efectos de los camarones sobre los insectos en Puerto Rico, para ello estudiamos quebradas con densidades contrastantes de camarones y manipulamos su presencia. Los ensamblajes de insectos fueron tpicos de quebradas de islas tropicales y usaron todos los hbitats. Los camarones impactaron directamente a los insectos va depredacin y competencia e indirectamente al remover partculas del agua. Variacin en la distribucin de camarones es un factor importante en determinar la estructura de los ensamblajes de insectos en las quebradas tropicales.
10.2307/2387958|The social organization of Artibeus jamaicensis was examined in Aguas Buenas Cave, Puerto Rico, by sampling roosting clusters of bats during the spring reproductive period. Most clusters consisted of 2-14 pregnant or lactating females (and their young) and a single adult male. This suggests a harem type of social organization. Two types of non-harem groups represented by non-reproductive females or sexually mature males supports this conclusion. Although our observations do not permit distinction between alternative explanations for harem formation, they do indicate that successful harem aquisition and maintenance is age or size related. Older and heavier males had larger harems than younger or smaller harem males. The occurrence of harem groups in tree hollows (Morrison 1979) and in caves (this study) suggests that environmental factors promoting harem social organization in A. jamaicensis can vary between populations.
2663878|The effects of dispersal pattern (seeds in small clumps vs. seeds scattered in pairs) and distance to the nearest Carapa procera (Meliaceae; a tree that produces seeds preferred by terrestrial vertebrates) on survival of seeds and seedlings were examined for the animal-dispersed tree species Virola michelii (Myristicaceae) in a mature forest at Paracou, French Guiana, in 1992 and 1993. We assessed the putative role of ground-dwelling mammalian herbivores, rodents, and ungulates that filter the seed shadow, acting either as dispersers or predators and thus modifying the original pattern of seed dispersal made by frugivores. We measured the effects of simulated seed burial by rodents using marked seeds and quantified the effect of protecting seeds and seedlings from ground-dwelling vertebrates on seedling germination and survival with fence exclosures in 1992. Dispersal pattern had short-term but no long-term effects on the proportion of V. michelii seeds that survived one year later as seedlings. In the short term, within six weeks, clumped seeds survived better than scattered seeds in both years. Marked seeds that were removed from their site of dispersal were eaten; rodents only rarely buried seeds of V. michelii, and seed burial reduced seed and seedling survivorship. The combined effect of the factors year and Carapa proximity significantly affected seed survival within six weeks. Although six-week seed survival was greater in 1993 than in 1992, seedling establishment was lower in 1993 than in 1992 following a lower rainfall regime during the key period of seed germination (February). One-year seed and seedling survivorship was similar between treatments and years. Seed survival and seedling establishment in V. michelii was dependent on vertebrates in the short term and on climate in the long term. Overall, seed and seedling survivorship depended on a combination of these factors.
30045401|Chestnut short-tailed bats, Carolila castanea, and Seba's short-tailed bats, perspicillata (Phyllostomidae), were radio-tracked (N= 1593 positions) in lowland rain forest at Tiputini Biodiversity Station, Orellana Province, Ecuador. For 11 C. castanea, mean home range was 6.8  2.2 ha, mean core-use area was 1.7  0.8 ha, and mean long axis across home range was 438  106 m. For three perspicillata, mean home range was 5.5  1.7 ha, mean core-use area was 1.3  0.6 ha, and mean long axis was 493  172 m. Groups of less than five C. castanea occupied day-roosts in earthen cavities that undercut banks the Tiputini River. Carollia perspicillata used tree hollows and buildings as day-roosts. Interspecific and intraspecific overlap among short-tailed bats occurred in core-use areas associated with clumps of fruiting Piper hispidum (peppers)j and Cecropia sciadophylla. Piper hispidum seeds were present in 80 percent of the fecal samples from castanea and 56 percent of samples from perspicillata. Carolila perspicil Uta handled pepper fruits significantly faster than castanea; however, castanea commenced foraging before perspicillata emerged from day-roosts. Evidence for exploitative competition between C. castanea and perspicillata is suggested by our observations that 95 percent of ripe P. hispidum fruits available at sunset disappear before sunrise (N= 74 marked fruits). Piper hispidum plants produced zero to 12 ripe infructescences per plant each night during peak production. Few ripe infructescences of P. hispidum were available during the dry season; however, ripe infructescences of C. sciadophylla, remained abundant.
30043086|Understory light availability is an important component of the environment for canopy tree seedlings. Understanding what generates variation in understory light availability represents one step in understanding processes regulating seedling banks, the beginning capital of regeneration in tropical forests. Near the forest floor, variation in light availability may be strongly influenced by the structure and composition of the understory. I examined abundance of understory foliage and patterns of light attenuation in five Neotropical forests (La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica = LS; Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panama = BCI; Cocha Cashu Biological Station, Manu National Park, Peru = CC; Kilometer 41, Manaus, Brazil = KM41; and Nouragues, French Guiana = NG). I used hemispherical canopy photos to estimate light availability at two heights (0.65 and 1.7 m) above the forest floor and counted foliage between these heights. Light availability differed significantly among sites, and site rankings depended on measurement height. At 0.65 m, NG had significantly lower mean light availability than CC, with KM41, LS, and BCI equivalent and intermediate. At 1.7 m, light availability was still lowest at NG, and highest at CC, but LS had levels similar to CC while KM41 and BCI remained intermediate. Across sites, light attenuation was positively related to foliage density. LS had the most understory foliage and the highest light attenuation between 0.65 and 1.7 m. KM4l, NG and CC had intermediate amounts of foliage and intermediate light attenuation. BCI had the lowest density of understory foliage and no difference between light at the two measurement heights. My results show significant effects of understory foliage on understory light and indicate that the selective environment of canopy tree seedlings differs among sites. /// Las condiciones lumnicas en el sotobosque son un componente importante del ambiente selectivo de las plntulas de rboles del dosel. Entender los factores que regulan la variacin en la cantidad del luz que llega a un punto dado del sotobosque representa un paso en la comprensin de los procesos que regulan la regeneracin avanzada en bosques tropicales. Cerca del suelo del bosque, la variacin en el ambiente lumnico puede verse afectado ms por la estructura y la composicin del sotobosque que por el dosel. Para evaluar esta hiptesis, examin la abundancia del follaje del sotobosque y los patrones de la atenuacin de luz en cinco bosques neotrpicales (Estacin Biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica = LS; Monumento Natural de Barro Colorado, Panam = BCI; Estacin Biolgica Cocha Cashu, Parque Nacional Manu, Per = CC; Kilmetro 41, Manaus, Brasil = KM41; y Nouragues, French Guiana = NG). Estim la disponibilidad de luz con fotos hemisphericas (lente "ojo de pez") tomados en dos alturas (0.65 y 1.7 m desde el suelo). Med un perfil de follaje entre las alturas focales. Los sitios difirieron significativamente en la cantidad de luz. Adems, el orden del los sitios en cuanto a condiciones lumnicas vari con la altura de la medida. A 0.65 m, NG mostr la menor disponibilidad de luz seguido por KM41, LS, y BCI (similares) y finalmente CC. A 1.7 m, NG todava mostr la menor disponibilidad del luz seguido por KM41 y BCI, y ambos fueron ms bajos que LS o CC (similares y las mayores cantidades). La attenuacin de luz se relacion positivamente con la densidad del follaje en el sotobosque. En LS observ la mayor cantidad del follaje del sotobosque y la mayor atenuacin de luz entre alturas de medida. En KM41, CC, y NG observ cantidades intermedios del follaje y atenuacin de la luz. BCI mostr las menores cantidades del follaje del sotobosque y ninguna diferencia entre la luz en las dos alturas medidas. Mis resultados muestran los efectos fuertes de la vegetacin del sotobosque por el ambiente lumnico y indican que el ambiente selectivo de las plntulas de los rboles del dosel puede diferir entre sitios.
10.2307/2387934|Amounts of leaf material grazed by insect herbivores in Australian rainforest canopies were measured over 3 years, and two methods of assessment were compared. Long-term observations of labelled leaves and shoots measured losses up to five times larger than estimates obtained by the more conventional technique of measuring missing leaf area on single occasions. Long-term observations gave higher but more accurate rates since they incorporated a temporal component to grazing activities and also accounted for leaves totally eaten. Annual leaf area losses of 26, 22, and 14.6 percent were measured in Australian cool temperate, warm temperate, and subtropical rainforests, respectively. Grazing in some plant communities may be higher than previously recorded from discrete measurements of missing-leaf area, resulting in an underestimation of the impact of herbivory.
10.2307/2388382|Predation by Merlins (Falco columbarius) on the insectivorous bat Pteronotus fulginosus was studied for two consecutive winters at a cave in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. Falcons were present from October to April, reaching maximum densities in January and February. Predation efficiency of falcons was greater at the more exposed of two flyways used by bats. The falcon using the most easily observed perch captured an average of 5.1 bats/day. In the first season falcons took 1800 bats from the more exposed flyway or 1.5 percent of the standing crop as estimated photographically. By the end of the second year the exposed flyway was no longer used by bats.
41241888|Integrating phylogenetic data into macroecological studies of biodiversity patterns may complement the information provided by present-day spatial patterns. In the present study, we used range map data for all Geonoma (Arecaceae) species to assess whether Geonoma species composition forms spatially coherent floristic clusters. We then evaluated the extent to which the spatial variation in species composition reflects present-day environmental variation vs. nonenvironmental spatial effects, as expected if the pattern reflects historical biogeography. We also examined the degree of geographic structure in the Geonoma phylogeny. Finally, we used a dated phylogeny to assess whether species richness within the floristic clusters was constrained by a specific historical biogeographic driver, namely time-for-diversification. A cluster analysis identified six spatially coherent floristic clusters, four of which were used to reveal a significant geographic phylogenetic structure. Variation partitioning analysis showed that 56 percent of the variation in species composition could be explained by spatial variables alone, consistent with historical factors having played a major role in generating the Geonoma diversity pattern. To test for a time-for-diversification effect, we correlated four different species richness measures with the diversification time of the earliest large lineage that is characteristic of each cluster. In support of this hypothesis, we found that geographic areas with higher richness contained older radiations. We conclude that current geographic diversity patterns in Geonoma reflect the present-day climate, but to a larger extent are related to nonenvironmental spatial constraints linked to colonization time, dispersal limitation, and geological history, followed by within-area evolutionary diversification.
2663766|We investigated the relationships among interstitial salinity, leaf sclerophylly, plant vigor, and population density for the leaf galling insect Cecidomyia avicenniae (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) on its host plant Avicennia germinans (Avicenniaceae). Sampling was done in six mangrove stands and in one varzea forest of Maranhao, northeast Brazil. At each site, ten shoots were randomly taken on five A. germinans trees. From each shoot we counted the total number of galls and recorded the shoot length (cm). We also recorded the average length, width, total area, and biomass of leaves per shoot. Leaf sclerophylly was quantified by leaf biomass per unit area (g/cm
20492469|Mating system and pollen flow are two key elements to understand the genetic structure of tree species. Mating and pollen-dispersal patterns of a low-density population of bat pollinated Hymanea courbaril were examined before logging in a 546-ha plot in the Brazilian Amazon. The multilocus genotypes of nine microsatellite loci were determined for 130 adult-trees and 367 seeds collected from 20 seed-trees. Mating system analysis, using mixed-mating model and paternity analysis showed that the studied population is perfectly outcrossed (
30044924|Floristic composition and vegetation structure of plants 3 cm stem diameter or greater were compared at four sites in the Agreste of Paraba, Brazil: (1) little disturbed for five decades (LD); (2) grazed fragment, selectively logged 16 years before sampling (GF); (3) naturally regrowing for 30 years after 39 years of agriculture (OR); and (4) naturally regrowing for 20 years after 35 years of agriculture plus 15 years of pasture (NR). Cattle graze frequently in the last three sites but very seldom in LD. The little disturbed site had more species (53) than the other three sites (36, 25, and 11 species in GF, OG, and NG, respectively) and also more (3253, 2780, 2780, and 2115 plants/ha) and larger plants (34.8, 26.8, 18.6, and 7.8 m2/ha), including taller tree species (up to 15 m) absent in the other sites (maximum height: 14, 6, and 5 m). Differences were striking in relation to NR, the site with longer use and shorter regrowth period, which was strongly dominated by only two species: Mimosa tenuiflora (73% relative density and 81% basal area) and Piptadenia stipulacea (21% relative density and 16% basal area). These results indicate that abandoned agricultural sites may take several decades to reestablish vegetation similar to the original. /// Foram comparadas a composio floristica e a estrutura da vegetao das plantas com dimetro do caule  3 cm, em quatro reas no Agreste da Paraba: (1) pouco perturbada por cinco dcadas (LD); (2) fragmento pastejado que teve corte seletivo de rvores 16 anos antes da amostragem (GF); (3) revegetao natural por 30 anos depois de 39 anos de agricultura (OR); e (4) revegetao natural por 20 anos depois de 35 anos de agricultura e 15 anos como pasto plantado (NR). Gado bovino pasta frequentemente nas trs ltimas reas e s raramente em LD. A rea pouco perturbada tinha maior nmero de espcies (53) que as outras trs reas (36, 25 e 11 espcies em GF, OR e NR, respectivamente), alm de plantas em maior nmero (3253, 2780, 2780 e 2115 plantas/ha) e de maior tamanho (34.8, 26.8, 18.6 e 7.8 m2/ha), incluindo espcies arbreas mais altas (at 15 m), ausentes nas outras reas (alturas maximas de 14, 6 e 5 m). As diferenas foram marcantes em relao a NR, rea com maior tempo de uso e menor tempo de revegetao, e dominada por apenas duas espcies: Mimosa tenuiflora (densidade e rea basal relativas de 73 e 81%) e Piptadenia stipukcea (21% de densidade e 16% de rea basal). Os resultados indicam que as reas de agricultura abandonadas podem levar dcadas at estabelecerem vegetao semelhante  original.
40863792|Cities contain over half of the world's population and are the source of many anthropogenic effects on the world's biota. Close examination of San Juan, Puerto Rico, a tropical city, reveals a significant green infrastructure. The city contains natural and human-constructed forests, urban aquatic systems with native and introduced species, and a thriving and diverse biota adapted to urban conditions. It behooves tropical ecologists to pay attention to the biodiversity of urban environments to learn lessons about ecological persistence and adaptation to novel anthropogenic environments.
41058542|Classic niche partitioning suggests that coexistence among asymmetric competitors is facilitated by differential resource use. Coexistence is also possible, however, when a species only has access to resources that are shared with a competitor, providing it is the superior competitor on that resource (the included niche). To test predictions of these two coexistence mechanisms, we studied habitat selection of two closely related sympatric plant-specialist frogs from Madagascar (Guibemantis bicalcaratm and Guibemantis punctatus). Both species live and breed only in the water-filled leaf axils of Pandanus plants, and previous experiments with their tadpoles demonstrated asymmetric competition. In a 3-yr field study, we: (1) monitored the biotic and abiotic conditions of 348 plants; (2) surveyed these plants for frogs; (3) undertook a mark-recapture study; and (4) conducted an experiment where we manipulated the amount of detritus in plants. We identified several differences in the conditions of the habitats selected by both species (e.g., plant height, canopy cover over the plant, abundance of heterospecifics). Co-occurrence was nevertheless common, and G. punctatus persisted almost exclusively in plants it shared with G. bicalcaratus. As predicted by theory, G. punctatus was the superior competitor, at least in the tadpole stage. The inferior competitor (G. bicalcaratus) had access to exclusive resources not available to G. punctatus, by virtue of a faster developmental rate that permitted reproduction in lower quality plants. While there was some evidence of weak niche partitioning, we conclude that coexistence in these plant-specialist frogs is primarily via an included niche mechanism.
30043131|Tropical forests are among the most heterogeneous environments on earth, and food resources for many animals are patchy both in time and space. In Africa's equatorial forest, permanent trails created and maintained by forest elephants are conspicuous features. Trails may be several meters wide and continue for tens of kilometers. Speculation on which resources determine the distribution of trails has identified fruit, browse, and mineral deposits as candidates. In this study, the relationships between these habitat variables and elephant trails were investigated. The size of individual trails and the density of the trail system increased dramatically with proximity to mineral deposits. Fruit tree basal area decreased with perpendicular distance from trails, while that of non-fruit trees did not. Fruit tree abundance and basal area were significantly higher on trail intersections than random sites and increased with intersection size. No relationship was found between monocotyledon browse abundance and elephant trail system characteristics. Clumped resources, which are at least partially reliable, provide a high nutritional payback, and are not rapidly depleted and can thus be visited repeatedly, appear to influence permanent trail formation by forest elephants. Permanent trails may allow naive individuals or those with imperfect knowledge to locate and acquire important resources.
30044034|Although spiders are a very diverse group on vegetation, their associations with plants are poorly known. Some salticid species specifically use Bromeliaceae as host plants in some regions of South America. In this study, I report the geographic range of these spider-bromeliad associations, and whether the spiders inhabit particular bromeliad species and vegetation types, as well as open areas or interior of forests. Nine salticid species were found to be associated with up to 23 bromeliad species in cerrados (savanna-like vegetation), semideciduous and seasonal forests, coastal sand dune vegetation, restingas, inselbergs, highland forests, chacos, and rain forests at 47 localities in Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia, and Argentina. Some species were typically specialists, inhabiting almost exclusively one bromeliad species over a large geographic range (e.g., Psecas chapoda on Bromelia balansae), whereas others were generalists, occurring on up to 7-8 bromeliad species (e.g., Psecas sp., Eustiromastix nativo, and Coryphasia sp. 1). The regional availability of bromeliad species among habitats may explain this pattern of host plant use. More jumping spiders were found on bromeliads in open areas than on bromeliads in the interior of forests. These results show that several jumping spider species may be strictly associated with the Bromeliaceae in the Neotropics. This is one of the few studies to show host-specific associations for spiders on a particular plant type over a wide geographic range. /// Embora aranhas sejam urn grupo muito diverso sobre a vegetao, suas associaes com plantas sao pobremente conhecidas. Algumas espcies de Salticidae usam especificamente Bromeliaceae como plantas hospedeiras em algumas regies da Amrica do Sul. Neste estudo eu relato a extenso geogrfica destas associaes entre aranhas e bromlias, e se as aranhas habitam espcies particulares de bromlias e tipos especficos de vegetao, bem como reas abertas ou interior de florestas. Nove espcies de Salticidae foram encontradas associadas com at 23 espcies de bromlias no cerrado, florestas semidecduas e estacionais, vegetao de dunas costeiras, restingas, afloramentos rochosos, florestas de altitude, chacos e floresta Atlntica em A7 localidades no Brasil, Paraguai, Bolvia e Argentina. Algumas espcies foram tipicamente especialistas e habitaram quase exclusivamente urna espcie de planta em urna grande extenso geogrfica (e.g., Psecas chapoda sobre Bromelia balansae), enquanto outras foram generalistas e ocorreram em at 7-8 espcies de bromlias (e.g., Psecas sp., Eustiromastix nativo e Coryphasia sp. 1). A disponibilidade regional de espcies de bromlias entre habitats pode explicar este padro de uso de planta hospedeira. Mais salticdeos foram encontrados sobre bromlias em reas abertas do que sobre bromlias no interior de florestas. Estes resultados mostram que vrias espcies de salticdeos podem estar estritamente associadas a Bromeliaceae na regio Neotropical. Este  um dos poucos estudos que relata associaes hospedeira-especficas para aranhas em um tipo particular de planta atravs de urna grande extenso geogrfica.
20492570|Variation in postdispersal seed fate is an important factor driving patterns of forest regeneration. Because most previous studies have not tracked final seed fate and have commonly equated seed removal with predation without considering the possibility of secondary dispersal, little is known about individual seed mortality factors in successional and degraded habitats. This study tracked the postdispersal fate of large-seeded tropical montane trees in abandoned pasture, young secondary forests, and small forest fragments during two consecutive years in an agricultural landscape in southern Costa Rica. The incidence of secondary dispersal by animals, scatterhoarding in particular, and the effects of seed burial on germination were measured. Overall, seeds survived through germination more often in secondary forests with high levels of mortality occurring in abandoned pastures and forest fragments. The majority of seed mortality was caused by rodent predation in forest fragments, insects and fungal pathogens in secondary forests, and a combination of desiccation, insects, and fungal pathogens in pastures. Seeds were frequently secondarily dispersed in larger forest fragments, whereas they were only rarely moved in pastures and secondary forests. Burial tended to improve germination in pastures and was important for an often scatterhoarded species, Otoba novogranatensis, in all habitats. The results of this study suggest that: (1) seed mortality factors differ in response to the type of habitat degradation; (2) large-seeded species have high potential for survival when dispersed to young secondary forests; and (3) seed removal is not a reliable proxy for seed predation, particularly in less degraded forest fragments.
10.2307/2388441|Evidence is presented which indicates that, if the seeds of the Neotropical forest palm Astrocaryum standleyanum are not peeled and buried (in the manner followed by their principal disperser: the agouti, Dasyprocta punctata) the probability of their survival is greatly reduced. Seeds were artificially peeled and dispersed. After 11 months 29.2 percent of those that had been buried had germinated, as opposed to 2.6 percent of those left on the surface. Unburied seeds are eaten by both vertebrate and invertebrate predators; if protected against either, the other alone is sufficient to ensure high mortality. If, however, they are protected from both vertebrate and invertebrate predators, unburied seeds germinate nearly as well as buried seeds. In peeling the fruits, agoutis may be removing invertebrate larvae before they have had time to penetrate the endocarp of the seed. Because of its abundance, because its fruiting is relatively predictable and because the seeds, when stored, remain intact through the annual period of scarcity, Astrocaryum standleyanum constitutes an important food resource for several mammal species in the Panamanian forests.
10.2307/2387997|Approximately 2.5 million monarch butterflies in an overwintering colony in Mexico were killed by a severe winter storm in January 1981. Flight testing of butterflies sampled from four locations within the colony during and after the storm gave an overview of the general flux of butterflies from clusters to the ground and back due to the storm's effects. Normally adapative behavior to avoid freezing ground temperatures, including high roosting and crawling up onto low vegetation, were only partially effective against the severe cold. Selective wetting and subsequent freezing appears to account for the mortality patterns observed in the roosting clusters.
2389162|The richness and seasonal variation of ant-plant interactions were compared in four habitats in Mexico: lowland tropical dry forest (La Mancha, Veracruz), coastal sand dune matorral (San Benito, Yucatan), semiarid highland vegetation (Zapotitlan, Puebla), and lower montane humid forest (Xalapa, Veracruz). The effects of temperature and precipitation on the seasonal distribution of the number of ant-plant interactions differed among habitats. The general linear models fitted to the ant-plant interaction curves explained 78.8 percent of the variation for La Mancha, 80.1 percent for Zapotitlan, 18 percent for San Benito, and 29.5 percent for Xalapa. Even though rainfall is low in Zapotitlan and San Benito, minimum temperature was the most important factor accounting for the seasonal distribution and low number of interactions. At La Mancha, with milder minimum temperatures and higher water availability, temperature alone did not account for the seasonal distribution and number of interactions, whereas the effect of the precipitation x temperature interaction was highly significant. Xalapa exhibits the lowest temperatures and the highest precipitation, but the role of these factors was only marginal. We suggest that the vegetation at Xalapa, a mixture of tropical and temperate floristic elements, constrains ant-plant interactions due to a limited presence of nectaries. Also, ants are less abundant in cool and relatively aseasonal habitats. The other habitats have tropical floristic elements that are abundant and frequently have nectar-producing structures. We report considerable variation among habitats in the number and seasonal distribution of ant-plant interactions, and suggest that it is due to the effect of variation in environmental parameters, the richness of plants with nectaries in the vegetation, and habitat heterogeneity.
30043280|Some temperate wood-boring cerambycid beetles harbor intracellular gut yeasts believed to augment host nutrition, but species belonging to the subfamily Lamiinae are thought to lack endosymbionts. Almost 49 percent of Neotropical cerambycid species are lamiines, therefore, comparatively few rain forest species would be expected to host symbiotic gut yeasts. This study reports the isolation of gut yeasts from closely related Neotropical lamiines. We investigated species that feed on trees in the Brazil nut family (Lecythidaceae), because host plant associations are relatively well known. Our objectives were to determine if gut yeasts were present and, if possible, infer their mode of transmission. We collected and dissected 18 beetle specimens from three tree species, including 17 cerambycids and one curculionid. Every insect specimen yielded a gut yeast. DNA sequence libraries were used for a rapid identification of the yeasts and their larval hosts. The cerambycids included five lamiine species and one cerambycine. Six ascomycete yeasts were isolated from their guts; we found no evidence of strict vertical transmission. Larval gut yeasts were genetically similar to yeasts previously isolated from insects associated with wood or fungi, implying potential habitat specificity. The yeasts have not yet been localized, and potential function is not known, but they may contribute to rapid nutrient cycling or serve as the first line of defense against plant toxins.
40863785|Increasingly, we view nature through a utilitarian lens that leads us to attempt to measure and manage the services that species, habitats and ecosystems provide. Surprisingly, we have tended to consider only the positive values of ecosystems, their ecosystem services. In addition to providing our food and water, Nature also kills us, primarily through disease. If we are to effectively manage the terrestrial Earth, we need to also manage species, habitats and ecosystems so as to minimize such 'ecosystem disservices'. I consider what we know about the spatial pattern of one disservice, pathogen prevalence and how changes in habitat influence it. I consider the effects of habitat changes on pathogen prevalence and, consequently, ecosystem disservices. In the end, we need to weigh both the costs and the benefits of particular ecosystems, habitats and species  to consider the bad with the good. Doing so requires that we learn much more about the biota than we currently know.
30043643|The effect of forest disturbance on survival and secondary dispersal of an artificial seed shadow (N = 800) was studied at Brownsberg Natural Park, Suriname, South America. We scattered single seeds of the frugivore-dispersed tree Virola kwatae (Myristicaceae), simulating loose dispersal by frugivores, in undisturbed and disturbed secondary forest habitats. Seed survival rate aboveground was high (69%) within 2 wk and was negatively correlated with scatterhoarding rate by rodents, the latter being significantly lower in the undisturbed forest (9%) than in the disturbed forest (20%). Postdispersal seed predation by vertebrates was low (3%) and infestation of seeds by invertebrates was almost zero in all instances. Therefore, secondary seed dispersal by rodents in forest is not as critical for recruitment as observed among other bruchid-infested large-seeded species. Secondary seed dispersal by rodents may, however, facilitate seedling recruitment whether cached seeds experience greater survival than seeds remaining above ground surface.
10.2307/2387824|Palicourea fendleri and P. petiolaris (Rubiaceae) are sympatric, distylous tropical shrubs of cloud forest habitats in Venezuela; the former is strongly self-incompatible and the two floral morphs occur in a 1.1 ratio in natural populations. Palicourea petiolaris exhibits different levels of self-compatibility in the different populations studied and deviations toward more pin morphs occur in some populations. In general, where the level of incompatibility is stronger, the population structure is closer to equilibrium. A population at the margin of the geographical range of P. petiolaris is composed of fully self-compatible pin plants. Self-compatibility may have arisen in that population from a mutation resulting in "thrum like" behavior of pollen in long styled plants. Fruit set and seed set of the two species are highly variable among the different populations. For P petiolaris, the population which has the strongest level of self-incompatibility has the lowest fecundity
41419471|There is a growing concern that the feeding habits of the African elephant, which include pushing over, uprooting and snapping trees, may have a negative impact on other herbivores. Browsed trees are known to respond by either increasing production (shoots and leaves) or defence (secondary compounds). It is not clear, however, what proportion of the browsed biomass can be made available at lower feeding heights after a tree is pushed over or snapped; thus, it is also unclear how the forage quality is affected. In a field survey in Kruger National Park, South Africa, 708 Mopane trees were measured over four elephant utilization categories: snapped trees, pushed-over trees, uprooted trees and control trees. The elephants' impact on the leaf biomass distribution was quantified, and the forage quality (Ca, P, K and Mg, N, digestibility and condensed tannin [CT] concentrations) were analyzed. Pushed-over and uprooted trees had the maximum leaf biomass at lower heights (< 1 m), snapped trees at medium heights (1-2 m) and control trees at higher heights (> 2 m). In all three utilization categories, the minimum leaf biomass was seven times higher than it was for control trees at a height of below 1 m. Leaf nitrogen content increased in all three categories and was significantly higher in snapped trees. CT concentrations increased slightly in all trees that were utilized by elephants, especially on granitic soils in the dry season. The results provide the insight that elephants facilitate the redistribution and availability of browse and improve the quality, which may positively affect small browsing herbivores.
10.2307/2387787|Metabolic rate and body temperature were measured simultaneously in Trochilus polytmus and Trochilus scitulus, endemic Jamaican hummingbirds, at ambient temperatures from 0
10.2307/2389061|We measured the diameter at breast height of all trees and shrubs 5 meters in height, including standing dead trees, on 68 0.04-hectare study plots in a montane, subtropical rain forest on Mauna Loa, Hawai'i. The canopy species consisted of 88 percent Metrosideros polymorpha (ohia) and 12 percent Acacia koa (koa). Negative associations were found between the densities of koa and ohia, the density of koa and the total basal area of ohia, and the total basal areas of koa and ohia. The two-species lottery competition model, a stochastic model in which the coexistence of two species in a space-limited community results from temporal variation in recruitment and death rates, predicts a quadratic-beta distribution for the proportion of space occupied by each species. A discrete version of the quadraticbeta distribution, the quadratic-beta binomial distribution, was fit to the live koa and ohia densities and assessed with goodness-of-fit tests. Likelihood ratio tests provided evidence that the mean adult death rates of the two species were equal but that the relative competitive abilities of the two species favored ohia. These tests were corroborated by a contingency table analysis of death rates based on standing dead trees and growth rate studies which report that koa grows much faster than ohia. The lottery model predicts a positive covariance between death rates and ohia recruitment when mean death rates are equal and koa has a higher growth rate than ohia. We argue that the competitive advantage of ohia is due to its superior dispersal ability into large gaps, which would yield the positive covariance described above, and it is this positive covariance term that skews the occupation of space in favor of ohia.
20492547|Current understanding of the vulnerability of tropical forests to plant invasion is limited but is widely believed to increase where forests: (1) suffer marked natural or man-made disturbance; and/or (2) are exposed to high propagule pressure of alien species. This study aimed, for the first time, to address the importance of propagule pressure and disturbance by examining the spread of an introduced tree, Cordia alliodora, from a single plantation into a surrounding mosaic of humid forest in the East Usambara Mountains, Tanzania. By assessing vulnerability to invasion along transects radiating from the plantation, the effects of distance (measure of propagule pressure), and disturbance could be discerned. For all life stages, distance from source population was the strongest correlate of density. A marked influence of disturbance was only evident for C. alliodora seedlings. Spatial variation in the densities of later life stages may be a function of past disturbances, less easy to assess from current surveys, especially following the marked self-thinning between seedling and adult densities. Nevertheless, the evidence suggests that propagule pressure is a more important determinant of Cordia density than disturbance. If this is true for other alien tree species in tropical forests, controlling for introduction effort is essential to assess the drivers of plant invasion. Given an annual population growth rate of ca 3.5 percent, equivalent to the population doubling every 20 yr, C. alliodora poses a significant threat to the East Usambaras as well as other humid forests where it is promoted for agroforestry.
30043123|From an ecological standpoint, the symbiosis between leaf-cutting ants and their fungus can be described as an herbivore feeding on plant material harvested by the ants, metabolized by the fungus, and finally removed by the ants as refuse. Here, we report on a nutrient balance (soluble and insoluble carbon and nitrogen compounds) between harvested and refuse material collected from six Acromyrmex lundi nests from a semiarid woodland in Crdoba, Argentina. The nutrient balance was calculated using cellulose as an indicator. Harvested material had low protein (10%) and high fiber content (57%). Refuse material was rich in fiber (53%), total nitrogen (2%), and ash content (28%). Balance was negative for soluble carbon and phenols. Soluble fibers, lignin, and true protein remained unchanged. Surprisingly, crude protein and all soluble nitrogen fractions had a positive balance, suggesting additional nitrogen sources besides plant material. Phenol utilization by the leaf-cutting ant fungus suggests that phenols are not harmful to the fungus. Inability to metabolize insoluble carbon compounds and a net nitrogen gain in the refuse material were peculiar and interesting features of the ant-fungus system. /// Desde un punto de vista ecolgico, la simbiosis entre las hormigas cortadoras y su hongo se comporta como un herbvoro que se alimenta de material vegetal el cual es colectado por las hormigas, metabolizado por el hongo, y finalmente eliminado por las hormigas como desecho. En este trabajo se evala el balance de nutrientes (compuestos de carbono y nitrgeno solubles e insolubles) entre el material colectado y el desechado en seis nidos de Acromyrmex lundi en un bosque semirido en Crdoba, Argentina. El balance de nutrientes fue calculado usando celulosa como indicador. El material colectado present bajo contenido de protena (10%) y alto contenido de fibras (57%). El material desechado era rico en fibras (53%), nitrgeno total (2%), y cenizas (28%). El balance fue negativo para el carbono soluble y los fenoles y neutro para fibra soluble, lignina, y protena verdadera. Sorprendentemente, la protena cruda y todas las fracciones solubles de nitrgeno tuvieron un balance positivo, sugiriendo una fuente adicional de nitrgeno aparte del material vegetal. La utilizacin de fenoles por el hongo de la simbiosis sugiereque los fenoles no seran perjudiciales para el metabolismo del hongo. La incapacidad para metabolizar compuestos de carbono insoluble y la ganancia neta de nitrgeno en el material desechado son caractersticas particulares e interesantes del sistema hormiga-hongo.
10.2307/2388053|Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus penicillata) living in a central Brazilian gallery forest depend heavily on exudates as a food. The marmosets gnaw holes in the bark of certain tree species, and all exudate collection takes place at these holes. Marmosets thus forage as ectoparasites on these trees. In all, 14 species of trees were parasitized by the marmosets; however, almost all activity was concentrated on three species: Vochysia pyramidalis, Callisthene major, and Tapirira guianensis. Marmosets foraged more on larger trees near the center of the gallery forest. Although Callisthene was utilized in a somewhat different fashion than the other two species, there was no strong difference in preference among the three important species. The exudate sources were distributed regularly among the gallery forest.
30045399|This study describes the foraging ecology of birds during summer and winter in two different types of coffee agroecosystems in Chiapas, Mexico. Avian foraging behavior is documented in two agroecosystems of differing management intensity, structurally similar but with different levels of floristic diversity, during summer and winter seasons. The distribution of tree species used by birds was more even, and birds used a greater diversity of tree species, in the more diverse coffee shade system. Much of the variation in resource use derived from shifts in the use of flowers and fruit, highlighting the importance in resource phenology for birds. Insectivory was more frequent in winter than summer for the coffee layer, and in summer for the shade layer. Given the vegetative structural similarity of the two coffee agroecosystems included in this study, floristic differences probably accounted for much of the difference in the bird communities between the management systems, especially given the strong seasonal response to flowering and fruiting. This work suggests that plentiful and diverse food resources associated with the high diversity of plant species may facilitate coexistence of the high number of bird species found in shade-grown coffee agroecosystems.
10.2307/2388519|The debate about microevolutionary processes resulting in speciation in tropical woody plants has been largely based on different and contrasting perceptions about their modes of reproduction. The research during the last twenty years has shown that most tropical woody plants are strongly outcrossed. Recent quantitative estimates of mating systems and analyses of population genetic structures, respectively, indicate that the rates of outcrossing are high and there is considerable genetic diversity within populations. Although data on mating systems and population genetic structure have not settled the issue of speciation modes in tropical woody plants, empirical studies have provided little support for the notions about prevalence of selfing and a high level of inbreeding. Further progress in understanding speciation should come from the study of genera with a large number of sympatric species. Two profitable areas of research might involve the evaluation of the part played by plant-pollinator interactions in speciation and the documentation of the levels of gene flow and genetic differentiation among populations.
10.2307/2989800|Observations of the hummingbird Amazilia tzacatl and skipper butterflies (Hesperiidae) at the flowering shrub Stachytarpheta jamaicensis showed that hummingbird foraging patterns reflected the distribution of flowers on the hedge while butterfly foraging patterns did not. The hummingbird was repeatedly observed to chase butterflies from middle and upper portions of the hedge. Removal of the hummingbird was followed by an immediate change in the distribution of the visits of the hesperid butterfly. Interference competition through interspecific aggression is suggested as the mechanism for vertical partitioning of this common food resource.
30044030|Human activities such as logging and agriculture can severely damage forest ecosystems by changing forest structure, ecosystem function, and biodiversity. These changes may have long-lasting consequences, which influence forest recovery. We investigated the effect of past human disturbance on the current distribution of an understory, achlorophyllous orchid, Wulhchlaegelia calcarata in Puerto Rico's tropical rain forest after 70 yr of recovery. Our study site was the 16-ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot located in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, which has four areas with differing intensity of land use that have been distinguished from variation in canopy cover seen in aerial photographs taken in 1936. We recorded orchids in six 10-m-wide, 500-m-long transects across four different areas of land-use history. We found that the orchid was not present in an area of the plot which had <20 percent canopy cover in 1936, and was most abundant in the area with >80 percent canopy cover, which had been minimally impacted by human activity. Tree species composition varied among land-use history areas, and our observations suggested that this variation might be influencing the local distribution of W calcarata. We also measured leaf litter biomass and identified the leaves of litter in areas with and without the orchid. Litter with a high proportion of Buchenavia tetraphylla leaves had more orchids. Even though human disturbance ceased in 1932, land-use history in the Luquillo Forest still casts a shadow over the distribution of W. calcarata. /// Las actividades humanas como la tala de rboles y la agricultura pueden afectar severamente los ecosistemas forestales al cambiar la estructura del bosque, la funcin del ecosistema y la biodiversidad. Estos cambios pueden tener consecuencias a largo plazo, que influyen en la recuperacin del bosque. Investigamos el efecto de pasadas perturbaciones humanas en la distribucin actual de la orqudea aclorofilosa del sotobosque, Wullschlaegelia calcarata Benth. (Orchidaceae), en el bosque tropical lluvioso de Puerto Rico luego de 70 aos de recuperacin. Nuestro sitio de estudio fue una rea de 16 ha conocido como "Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot" en el Bosque Experimental de Luquillo, el cual tiene cuatro reas con intensidades diferentes de uso de tierras y que se ha distinguido por la variacin de la cubierta de dosel vista en fotos areas de 1936. Documentamos W. calcarata en seis transectos de 10 m de ancho y 500 m de largo a travs de cuatro reas de diferente historia de uso de tierras. Encontramos que W. calcarata no estaba presente en el rea de la parcela con <20 por ciento de cubierta de dosel en 1936, y era ms abundante en el rea con >80 por ciento de cubierta de dosel, el cul haba sido alterado por actividad humana. La composicin de especies de rboles variaron entre las reas de historia de uso de tierras y nuestras observaciones sugirieron que esta variacin puede estar influenciando la distribucin local de W. calcarata. Tambin medimos la biomasa de la hojarasca e identificamos las hojas en reas con y sin W. calcarata. La hojarasca con una alta proporcin de hojas de Buchenavia tetraphylla (Aublet) R. A Howard (Combretaceae) tuvieron ms W. calcarata. Aunque la pertubacin humana acab en 1932, la historia del uso de la tierra en el Bosque de Luquillo contina influyendo en la distribucin de W. calcarata.
10.2307/2388646|The foliage-as-fruit hypothesis argues that some plants may actually promote herbivory by large ungulates at the time of seed set to achieve seed dispersal. I examined a minimum condition of this hypothesis, that large herbivores actually ingest and pass small seeds from non-fleshy-fruited plants, by screening the dung of large indigenous mammals at the time of seed set. In a lowland reserve in South Asia, I examined the dung of Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros, Indian bison, and four native cervids for seeds from plants not producing fleshy fruits but found no obvious examples supporting the foliage-as-fruit hypothesis. Frequent, predictable, and widespread disturbance of grasslands by annual flooding and periodic fires provides sufficient microsites for the propagation of annual plants. Under this disturbance regime, selection pressure for megafauna-mediated dispersal, as described by the foliage-as-fruit hypothesis, is not apparent in plants of South Asian flood plains.
40863797|The agricultural matrix surrounding forested areas serves critical functions as dispersal corridors and alternate habitat for wildlife. Agricultural intensification, however, can reduce the conservation value of these areas. To evaluate the effects of agroecosystem management on bat assemblages, we studied the abundance and diversity of leaf-nosed bats (family: Phyllostomidae) in southwestern Chiapas, Mexico, a landscape dominated by shade coffee agro forestry. During 2104 mist-net hour (MNH), we captured 3167 bats of 27 phyllostomid species. Total species richness in each land-use type varied from 24 species in forest fragments to 22 species in commercial shade polycultures. Although the cumulative observed species richness showed little change in response to management intensity, the number of bats captured per MNH declined significantly in the more intensively managed (i.e., low-shade monocultures) plantations. Intensively managed coffee plantations had lower phyllostomid diversity and species similarity, and had lower proportions of nectarivorous and animalivorous bats. Among frugivores, the proportion of large (> 25 g) frugivores captured increased with management intensity. Recapture frequency was significantly higher than expected in forest fragments, and lower than expected in more intensively managed coffee. Our results suggest that less intensively managed coffee agroforests can serve as valuable feeding and commuting areas for most leaf-nosed bats, and that maintaining forest fragments in agricultural landscapes contributes to bat diversity. Declines in populations of gleaning insectivores, however, could compromise natural suppression of insect pests in these agricultural areas.
10.2307/2388303|Dominant arboreal ants are distributed in a mosaic-like fashion within tree-crop plantations throughout the New World and Old World tropics. This paper reports on the distribution of arboreal ants within mango plantations, rain forests, and woodlands in the tropical northern part of Australia. Only two genera of arboreal ants, Oecophylla and to a lesser extent Crematogaster, reach high densities on trees in the areas studied. Both genera tend to occupy large blocks of canopy, but in the spaces between their colonies the canopy is either devoid of ants, occupied by arboreal-nesting species of low colony size, or visited by ground-nesting species. The latter do not monopolise large, contiguous blocks of canopy. The result is a partial ant mosaic of Oecophylla and Crematogaster territories with few, or no, ants on the surrounding canopy. The situation in tropical Australia is compared with published records from elsewhere in the world, and the reasons for the differences which exist are discussed. Finally, the implications for pest management in Australian tropical tree crops are speculated upon.
10.2307/2388865|The diet of the Scaly-headed Parrot (Pionus maximiliani) was studied during three consecutive years in a 250 ha semideciduous forest in southeastern Brazil. The parrots showed a generalist and seasonal diet. Seeds composed 70.4 percent of the diet of parrots, followed by flowers (20.3%), corn from plantations that surround the forest (7.7%) and fruit pulp (1.6%). In the dry season flowers constituted 38 percent of the diet and leguminous fruits comprised 41.2 percent of its diet. Parrots are important predispersal seed predators and have a high impact on the fitness of plants in semideciduous forests, due to their high consumption of seeds and flowers.
40645581|The goal of this study was to ascertain why the production of variable seediness is advantageous for Attalea phalerata palms. Our hypothesis was that variation reduces seed predation by the spiny rats Thrichomys pachyurus and Clyomys laticeps. Although there is a positive correlation between endocarp size and number of seeds, endocarps sometimes contain more or fewer seeds than expected; palms bluff about the number of seed per endocarp. Therefore, rats do not know how many seeds an endocarp contains. To model rats' predating behavior, we applied Charnov's Marginal Value Theorem. The model shows that rats attack endocarps only when the energy gain is higher than the energy available in the habitat. Hence, it is not advantageous to eat all the seeds inside an endocarp. This explains why 45 percent of forest endocarps and 35 percent of savanna endocarps were still viable after predation. We then applied the model to two simulated endocarp populations with less variability in the number of seeds per endocarp size and determined that viable diaspores after predation were reduced to 15 percent. With less variability, palms cannot bluff about the number of seeds inside endocarps and predators can predict accurately how many seeds they should try to eat. Uncertainty about the number of seeds diminished predation but gave selective advantage to multiseeded fruits. Therefore, the bluffing strategy would be evolutionary stable only if it were counterbalanced by other forces. Otherwise, predators would win the bluffing game.
40863796|Habitat loss and fragmentation is a serious threat to biodiversity. Fragment isolation can be reduced if fragments are connected, either structurally through habitat corridors or functionally if the species can move through the surrounding matrix. One-way to evaluate landscape connectivity is to observe natural movements of animals within fragmented landscapes. The Tana River mangabey (Cercocebusgaleritus) is an endangered monkey endemic to fragmented forests along the lower Tana River in Kenya, and who has been observed to move through matrix between fragments. One mangabey group moved through 1 km of matrix, while another group moved through two areas of matrix. I collected behavioral and ranging data on the latter group to describe its behavior and time spent in the matrix. Utilizing data from belt transects in the matrix and forest fragments, I characterized the vegetation structure of the matrix and compared it to the forests included in each group's home range. The group spent the majority of their time eating while in the matrix, and spent an average 36.4 min in one matrix area and 100 min in the other. The matrix is generally characterized by the highest measures for a nonforest attribute and the lowest measures for forest attributes. These results suggest that forest fragments are functionally, but not structurally, connected for the mangabey; a landscape approach to conservation, therefore, should be taken for the lower Tana River. Research investigating the limitations of the mangabey's ability to use the matrix is needed.
41419475|Understanding the ecology of modern and ancient forests can help clarify the evolution of forest dwelling mammals. It is first necessary, however, to elucidate the source and extent of stable isotope variation in forest taxa. Tapirs are of particular interest because they are model organisms for identifying forest environments due to their highly conservative diet and habitat preferences. Here, stable carbon and oxygen isotopic compositions of extant tapirs are quantified to test hypotheses regarding ontogenetic diet shirts, stable isotope variation at the population level, and relationships between stable isotopes and climatic variables. A population of extant tapirs (Tapirus bairdii) demonstrates low  C variation (~2-3) and increased C values in late erupting teeth, indicating that juveniles consume C deplete milk and/or browse in denser forests. Disparate O values of late erupting teeth are instead reflecting seasonal variation. Extant tapir (T. bairdii, Tapirus pinchaque, Tapirus terrestris) O values are constrained by climatic and geographic variables. Most notably, O values of T. bairdii decrease with decreasing precipitation frequency. Tapirus terrestris is typically present in areas with greater precipitation than T. bairdii and O values instead positively correlate with C values. These data indicate that tapirs in wetter areas are getting a larger proportion of their water from leaves experiencing less evaporation in denser canopies, while T. bairdii is interpreted to increase its consumption of water via drinking when present in drier areas. An understanding of extant tapir stable isotope ecology improves ecological interpretations of these elusive mammals both today and in the past.
10.2307/2388446|Old leaves were found to be nearly four times tougher than younger leaves within a single tree canopy (Rubiaceae) exploited by leaf cutter ants (Atta cephalotes). Ant workers cutting old leaves had significantly greater head capsule widths than those choosing to cut the young leaves; nonetheless, the cutting rates for all workers were significantly slower on older leaves. We found no significant preference for young leaves in choice tests using precut leaf disks; this suggests that toughness may be the most important selection criterion in this case. We propose that the differences in cutting rates explain differential harvesting rates of young and old leaves, and that the apparent inability of the majority of workers to cut older leaves would make young leaves more valuable to a nest.
2389213|The Sulawesi red-knobbed hornbill (Aceros cassidix) is a large-bodied, frugivorous bird that nests in high densities in the Tangkoko-DuaSudara Nature Reserve, North Sulawesi, Indonesia. I measured seedling abundance and species richness, diversity, and dominance in plots placed below and immediately behind 20 active nest sites to evaluate the role of red-knobbed hornbills as agents of seed dispersal. Comparisons of treatment (below nests) and control plots (behind nests) show that hornbills affect the abundance and distribution of diet-species seedlings. Nondiet and nest tree seedlings did not differ between control and treatment plots suggesting that differences in diet species were the result of additional input by hornbills rather than by random or other dispersal events. Significantly greater numbers of diet seedlings germinated below nests, and the diversity of diet species was greater than that of nondiet species. Dominance of a few species in the treatment plots is consistent with the hypothesis that hornbills are effectively dispersing seeds of some, but not all, of their diet species. Although seedlings under nests may eventually experience density-dependent mortality, seedlings survived at least 12 months, indicating that red-knobbed hornbills were effectively dispersing seeds and influencing the initial fate of seeds of several tropical forest tree species.
41241889|Habitat fragmentation can break down the movement processes of frugivorous animals, thus influencing the relationship between plants and their seed dispersers by altering the number and identity of seed dispersers, and their relative contribution to seed dispersal. We studied the assemblages of frugivorous birds, their composition, species richness, and visitation rates to fruiting plants growing in the different landscape elements (forest fragments, live fences, and trees isolated in pastures) embedded in a Brazilian fragmented, agricultural landscape. By following the post-feeding movements of frugivorous birds, we inferred the direction of seed movement from and to each of these landscape elements. Fruiting trees growing at different landscape elements were visited by frugivorous birds at similar rates. Isolated trees attracted a greater and distinct bird assemblage than trees in forest fragments or live fences. Judging by the post-feeding flights of birds, the seeds of isolated trees were the most likely to reach all the landscape elements considered, but the contribution of isolated trees to the seeds falling in forested habitats or pastures depended on their degree of isolation. A few bird species were able to move widely, visiting fruiting plants in all landscape elements, and promoting long-distance dispersal for plants. These few birds are of special interest because they are mobile links that connect habitats in fragmented landscapes with their seed dispersal services.
10.2307/2389099|The process of tree mortality has dimensions of intensity, spatial, and temporal scales that reflect the characteristics of endogenic processes (i.e., senescence) and exogenic disturbances (i.e., severity, frequency, duration, spatial scale, and points of interaction with the ecosystem). Tree mortality events expressed as percent of stems or biomass per unit area, range in intensity from background (<5% yr
10.2307/2989713|The natural history and behavior of Eurycoleus macularis Chevrolat (Carabidae: Lebiini) are recorded for the first time. The role of this predaceous carabid beetle is tropical forest wood decay is discussed in detail. Predatory roles of other wood-associated carabid beetles are also discussed. A mimetic complex of beetles involving both larval and adult stages is shown to involve Eurycoleus macularis. A hypothesis is offered to explain how carabid beetles evolved ectoparasitoidism with the life cycle of Eurycoleus macularis representing an intermediate stage between free-living larvae and true ectoparasitoidism as found in Brachinus (bombardier beetles) and Lebia (colorful arboreal beetles). Immature stages of certain species of Amphix (Endomychidae) are shown to be the only food of Eurycoleus macularis. Erotylidae (Priotelus sp., ?Homoeotelus sp.) and Tenebrionidae (Poecilesthus sp.) are involved in the mimetic complex with Eurycoleus.
10.2307/2663959|The taxonomic list and the structure of benthic diatom assemblages occurring in fine sediments (silt and sand) from the mangrove forest of the Balandra lagoon in Baja California Sur, Mexico was determined based on seasonal samplings for one year. Assemblage structure was analyzed using several ecological indices for estimating diversity (H'), dominance (REDI), equitability, and similarity. A total of 230 diatom taxa were identified and include 109 new records for the Baja California peninsula coast. Taxa representative of highly productive and hypersaline environments were common. Assemblages were characterized by a few abundant species and many uncommon or rare taxa. High diatom diversity estimates at all sampling sites during all seasons suggest that diatom assemblages in sediments of the Balandra lagoon represent a quasi-pristine environment.
10.2307/2989691|The interpretation of past movements of land areas and their degree of emergence involves a number of suppositions and uncertainties which are briefly discussed. Evidence seems to indicate that from at least the Mesozoic to the present, water barriers have been present and have served as an isolating mechanism for terrestrial organisms. Further data and interpretation are needed before much of our speculation on the past movements of organisms can be said to have a firm factual basis.
30044937|The two most common ant associates of the understory myrmecophyte Maieta guianensis (Melastomataceae) respond in different ways to experimental cues associated with herbivory. While Pheidole minutula is induced by both physical damage and extracts of leaf tissue, Crematogaster laevis is induced by leaf damage only. We suggest such interspecific variation in induced responses is common and could influence the quality of defense against herbivores provided to host-plants by ants. /// As duas formigas que mais comumente se associam com a mirmecfita de sub-bosque Maieta guianensis (Melastomataceae) respondem de maneiras diferentes a simulaes experimentais de herbivoria. Enquanto Pheidole minutula  induzida tanto por danos fsicos e extratos de tecido foliar, Crematogaster Levis  induzida apenas pelos danos fsicos. Sugerimos que tal variao interespecifica em respostas induzidas  comum e pode influenciar a qualidade das defesas contra herbvoros que as formigas oferecem s plantas que elas ocupam.
10.2307/2388918|Wet and dry season rates of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance were compared for upper canopy leaves of six species of tropical semi-deciduous forest trees. Photosynthetic rates showed no clear relationship to leaf form (simple/compound), specific leaf area, or seasonality (evergreen/deciduous). Photosynthetic rates for three of five evergreen species were similar in wet and dry seasons. The rates (in  mol m
10.2307/2389051|Litterfall was measured monthly during three years in a lower montane forest at 1225 m in central Veracruz, Mexico. The focus was to determine litterfall inputs by dominant tree species from different phytogeographical affinities, and their relation to precipitation and temperature. Total annual litterfall was 8.45  0.18 Mg ha
10.2307/2388671|This paper proposes a rapid and non-destructive technique to age Rhizophora seedlings in the field, using the sequence of leaf nodes along main stems. Based on three- to four-year-old R. mangle seedlings planted in a bay on the Caribbean coast of Panama, it was found that rates of annual node production (=half of leaf production) in the terminal shoot was relatively constant between individuals in the same and similar sites, and for each individual when remeasured three or four times over 19 months. Marked differences, however, were scored between sites under obviously different light conditions, notably in shade (closed canopy) or sun (open canopy); estimates range from 3.8 (SE $\pm$ 0.3) to 7.0 (SE $\pm$ 0.6) nodes$\cdot$ shoot$^{-1} \cdot$ year$^{-1}$, respectively (note, these were comparable with branch shoots on mature trees nearby). Therefore, neighbouring seedlings in sites with the same light condition could be aged by dividing total counts of main stem nodes by the respective rate. But, of greater interest, seedlings in open sites were found to have annual peaks of internodal extension along their main stems. It followed that seedlings like these could be aged by counting the number of peaks. This provided a more robust means to age seedlings having unknown growth histories, since it did not assume constant annual node production. These characteristics of seedling growth offer a relatively simple means to age individuals, and to quickly characterize demographic patterns in seedling communities. The technique is limited by bark development obscuring nodes on lower stems, occurring after approximately six or more years in R. mangle. Furthermore, because node production was not apparently influenced by age, the technique may also apply to distal branches of larger trees in appropriate light conditions.
2663877|Characteristic secondary metabolites are currently acknowledged to play a pivotal role in the circumscription of a plant's insect fauna. A newly discovered association between wood-boring longicorn beetles (Cerambycidae) and their host trees belonging to the Brazil nut family (Lecythidaceae) inspired a yearlong rearing project in the lowland Neotropical rain forest of central French Guiana. Branches severed from five species of Lecythidaceae yielded 1813 cerambycids belonging to 37 species. Two of the five tree species, Couratari stellata and Gustavia hexapetala, yielded impoverished complements of cerambycids that included large percentages of generalists. Both tree species are characterized by fetid odors. Wood samples collected from the malodorous C. stellata, as well as from two well-colonized species, Lecythis poiteaui and Eschweilera coriacea, were analyzed for their volatile components. Sulfur compounds accounted for almost 15 percent of the volatiles detected from C. stellata, while they were at most minor components of the two well-colonized tree species. S-methylmethionine, isolated from a C. stellata wood sample, appeared to be the major sulfur compound contributing to the distinctive smell. We hypothesize that this foul odor is a deterrent to specialist cerambycids seeking oviposition sites.
10.2307/2387922|Bufo typhonius on Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone, had an explosive breeding system, with most choruses lasting less than one day and all oviposition in a chorus occurring in less than 10 hours. Relatively permanent streams and pools were used for breeding. Several choruses occurred at each site during the four-month breeding season. Some females laid two-egg clutches in six weeks, and some males participated in more than one chorus. Male mating success was determined by direct male-male competition for individual females. Most males less than 38 mm long did not obtain mates. For males over 38 mm, the probability of mating did not increase significantly with increasing size. There was no correlation between male and female size in amplexed pairs.
2388833|Male-specific associations of adult froghoppers (Homoptera: Cercopidae) with alternative food plant hosts is reported. Four accounts from the field and one from the literature are presented: Iphirhina quota on Bourreria costaricensis (Boraginaceae), Huaina inca on Solanaceae sp., Prosapia simulans and Prosapia sp. (near P. bicincta) on Ilex haberi (Aquifoliaceae), and Prosapia bicincta on Ilex cornuta and Ilex opaca. In three cases host use is limited to adults while in two cases use is limited to only adult males. In four cases adults feed on plants that differ taxonomically, structurally and ecologically from hosts normally utilized by all life stages. These associations are not considered aggregations per se because froghoppers are not clustered and because these associations cannot be explained by the usual criteria supporting the adaptiveness of insect aggregations. Indirect evidence suggests that these unusual hosts may be unavailable to nymphs and not sought by females. This passive lack of opportunity by nymphs and females, in tandem with an active selection/attraction by males, is a plausible explanation for the existence of male-specific hosts.
10.2307/2388773|Patterns of seed rain were observed at five forest locations in recent treefall gaps and paired understory sites in a tropical wet forest in northeast Costa Rica. Seed rain was dominated by animal-dispersed species. Overall, significantly more wind-dispersed seeds arrived into treefall gaps than into forest understory. Contrary to expectations, understory sites received a greater seed rain than did gap sites during three of four sample periods over the course of one year. Considerable spatial heterogeneity, however, existed among forest locations, with some forest sites receiving up to three times more seed rain input than others. Results from this seed rain study generally matched those from an earlier study at this site in terms of seed rain volume and dominant plant families. Composition of seed rain was more similar among habitat types (i.e., gap, understory) than among forest locations (i.e., paired sites) suggesting that spatial foraging activity and habitat preference of seed dispersers result in non-random patterns of seed rain. If true, then such patterns have implications for evolution of fruit and seed characters that promote survival and establishment of seeds under certain environmental conditions.
10.2307/2388252|We examined the effects of two disturbances (Hurricane Hugo and forest clearcutting) on soil nitrogen dynamics and on the exchanges of N$_2$O, CO$_2$, and CH$_4$ between soils and the atmosphere of a subtropical wet forest in Puerto Rico. The disturbances resulted in prolonged increases in ammonium pools and short-term increases in rates of net N-mineralization and net nitrification. Nitrous oxide emissions increased following both disturbances. The most dramatic increase was observed 4 mo after clearcutting; N$_2$O emissions (109 49 $\mu g$ N/m$^2$-hr) from the cut plot were about two orders of magnitude higher than emissions from the reference plot (1.71 $\mu g$ N/m$^2$-hr). Carbon dioxide emissions from both disturbed plots (mean 102.47 mg C/m$^2$-hr) were about 30 percent lower than the reference (mean 15 1.28 mg C/m$^2$-hr). Soils at all sites were generally sinks for CH$_4$. Methane uptake, however, was suppressed by both disturbances. This suppression may be related to disturbance-induced changes in the nitrogen cycle, as we have previously observed in temperate zone forests.
30043075|An experimental study of seed removal of four woody species in an abandoned pasture revealed significant main effects of species, density (higher densities survived more than lower densities), and patch-type (seeds under shrub patches survived more than in grass patches), but no effects of season. Rates of seed loss decreased with seed size across species. Significant interactions between species and density and between species and patch-type were also observed.
2389143|We define 48 allozyme loci for a tropical pioneer tree species, Cecropia obtusifolia Bertol, which has high contents of secondary compounds. Our goals were to find the effects of extraction procedures on artifacts and variation in resolution of enzyme banding patterns; to explore the relationship among the variation of the loci sampled and the enzymes' molecular structure, metabolic function and substrate; to obtain estimates of the genetic variation in this species at Los Tuxtlas rain forest (Mexico) and to explore the variation of allelic frequencies in six successive life-history stages of the species. The resolution of the isozymes bands and the actual banding pattern varied with the type and age of tissue, the collection and storage procedures, the extraction buffer, and other loading and running procedural details. However, artifactual variation was eliminated with a new extraction buffer for species with high contents of secondary compounds. Of the 26 enzymes resolved for C. obtusifolia, we found that enzymes with a greater number of substrates and an oligomeric quaternary structure tended to be more variable than their counterparts, but the relationship was not statistically significant. The proportion of polymorphic systems varied significantly with the metabolic pathway and the function of the enzymes. Enzymes involved in starch synthesis are significantly more variable (p < 0.05) than all others, except those involved in amino acids metabolism and the proportion of polymorphic enzymes is also significantly associated with the function of the enzyme, the hydrolases and isomerases are significantly more variable than lyases and oxidoreductases enzymes. The percentage of polymorphic loci for C. obtusifolia was estimated at P = 27.1%. The effective number of alleles was estimated at ne = 1.3 and ne = 2.4 for all loci and only polymorphic ones respectively and the average heterozygosity (H) for all 48 loci was estimated at H = 0.05. Allele frequencies varied throughout the life-cycle of the species, with significant differences for some alleles and loci among some life-cycle stages. "Tree seeds" allele frequencies differ significantly (P < 0.05) from "rainy dispersed seeds" in 7 of 8 loci and from "soil seeds" in six of eight loci. Allele frequencies of all three seed categories ("tree seeds", "rainy dispersed seeds", and "soil seeds") differed strongly from established individuals (seedlings, juveniles and adults), while allele frequencies of established individuals are relatively similar to one another. Seedling allele frequencies at most loci were also significantly different from those found in seeds collected from trees, seed-rain, and soil. Two alleles (at GOT-2 and FE-2) were only found in soil seeds and one allele (at LAP-2) was only found in seedlings.
10.2307/2388955|Viviparous seedlings of the red mangrove, Rhizophora mangle L., were collected from adult trees growing in areas of low (5%) and high (36%) surface water salinities, and planted as groups in large rectangular pots and treated with seawater corresponding to the two natural concentrations. Among individuals collected from the same site, growth was significantly enhanced in the low (5%) versus high (36%) salinity treatment. Stem and leaf development exhibited larger differences between high and low salinities than did root growth. Propagules showed no increased capacity for growth when treated with salinities similar to the parent tree environments. Seedlings from the high salinity site exhibited faster growth than those from the low salinity site when treated with low salinity water. However, differences between sites were insignificant in the high salinity treatment. Results are discussed in the context of vivipary as a preconditioning mechanism for salt-tolerance and the general effects of salinity on physiological and possible genetic aspects of early development.
10.2307/2387729|Local variances in group size and density of Alouatta palliata on Barro Colorado Island are reported, and their relationship to local variance in the density of food and non-food species is investigated via nonparametric statistical techniques. Group size is significantly and positively related to the density of two major food species but not to the density of minor food species or non-food species. The density of Ficus spp., which supply over half the diet by weight and which have complex, asynchronous, phenological cycles, is highly correlated with group size over nine study plots. This relationship is interpreted as the result of differential reproductive success and lower levels of intragroup competition for food in areas of high Ficus density.
10.2307/2387798|A negative correlation was found between extent of buttressing and bark thickness for common tree species in lower montane rain forest of Dominica, B. W. I.
41241923|Termites are an important component of tropical rain forests, and have been included in many studies focusing on the influence of human disturbance. Their distribution among primary rain forest has, however, rarely been investigated. Here we studied the termite fauna in seven mostly undisturbed forest sites, representing several rain forest types. Overall, approximately 70 percent of species were soil-feeders and 25 percent were wood-feeders, the remaining 5 percent being classified here as litter-feeders. Termite species richness did not differ significantly among sites, but sites differed in termite abundance. The palm swamp and the low forest situated on the foothills of an inselberg, hosted different termite communities to the other sites. These two sites presented a singular physiognomy suggesting that forest type is an important factor influencing species composition. We found no correlation between termite species composition and distance between sites, highlighting that at the scale of our study (about 100 km), forest sites share a similar species pool.
10.2307/2388487|Two Amazonian terra firme forests present contrasting structures and palm compositions: one is characterized by tall and broad-trunked trees up to 50 m in height and 2.5 m in DBH, and by tall arborescent palms; the other by more modest-sized trees up to 40 m in height and 1.3 m in DBH, and by abundant acaulescent and smaller arborescent palms. This comparison strongly suggests that forest structure and dynamics influence life forms, palm size, and species diversity. Gap size, which mainly depends on the size of upper-canopy trees, determines the intensity of light reaching the understory and thus influences the development of arborescent palms. In this analysis, acaulescent forms are regarded as an adaptation to forests with small trees and resultant small gaps.
10.2307/2387972|A variety of simple measurements were made on Baobab trees (Adansonia digitata) near Kibwezi, Kenya, to gain some information on their water economy. Water loss from cut shoots was compared with that of eight other woody species growing in the same region. The Baobab was found to be among the most effective at controlling its water loss. Daily shrinkage of the trunks was measured, giving an estimate of c. 400 litres daily water deficit when the trees are in leaf. Seasonal shrinkage indicates a loss of up to 1500 litres of water during dry periods. An attempt was made to determine root distribution. Measurements on exposed roots show that they are relatively shallow (down to c. 1.8 m), but are spread out to a distance greater than the heights of the trees. Such an extensive shallow root system is probably the best adapted to exploiting the low annual rainfall, most of which falls in the form of infrequent heavy downpours.
30043216|Our understanding of the human and biophysical dimensions of tropical dry forest change and its cumulative effects is still in the early stages of academic discovery. The papers in this special section on Neotropical dry forests cover a wide range of sites and problems ranging from the use of multispectral and hyperspectral remote sensing platforms to the impact of hurricanes on tropical dry forest regeneration. Here, we present to the scientific community the results of a workshop on which research priorities for tropical dry forests were discussed. This discussion focuses on the need to develop linkages between remote sensing, ecological, and social science research. The incorporation of social sciences into ecological research could contribute dramatically to our understandings of tropical dry forests by providing important contextual information to ecologists, and by helping to develop an important science-policy-public nexus on which environmental management can succeed. /// El conocimiento actual de las dimensiones humanas y biofsicas de los cambios en los bosque secos tropicales y sus efectos acumulativos esta en las etapas iniciales del descubrimiento acadmico. En este articulo, introducimos una serie de artculos cientficos asociados a este nmero especial sobre bosques secos en los Neotropicos. Estos artculos provienen de una distribucin muy variada de sitios en las Amricas y van desde las aplicaciones de sensores multi- e hiperspectrales, hasta el estudio del efecto que los huracanes causan en la regeneracin de los bosques secos. Presentamos a la comunidad cientfica los resultados de un taller dirigido a la discusin de aquellas prioridades de investigacin en bosques secos. La discusin se enfoca a lo largo de los vnculos que se necesitan entre percepcin remota, ecologa y ciencias sociales. La incorporacin las ciencias sociales dentro de la investigacin ecolgica podra contribuir dramticamente al entendimiento de los bosque secos tropicales, as como tienen len a posibilidad de ayudar en el desarrollo de vnculos importantes entre ciencia y poltica dirigida al manejo de los recursos presentes en este importante ecosistema.
10.2307/2387955|Counts of pollen grains on the stigmas of individual flowers of Trichanthera gigantea in Central Panama were related to seed set. At least eight grains were necessary for fruit set in this species and mean seed set per fruit was less than one (of a maximum of eight). Less than 50 percent of the flowers (108 of 277) received eight or more pollen grains and, of these, only 51 set fruit. These results suggest that pollination limits seed production by this species at this site.
10.2307/2387696|Whole leaves of five species of riparian plants and five species of upland plants were placed in a tropical stream in a wet, lowland, Costa Rican forest. Leaves of the five riparian species disappeared faster than did the leaves of the upland species. Whole leaves of four species of riparian plants were placed in three streams and on the forest floor. Two species, Ficus glabrata and Trema micrantha, decomposed within 32 days; Ardisia sp. and Pithecelobium longifolium did not decompose over that period. For the two species that decomposed, decomposition occurred at a slower rate on the forest floor than in a stream 50 m from the forest floor site. Leaves of one species, F glabrata, decomposed faster in water in the wet than in the dry season. Decomposition rates were similar for leaves of F glabrata and T micrantha placed in three streams during the wet season. Results differ markedly from previously published results for tropical streams. Differences in the dynamics of allochthonous leaf nutrient inputs into heterotrophic mid-latitude and tropical streams are discussed.
10.2307/2388070|It has been suggested that Asclepias curassavica, Lantana camara, and Epidendrum radicans, three unrelated tropical "weeds" with very similar flowers, comprise a floral mimicry complex. Asclepias and Lantana are presumed to be Mullerian mimics of each other while the nectarless Epidendrum is thought to be a Batesian mimic of the first two. Although the three species have overlapping ranges and share pollinators, visitation frequencies in stands of different floral composition do not support this hypothesis. Flowers in high-density stands of the "Mullerian mimics" are not visited more often than flowers in low-density stands, so apparent increase in population density through mimicry does not appear to confer an advantage. The "Batesian mimic" is not visited more often when interspersed with the model than when alone. Other possible reasons for the resemblance are discussed.
10.2307/2388490|The vegetation on the trail behind a moving sand dune in a short-grass community near Olduvai Gorge, Tanzania, was sampled at intervals corresponding to the distance the dune traveled annually. These samples provided a 60-yr history of vegetational change following disturbance. The disturbed area was colonized by a sparse (12% cover) mixture of annual and perennial grasses and forbs during the first year after disturbance, followed by woody perennials the second year, and perennial grasses the fourth year. The original species composition was reached 30 yr after dune passage, but total vegetational cover after 60 yr remained lower in the trail than in the undisturbed community. Recovery of vegetation was slow due to the destruction of all vegetation in the path of the dune, the absence of a persistent seed pool, the large size of the disturbance, and intense grazing by large mammals.
40645592|To test flying fox adaptations to a habitat mosaic with extreme deforestation, the abundance, habitat choice and feeding behavior of the Pacific flying fox, Pteropus tonganus, were investigated across 16 islands of the Yasawa archipelago, Fiji. The habitat mosaic is formed by 4.3 percent tropical dry forest and 3.3 percent farmland, leaving exotic grasslands and stands of Leucaena leucocephala to overrun the vast majority of land. Pteropus tonganus abundance was high (5757 bats) despite deforestation and hunting. Roosting sites were restricted to native forest fragments. Grasslands and stands of L. leucocephala were completely void of bats at all times. The mean foraging density in farmland was four times higher than in forests and foraging competition was routinely observed in farmland but was extremely rare in forests. The author suggests that during the study, extensive foraging in farmland was supporting the high P. tonganus population. Additionally, the preferential foraging in farmland was responsible for the low foraging densities within forests and dramatically less intraspecies competition for forest resources. Further research is needed on seed dispersal within forests and to test for seasonal variations in bat abundance and feeding.
10.2307/2989709|Wood from one hundred and fifteen species of trees has been exposed to marine borers in three different tropical waters for periods up to 90 months. Underwater sites were in the Panama Canal Zone and included two oceans and a brackish water lake. Over 30 species of marine boring organisms were identified from these waters; their extreme activity in the warm tropical environments provided a very thorough screening test for the woods. Samples have been evaluated separately for resistance to the three principal classes of borers: teredo, pholad, and limnoria. Several of the woods were resistant to one or more of the borer types. Some of these resistant species are relatively unknown as marine construction timbers, and in some instances they proved to be more durable than greenheart, teak, and other commercially used marine woods. The species most resistant to all borers was Dalbergia retusa (cocobolo), whose oily extract may provide leads to the development of a satisfactory wood preservative for marine use. The woods most resistant to each of the different classes of borers are tabulated, with their respective silica content and density included. Silica was shown to be significant only in relation to teredine borers, while wood density was important only with pholads. Woods considered to be of special interest because of findings in the study are discussed individually.
4132916|This study presents an analysis of floristic composition patterns for limestone vegetation from three Caribbean islands: Hispaniola, Mona, and Puerto Rico. The physical setting of these communities varies from very dry to wet climates, and from ridgetops, slopes, to plateaus. Consequently, vegetation communities have variable species composition. The questions addressed were: (1) What are the patterns of species composition among limestone vegetation types based on a parsimony analysis of species assemblages (PASA) and how congruent are they with geography, climate, topography, and vegetation physiognomy? and (2) How do PASA patterns compare to floristic patterns obtained with a classification (UPGMA) and an ordination (NMS)? The main distinction of floristic categories was between communities of humid and dry climates, followed by a finer separation of communities congruent with topography; vegetation physiognomy corresponded with both. PASA, UPGMA, and NMS produced highly coincident floristic groups; however, affinities among groups were different. Advantages of PASA over UPGMA and NMS are that PASA produces groupings strictly based on the shared species and provides different measures of support for floristic groups. The three techniques indicated that the humid and dry limestone areas of Puerto Rico had floristically divergent dry-type vegetation, even when they were structurally and physiognomically convergent. Also, floristic affinities of dry communities in Puerto Rico were stronger with dry communities on other islands than to more humid communities on the same island; thus, humidity regime is stronger than geography in promoting floristic links among limestone vegetation communities of the Caribbean. Almost every conclusion obtained from UPGMA and NMS was also taken from PASA, and so all three techniques are compatible. The methodological, theoretical, and interpretive simplicity of PASA is what makes it an attractive procedure for studies that examine composition patterns.
10.2307/2388286|The incidence of termite mounds was determined in twenty-six sites in the Trachypogon savannas at the Orinoco Llanos, including a wide range of physionomic types. A multiple discriminate analysis was utilized to analyze ecological variables as the best indicators of a given area's suitability for support of terrestrial Velocitermes and/or Nasutitermes species. The variables included physical attributes (texture, ineffective soil mass, water holding capacity, and infiltration rate), chemical attributes (cation exchange capacity, base saturation, and organic matter content), soil characteristics, and the above-ground phytomass accumulated at each stand. Results indicated that soil physical variables determining water balance during critical dry periods were of paramount value for the successful establishment of mound-building nasute termites in Trachypogon savannas.
10.2307/2388994|Epiphytic and tree-phase individuals of two hemiepiphytic figs (Ficus pertusa and F. trigonata) growing in a seasonally dry palm savanna in central Venezuela were compared on the bases of leaf longevity and temporal patterns of leaf production and loss. Epiphytic plants of both species produced new leaves more often and had a greater number of transitions from leaf-bearing to leafless than conspecific trees during the two-year observation period. Leaf production by epiphytic plants but not by trees of either species was positively correlated with rainfall received during the fortnight prior to phenological observation. Epiphytic plants of both species were leafless or nearly so during more of the year and had more separate episodes of becoming deciduous than conspecific trees. Periods of leaf loss generally coincided with dry periods but the negative correlation with rainfall during the previous fortnight was significant only for F. pertusa trees. Leaf life spans were shorter on epiphytic than on tree-phase figs. Patterns of leaf production and loss are interpreted to be responses to water deficits suffered by epiphytes, deficits that are at least partially overcome when plants becomes deeply rooted in the ground.
40645556|Long-term conservation in biodiversity hotspots depends on the recovery of communities in secondary forest fragments. In most cases, however, recovery strategies for these areas are based only on passive restoration. It is therefore necessary to determine the efficiency of such strategies. In this study, we assess the efficiency of passive restoration on a 567-ha 28-yr-old fragment of Atlantic Rainforest in Northeastern Brazil. We measured richness, composition, abundance and biomass of a lizard taxocene and also vegetation structure and availability of several microhabitat descriptors in 18 plots of this secondary forest. We then compared them with measures in 29 plots from two neighboring reference sites. Species richness, abundance, biomass and microhabitat descriptors availability inside the secondary fragment did not differ from reference sites. However, composition and vegetation structure showed small differences. Some forest specialist lizards, which should be a focus of conservation efforts in fragmented landscapes of the Atlantic Rainforest, were not found in the fragment and data indicate that this was not due to sampling or a lack of suitable habitat or microhabitat. In the presence of preserved source sites, passive restoration may be a cheap and effective way to recover lizard taxocenes of the Atlantic Rainforest. Some of the species may need to be re-introduced to accelerate the full recovery of original composition of lizard taxocenes in secondary Atlantic Rainforests.
10.2307/2387819|African army ants of the genus Aenictus are column raiders and are generally hypogaeic. The species thus far observed are specialized predators of other ants, especially of the immature stages. Prey individuals are small, equal or subequal to the predator workers, and are not usually dissected by the foragers for transport to the nest. The foraging behavior of African and Asian Aenictus is compared. Emigration behavior of African Aenictus closely resembles that of Asian species, although the frequency and regularity of emigration and the intra-colony stimuli for nomadic behavior in African species and in hypogaeic species in general are unknown.
10.2307/2388258|Changes in the population structure and recruitment characteristics of Manilkara bidentata populations were investigated at two sites (El Verde & Bisley) in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF), at one month and nine months after Hurricane Hugo. Fatal damage occurred to 4 percent of the trees at the El Verde site. Severe damage to mature trees disrupted seed production. Sixty percent of the young seedling population was destroyed, mainly as a result of burial by litter. For surviving seedlings, the posthurricane growth rate (in height) of old seedlings was 2 cm/mo, 17 times greater than that under prehurricane conditions. The prehurricane population of young seedlings had a large number of individuals and a long transition period (over 14 yr); whereas, the posthurricane population had fewer individuals and a shorter transition period (less than 2 yr). Increased growth rates of seedlings were related to increased light at the forest floor. The recruitment rate of the Manilkara population from the seedling size class into the sapling size class was greater than that under prehurricane conditions. Rapid adjustment to posthurricane conditions, high tree survival, and increased number of seedlings recruited into larger size classes may increase the abundance of Manilkara trees in the forest. These adaptations are especially significant in the LEF and other forests which experience frequent hurricane disturbances. Based upon the effects of Hurricane Hugo, it appears that hurricanes play an important role in releasing suppressed seedling growth of Manilkara populations and that hurricanes may contribute to the abundance of Manilkara trees in the LEF
30045517|Seed removal was assessed for two tree species in three forest types: (1) secondary forest with and (2) without selective vegetation thinning, and (3) mature forest. Selective vegetation thinning meant the removal of all stems 3 cm in diameter of secondary-forest species and was intended as a management technique to accelerate succession toward mature forest. Thinning did not have an effect on seed removal. One of the species showed lower seed removal in mature forest compared to secondary forest. /// Se midi la remocin de semillas de dos especies de rboles en tres tipos de bosque: (1) bosque secundario con y (2) sin aclareo selectivo de vegetacin, y (3) bosque maduro. El aclareo selectivo de vegetacin consisti en la remocin de todos los tallos 3 cm de dimetro de especies de bosque secundario, y se aplic con la finalidad de acelerar la sucesin hacia bosque maduro. El aclareo no tuvo efecto sobre la remocin de semillas. La remocin de semillas de una de las especies fue menor en bosque maduro que en bosque secundario.
10.2307/2388012|The pollination by bats of the passion flower, Passiflora mucronata, has been studied in southeastern Brazil. Experiments indicate that the flowers are self-incompatible. They are typically chiropterophilous being white, long-stalked, and exserted from the foliage canopy, opening after dark, and producing nectar throughout the night. The flower opens in less than 15 seconds and shows subsequent movements of the anthers and stigmas which results in a zygomorphic flower, an uncommon condition in Passiflora. The grouping of anthers and stigmas increases the deposition of pollen on the head of the visiting bat and offers the greatest stigmatic surface to be brushed with pollen already deposited on the bat's head. Two species of phyllostomid bats, Glossophaga soricina (long-tongued) and Carollia perspicillata (short-tongued), were observed pollinating the flowers. Other nocturnal visitors were sphingid and noctuid moths, and wasps, but all were ineffectual pollinators. The flowers of P. mucronata remain open until mid-morning and are visited by diurnal bees, wasps, butterflies, and hummingbirds, but it seems that only honeybees effect pollination, and their active foraging for pollen may prevent much of the potential pollination by hummingbirds.
10.2307/2387785|Studies of vegetation on 10 islands in the Galapagos demonstrate that the pattern of distribution of various vegetation types, ranging from desert scrub to evergreen forest, is closely associated with the pattern of variation in the local climatic conditions. The variation in average leaf size of the plant communities and of different layers in the communities is on the one hand associated with variations in altitude and exposure, and on the other hand with variations in the structure of the communities. The average leaf size of a plant community is considered to be a useful diagnostic feature for classifying the vegetation types. Structural features of the plant communities, for example, stratification and coverage, influence the leaf size of lower layers within the same community: the variation in leaf size of the shrub and of the herb layer is associated with the variation in coverage of the layer above. Variation in leaf size in the Acalypha complex and in Croton scouleri is suggested to be related to the structural variations in the communities: the structure of the plant communities may impose a selection pressure on the species of Acalypha and Croton, whereby they tend to develop the leaf size optimally fitted for the requirements of their particular environment.
10.2307/2387888|The foraging behavior and grazing intensities of Uthetheisa pulchelloides (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae) larvae were examined on its host plant, Argusia argentea, a prostrate shrub commonly found on coral cays of the Great Barrier Reef. Larval abundance was greatest during summer (January-February), just after the major flush of Argusia leaves. The larvae were host specific, consuming approximately 2.9 cm
10.2307/2989788|Accumulated litter was collected from primary and secondary tropical moist forests, and from a primary, premontane wet forest in Panama during June to August 1967 (wet-season months), and in January 1968 (a dry-season month) Weights of litter and caloric contents were greatest in the premontane wet forest. Litter accumulation and energy content increased during the dry season in two secondary, tropical moist forests.
30045501|Woody debris is abundant in hurricane-impacted forests. With a major hurricane affecting South Florida mangroves approximately every 20 yr, carbon storage and nutrient retention may be influenced greatly by woody debris dynamics. In addition, woody debris can influence seedling regeneration in mangrove swamps by trapping propagules and enhancing seedling growth potential. Here, we report on line-intercept woody debris surveys conducted in mangrove wetlands of South Florida 9-10 yr after the passage of Hurricane Andrew. The total volume of woody debris for all sites combined was estimated at 67 m/ha and varied from 13 to 181 m/ha depending upon differences in forest height, proximity to the storm, and maximum estimated wind velocities. Large volumes of woody debris were found in the eyewall region of the hurricane, with a volume of 132 m/ha and a projected woody debris biomass of approximately 36 t/ha. Approximately half of the woody debris biomass averaged across all sites was associated as small twigs and branches (fine woody debris), since coarse woody debris >7.5 cm felled during Hurricane Andrew was fairly well decomposed. Much of the small debris is likely to be associated with post-hurricane forest dynamics. Hurricanes are responsible for large amounts of damage to mangrove ecosystems, and components of associated downed wood may provide a relative index of disturbance for mangrove forests. Here, we suggest that a fine:coarse woody debris ratio 0.5 is suggestive of a recent disturbance in mangrove wetlands, although additional research is needed to corroborate such findings.
4132954|The control of vegetative phenology in tropical trees is not well understood. In dry forest trees, leaf abscission may be enhanced by advanced leaf age, increasing water stress, or declining photoperiod. Normally, it is impossible to dissect the effects of each of these variables because most leaves are shed during the early dry season when day length is near its minimum and leaves are relatively old. The 1997
10.2307/2989698|Central American Bignoniaceae show five distinct patterns of flowering phenology. Four of these phenological types characterize different bee-pollinated species. Only the generalized "cornucopia" strategy is employed by temperate Bignoniaceae. In the tropics this strategy is also prevalent and is often associated with a seasonal sequence of flowering by related species. The more specialized phenological strategies employed by many tropical species of Bignoniaceae are viewed as making possible differential and essentially contemporaneous attraction of similar pollinators from the same limited pollinator resource. The high diversity of tropical Bignoniaceae appears to be facilitated by use of a variety of phenological strategies by the different species. It is suggested that such mechanisms may be an important factor in maintaining increased tropical diversity in other groups of plants.
10.2307/2989652|An earlier study (Stephens and Phillips 1972) showed that primitive cultivars of Gossypium barbadense L., native to the Americas, could be subdivided into two geographical groups: one west of the Andes which is polymorphic for the corky alleles, ck
10.2307/2989752|A new dendrometer has been developed for monitoring radial dimensional change of trees in tropical environments. The sensing unit of this instrument consists of a rectilinear potentiometer in a moisture- and corrosion-resistant housing. The sensor is powered by a mercury battery through simple circuitry. Sensor output can be read with a voltmeter or recorded on a variety of instruments.
10.2307/2388503|A canal system for water collection located in Naiguata, Venezuela, acts as a trap for many animals and was employed to sample the snake community. We collected March-November 1980 during a continuous period of 48 h weekly, obtaining the largest collection (25 species, 674 individuals) in Venezuela. The most abundant species were: Liophis reginae (23.7%), Mastigodryas boddaerti (10.1%), Stenorrhina degenhardtii (8.5%), Bothrops colombiensis (7.7%), Atractus lancinii (6.5%) and Dendrophidion percarinatus (5.8%). Family Colubridae and terrestrial snakes occupied the first place in taxonomic and life form order of importance respectively. We tested diurnal and nocturnal activity of 14 species, and presented daily activity rhythm of the species with common time of activity. The composition of the collection changed, as indicated by fluctuations of Brillouin's index of diversity, which tended to diminish due to the monthly incurrent decline of individuals and species in the canals. According to the accumulative species number versus effort capture curve, we estimate that 15 days are sufficient to capture a representative number of species of the community. Four of the most abundant species were also found in three collections carried out in neighboring localities. And by comparing the composition of the Naiguata collection with the composition of seven collections performed in the Neotropics, we found that the Naiguata collection demonstrates (1) little diversity; (2) is the third largest collection; (3) three genera of the most abundant species we found among the six most common genera; (4) and the most important Family and life form, occupied the first place in all of the collections.
2663862|Dispersal quality, as estimated by the cumulative effects of dispersal, germination, seed predation, and seedling survival, was examined for Beilschmiedia pendula (Lauraceae) in Monteverde, Costa Rica. I determined the pattern of dispersal by finding seeds deposited by birds, protected the seeds from seed predators with cages to assess germination and seedling survival, and examined seed predation rates with marked seeds. Seed predation, germination, and seedling survival were compared between seeds naturally dispersed by birds and seeds placed at randomly located sites. Approximately 70 percent of seeds dispersed by birds (N = 244) were deposited <10 m from crown edges of fruiting B. pendula trees, although some seeds were dispersed at least 70 m away. Larger seeds were more likely to be dispersed under or close to the parent trees, and larger seeds produced larger seedlings. Seed size was not correlated directly with seedling survival, but larger seedlings at three months were most likely to survive one year. Seed predation by mammals and insects and seedling mortality due to fungal pathogens were concentrated beneath the crowns of parent trees. Seedlings and saplings were more abundant beneath fruiting B. pendula trees, but individuals farther away were taller on average. Thus, dispersal is beneficial for B. pendula, but such benefits appear most pronounced at a small spatial scale; seeds dispersed >30 m from the crown edges actually had a lower probability of survival than those dispersed 10-20 m. Only 10 percent of B. pendula seeds received high-quality dispersal in terms of landing in the zone with the highest per seed probability of seedling survival 10-20 m from parental crowns.
30045513|Forest condition and the associated ecological processes vital for forest patch persistence are difficult to judge rapidly and time-consuming to sample. Here we examine the efficacy of epigaeic invertebrate species as ecological indicators of Afromontane forest condition. Epigaeic invertebrates are potentially good ecological indicators because they play an important role in maintaining ecosystem processes, such as nutrient cycling, rely almost entirely upon the resources provided by the organic leaf litter layer, are known to be sensitive to environmental changes, and are easily surveyed. Epigaeic invertebrate communities were sampled using pitfall traps for 21 days in each of 11 forests that spanned a gradient from large and relatively undisturbed to small and highly disturbed forest patches. Using canonical correspondence analysis, we identified a suite of potential ecological indicator species (eight out of 140 species) and showed that gradients in their population response (abundance) reflect overall forest condition, as judged from the correlated vegetation indicators and position of the forests of varying condition along this gradient. The abundance of all but two of the eight indicator species (a spider and the landhopper, Talitriator africana [Amphipoda]) decreased with increasing disturbance. As a group, the rove beetles (Staphylinidae) show promise as ecological indicators and comprised four of the eight potential indicators species. A strong case is also made for a single-species ecological indicator in the form of T. africana, which is a robust and sensitive indicator of poor forest condition.
10.2307/2388759|A semiterritorial hummingbird, Eupherusa eximia, guarded a Hamelia patens bush against butterflies in poor weather. During good weather, when butterflies were abundant and active, E. eximia abandoned the bush. The net energy balance of chasing away the relatively few butterflies in poor weather was positive, but the balance would have been negative had E. eximia tried to exclude all butterflies during good weather. The outcome of competition between hummingbirds and butterflies may depend on the size of the resource being defended; the availability of alternative food resources; the size, number, and activity of butterflies; and the weather. The outcome is not inevitably in favor of hummingbirds.
30043263|The planting of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) in the understory of tropical forests is promoted in many regions as a strategy to conserve forested lands and meet the economic needs of rural communities. While the forest canopy is left intact in most understory plantations, much of the midstory and understory vegetation is removed in order to increase light availability for cultivated species. We assessed the extent to which the removal of vegetation in understory plantations of Chamaedorea hooperiana Hodel (Arecaceae) alters understory light conditions. We also examined how any changes in light availability may be reflected by changes in the composition of canopy tree seedlings regenerating in understory plantations. We employed a blocked design consisting of four C. hooperiana plantation sites; each site was paired with an adjacent, unmanaged forest site. Hemispherical canopy photographs were taken and canopy tree seedlings were identified and measured within 12 3 x 2 m randomly placed plots in each site for a total of 96 plots (4 blocks x 2 sites x 12 plots). Plantation management did not affect canopy openness or direct light availability but understory plantations had a higher frequency of plots with greater total and diffuse light availability than unmanaged forest. Comparisons of canopy tree seedling composition between understory plantations and unmanaged forest sites were less conclusive but suggest that management practices have the potential to increase the proportion of shade-intolerant species of tree seedlings establishing in plantations. Given the importance of advanced regeneration in gap-phase forest dynamics, these changes may have implications for future patterns of succession in the areas of forest where NTFPs are cultivated. /// En muchas regiones el establecimiento de plantaciones de especies forestales no-maderables (EFNM) en el sotobosque de selvas tropicales es una estrategia para conservar areas naturales y cubrir necesidades econmicas de comunidades rurales. En estos tipos de plantaciones se acostumbra dejar intacto el dosel para aprovechar su sombra, mientras que la mayor parte del sotobosque es removida para aumentar la disponibilidad de luz para las especies cultivadas. En el presente trabajo investigamos cmo la eliminacin del sotobosque en plantaciones de Chamaedorea hooperiana Hodel, modifica las condiciones de luz en el sotobosque. Examinamos tambin cmo los cambios en las condiciones de luz pueden afectar la composicin de plntulas de rboles del dosel que se estn regenerando en plantaciones de EFNMs. Para comparar las condiciones de luz y la composicin de plntulas, usamos un diseo de "bloques" en cuatro sitios con plantaciones de C. hooperiana, cada uno aparejado a un area de selva sin manejo. Tomamos fotografas hemisfricas del dosel e identificamos y medimos las plntulas de rboles del dosel presentes en doce lotes de 3 x 2 m, establecidos al azar en cada sitio con un total de 96 lotes seleccionados (4 bloques x 2 sitios x 12 lotes). El manejo de plantaciones no afect la abertura del dosel o la disponibilidad de luz directa, pero las plantaciones experimentaron con ms frecuencia reas disponibles de ms luz indirecta que los sitios del bosque sin manejo. Los resultados de la comparacin de la composicin de las plntulas entre plantaciones de EFNMs y el bosque sin manejo son menos conclusivos, pero sugieren que las formas de manejo de plantaciones usadas por los campesinos pueden aumentar la proporcin de plntulas de especies pioneras que se establecen. Estos cambios pueden resultar en modificaciones en el proceso de regeneracin del bosque en el futuro.
10.2307/2387759|The Polyctenidae are a small family (5 genera, 32 species) of wingless, viviparous bugs which live exclusively and permanently as blood-sucking ectoparasites upon certain microchiropteran bats. Knowledge of the taxonomy, morphology and anatomy, and biology of the family is reviewed. Eoctenes spasmae is typical of the family in being host-specific to a single species of bat. On its host, Megaderma spasma, E. spasmae occurs on all parts of the body but particularly in the hollow formed by the head and shoulder blades where it is well protected from host grooming. It never leaves the body, and transference to another host can only occur through body contact. Feeding is frequent, and if starved nymphs die within six hours and adults within 30 hours. For 27 bats captured for the first time the incidence of infestation was 85 percent with 13.7 bugs per bat, the two sexes being equally infested. Of the 370 bugs removed from these bats 25 percent were males, 38 percent females, and 37 percent nymphs. Assuming the sexes are produced in equal numbers, the significant predominance of females over males indicates that males are shorter lived, perhaps because they are more active and thus more liable to host predation, the major cause of mortality. There was no indication of seasonal variation in the biology of E. spasmae in the humid equatorial climate of Malaysia.
10.2307/2388221|The palm community in a forest of central Amazonia clearly shows three zones according to the hydromorphic condition of the soil: well-drained soils of the upland forest, poorly-drained soils of a transition zone, and water-logged soils of the seasonal swamp forest. The community is remarkable in three aspects: its size (with 2122 palms/ha, and the highest density on water-logged soils); its great diversity (32 species/1.2 ha), which also depends on the hydromorphic condition of the soil; and its variety of biological forms with characteristic acaulescent palms in the understory, monocaulous and multiple-stemmed palms in the upper understory, and arborescent palms only reaching the canopy in the seasonal swamp forest.
30044949|We evaluated predictions that hunters favor lianas, large seeds, and seeds dispersed by bats, small birds, and mechanical means for seedling banks in central Panama. We censused 3201 trees in 20 1-ha plots and 38,250 seedlings in the central 64 m2 of each plot. We found significant differences in the species composition of the seedling bank between nine protected sites in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument and 11 hunted sites in the contiguous Parque Nacional Soberana. Lianas, species with large seeds, and species with seeds dispersed by bats, small birds, and mechanical means were all overrepresented at hunted sites. The latter two findings could also be evaluated relative to the species composition of reproductively mature adults for canopy trees. The tree species present in the seedling bank had significantly heavier seeds than the tree species present as adults at hunted sites but not at protected sites. The representation of seed dispersal modes among the species present in the seedling bank did not reflect pre-existing differences in the local species composition of adults. We hypothesize that hunting large seed predators favors large seeds by reducing predation and increasing survival. We also hypothesize that the harvest of large birds and mammals that disperse many seeds favors other species whose seeds are dispersed by bats, small birds, and mechanical means. This process also favors lianas because the seeds of disproportionate numbers of liana species are dispersed by wind. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30045471|We evaluated the performance of a method developed to estimate colony densities of the army ant Eciton burchellii, a keystone species, based on raid crossings on trails, in Costa Rica. The method was compared with a census obtained by tracking ant-following birds, and the effect of walking distance and rainfall was evaluated. We found that the method performs well when at least 60 km of trail have been walked (replicated walks are permissible), and when rainfall is avoided. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2989703|A dense population of H. erato in Trinidad, West Indies, was subjected to a mark-release-recapture experiment for a span of 74 days (with two long gaps) from August to November 1964. Butterflies were individually numbered, and three striking facts were demonstrated: 1. The butterflies showed a restricted home range, there being a significant lack of movement between two areas whose edges touched and whose centres were 30 yards apart; there was virtually no movement between these areas and a third one 200 yards away. 2. The butterflies roost at night in communal roosts which are usually within or close to the daytime range of the butterfly. 3. The butterflies are exceptionally long-lived, having a life span in the wild of the same order as that in captivity (50-90 days). There is no significant difference between males and females in longevity or home-range behaviour. These characteristics may be connected with the distastefulness of the butterflies.
10.2307/2388570|The study of the relationship between pioneer vegetation and dormant seeds in the soil in the area of the St. Elie track, French Guiana, shows that:1. In all points of the primary forest, one finds a major seed stock of pioneer species (150 to 200 seeds/m$^2$); the proximity of pioneer vegetation creates a substantial increase of the seed stock in a comparatively narrow strip of soil (doubling of the seeds within 50 m, but the seed stock ratio is unchanged between 500 and 6000 m).2. Adult pioneers in old forest gaps further stock heterogeneity through major enrichment in a limited area which may cover a 30-m range or more.3. The stock evolves rapidly in the first years following the primary forest clearing, it is quantitatively replenished from the second year onwards, and after nine years, it is 4 to 5 times greater than in the primary forest, enriched with short-lived and early-bearing pioneer species, but impoverished in long-lived and late-bearing species.
10.2307/2388475|We analyzed patterns in geographic distribution and resource use for two species of introduced mannikins (Aves: Estrildidae) in four urban parks across southern Oahu, Hawaii. Both species fed exclusively on grass seeds. Resource levels (i.e., the density of grass stems) cycled continuously in the parks due to alternating management practices (i.e., watering and mowing). Both species were common in urban parks during summer months but not during winter. During summer, both species increased significantly as resource levels increased. Nutmeg Mannikins (Lonchura punctulata) occurred in all parks but were rare in those parks where Chestnut Mannikins (Lonchura malacca) were common. This was true even when resource levels between parks did not differ significantly. We interpreted this as evidence for competition between these species. We also tested two specific predictions of the shared-preference model of density-dependent habitat selection. According to this model both species should occur together in a park only when the density of grass seeds in that park is high. A second prediction of the model is that at low resource levels only one species (i.e., the behaviorally dominant species) should occur. Both of these predictions failed. We observed both species together in parks only rarely, and in some cases of coexistence resource levels were quite low Each species was seen by itself in at least one park.
30045485|We investigated microclimatic edge g radients associated with grassy powerlines, paved highways and perennial creeks in wet tropical forest in northeastern Australia during wet and dry seasons. Photosynthetically active radiation, air temperature and vapor pressure deficit, soil temperature, canopy temperature, soil moisture, and air speed in the rain forest understory were measured during traverses perpendicular to the forest edge. Light intensity was elevated near the edges of powerlines, highways, and creeks, but this effect was strongest for creek edges. Air temperature and vapor pressure deficit were elevated near powerline edges in the dry season and highway edges in both wet and dry seasons but were not elevated near creek edges in either season. In contrast, soil moisture was lowered near creek edges but not near either powerline or highway edges. No edge gradients were detected for air speed. Canopy temperature was elevated near highway edges and lowered near powerline edges in the wet season but no edge gradients in canopy temperature were detected near creek edges in either the wet or the dry season. We suggest that these different edge gradients may be largely the result of differences in the fluxes of latent and sensible heat within each type of linear canopy opening, with periodic flood disturbance assisting by maintaining a more open canopy near creek edges. Our data indicate that the nature of the linear canopy opening is at least as important as the width in determining the nature and severity of microclimatic edge effects, analogous to the "matrix effect" of traditional fragmentation studies.
10.2307/2388357|Hemiepiphytes in a moist lowland forest were studied to ascertain their relative abundance, host specificity, growth habits, and spatial patterning. Ten percent of the trees support hemiepiphytes which translates to a density of 11.1 hemiepiphyte individuals per hectare. Host tree microhabitats, hemiepiphyte establishment requirements and the behavior of dispersal agents may influence spatial patterning and host specificity. Two classes of hemiepiphytes are recognized: strangling hemiepiphytes which can become free-standing, and permanent hemiepiphytes which cannot.
10.2307/2388151|A review of the literature shows a less-than-satisfactory number of detailed studies upon which can be based either a viable synthesis or a test of the major hypotheses on the relationship between nutrients and secondary succession in tropical forests. Data from several of the major works are summarized as an example of the state of our knowledge on the biological immobilization of nutrients. Less understood are processes associated with biologically mediated recycling in tropical forests. Reported examples of functional biological adaptations associated with the storage and/or cycling of nutrients are discussed within the context of theories proposed by others to suggest the most profitable future directions for research.
40645546|The rain forest canopy hosts a large percentage of the world's plant biodiversity, which is maintained, in large part, by internal nutrient cycling. This is the first study to examine the effects of site (canopy, forest floor) and tree species (Dipteryxpanamensis, Lecythis ampla, Hyeronima alchorneoides) on decay rates of a common substrate and in situ leaf litter in a tropical forest in Costa Rica. Decay rates were slower for both substrates within the canopy than on the forest floor. The slower rate of mass loss of the common substrate in the canopy was due to differences in microclimate between sites. Canopy litter decay rates were negatively correlated with litter lignin: P ratios, while forest floor decay rates were negatively correlated with lignin concentrations, indicating that the control of litter decay rates in the canopy is P availability while that of the forest floor is carbon quality. The slower cycling rates within the canopy are consistent with lower foliar nutrient concentrations of epiphytes compared with forest floor-rooted plants. Litter decay rates, but not common substrate decay rates, varied among tree species. The lack of variation in common substrate decay among tree species eliminated microclimatic variation as a possible cause for differences in litter decay and points to variation in litter quality, nutrient availability and decomposer community of tree species as the causal factors. The host tree contribution to canopy nutrient cycling via litter quality and inputs may influence the quality and quantity of canopy soil resources.
30043198|Frequency and efficiency of pollinator visits strongly influence the reproductive success of self-incompatible plants. We investigated the breeding and pollination systems of Hancornia speciosa, a small tree that produces fleshy berries used in the Brazilian fruit industry. Observation and experiments were carried out in Northeastern Brazil. Thirty-three species of the visitor were recorded. Hawkmoths (Sphingidae), bees (Euglossini and Centridini), and butterflies (Nymphalidae and Hesperiidae) with long mouth parts were effective pollinators of H. speciosa. Access to nectar, the only reward for flower visitors, is determined by corolla tube length. Nylon threads of various diameters and dried mouth parts from a number of flower visitors were used in experiments to simulate flower visits. The number of pollen grains removed during such simulated visits showed no significant difference. Although xenogamic, H. speciosa presented a low pollen/ovule ratio (77). This might be related to the high efficiency of its pollination mechanism. Flowers of H. speciosa had 76 ovules on average. Seed set varied from 1 to 25, indicating that individual flowers received different amounts of outcross-pollen. Fruit production of hand cross-pollinated flowers increased by 90 percent when compared to natural pollination, suggesting pollinator limitation of H. speciosa. /// A frequncia e a eficincia das visitas dos polinizadores influenciam fortemente no sucesso reprodutivo de plantas auto-incompatveis. Investigamos o sistema reprodutivo e de polinizao de Hancornia speciosa, uma arvoreta que produz bagas carnosas utilizadas comercialmente no Brasil. As observaes e os experimentos foram realizados no Nordeste do Brasil. Foram registradas 33 espcies de visitantes. Esfingdeos (Sphingidae), abelhas (Euglossini e Centridini) e borboletas (Nymphalidae e Hesperiidae) com peas bucais longas foram os polinizadores efetivos de H. speciosa. O acesso ao nctar, nico recurso oferecido aos visitantes florais,  determinado pelo comprimento do tubo da corola. Pedaos de nilon de vrios dimetros e peas bucais secas de vrios visitantes florais foram utilizadas em experimentos para simular visitas s flores. O nmero de gros de plen removidos durante uma s visita no diferiu significativamente entre os vrios tratamentos. Apesar de xenogmica, H. speciosa apresenta baixa razo plen/vulo (77), o que deve relacionar-se  alta eficincia do mecanismo de polinizao. Flores de H. speciosa tm 76 vulos em mdia. Contudo, o nmero de sementes produzidas variou de 1 a 25, indicando que as flores receberam diferentes quantidades de plen exgeno. A produo de frutos a partir da polinizao cruzada aumentou 90 per cento em relao  polinizao natural, sugerindo que o baixo nmero de polinizadores limitou a produo de frutos de H. speciosa.
10.2307/2387957|The roosts of Scotophilus leucogaster were located by radio-tracking in Mopani woodland in the Sengwa Wildlife Research Area in Zimbabwe between 14 January and 12 February 1982. Bats changed roost trees from one day to the next, usually staving within relatively small areas of woodland. Bats frequently moved between night and day roosts. This behavior made it impossible to predict the location of bats from one day to the next.
10.2307/2388722|Twenty tree species were observed growing on a plane wreck site in elfin woodland 18.5 yr after the crash. About three-quarters of 1172 arborescent stems were elfin forest primary species. Total aboveground biomass averaged 776 g/m$^2$ and was classified thus: 30 percent arborescent dicots; 13 percent palms; 31 percent ferns; and 26 percent grasses and herbs. Total aboveground biomass recovery after 18.5 yr appeared linear, and, at the observed rate, it would require nearly two centuries for the site to return to its original biomass.
10.2307/2387807|This paper comments on tree-climbing methods presented by Perry (1978) and gives alternative techniques, safety hints, and sources for more information and equipment used in rope ascending and descending.
30043053|We examined genetic diversity of howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) from Costa Rica. Blood samples of howler monkeys were collected at various locations in Costa Rica, and electrophoresis of total plasma proteins yielded no variation. We also conducted starch gel electrophoresis of red cell isozymes and did not find variation for any of the 14 loci analyzed (i.e., ACP, ADA, CA2, EST, GPI, IDH, LDH-l, LDH-2, MDH, PGD, PGM-l, PGM-2, SOD, and TPI). These findings were compared with the levels of genetic variation for A. seniculus and A. belzebul Trom one Brazilian population. Four of the 14 isozymes (ADA, GPI, PGD, and SOD) showed more than one allele for these species. Both A. seniculus and A. belzebul from Brazil showed similar levels of genetic variation. The potential causes of the low genetic variation in A. palliata from Costa Rica are discussed. /// Se estudi la diversidad genetica de los monos congo (Alouatta palliata) de Costa Rica. Se recolectaron muestras de sangre en varias localidades de Costa Rica. El anlisis de las protenas totales del plasma mediante electroforesis no mostro variacin. El anlisis de las isoenzimas de glbulos rojos mediante electroforesis en geles de almidn tampoco mostr variacin para ninguno de los 14 loci analizados (i.e., ACP, ADA, CA2, EST, GPI, IDH, LDH-l, LDH-2, MDH, PGD, PGM-l, PGM-2, SOD, y TPI). Estos resultados se compararon con los niveles de variacin gentica en A. seniculus y A. belzebul de una poblacin de Brasil. Estas especies presentaron ms de un alelo en 4 de las 14 isoenzimas analizadas (ADA, GPI, PGD, y SOD). Tanto A. seniculus como A. belzebul presentaron niveles comparables de variacin gentica. Se discuten las causas potenciales de la poca variacin gentica en A. palliata de Costa Rica.
30044914|In three forests that differed in annual rainfall and seasonality, the probability of a liana with a stem 2.0 cm stem diameter reaching the canopy was >50 percent. Lianas reached the canopy at significantly smaller size-classes (1.5 cm) in the wet aseasonal forest, suggesting that this estimate changes with forest type. Nevertheless, as a general rule, we suggest that 2.0 cm is the minium stem diameter to examine the abundance and diversity of canopy lianas or canopy competition between lianas and trees. /// La probabilidad de encontrar lianas con tallos de 2 cm en dimetro en el dosel fue >50 por ciento en tres bosques con diferentes regmenes de lluvia y estacionalidad. Aunque las lianas en el bosque hmedo sin estacionalidad alcanzaron el dosel en categoras de tamao significativamente menores (1.5 cm), aquellas lianas con dimetros de 2.0 cm fueron encontrados con ms consistencia en el dosel de los tres tipos de bosque. Por lo tanto, sugerimos que 2.0 cm sea el dimetro mnimo a utilizar para examinar la abundancia y diversidad de lianas en del dosel o la competencia entre lianas y rboles.
30045515|The spatial distribution and abundance of animals are in part determined by the distribution and abundance of their resource base. In the Central Andes of Colombia, monospecific tree plantations have been used to recover vegetative cover in watershed protection programs, but these plantations differ from natural forests in structure, composition, and resources available to wildlife. To evaluate these plantations as habitat for wildlife, we compared the diversity and abundance of understory birds, flowers, and fruits between juxtaposed 40-yr-old patches of exotic Chinese ash {Fraxinus chinensis) plantations and naturally regenerated forest of the same age. We observed more fruiting species in the regenerated forest, but there were no differences in total flower and fruit availability between habitat types. We also observed differences between habitats in the size of some understory shrubs, but these differences did not lead to differences between habitats in the diversity and abundance of birds. Capture rates of nectarivores correlated with resource abundance at sampling plot scale, but no such correlation was found for frugivores. Understory frugivorous birds are apparently functioning at a larger spatial scale than the patchiness created by the two habitats. Nectarivorous birds are responding to small-scale patchiness in resource availability, but not to the different habitats. These results indicate that at small scales, the ash plantation understory provides adequate habitat for birds. /// La distribucin espacial y la abundancia de los animales estn determinadas en parte por la distribucin y abundancia de sus recursos. En la cordillera Central de los Andes de Colombia, se han utilizado plantaciones monoespecficas de rboles exticos para la revegetacin de cuencas, pero la estructura y composicin de estas plantaciones difieren de las de los bosques naturales. Por lo tanto, la disponibilidad de recursos probablemente tambin difiere entre estos tipos de hbitat. Con el fin de evaluar las plantaciones como hbitat para la vida silvestre, se compar la diversidad y abundancia de aves de sotobosque y la disponibilidad de flores y frutas en dos hbitats adyacentes, una plantacin de fresno o urapn (Fraxinus chinensis) de 40 aos de edad y un bosque regenerado naturalmente de la misma edad. Se encontr un nmero de especies en fruto ms alto en el bosque regenerado, pero no hubo diferencias en la disponibilidad de flores y frutos entre los dos tipos de hbitat. Se encontraron diferencias entre hbitats en el tamao de algunos arbustos de sotobosque. Sin embargo, estas diferencias no se tradujeron en diferencias entre hbitats en la diversidad y abundancia de aves. Las tasas de captura de nectarvoros se correlacionaron con la abundancia del recurso a la escala de la unidad de muestreo, pero no se encontr tal correlacin para los frugvoros. Las aves frugvoras del sotobosque aparentemente responden a la heterogeneidad espacial a una escala mayor que la creada por los dos hbitats. Las aves nectarvoras respondieron a la heterogeneidad a pequea escala en la disponibilidad del recurso, pero no a la variacin entre hbitats. Estos resultados indican que a pequea escala, el sotobosque de la plantacin de urapn provee un hbitat adecuado para las aves.
10.2307/2388805|The assessment of fruit abundance is critical for studies of frugivore ecology A variety of methods have been used to estimate habitat-wide fruit abundance. However, since the methods have not been calibrated with each other, it is difficult to compare results of different studies. Here we compare three methods used simultaneously to collect fruit abundance data in the Kibale Forest, Uganda. Estimates of fruit abundance derived from fruit traps were not correlated with estimates derived from either systematic transect sampling or estimates obtained from observing fruiting phenology of key species on a fruit trail. However, estimates based on fruit trail data and transect data were correlated. We review the advantages and disadvantages of methods that have been used to assess habitat-wide fruit abundance.
20492506|Typhoons are an important meteorological feature of the tropical southwest Pacific. However, little is known about their effects on aquatic plants. Here, we describe the potential influence of typhoons on the diversity and distribution of aquatic plants on Hainan Island, South China. Using a combination of field survey and published data, 266 species or sub-species belonging to 115 genera in 57 families were found across typhoon impacted regions of the island. Multiple regression analysis indicated that species richness of aquatic plants was correlated with typhoon incidence rather than the area of aquatic habitat within each region. Heavy rainfall, flooding, and strong winds are likely to create suitable habitats and increase the diversity of aquatic habitats in regions frequently affected by tryphoons, which may explain the higher species richness found in those regions. Beta diversity and cluster analyses showed that distinct aquatic floras occurred in regions that were impacted by different typhoon pathways. By comparing the aquatic floras of the Philippines and the typhoon-affected regions of Hainan, we suggest that typhoons have the potential to transport aquatic plants long distances, although there are a number of other potential explanations for the patterns observed in the aquatic flora of Hainan Island.
10.2307/2388760|Adult robber flies are sit-and-wait predators that attempt aerial capture of flying insects. Estimates of daily rates of prey consumption per individual were combined with estimates of absolute population densities to obtain daily, populational rates of prey consumption for nine robber fly species in a lowland neotropical forest. Estimates of biomass consumed/day/ha/population varied from 23 to 1425 mg (dry weight) among the nine species, and total daily consumption for all species was approximately 4600 mg (dry weight)/ha. This latter value was relatively low compared to estimates available for other insectivorous taxa
20492537|Guaiacum sanctum (lignumvitae, guayacn) comprises economically important and globally endangered trees endemic to the dry neotropics. These trees were historically over-harvested and now G. sanctum is among the species listed by IUCN and CITES. Guaiacum sanctum was once found throughout the Florida Keys, but anthropogenic habitat fragmentation and exploitation have left only one significant population, on Lignumvitae Key. The ecology of this population is additionally subject to hurricane-mediated effects and an endemic parasite. Genetic profiles were determined for the Lignumvitae and putative source populations of G. sanctum to assess variability and to test biogeographic hypotheses. These data were analyzed by phylogenetic and statistical parsimony analyses. The results were most readily interpreted as indicating historical fragmentation followed by long-term isolation. However, recent dispersal or gene flow could not be entirely excluded. Both types of analyses strongly support a significant genetic divergence between Caribbean and Mexican populations of G. sanctum and also suggest bidirectional dispersal of G. sanctum into Lignumvitae Key from both the Caribbean and Mexico. These results inform the process of restoring G. sanctum in the Keys.
2388882|Dispersion of individuals and patches of individuals are presented for nine species of epiphytic and lithophytic orchids in the genus Lepanthes. Patches is defined as the group of individuals present on a phorophyte. Mean number and standard error of reproductive individuals per patch range from 11.6  5.1 in Lepanthes eltoroensis, to 45.5  5.2 in L. rupestris. Most patches contain few reproductive individuals and usually a few patches had most of the adults. The distribution of patch sizes is skewed and most patches carry fewer individuals than the mean. Therefore means may not be an appropriate measure of central tendency as shown by mean crowding and mean patchiness indices. Mean distances between patches range from 4.8 m in L. rupestris to 95.5 m in L. dodiana. Most species have a mean nearest neighbor patch further than 50 m. A regular pattern of dispersion is often observed at distances of 5 and 10 m while at larger distances patches are more frequently aggregated. Large distances between patches and few individuals per patch suggest that small effective population sizes may be common in these orchids if gene flow is restricted.
10.2307/2989818|In the Galpagos Islands, the xerophyte Bursera graveolens shows buttressing similar to that found in more mesic species elsewhere in the tropics. A study of the situation supports Richards' hypothesis of edaphic importance in buttress formation.
40863781|One can take a pessimistic or optimistic view of the future of tropical biodiversity and still find a strong rational for detailed ' biodiversity mapping'. The maps should be detailed descriptions of species and their geographic ranges, based on real specimens in research collections, and all linked to extensive electronic resources. Support is needed for the makers of the biodiversity map, who are at the nexus of systematics and ecology. Biodiversity mapping should be accompanied by taxon-specific short courses that introduce students to specimen preparation and basic identification skills, fostering strong interactions among ecologists and systematists.
10.2307/2387870|The stomach contents of 243 subadult and adult green turtles, Chelonia mydas, taken at their foraging grounds off the eastern coast of Nicaragua, were examined. The sex and site of capture of most of the turtles were known. Turtle grass, Thalassia testudinum, accounted for an average of 78.9 percent of the dry weight of the samples. The turtles were found to graze at the bases of the Thalassia plants where they obtained the youngest growth. They avoided those blades which were encrusted with epiphytic animals and plants. In decreasing order of abundance, the remaining food items comprised: other species of seagrasses (9.7%), algae (8.2%), benthic substrate (1.8%), and animal matter (1.4%). In the northern part of the Nicaraguan foraging range Thalassia accounted for nearly 90 percent of the diet, while in the more southerly portions fleshy red algae predominated. Turtles migrating between the feeding and nesting grounds travel near shore, at which time they consume greater amounts of Syringodium filiforme, red algae, and highly lignified terrestrial debris deposited at river mouths. No difference in the diets of the two sexes was recorded.
10.2307/2388406|Myrica faya Ait. (Myricaceae), an introduced tree species, is rapidly invading disturbed areas of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. The effects of fruit age, number of seeds per fruit, passage through bird guts, leaf litter, shade, and endocarp scarification on germination of M. faya were measured. Germination of M. faya seeds was >80 percent at 10 weeks, declining to 30 percent after 78 weeks of dry storage. Mesocarp removal and endocarp scarification slightly increased germination at 15 weeks but not at 92 weeks; more seeds per fruit and passage through birds had no effect. Leaf litter from M. faya trees and the native Metrosideros polymorpha trees reduced germination. Germination was highest at intermediate shade. Therefore, bird dispersal away from dense forest stands to disturbed areas with intermediate light levels increases the chances of germination for this species.
41241914|Our investigation provides data on the symbiotic status and the functional morphology of tree fine roots in canopy soils of an upper montane forest in Costa Rica. Canopy roots completely lacked mycorrhizal colonization, but showed a high abundance of endophytic fungi suggesting a reduced ability for nutrient acquisition compared with terrestrial roots.
2388936|Nutrient, light, salinity, soil redox potentials, and other soil characteristics were determined across a range of mangrove forest heights across the South Florida peninsula encompassing large-stature trees (> 10 m) on the west coast and dwarf forms (< 1 m) in the southeast Everglades. Relationships were established between abiotic factors and Rhizophora mangle seedling growth rates in four height (cm) classes, 25-40, > 40-55, > 55-70, and > 70-85. Light in open canopy gaps was an important determinant of seedling growth. Growth rates in gaps (0.32  0.04 to 1.89  0.18 mm/d) were two- to five-fold greater than adjacent closed canopy forests (0.14  0.01 to 0.40  0.07 mm/d). Among open canopy sites, labile soil phosphorus and soil redox potentials were significantly correlated to growth (P < 0.05; r = 0.98 and 0.89, respectively). Interstitial salinity ranged from 0 to 27 ppt across sites, well below hypersaline conditions. Thus, under low salinity stress and high light availability, soil fertility is proposed to be the dominant factor controlling R. mangle seedling development to a sapling stage (> 85 cm) in South Florida mangrove forests. In addition, soil anoxia is hypothesized to be an important stressor in lagoonal-bay estuaries and marsh-mangrove ecotones with minimal tidal exchange.
30045463|The density of Brazilian tapirs (Tapirus terrestris) was studied in the northeastern part of the Pantanal wetlands of Brazil using two simultaneous and independent methods: (1) systematic camera trapping combined with capture-recapture analysis, with camera traps spaced 1 km apart and distributed over 54 km ; and (2) line-transect sampling using an array of 12 linear transects, from 3.8 to 7.2 km long, covering the principal open and forest habitat types across the entire 1063 km SESC Pantanal Reserve. The two methods yielded conservative density estimates of 0.58  0.11 tapirs/km (camera trapping) and 0.55 (95% CI 0.30-1.01) tapirs/km (line transects). The study suggests that certain Pantanal habitats and sites can sustain relatively high population densities of tapirs when these animals are protected from hunting. Further testing of the camera-trapping methodology as applied to tapirs is required, particularly focusing on extending the survey period. As it represents a relatively rapid method for estimating population density, in comparison to line-transect surveys, and as it generates information simultaneously on multiple species that are conservation priorities, we recommend that camera-trapping surveys be applied more widely across a variety of Pantanal habitats and land-use categories in order to confirm the value of the vast 140,000 km wilderness region for this vulnerable species. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043161|Here, we document the invasion of equatorial Africa by the little red fire ant (Wasmannia auropunctatd). Commercial logging and other forms of natural resource extraction have catapulted W auropunctata into the interior of Gabon at a rate 60 times faster than the unassisted rate we measured over 19 years at the Lope Reserve. We also present photographic evidence suggesting that W auropunctata is negatively affecting the country's exceptionally rich and intact large mammal fauna. /// Nous documentons l'invasion de l'Afrique Equatoriale par la fourmi lectrique {Wasmannia auropunctata). L'exploitation forestire et les autres formes d'extraction des ressources naturelles ont catapult Wasmannia auropunctata  l'intrieur du Gabon  un rythme 60 fois plus rapide que la progression non assiste que nous avons mesure sur 19 ans  la Rserve de la Lop. Nous prsentons galement des photographies suggrant que Wasmannia auropunctata a un impact ngatif sur la faune de grands mammifres exceptionnellement riche et intacte du pays.
20492524|The ectomycorrhizal (EM) canopy tree Dicymbe corymbosa (Fabaceae subfam. Caesalpinioideae) forms monodominant forests in the Pakaraima Mountains of western Guyana. Like other tropical monodominants, D. corymbosa has several life-history traits that promote conspecific clumping, in contrast to density-dependent recruitment limitations characterizing most tropical trees. Dicymbe corymbosa forests, occurring in Guyana as patches within a largely non-EM mixed-species forest matrix, are important habitats for a diverse assemblage of EM fungi. Ground-based studies have not adequately determined the regional extent of D. corymbosa forests, nor are they practical due to the rugged, remote nature of the Pakaraima Mountains. We assessed the suitability of Landsat satellite imagery for mapping regional distribution of D. corymbosa forests in Guyana's Upper Potaro River Basin. Supervised image classification was performed on images from August 1989 (Landsat-5 TM) and October 1999 (Landsat-7 ETM+). In situ forest reference data were used to quantitatively assess accuracy of output classification maps. Classification performed well in distinguishing monodominant from mixed-species forests. For both images, D. corymbosa forest class accuracy was good (1989 user's accuracy = 89.8%,
10.2307/2388721|Net aboveground primary production (NPP) at 725 m in elevation in the colorado forest (montane rain forest, sensu Beard; lower montane wet forest, sensu Holdridge) of the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico averaged 7.60 t/ha yr on two 0.4-ha permanent plots and was determined by summing aboveground biomass accrual (0.59 t/ha yr), litterfall (6.80 t/ha yr), and herbivory (0.21 t/ha yr). The total leaf area index (trees, epiphytes, and ground vegetation) was 4.95 m$^2$/m$^2$, the aboveground woody volume and biomass, 220 m$^3$/ha and 130 t/ha, respectively, and standing herbivory and the herbivory rate, 5.1 and 4.0 percent/yr, respectively. The mean standing crop of litter was 680 g/m$^2$, with a turnover rate of 0.78 times per year. Of the structural features studied over a 600-m elevational gradient in the Luquillo Mountains, the number of trees per hectare, basal area, and soil organic matter increased with elevation; whereas, the specific leaf area, canopy height, range of tree diameters, forest volume and biomass, leaf area index, and species richness declined. Of the dynamic features studied, ingrowth and mortality of trees, tree growth (diameter, volume, and biomass growth), litterfall, loose litter, standing herbivory and herbivory rates, litter turnover, aboveground woody NPP, and total NPP all declined with an increase in aboveground elevation. The structural and floristic impoverishment of forests and changes in forest dynamics with ascent in the Luquillo Mountains reflect cooler temperatures, fog, and heavier rainfalls that interact to produce saturated soils and retard the mineralization of organic matter.
2389118|An earlier study suggested that soils on the windward slope of Mount Haleakala are excessively waterlogged at low altitudes but become better drained upslope. We analyzed altitudinal changes in soil N turn over, vegetation mass, and foliar chemical composition of the dominant canopy species, Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae), on this slope. The basal areas and DBH
10.2307/2388471|The structure, composition, and spatial patterns of tree species in two adjacent watersheds of the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico were investigated. Both watersheds had the same vegetational characteristics. Dacryodes excelsa. Sloanea berteriana, and Guarea guidonia were the most important trees in the overstory. A profile diagram, chisquare criterion, and multivariate techniques showed the same result: trees were related significantly to topographic variables. Large trees, especially the dominant species, tabonuco, were associated significantly with ridges and slopes. Size-class distributions of individual species varied as a function of broad ecological factors such as topography and disturbance regime. Past anthropogenic disturbance was still apparent in the pattern of distribution of large trees along the elevational gradients of the watersheds. Dacryodes excelsa is the dominant species, even though Sloanea berteriana has higher representation in smaller size-classes.
10.2307/2387880|The neotropical grass Panicum laxum Sw., now colonizing tropical grass-herb swamps in West Africa, shows seed germination characteristics of weedy species. These characteristics include dark inhibition, rapid germination, high germination rate, and a high intraspecific variation in germination potential in the light. P laxum also exhibits enhanced seed germination under flooded conditions and at low radiant energy flux, hence its success in competing with indigenous swamp species.
30044056|After the Asian tsunami the media was inundated with reports of aberrant behavior among animals attributed to a "sixth sense" that allowed them to respond to the catastrophe ahead of the impact. We present behavior data from two satellite-collared Asian elephants that ranged close to the tsunami impact area in Sri Lanka. These data indicate that neither elephant behaved in a manner consistent with a "sixth sense" that allowed an early detection of the approaching tsunami.
30044929|The diet and food resource partitioning of three sympatric hornbills (Great Hornbill Buceros bicornis, Wreathed Hornbill Aceros undulatus, and Oriental Pied Hornbill Anthracoceros albirostris) during the nonbreeding season were studied relative to fruit availability in a foothill semievergreen forest of Arunachal Pradesh, northeast India. Hornbills fed on fruits of 49 plant species that comprised over 95 percent of their diet. Hornbill species partitioned food resources by varying the relative contribution of figs and non-fig fruits in the diet. Similarity in non-fig fruit diet was low. Ten species contributed to over 90 percent of the non-fig diet. The availability of non-fig fruits was much lower in the nonbreeding season than in the breeding season; however, despite lower fruit availability during the nonbreeding season, hornbills had a wide diet breadth and indirect evidence suggests that Wreathed Hornbills foraged widely in this season for fruit. Great Hornbills relied more on figs that were available year-round. The diverse diet breadth that included rare and patchy fruit resources underscores the importance of conserving large forest tracts for hornbills.
3593164|Most tropical plants produce fleshy fruits that are dispersed primarily by vertebrate frugivores. Behavioral disparities among vertebrate seed dispersers could influence patterns of seed distribution and thus forest structure. This study investigated the relative importance of arboreal seed dispersers and seed predators on the initial stage of forest organization-seed deposition. We asked the following questions: (1) To what degree do arboreal seed dispersers influence the species richness and abundance of the seed rain? and (2) Based on the plant species and strata of the forest for which they provide dispersal services, do arboreal seed dispersers represent similar or distinct functional groups? To answer these questions, seed rain was sampled for 12 months in the Dja Reserve, Cameroon. Seed traps representing five percent of the crown area were erected below the canopies of 90 trees belonging to nine focal tree species: 3 dispersed by monkeys, 3 dispersed by large frugivorous birds, and 3 wind-dispersed species. Seeds disseminated by arboreal seed dispersers accounted for ca 12 percent of the seeds and 68 percent of the seed species identified in seed traps. Monkeys dispersed more than twice the number of seed species than large frugivorous birds, but birds dispersed more individual seeds. We identified two distinct functional dispersal groups, one composed of large frugivorous birds and one composed of monkeys, drop dispersers, and seed predators. These groups dispersed plants found in different canopy strata and exhibited low overlap in the seed species they disseminated. We conclude it is unlikely that seed dispersal services provided by monkeys could be compensated for by frugivorous birds in the event of their extirpation from Afrotropical forests.
2389140|Enumeration of a one hectare plot at 900 m a.s.l. in Papua New Guinea revealed 693 individuals of 228 tree and liana species  10 cm DBH. A 0.1 hectare subplot contained 302 individuals of 106 species 2.5  DBH < 10 cm. Lauraceae, Moraceae, and Myristicaceae were the most important families in both size classes. This site is very diverse compared with other tropical forests, and like other species-rich sites worldwide, it has high aseasonal rainfall and high rates of natural disturbance.
2663770|Baits and soil cores were used to quantify temporal variation in the use of cattle dung by two species of subterranean termites, Amitermes beaumonti Banks and Hoplotermes sp. nov. (hereafter referred to by genus), during the 1991 dry season in Guanacaste, Costa Rica. The densities of termite foragers of both species were evaluated in cattle dung patches (baits), in the soil beneath each patch (litter, 0-3.5 cm, and 3.5-7 cm), and in the same layers from adjacent dung-free control sites. Dung patch and control plots were sampled 3, 10, 60, or 110 days after 1450-ml dung patches were deposited on the pasture. Amitermes foragers were abundant in 3-, 10-, 60-, and 110-day-old dung patch plots with a mean (median)  SD of 100 (59)  120 individuals/bait plot, and only 8 (3)  11 individuals/control plot. Hoplotermes foragers were less abundant, with a mean of 22 (0)  87 individuals in dung patch plots and 2 (0)  9 in control plots. Hoplotermes was most abundant in the surface litter under 10-day-old dung patches, where an average of 39 (0)  105 individuals were found. In association with dung patches, Amitermes density was highest inside or directly beneath the dung patch and lowest in the 3.5- to 7.0-cm microsite. In control areas, however, Amitermes was most abundant in the 3.5- to 7.0-cm microsite. Amitermes and Hoplotermes were found in 35 and 9 of the 54 control plots, respectively. We believe that the high termite densities associated with cattle dung patches can be explained by the energetic and microclimatic requirements of the termites and the physical structure of the dung. Although neither species of termite is a mound builder, these termites use specialized behaviors to exploit and modify dung patches such that foragers have access to concentrated food resources and partial protection from the dry climate and from their invertebrate predators.
2389161|We observed nectar use by native and exotic ant species in nature, garden, and urban situations, and found ants utilizing floral and extrafloral nectar of a variety of flowering plant species. We collected 31 plant nectars (29 floral, 2 extrafloral) and used them in feeding preference tests against standard solutions of sugars (20 percent fructose, glucose, and sucrose, and their mixture), 10 trials for each nectar-ant comparison. We compared time-to-discovery and total ant visits to each droplet using ANOVA, and found that both trial and solution contributed significantly to the variation in most experiments. Seven of the floral nectars tested were significantly more attractive to certain ant species than the sugar solutions. Not only do ants use floral nectar, but it appears that some floral nectars contain compounds that are especially attractive to ants.
30043134|The tropical mountain cloud forest bromeliads studied thus far have been reported as self compatible; however, whether or not autogamy and apomixis occur is not known. We characterized the breeding system of Werauhia sintenisii using a series of treatments to detect self-compatibility, autogamy, and apomixes. The natural fruit set of this population was 97 percent. Pollen origin (self vs. cross) did not affect fruit and seed set. Werauhia sintenisii is autogamous but not apomictic. All pollinator-excluded flowers produced fruits, but flowers that were emasculated and caged did not produce any fruit. Factors affecting the evolution of autogamy in this system are discussed. /// Las bromelias de Bosques Montanos estudiadas hasta la fecha han sido reportadas como auto-compatibles. Sin embargo, se desconoce si las mismas son autgamas o apomcticas. Caracterizamos el sistema de apareamiento de Werauchia sintenisii por medio de una serie de tratamientos diseados para detectar auto-compatibilidad, autogamia, y apomixes. En la poblacin estudiada 97 por ciento de las flores producen frutos. El origen del pollen (propio vs forneo) no afect el nmero de semillas y fructos producidos. Werauhia sintenisii es autgama pero no apomctica. Todas las flores que fueron excluidas a los polinizadores produjeron frutos, sin embargo aquellas que fueron emasculadas y excluidas a los polinizadores no produjeron frutos. Se discuten los factores que han podido afectar la evolucin de autogamia en ste sistema.
10.2307/2388982|Insect herbivores that specialize on ant-plants must contend with a resident colony of predators that can use the insect as food or at least deter it from feeding on the plant. In Papua New Guinea, the euphorb Endospermum labios Schodde is commonly inhabited by Camponotus quadriceps F Smith ants that are easily alarmed, recruit effectively, and bite intruders on the host plant. Plants that lack Camponotus often have other resident ant species. We compared the size, herbivore load, herbivory level, frequency of plants supporting vines, and degree of ant defense on E. labios with different ant inhabitants growing intermixed in disturbed forest. A glabrous morph of this tree had distinctly larger colonies of Camponotus, was dramatically larger on average, and suffered very little herbivore damage compared to pubescent morphs even though the morphs appeared to be equally preferred by foundress ants for colony initiation and as food by uraniid caterpillars. Herbivores on E. labios escaped ant defenses by exploiting plants that lacked Camponotus colonies. We hypothesize that colony initiation was less successful in the pubescent morphs in part because of a parasitic fly that attacks foundress ants.
30043289|Soil charcoal is an indicator of Holocene fires as well as a palaeoecological signature of pre-Colombian land use in Neotropical rain forests. To document rain forest fire history, we examined soil charcoal patterns in continuous old-growth forests along an elevational transect from sea level to the continental divide on the Atlantic slope of Costa Rica. At 10 elevations we sampled 1-ha plots, using 16 cores/ha to collect 1.5-m deep soil samples. We found charcoal in soils at every elevation, with total dry mass ranging from 3.18 g/m2 at 2000-m elevation to as much as 102.7 g/m2 at 300 m. Soil charcoal is most abundant at the wettest lowland sites (60-500 m) and less at montane elevations (> 1000 m) where there is less rainfall. Between 30- and 90-cm soil depth, soil charcoal is present consistently and every 1-ha plot has charcoal evidence for multiple fire events. Radiocarbon dates range from 23,240 YBP at 1750-m elevation to 140 YBP at 2600 m. Interestingly, none of the charcoal samples from 2600 m are older than 170 yr, which suggests that forests near the continental divide are relatively young replacement stands that have re-established since the most recent localized volcanic eruption on Volcn Barva. We propose that these old-growth forests have been disturbed infrequently but multiple times as a consequence of anthropogenic and natural fires.
10.2307/2989641| Two tropical papilionid butterflies, Battus polydamus and Battus bellus, maintain stable adult numbers at one major food source (flowers of Stachytarpheta jamaicensis; Verbenaceae) over several months in the premontane tropical wet forest region of northeastern Costa Rica. Adults of both species enjoy high survivorship from predation, presumably as a result of Mllerian mimetic association at this food source. At least one of these species, Battus polydamus, exists as small, isolated breeding populations whose distribution is partially dependent upon the location of patches of Aristolochia (Aristolochiaceae), the larval host plant. Lack of well-developed dispersal ability (vagility) in these butterflies and their patchy distributions in tropical habitats place supreme selective advantage on the evolution of a Mllerian association; adult survivorship at low densities is lengthened by mimicry, thus postponing or preventing local extinctions of isolates. 
3593163|We studied the phenology and reproductive biology of the stained glass palm Geonoma epetiolata in a premontane rain forest of Costa Rica. This understory species is endemic to Costa Rica and Panama. We followed 102 plants for two years and found that G epetiolata is monoecious and protandrous. Flowering duration at the inflorescence level is three to six months for the male phase and two to three weeks for the female phase; this is one the most extended flowering periods reported for palms. Flowering in this palm is continuous throughout the year, both at the individual and population level. This long and continuous flowering pattern may represent an adaptation to increase the chances of reproduction in a environment of high and unpredictable rainfall. The species is self-compatible, but self-pollination is possible only when there is overlap of male and female inflorescences (38% of the cases). Only 28 percent of the stigmas of 1020 flowers received pollen grains and 20 percent developed pollen tubes in the styles. Of all the flowers produced by an inflorescence, 14 percent initiated fruit development but only 3 percent develop into mature fruits. Seventy-six percent of the initiated fruits were aborted.
30043218|We integrate forest structure and remotely sensed data for four successional stages (pasture, early, intermediate, and late) of a tropical dry forest area located in the Sector Santa Rosa of the Guanacaste Conservation Area in northwestern Costa Rica. We used a combination of spectral vegetation indices derived from Landsat 7 ETM+ medium resolution and IKONOS high-resolution imagery. The indices (using the red and near-infrared bands) simple ratio and normalized difference vegetation index separated the successional stages well. Two other indices using mid-infrared bands did not separate successional stages as well. In a comparison of the successional stages with chronological age, there was no separability in the spectral reflectance among different age classes. Successional stages, in contrast, showed distinct groups with minimal overlap. We also applied a simple validation in another dry forest located in the Palo Verde National Park in the province of Guanacaste, Costa Rica, with reasonably good results. /// En este estudio, datos de campo y datos remotamente sensados son analizados para cuatro etapas sucesionales (pastos, temprano, intermedio y tardo) de un bosque seco tropical ubicado en el sector Santa Rosa del Area de Conservacin Guanacaste en el noroeste de Costa Rica. Utilizamos una combinacin de indices spectrales derivados imgenes satelitales, de mediana resolucin de Landsat 7 ETM+ y de alta resolucin de IKONOS. Los ndices (usando las bandas de rojo e infrarojo cercano) de relacin simple (SR) e ndice normalizado de diferencia vegetal (NDVI) separ bien las etapas sucesionales. As otros dos ndices, usando las bandas de infrarojo medio no separaron las etapas sucesionales. En una comparacin de las etapas sucesionales con la edad cronolgica, no existi separabilidad en la reflectancia espectral entre las diferentes clases de edad. Sin embargo, las etapas sucesionales mostraron grupos distinguibles con mnima sobreposicin.Tambin aplicamos una simple validacin en otro bosque seco ubicado en el Parque Nacional Palo Verde en la provincia de Guanacaste, Costa Rica.
10.2307/2387795|Frequencies of plants with extrafloral nectaries were determined for two elevations in Jamaica. Extrafloral nectaries were found on 0.28 of the plants at sea level (Happy Grove, Portland) and 0.00 of the plants at 1310 m (Whitfield Hall, St. Thomas). Ant abundance, as indicated by discovery of and recruitment to baits, was greater at the lower elevation site. However, despite the apparent absence of plants with extrafloral nectaries, there were abundant ants at 1310 m.
10.2307/2387809|An interspecific association between two spider species (Araneae, Uloboridae and Tengellidae) was studied over a six-week period at an Atlantic lowland wet forest site in Costa Rica. The uloborid Philoponella vicina builds orb webs among the frame lines of the platform web constructed by Tengella radiata Kulczynski, the much larger tengellid species. Experiments with marked P vicina determined that these uloborids actively choose to build in T radiata webs. Studies of possible advantages the uloborid may derive from inhabiting the web of the tengellid showed that: 1) "Associated" uloborids persisted at a web site significantly longer than "solo" uloborids; 2) prey capture was significantly greater for the "associated" uloborids than for the "solo" spiders. The association of P vicina and T. radiata appears to be commensal.
20492574|Development of sustainable forestry has been hampered in tropical countries by a scarcity of research on the ecological effects of logging. We focused on cavity-nesting birds, a group known to be sensitive to logging. Cavities used for nesting were not a random subset of all available suitable cavities. Birds selected cavities that were relatively high above the ground, had smaller entrances, and were excavated by woodpeckers. The use of tree species was also not random: Calycophyllum multiflorum, Blepharocalyx gigantea, and Podocarpus parlatorei were disproportionately important. Cavity nests were also more likely to be found in areas with trees with high mean diameter at breast height. This study emphasizes the need to maintain some unlogged forest patches within logging areas and retain certain species of trees. This study has implications for forest management in Argentina, where a new law mandates the sustainable use of forest resources and where many landowners are interested in forest certification.
10.2307/2388952|Fine litterfall (primarily leaves, twigs up to 1 cm diameter, and reproductive parts) was collected weekly over a 5 year period from 30 traps randomly arranged in each of two 0.5 ha plots in tropical rainforests at two contrasting sites (lowland and tableland) in North Queensland and sorted by species and components. Annual fine litterfall ( 95% confidence limits) was 8.00  0.36 Mg ha
3593187|Seasonal drought in tropical moist forest may be the cue for fine root death and turnover, and it may signal root growth deeper to access subsurface water and (or) nutrients. We examined these predictions by measuring fine root biomass (<2 mm diam.) and the timing of root growth and disappearance in an old growth tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Republic of Panama, in the fifth year of a dry season irrigation experiment. Irrigated soil had greater available P concentrations; however, a more pronounced effect was less stable soil aggregates causing higher bulk density. Irrigation did not affect fine root biomass. Mean ( SE) biomass between 0 and 30 cm was
10.2307/2388187|We studied how the environmental perturbations associated with the 1982-1983 El Nino phenomenon affected the population dynamics of Andean condors (Vultur gryphus) in three areas of Peru. For at least four years prior to the 1982-1983 El Nino, nearly all adult condors in a coastal population and an Andean foothill population refrained from breeding; whereas condors in a high-elevation population appeared to be breeding once every other year. The severe environmental disruptions of the 1982-1983 El Nino caused the food supply for the coastal population of condors to decrease, while the food supply for the foothill population increased 17 fold. The food supply for the high-elevation population was little affected by El Nino because climatic changes in the area were inconsequential. In response to the increase in food, almost all condors in the foothill population bred in the months following El Nino. No condors in the coastal population bred after El Nino, and breeding of condors in the high-elevation population was presumably unaffected. If they can reproduce only during the unpredictable El Nino years, coastal and foothill condor populations may barely be able to maintain their numbers without ingress from more regularly breeding populations. The rate of breeding in these desert-dwelling condors seems to be the lowest recorded among birds.
10.2307/2388425|This study examined the effect of aggressive arboreal weaver ants (Oecophylla longinoda) on the dispersal of fruits from the African fig, Ficus capensis. Compared with trees having no or few O. longinoda, trees with large ant colonies had reduced levels of nocturnal fruit removal and an increased proportion of fruits that fell undispersed. Diurnal fruit removal did not differ significantly between trees with different densities of ants. This shift in fruit dispersal characteristics resulted from the clustering of aggressive O. longinoda on the fruiting rama at night. Although ant-plant mutualisms are commonly thought to have evolved from the enhanced fitness that aggressive ants confer on occupied trees by reducing herbivory or competition, reduced seed dispersal in zoochoric species may be an important evolutionary block.
30044912|We studied physiognomy-specific (i.e., gaps vs. understory) responses of birds to low harvest (18.7 m/ha), reduced-impact logging by comparing 3500 mist net captures in control and cut blocks of an Amazonian tena firme forest in Brazil at 20-42 mo postharvest. Species richness did not differ significantly between control (92 species) and cut (85) forest based on rarefaction to 1200 captures. Fifty-six percent of all species were shared between control and cut forest, compared to the 64 percent shared between control blocks. Higher captures of nectarivores and frugivores in cut forest likely occurred as a consequence of postharvest resource blooms. Higher captures of some insectivores in cut as compared to control forest were unexpected, attributable to increased wandering or shifts from association with midstory to understory as a consequence of habitat alteration. Logging influenced capture rates for 21 species, either consistently, or via positive interaction with physiognomy or time (13 species higher in cut forest and 8 species higher in control forest). Cut understory sites had lower diversity (H') and scaled dominance than understory and gap sites in control forest. Temporal changes in captures may have resulted from successional dynamics in cut forest: two guilds and three species increased in abundance. Increases in abundances of guilds and particular species were more prevalent in control than in cut forest, suggesting that logging displaced birds to control forest. In general, the effects of logging were relatively minor; low harvest rates and reduced-impact methods may help to retain aspects of avian biodiversity in Amazon forest understories. /// Ns estudamos as respostas fisionmico-especficas (ou seja, clareiras vs. sub-bosque) das aves  explorao madeireira de impacto-reduzido (18.7 /ha) comparando 3,500 capturas com redes em parcelas controle e exploradas de uma floresta de terra firme na Amazonia Brasileira entre 20 a 42 meses aps a explorao. A riqueza de espcies no diferiu significativamente entre a floresta controle (92 espcies) e a floresta explorada (85), com base na rarefao de 1,200 capturas. Cinqenta e seis por cento das espcies eram compartilhadas entre a floresta controle e a floresta explorada, enquanto que 64% das espcies eram compartilhadas entre as parcelas controle. A maior incidncia de aves nectarvoras e frugvoras na floresta explorada provavelmente ocorreu em conseqncia da proliferao temporria de recursos aps a explorao. As maiores taxas de captura de alguns insetvoros em floresta explorada em relao  floresta controle foram inesperadas, e so atribudas ao incremento da mobilidade das aves ou a um deslocamento de espcies associadas ao mdio-bosque para o sub-bosque em resposta s alteraes de hbitat. A explorao madeireira influenciou as razes de captura de 21 espcies, tanto diretamente como atravs da interao positiva com a fisionomia ou com o tempo (13 espcies foram mais comuns na rea explorada e 8 espcies foram mais comuns na rea controle). Os stios em sub-bosque explorado apresentaram diversidade (H') e dominncia menores do que os stios em sub-bosque e clareira da floresta controle. Mudanas temporais nas taxas de captura podem ter resultado da dinmica de sucesso da floresta explorada: duas guildas e trs espcies incrementaram em abundncia. Incrementos na abundncia das guildas e de algumas espcies em particular foram mais freqentes na floresta controle do que na floresta explorada, sugerindo que a explorao madeireira deslocou aves para dentro da floresta controle. Em geral, os efeitos da explorao madeireira foram relativamente pequenos; explorao de baixa intensidade e mtodos de baixo impacto podem ajudar a manter aspectos importantes da diversidade avifaunstica do sub-bosque da floresta Amaznica.
10.2307/2388443|We report a new method for measuring the dispersal of individual seeds and fruits by animals. Magnets weighing 2.2 and 0.25 g were inserted into palm fruits, and the fruits were experimentally hidden in 0.01-ha plots at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Using a magnetic locator, we were able to recover 99.5 percent of marked fruits that were hidden on the soil surface or buried to 10 cm deep. The larger magnets were detectable 100 percent of the time, even when buried to 40 cm. These data suggest that, under similar habitat and dispersal conditions, search times of 20 to 40 h per hectare would allow recovery of ca. 99 percent of marked seeds and fruits.
10.2307/2663958|Floristic differences between cattle-grazed and macropod-grazed sites (protected from domestic stock by enclosure within a Holocene lava flow) were examined in Eucalyptus savanna in north Queensland, Australia. While macropodgrazed sites have had a lower incidence of fire than the cattle-grazed sites, it seems probable that grazing impacts per se are the major differences between these treatments. One dominant (Capillipedium parviflorum) and another common (Sehima nervosa) native perennial grass in the macropod-grazed treatment were not recorded within the cattle-grazed treatment. There was generally a lower species richness and Shannon-Weaver diversity of perennial forbs in the cattle-grazed treatment compared to the macropod-grazed treatment. There was higher richness, diversity, and abundance of annual grasses in the cattle-grazed treatment compared to the macropod-grazed treatment. The relative richness of native and exotic species was not significantly affected by cattle grazing.
10.2307/2388739|The spectral quality of radiation in the understory of two neotropical rainforests, Barro Colorado Island in Panama and La Selva in Costa Rica, is profoundly affected by the density of the canopy Understory light conditions in both forests bear similar spectral characteristics. In both the greatest changes in spectral quality occur at low flux densities, as in the transition from extreme shade to small light flecks. Change in spectral quality, as assessed by the red far-red (R:FR) ratio, the ratio of radiant energy 400-700: 300-1100 nm, and the ratio of quantum flux density 400-700:300-1100 nm, is strongly correlated with a drop in percentage of solar radiation as measurable by a quantum radiometer. Thus, by knowing the percentage of photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) in relation to full sunlight, it is possible to estimate the spectral quality in the forest at a particular time and microsite.
27742835|Tropical cloud forests are considered humid ecosystems with frequent cloud cover down to the ground surface. However, seasonal variation in precipitation may induce short-term water stress. For canopy leaves, this water stress may also be a consequence of large atmospheric vapor pressure deficits. The objective of this work was to study five canopy cloud forest species to determine if there are restrictions to leaf gas exchange as a consequence of seasonality in precipitation and to daily water deficit due to air evaporative demand mainly during maximum incoming radiation hours. Seasonal daily courses of microclimatic variables (air temperature, relative humidity, photosynthetic photon flux density) and plant responses (leaf water potential, stomatal conductance, CO2 assimilation rates, leaf nitrogen concentration) were measured at 2400 m asl in Monterrey, an intermontane valley of the Venezuelan Andes. A gradient in terms of responses to water stress conditions was observed between the species, with Clusia multiflora (a 46% reduction in stomatal conductance between seasons) as the most affected and Miconia resimoides (increased stomatal conductance) responding more favorably to slight water stress conditions. If we consider the limitations of water stress and/or light conditions on CO2 assimilation we may arrange the species into those in which water stress conditions have a greater impact on leaf carbon gain, those where light conditions are determinant and one in which both water stress and light conditions may affect leaf carbon assimilation.
41058001|Studies that assess the importance of riparian habitats in maintaining diversity of herpetofaunal assemblages in tropical dry forests are limited. We examined changes in abundance, diversity and composition of anuran, lizard and snake assemblages along stream edge-upslope gradients in conserved and disturbed areas of tropical dry forest on the Pacific coast of Mxico. We sampled 659 plots in six watersheds over 2 yr. Two forest conditions (conserved and human disturbed, with three watersheds as replicates) were evaluated in the dry and rainy season. Within each watershed, plots were randomly located at three different distance categories from either stream edge: 0-10 m (near-stream environment), 30-40 m (mid-slope environment), and 50-60 m (upslope environment). Herpetofauna was surveyed by time-constrained searches with a sampling effort of 1980 person-hours. Eighteen anuran, 18 lizard and 23 snake species were recorded. Overall, abundance and diversity of lizards and snakes decreased from near-stream to upslope areas in both forest conditions and seasons; while that of anurans followed this trend only for the conserved forest during the rainy season. Regardless of distance, abundance and diversity of anurans markedly decreased during the dry season, while that of snakes and lizards increased. Overall, our study shows that the importance of riparian areas for herpetofaunal conservation in dry tropical forests varies with forest condition and season.
10.2307/2388713|Analysis of prey remains from beneath feeding perches in Mana Pools National Park in Zimbabwe between 1 March 1987 and 30 April 1988, showed that Nycteris grandis fed mainly on frogs, bats, and arthropods, and occasionally took birds and fish. There was marked seasonal variation in the prey taken, with bats and frogs dominating the biomass at different times. In November 1987, all-night radio-tracking over 15 bat nights revealed significant differences in habitat use between individuals, with one bat foraging along and over the Zambezi River, and another foraging in Acacia albida woodland and over the river. The bats alternated between foraging from continuous flight and making short flights from perches, although foraging over the river usually entailed continuous flight. Significant differences in the use of these foraging strategies between 1987 and an earlier study coincided with differences in November rainfall, and a drastic reduction in the amount of food the bats consumed daily.
10.2307/2388157|Most vascular plants depend to some extent on vesicular-arbuscular (V-A) mycorrhizae for mineral uptake, although a few species do not. Some mycotrophic plants cannot grow without mycorrhizae; others grow better without mycorrhizae in fertile soils, but benefit from mycorrhizae in poor soils. Thus, the mycorrhizal fungus content and the fertility of soil influence the occurrence of plant species. Because V-A mycorrhizal fungi depend on mycotrophic plants for carbon, and because they produce spots which may survive only a short time in the lowland humid tropics, plant community composition in turn affects the mycorrhizal fungus content of soil. This influences the further course of plant succession by affecting which species of plants can subsequently occur in the community. Poor soils may favor alternate stable communities. If mycorrhizal fungi are present, obligately mycotrophic species are the best competitors and should dominate communities. They support an abundance of mycorrhizal fungi, ensuring the continued superiority of obligate mycotrophs. If mycorrhizal fungi are absent, non-mycorrhizal species will comprise the community. Even if mycorrhizal fungi are subsequently introduced, these plants will not support them, favoring persistence of the non-mycorrhizal species. On fertile soils, facultative mycotrophs are most common. They will support infection if mycorrhizal fungi are available when the soils age and fertility declines, paving the way for their replacement by obligate mycotrophs. If mycorrhizal fungi are unavailable, facultatively mycotrophic species will be replaced by non-mycorrhizal plants. Non-mycorrhizal plants may also derive competitive advantage where mycorrhizal fungi are present, from not needing to await infection may also derive competitive advantage where mycorrhizal fungi are present, from not needing to await infection to start growing. Thus, pioneer species are often non-mycorrhizal. Seral species tend to be facultative mycotrophs, and most lowland tropical forest trees tend to be obligately mycotrophic. Ectomycorrhizal individuals are likely to occur in abundance in nutrient-starved or disturbed habitats, although ectomycorrhizal species are rare in the lowland tropics. Ectomycorrhizal associates may influence tropical succession by lowering populations of V-A mycorrhizal fungi.
4132960|In some leaf-cutting ant species, minim workers ride on the fragments of leaves as they are carried back to the nest from the cutting site. There is convincing evidence that these "hitchhikers" can protect the leaf carriers from attack by phorid (Diptera: Phoridae) parasitoids, but we consider the possibility of other functions for the hitchhiking behavior. It has been hypothesized that the hitchhikers (1) feed on leaf sap from the edges of the cut leaves; (2) ride back to the nest to save energy; (3) get caught on the fragments as they are cut, and hitchhike because they cannot (or will not) get off; and (4) begin the process of preparing the leaf to enter the fungal gardens in the nest, perhaps by removing microbial contaminants. We observed hitchhikers of Atta cephalotes in 14 nests at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. There was no difference in the proportion of leaf carriers with hitchhikers between day and night. Because the nests we observed were largely nocturnal, more than 90 percent of the hitchhiking occurred at night. The phorid parasitoids are usually considered to be diurnal, so the preponderance of nocturnal hitchhiking suggests other functions in addition to parasitoid defense. Hitchhikers spent more time in the defensive head-up posture during the day, but spent more time in the head-down posture at night. The head-down posture may indicate cleaning or other leaf preparation. The hitchhikers were never observed feeding on sap. Hitchhikers frequently got onto and off of the fragments, and so they were not "marooned." Few hitchhikers rode all the way back to the nest and were often moving on the leaf fragment; these observations make the energy conservation hypothesis less likely, although we cannot reject it. We conclude that parasitoid defense is an important function of hitchhiking but also that there are probably other functions when parasitoids are absent. Based on available data, the most likely possibility is preparation of the leaf fragment before it enters the nest.
3593188|Little is known about seed bank dynamics in Neotropical savannas. We studied temporal variation in seed density, species richness, species composition, seed mass, and seed number in the topsoil seed bank of a savanna on "La Iguana" Experimental Station,
10.2307/2388682|The rain forests at Bajo Calima, Colombia are described for woody plant composition. Two upland plots, 1.0 and 0.5 ha in size, were selected and all trees $\geq$ 10 cm dbh were measured and identified. Trees $\geq$ 2.5 cm and $\leq$ 9.9 cm dbh were sampled in 0.1 ha subplots. Biomass was estimated using allometric equations. Biomass levels are low, at 210 tons/ha, and tree canopy heights rarely exceed 30-35 m. Few trees over 100 cm dbh were found. Forests at Bajo Calima are among the most species-rich in the world, with over 250 tree species $\geq$ 10 cm dbh per ha. Palms are numerically abundant in the overstory, with Jessenia bataua being most common. Free-climbing lianas are uncommon. Only 11 species had more than 8 individuals $\geq$ 10 cm dbh per ha. Measures of soil nutrients indicate low fertility and possible aluminum toxicity The pluvial rain forests at Bajo Calima lend support to previous findings that high diversity is correlated with both high rainfall and low nutrient levels.
41058003|Commercial timber harvesting results in the loss of critical habitat for tropical forest fauna, and large-bodied frugivores (including chimpanzees and most other apes) may experience particularly detrimental effects. Few quantitative data, however, are available to evaluate the long-term impact of harvesting on chimpanzees and other apes. In particular, few data are available to compare population demographics and/or forest composition before and after timber harvesting at the same site. Utilizing detailed forestry department records of logging operations conducted in the late 1960s, present-day botanical surveys, and long-term data on the feeding ecology of chimpanzees in Kibale National Park (KNP), Uganda, I examined the impact that logging has had on KNP chimpanzee communities of known size and demography. Although some important chimpanzee food resources were harvested in high abundance during commercial logging operations, the overall impact on the most predominant dietary items (those making up roughly 75% of the chimpanzees' diet) and on presumably critical subsistence resources was limited. Furthermore, the low density of chimpanzees inhabiting the logged region of KNP is apparently not attributable to the impact of logging at the site: comparisons of resource densities at this 'low-chimpanzee-density' site with that of an unlogged and 'high-chimpanzee-density' KNP site did not differ when logging concessions at the low-chimpanzeedensity site were excluded from the analysis. This study suggests that low-intensity logging can be compatible with the conservation of large-bodied frugivores, provided that dietary data are taken into account in forest management planning.
41241918|We explored patterns of soil and foliar nutrients across nine mature forest sites in Costa Rica, where mean annual precipitation (MAP) ranged between 3500 and 5500 mm, altitude ranged between 200 and 1200 m, and species composition varied among sites. Our objective was to investigate the relationship between rainfall and plant or soil nutrient characteristics to better understand the potential long-term effects that alterations in MAP could have on the nutrient dynamics of wet forest plant communities. Indicators of soil N availability (net mineralization and nitrification) decreased with MAP but were not related to foliar N. Soil and foliar P, by contrast, were not correlated with MAP but were positively correlated with each other. Thus, across our gradient foliar P was a better predictor of soil nutrient availability than foliar N. There were wide differences in foliar nutrient concentrations and N:P ratios among species within sites. At each site, legumes had higher mean percent N than nonlegumes, resulting in higher N:P ratios for legumes. Taken together, these data suggest that, at least in these forests, a climate-driven decrease in MAP could cause an increase in net N mineralization and nitrification for the wetter sites. However, this may not affect productivity at the community level because of low P availability, complex feedbacks between soil and foliar nutrients, and interactions with other biological and environmental factors such as elevation.
30043205|The large ateline primates are efficient seed dispersers in Neotropical forests and hunting is driving their populations to extinction, but we do not know whether other frugivores could substitute primates in their ecological role as seed dispersers. In this study we test this possibility using a potential keystone species {Bursera inversa) at Tinigua Park, Colombia. This plant species allows us to compare seed removal rates between emergent, isolated trees, without primate visitors and trees with connected crowns. We used traps to estimate fruit production and seed removal rates in six different trees, and fruiting trees were observed during 2 yr to quantify the number of seeds manipulated by different animal species. We carried out seed predation experiments to test if seed removal by predators was affected by distance or density effects. We found that the most productive trees attracted more visiting species and seed removal rates differed among trees, the lowest corresponding to trees without primate access. Seed removal rates from the ground by predators were not higher below parental trees than away from them, but the distribution of saplings in the forest suggests that seed dispersal is advantageous. Although it is likely that the effect of primate extinctions will vary depending on tree species traits, conserving the populations of primate seed dispersers is critical to maintain the ecological processes in this forest. /// Los grandes primates atelinos son eficientes dispersores de semillas en bosques Neotropicales. Debido al exceso de cacera estos primates estan en peligro de extincin, pero no sabemos si otros frugvoros podrn reemplazarlos en sus papeles como dispersores de semillas. En este estudio hicimos ensayos usando la planta "resbalamono" (Bursera inversa) en el Parque Tinigua, Colombia. Esta planta nos permiti hacer comparaciones de las tasas de remocin de semillas por los primates entre plantas emergentes, aisladas y sin acceso a los primates, con plantas con copas conectadas al dosel y que permiten el paso de primates. Usamos trampas para colectar frutas con el objetivo de estimar la produccin de frutas y la tasa de semillas removidas de la copa de los rboles. Durante dos aos se observaron rboles fructificados para quantificar la cantidad de semillas manipuladas por distintas especies de animales frugvoros. Tambin, efectuamos ensayos de depredacin de semillas, para determinar si la remocin de semillas por depredadores es afectada por la distancia al rbol parental o por la densidad de semillas. Encontramos que los rboles ms productivos atraen ms especies de animales frugvoros y que las tasas de remocin de semillas difieren entre los rboles, siendo menores en rboles donde los primates no tienen acceso. La tasa de remocin de semillas del suelo por depredadores no fue afectada por la distancia a los rboles padres. Pero la distribucin de plantas juveniles en el bosque sugiere que la dispersin de semillas es muy importante para el xito reproductivo de las plantas. Aunque es posible que el efecto dela exticion de primates en las plantas vare dependiendo de las caractersticas de la planta, creemos que es muy importante conservar las poblaciones de primates dispersores de semillas para mantener los procesos ecolgicos de estos bosques.
40645547|We test the hypotheses proposed by Gentry and Schnitzer that liana density and basal area in tropical forests vary negatively with mean annual precipitation (MAP) and positively with seasonality. Previous studies correlating liana abundance with these climatic variables have produced conflicting results, warranting a new analysis of drivers of liana abundance based on a different dataset. We compiled a pan-tropical dataset containing 28,953 lianas (> 2.5 cm diam.) from studies conducted at 13 Neotropical and 11 Paleotropical dry to wet lowland tropical forests. The ranges in MAP and dry season length (DSL) (number of months with mean rainfall < 100 mm) represented by these datasets were 860-7250 mm/yr and 0-7 mo, respectively. Pan-tropically, liana density and basal area decreased significantly with increasing annual rainfall and increased with increasing DSL, supporting the hypotheses of Gentry and Schnitzer. Our results suggest that much of the variation in liana density and basal area in the tropics can be accounted for by the relatively simple metrics of MAP and DSL.
10.2307/2388573|A snout weevil, Rhopalotria mollis Sharp, is found to complete the reproductive phases of its life cycle upon and within male cones of the cycad, Zamia furfuracea. Larvae of this insect feed upon tissues of the male cone, pupate, and emerge as pollen-coated adults after boring through microsporangia and microsporophylls. Mature weevils visit pollen-receptive female cones but are nondestructive to ovules and seeds. Exclusion experiments show that weevils are capable of effecting the pollination of ovules of Z. furfuracea in the absence of airborne pollen.
10.2307/2388496|Lobelia keniensis, a giant rosette plant endemic to the alpine zone of Mount Kenya, secretes a solution of water and a mucilaginous substance. This solution forms a reservoir of up to 3 liters between the closely appressed leaf bases of the rosette. Experiments reported here show that rosettes drained of this liquid experienced bud temperatures well below freezing, whereas control rosettes never experienced bud temperatures below freezing. The presence of the reservoir did not affect the rate of leaf warming in the morning. The mucilaginous substance was identified as a pectin, which probably reduces evaporation from the reservoir without lowering the freezing temperature of the water.
4132962|Distress calls are loud, harsh calls given by some species of birds when they are captured by a predator or handled by humans. We recorded the frequency of distress calls and struggling behavior in 40 species of birds captured in mist nets during the dry season in a Costa Rica cloud forest. We tested the following hypotheses proposed to explain the function of distress calls: (1) calling for help from kin or reciprocal altruists; (2) warning kin; (3) eliciting mobbing behavior; (4) startling the predator; and (5) distracting the predator through attraction of additional predators. Our results did not support the calling-for-help, warning kin, or mobbing hypotheses. Indeed, genera that regularly occurred with kin or in flocks were not more likely to call than non-flocking genera. There was no relationship between calling frequency and struggling behavior as predicted by the predator startle hypothesis. Genera of larger birds tended to call more than smaller birds, providing some support for both the predator distraction hypothesis and predator startle hypotheses. Calls of higher amplitude may be more effective in startling the predator. Distress calls of larger birds may also travel greater distances than those of smaller birds, supporting the predator manipulation hypothesis, but this requires further testing.
10.2307/2388127|Three species of wood warblers (Parulidae), the bay-breasted, chestnut-sided, and tennessee warblers, eat fruit in the winter on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. A seasonal pattern of frugivory was observed for the two congeners (bay-breasted and chestnut-sided), both species displaying a strong peak in frugivory in the late dry season. They also were highly frugivorous earlier in the winter, during a general fruiting low, in response to the fruit crops of Lindackeria laurina and Casearia spp. Chestnut-sided and bay-breasted warblers occur commonly at only a few species of fruiting trees, mainly Miconia argentea and Lindackeria laurina. These trees were visited by warblers far out of proportion to the relative abundance of warblers among small omnivorous forest birds. Lindackeria was visited almost exclusively by warblers. While the mechanisms are not clear, Lindackeria appeared to be specialized for dispersal by warblers to a degree not reported for any other migrant-dispersed fruits in the tropics. Warblers were more frugivorous in 1978-1979 than 1977-1978. This situation may be a result of the lack of overlap in fruit production in Miconia and Lindackeria in 1978-1979. The bay-breasted warbler was more frugivorous than the chestnut-sided warbler during both winters. The spacing system of the two species may play a prominent role in this difference. Chestnut-sided warblers defend small territories, a circumstance which makes preferred fruiting trees an undependable food supply. Bay-breasted warblers aggregate from a large area to feed on preferred trees, so fruit supply is more predictable. Bay-breasted and tennessee warblers (and other migrants such as red-eyed vireo) are far more intraspecifically gregarious than are most tropical forest residents. It is possibly the tendency to visit fruiting trees in large flocks that makes migrants potentially good dispersers for some plants.
27742868|We monitored seventy-two 1 ha permanent plots spread over 64 km2 of terra firme forest at Reserva Ducke (Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil) over 2-yr intervals to assess the effects of a soil and topographic gradient on the rate of change in the aboveground tree live biomass (AGLB). AGLB increased significantly over the 2-yr intervals, exhibiting a mean rate of change of 1.65 Mg/ha/yr (bootstrapped 95% CI: 1.15, 2.79). The rate of change varied according to tree size class; understory and sub-canopy trees exhibited higher rates of change. Over the whole period, the rate of change was not related to soil or topographic features of the plots, but there was evidence that the relationships varied depending on the year of measurement. In the plots monitored between 2001 and 2003 we found a significant relationship between AGLB change and the soil textural gradient, but this relationship was not evident in plots monitored between 2002 and 2004. This suggests that both the temporal variation in the soilbiomass change relationship and the size structure of the forest need to be included in models of biomass change in Amazonia. We also noted that the rate of biomass change is sensitive to the equation used to estimate AGLB. Allometric models that incorporate wood-density data provide higher per plot AGLB estimates, but lower rates of change, suggesting that variations in floristic composition have important implications for carbon cycling in diverse tropical forests.
10.2307/2387950|Twelve surface soil samples from each of four rainforest types on different soils of the humid, tropical lowlands of north Queensland were removed to germination-house conditions. Seed germination was monitored over a period of 14 weeks between August and November. Seedling numbers at the four sites (mean densities ranged from 588 m
10.2307/2389108|Seed dispersal in the seasonally inundated flood plain forests of whitewater (varzea) and blackwater rivers (igapo) of Central Amazonia was investigated in a two year field study with particular attention being paid to the phenology of the constituent tree species and the role of water and fish in the dissemination of their diaspores. Maximum fruiting of the trees coincides with the period of inundation, and the specific timing of diaspore release appears related to special dispersal mechanisms, dormancy, and/or requirements for germination and seedling establishment. Due to the possession of specific tissues or other devices that provide buoyancy, the diaspores of most tree species of the inundated forests are capable of floating for prolonged periods. A comparison of diaspore characteristics between hydrochorous tree species and their congeners in noninundated habitats reveals recurrent patterns: some lineages that in noninundated habitats possess dehiscent fruits with anemochorous or zoochorous seeds, in inundatable habitats switch to the production of hydrochorous seeds. Other lineages that in noninundated habitats have dehiscent fruits, in inundatable habitats switch to the production of indehiscent hydrochorous fruits. Lineages that in noninundated habitats produce indehiscent fruits remain indehiscent when switching to hydrochory in inundatable habitats. In the inundated forests virtually all diaspores that fall into the water are consumed by fish, with rates of destruction differing greatly Catfish cannot disrupt hard protective layers of seeds and fruits, while characins are destructive and act largely as seed predators. Very small diaspores, such as those of Cecropia, pass the gut of characin fish unimpaired and viable; for larger diaspores the rate of destruction seems to decrease with the age of the consuming fish. Most hydrochorous diaspores can be dispersed by fish, if they are not destroyed by them (facultative ichthyochory). Others depend on fish for dispersal (obligatory ichthyochory), for example, because their diaspores are very heavy and would sink to the ground under the parent tree, or because their seeds are enclosed in a hard shell from which they can be freed only by the jaws of characins. Ultimately, the diaspores dispersed by water or fish sink to the bottom of the inundated forests from where they start germinating shortly after the end of the submersion. It is most likely that the dormancy of many kinds of seeds is broken by their exposure to the hypoxic conditions that prevail in the still water. Evolutionarily, the synchronization of fruiting at high water must have preceded the origin of the adaptations for hydrochory, ichthyochory, and germination.
2663926|Euterpe edulis (Martius) is a single-stemmed, abundant Neotropical palm of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest (Mata Atlantica). The species produces the heart of palm, locally called palmito, which is an important source of income for forest owners. Because of its high market value, its short-term demands of the forest environment, and its important interactions with animal species, this palm is suitable for sustainable management and conservation purposes. In this paper, we present the results from a 15-year investigation of this species, synthesizing results on its demography, seed dispersion, reproductive biology, genetics, and economics. We have linked these results in a proposal for the species' sustainable management and conservation.
41419476|Tropical secondary forest and agroforestry systems have been identified as important refuges for the local species diversity of birds and other animal groups, but little is known about the importance of these systems for terrestrial herbs. In particular, few studies report how the conversion from tropical forest to technified cacao plantation affects the species richness and the community structure of herbs. We conducted surveys in 43 cacao plantations along the border of the Lore Lindu National Park in Central Sulawesi, ranging from agroforests to technified cacao, categorizing the plantations as rustic cacao, planted shade cacao, and technified cacao. We recorded 91 herb species. Of the 74 species determined to species level, 21 were also found in natural forests, while 53 were recorded only in agricultural habitats. Araceae was the most forest-dependent plant family while Asteraceae included the highest number of nonforest species. Overall, the presence of forest species was confined to moderately intensively managed rustic and planted shaded plantations. Distance from the forest, which has been identified as a crucial parameter for the diversity and composition of other taxa in cacao agroforests, only played a minimal role for herbs. Our study suggests that native forest herbs maybe more vulnerable to forest conversion than animal groups. The intensification of cacao plantation management increases the presence of weedy species to the detriment of native forest species.
30044026|Landsliding is a natural process influencing montane ecosystems, particularly in areas with elevated rainfall and seismic activity. Yet, to date, little effort has been made to quantify the contribution of this process to land-cover change. Focusing on the mountains of Mexico and Central America (M-CA), we estimated the contribution of landsliding to land-cover change at two scales. At the scale of M-CA, we classified the terrain into major landforms and entered in a GIS historical data on earthquake- and rainfall-triggered landslides. At the scale of the Sierra de Las Minas of Guatemala, we investigated Landsat TM data to map rainfall-triggered landslides. During the past 110 yr, > 136,200 ha of land in the mountains of M-CA have been affected by landslides, which translates into disturbance rates exceeding 0.317 percent/century. In Sierra de Las Minas, rainfall associated with hurricane Mitch affected 1765 ha of forest, or equivalently, landslides triggered by storms of this magnitude transformed between 0.196 (return time of 500 yr) and 1.290 (return time of 75 yr) percent of forest/century. Although landsliding results in smaller rates of land-cover change than deforestation, we hypothesize that it has a stronger impact on ecosystems, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, given its influence on vegetation and soil. Moreover, interactions between landsliding and deforestation may be altering the expression of this complex process such that the few protected areas in the mountains of M-CA may represent the only possibility for the conservation of this process. /// Los deslizamientos de tierra representan un fenmeno natural que afecta a todos los ecosistemas montaosos, particularmente aquellos que se encuentran en reas de elevadas precipitaciones y actividad ssmica. Sin embargo, hasta el presente los esfuerzos por cuantificar la contribucin de este proceso a cambios de cobertura de suelo han sido limitados. Enfocados en las montaas de Mxico y Centro America (M-OA) estimamos que la contribucin de los deslizamientos de tierra con cambios de cobertura de suelo a dos escalas. A la escala de M-CA, clasificamos el terreno basado en clases mayores de relieve e inclumos datos histricos de sismos y tormentas que han provocado deslizamientos de tierra en un SIG. A la escala de la Sierra de Las Minas en Guatemala, investigamos datos Landsat TM para identificar y localizar deslizamientos de tierra disperados por lluvia. Durante los ltimos 110 aos >136,200 ha de tierra han sido transformados por deslizamientos de tierra en las montaas de M-CA, lo que se traduce en tasas de perturbacin >0.317 por ciento/siglo. En la Sierra de Las Minas, las lluvias asociadas con el huracn Mitch transformaron 1765 ha de bosque, lo que es equivalente a tasas de perturbacin por deslizamientos de tierra entre 0.196 (tasa de retorno de 500 aos) y 1.290 por ciento/siglo (tasa de retorno de 75 aos). A pesar de que las tasas de cambio de cobertura vegetal por deslizamientos son menores que las causadas por deforestacin, hipotetizamos que tienen un mayor impacto en estos ecosistemas tanto en trminos cualitativos como cuantitativos por su influencia sobre la vegetacin y el suelo. Adems, interacciones entre los deslizamientos de tierra y la deforestacin podran estar afectando la expresin de este complejo proceso de tal forma que las pocas reas montaosas de Mxico y Centro Amrica que estn protegidas representan la nica posibilidad para la conservacin de este proceso.
30045407|Two bird species, Leucopternis polionota and Dendrocincla fuliginosa, frequently follow coatis {Nasua nasua) while they forage in the Atlantic forest of southeastern Brazil. Two other avian species, Trogon rufas and Habia rubica, have also been observed following coatis. This "following foraging behavior" is more frequent during the dry season when coatis forage in trees. For the birds, this can represent a coping strategy with the reduced resource availability during the drier season.
10.2307/2388141|Fourteen species of decapod crustaceans occur in temporary and permanent freshwater streams in the Perlas Archipelago, Panama. Eight species of shrimps in the Atyidae and Palaemonidae and six species of crabs in the Grapsidae, Ocypodidae, and Pseudothelphusidae are represented. Island elevation, rather than area, is the best predictor of species numbers, probably because it is a better indicator of the potential for stream formation and persistence. Grapsid crabs have the widest distribution, occurring on the majority of the 11 islands sampled. Small islands are more likely to contain small rather than large species of shrimps. It is suggested that the decapods, except Potamocarcinus sp., disperse by marine planktonic larvae. Insular shrimps are significantly smaller and reproduce at a smaller size than mainland conspecifics. The adaptive significance of small body size may be related to improved chances for survival during the dry season. Reproduction occurs during the wet season, and fecundity is significantly and exponentially related to body size in shrimps. Unidentifiable detritus accounted for 48 to 88 percent of the stomach contents among the seven species of decapods examined.
10.2307/2388240|Compilation and analysis of geographic distributions of Antillean bat species reveal two overall distribution patterns in Greater Antillean bats. In the first, found among most of the earliest known bat colonizers of the Antilles, Cuban and Hispaniolan bats have a close taxonomic relationship, whereas Jamaican and Puerto Rican bats are more distantly related. This pattern supports a limited vicariance model for early Antillean colonizers, or possibly a dispersal model modified to take into account mid-Tertiary geography. In the second, found among more recent bat colonizers, species accumulate in the western Antillean islands of Cuba and Jamaica, with limited dispersal eastward. The second pattern supports a dispersal model modified to take into account Pleistocene climatic cycles.
30043203|We compared the abundance of foliage-living spiders among seven widespread plant species comprising a gradient of levels of structural complexity in a tropical savannah-like region in southeastern Brazil. Spider abundance among plant species was positively related to the foliage density of their branches. A field experiment using artificial branches was carried out to isolate foliage density effects on spider abundance, thus controlling both biomass and texture effects. Artificial branches were attached to branches of three plant species with similar foliage density, Baccharis dracunculifolia, Diplusodon virgatus, and Microlicia fasciculata. Two treatments were set up: artificial branches with higher foliage density attracted more spiders than those with lower foliage density. The guild structure of hunting spiders was compared among vegetative branches of three plant species with different levels of foliage density: B. dracunculifolia, D. virgatus, and Bidens gardneri. Stalker, and ambusher spiders were more abundant on branches of B. dracunculifolia, which had the highest foliage density. Foliage-runners constituted the dominant guild on D. virgatus and B. gardneri, which have lower foliage density branches. Our results suggest that branch architecture is the most important factor determining the abundance of plant-dwelling spiders in the study area independently of branch biomass, leaf surface area or texture. /// A abundncia de aranhas foi comparada entre sete espcies de plantas, que formam um gradiente de nveis de complexidade estrutural, descrito atravs do nmero de folhas por unidade de volume do ramo, numa regio de cerrado no sudeste do Brasil. A abundncia de aranhas entre as espcies de plantas foi positivamente relacionada com a densidade de folhas de seus ramos. Um experimento de campo, usando ramos artificiais, foi conduzido para isolar o efeito da densidade de folhas dos efeitos de biomassa. Ramos artificiais foram amarrados a ramos de trs especies de plantas com densidade foliar semelhante, Baccharis dracunculifolia, Diplusodon virgatus and Microlicia fasciculata. Dois tratamentos foram usados, ramos artificiais com alta densidade de folhas atraram mais aranhas do que os com baixa densidade de folhas. A distribuio de guildas de aranhas errantes foi comparada entre ramos de trs espcies de plantas com diferentes nveis de densidade de folhas, B. dracunculifolia, D. virgatus e Bidens gardneri. Aranhas saltadoras (Oxyopidae e Salticidae) e de tocaia (Thomisidae) foram mais abundantes nos ramos de B. dracunculifolia, cujos ramos possuam uma maior densidade de folhas. Aranhas caadoras noturnas foi a guilda dominante em D. virgatus e gardneri. Nossos resultados sugerem que a arquitetura de ramos pode ser o fator mais importante que determina a abundncia de aranhas que habitam plantas, independentemente da biomassa, rea superficial de folhas e textura dos ramos.
20492473|Understanding coexistence between sympatric felines with similar body sizes, such as jaguars Panthera onca and pumas Puma concolor, requires knowledge of the way these predators consume and partition food resources. Yet the importance of livestock predation on jaguar and puma coexistence is poorly known. I investigated food habits and patterns of livestock depredation of jaguar and pumas in the Iguau National Park (INP) in southern Brazil. From 1997 to 2001, I collected scats opportunistically on trails and roads in INP and visited ranches on the border of INP. I found that jaguars relied mostly on large and medium-sized wild prey species, while pumas concentrated on medium-sized prey species. Livestock was the fifth most frequent prey found in jaguar scats but the most important one in terms of biomass consumed. Jaguar and puma diets differed significantly when all prey items were compared and also when livestock was excluded from the jaguar diet. Jaguar predation on livestock was considerably higher than predation by pumas. However, predation was not substantial relative to availability of livestock, and cattle likely constitute an alternative source of prey for jaguars. Degree of diet overlap between jaguar and puma in INP suggests that coexistence was likely driven by exploitative competition through some degree of food partitioning. My results highlight the importance of more actions toward increasing numbers of large ungulates to preserve the population of jaguars in INP.
30044014|Madagascar has a distinctive fruit bat community consisting of Pteropus rufus, Eidolon dupreanum, and Rousettus madagascariensis. In this study, we observed fruit bat visits to flowering baobabs (Adansonia suarezensis and Adansonia grandidieri) and kapok trees (Ceibapentandra) during the austral winter. Eidolon dupreanum was recorded feeding on the nectar of baobabs and kapok, P. rufas was observed feeding on kapok only and no R. madagascariensis were seen. Three mammals species, two small lemurs (Phaner farcifer and Mirza coquereli) and E. dupreanum, made nondestructive visits to flowering A. grandidieri and are therefore all potential pollinators of this endangered baobab. This is the first evidence to show that A. grandidieri is bat-pollinated and further demonstrates the close link between fruit bats and some of Madagascar's endemic plants. Eidolon dupreanum was the only mammal species recorded visiting A. suarezensis and visits peaked at the reported times of maximum nectar concentration. Pteropus rufas visited kapok mostly before midnight when most nectar was available, but E. dupreanum visited later in the night. These differences in timing of foraging on kapok can be explained either by differing distances from the roost sites of each species or by resource partitioning. We advocate increased levels of protection, education awareness, and applied research on both mammal-pollinated baobab species and fruit bats, and suggest that both baobabs and bats are candidate "flagship species" for the threatened dry forests of Madagascar. /// Madagascar a une remarquable communaut de chauves-souris frugivores comprenant Pteropus rufas, Eidolon dupreanum et Rousettus madagascariensis. Dans le cadre de la prsente tude, nous avons observ les visites que les chauves-souris effectuent sur les baobabs (Adansonia suarezensis et Adansonia grandidieri) et les kapokiers (Ceibapentandra) en floraison durant l'hiver austral. Eidolon dupreanum a t observ se nourrissant du nectar des baobabs et des kapokiers, Pteropus rufas a t observ en train de se nourrir des kapokiers uniquement, et aucun Rousettus madagascariensis n'a pu tre recens. Trois espces de mammifres, deux lmuriens (Phaner farcifer, Mirza coquereli) et Eidolon dupreanum, effectuent des visites non destructives des fleurs  A. grandidieri et sont, de ce fait, des pollinisateurs potentiels de cette espce de baobab en danger. Il s'agit de la premire preuve qu' A. grandidieri est pollinis par les chauves-souris. Cette observation dmontre aussi le lien troit qui existe entre les chauves-souris frugivores et quelques-unes des plantes endmiques de Madagascar. Eidolon dupreanum est la seule espce observe sur Adansonia suarezensis et les visites sont plus frquentes aux heures de concentration maximale de nectar. Pteropus rufas visite les kapokiers, surtout avant minuit, lorsque les nectars sont encore disponibles. En revanche, la visite effectue par Eidolon dupreanum a lieu plus tard dans la nuit. Cette diffrence d'heures de fourrage sur les kapokiers pourrait tre justifie par l'ingalit de la distance des gtes de chaque espce ou par le partage des ressources. Aussi recommandons-nous le renforcement des mesures de protection, des activits d'IEC et de la recherche applique aux espces de baobab pollinises par des mammifres et les chauves-souris frugivores. Nous suggrons l'intgration des baobabs et des chauves-souris dans la liste des espces "flagship"pour les forts caducifolies en danger  Madagascar.
10.2307/2388674|We used fecal samples collected from birds captured in mist nets to determine the occurrence of fruit in the diets of neotropical migrant birds (species that breed in North America and winter in Central and South America) at six study sites in Costa Rica. A total of 1016 migrants representing 30 species were captured. Fecal samples were collected from 85 percent of all birds captured. Fruits (seeds, pulp) occurred in 58 percent of all fecal samples; the proportion of fecal samples containing fruit ranged from 0 percent (9 species) to over 90 percent (9 species). Individual fecal samples contained seeds from as many as 4 species of plants. At least 98 plant species from at least 29 plant families were represented in fecal samples. Species of Melastomataceae accounted for 37 percent and those of Rubiaceae for 16 percent of all species recorded. Number of fruit species in diets of individual migrant species ranged from 0 (9 species) to 63 (Swainson's Thrush, Catharus ustulatus). Our data demonstrate that some migrants may rival permanent residents in the diversity of fruits they consume. A shift to increased frugivory in the late dry season, as birds were preparing to migrate north, was noted.
10.2307/2389197|Morphology and mineral levels of leaves of 19 secondary and 22 primary tree species were studied in Quercus-dominated upper montane 10-year-old Early Secondary Forest (ESF), 30-year-old Late Secondary Forest (LSF) and undisturbed Primary Forest (PF) in the Costa Rican Cordillera de Talamanca. In general, the predominant leaf is simple, elliptic, entire, and pinnately veined. Notophyllous and microphyllous-sized leaves dominate all spectra. During secondary succession the mean leaf area of secondary species tends to reduce 30 to 65 percent, while the average leaf area of primary species doubles. Primary species exhibit a greater mean leaf dry weight per unit area than secondary species. As succession proceeds, the mean leaf water content drops among secondary species and rises among primary species. During forest recovery levels of foliar nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium decline significantly. In leaves of species in ESF nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium are significantly correlated. Values for leaf characteristics recorded in Costa Rican montane ESF, LSF, and PF fall mainly within the ranges known from other tropical montane forests.
10.2307/2989649|The only family of birds endemic to the Oriental zoogeographical region is the Irenidae (genera Irena. Chloropsis, and Aegithina) The ranges of the 57 races (in 14 species) are described, and some taxonomic and distributional questions are raised. The southern Malay peninsula and Sumatra contain the largest number of species and subspecies, with numbers decreasing outward to their lowest values at the peripheries of the family's range. Several lines of evidence indicate that Malaya-Sumatra has served as the center of evolution of the Irenidae. Water gaps are important barriers to dispersal of birds of this family in which 28.6% of the species and 43.9% of the races are confined to a single island or island group. Mountains also impede dispersal, but ecological factors associated with altitude, latitude, and precipitation are probably more important that elevation per se. Much of the diversity of the Irenidae fauna in the Malaysian subregion may be attributable to Pleistocene sea-level oscillations. Some races and even species probably have evolved since the end of the last glaciation 11,000 years ago, making insular southeast Asia a natural laboratory for the study of bird evolution. Suggestions are made for ecological, ethological, zoogeographical, and taxonomic research to explain the restriction of this family.
10.2307/2388376|Extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) occur on the corollas of 3 dioecious species of Solanum (S. cunninghamii Benth., S. dioicum W V. Fitzg., and S. tudununggae Symon) from Australia. Solanum dioicum also bears EFNs on the leaves. This is the first report of nectaries of any kind for the genus Solanum, the first report of EFNs for the family Solanaceae, and only the third genus from the 8 families in the order Solanales to be shown to possess EFNs. The EFNs are structurally complex and seem to function during the bud stage during which time they are actively visited by ants.
10.2307/2388667|In tropical deciduous forest in Mexico, Jacaratia mexicana (Caricaceae) and Spondias purpurea (Anacardiaceae) are dioecious, deciduous canopy trees that flower and mature fruits while leafless. The concentration of total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) in the lower trunk is not notably reduced by reproduction in either species, and is depleted by growth only in Jacaratia. Branch TNC in Jacaratia does not differ by season, sex, age, or activity, except that fruiting branches show higher concentrations. In Spondias, at leaf senescence the branches reach TNC concentrations similar to the trunk, and branch TNC depletion is similar between the sexes but greater for reproduction than growth.
2663909|Field studies of elusive mammals such as Agouti paca are difficult, and results are often biased and incomplete because the animals are nocturnal and avoid traps. By studying an A. paca population in a Pacific lowland forest of Costa Rica, we developed indirect observational methods to estimate population density and food resource utilization. To estimate population density, we divided the number of A. paca burrows found in a 12-ha census area by the average number of burrows utilized per individual from radiotelemetry data. We compared this estimate to independent population estimates obtained using two transect methods. Agouti paca density was estimated at 93 individuals/km
10.2307/2388558|The reproductive patterns of three didelphid marsupial species (Caluromys philander. Didelphis marsupialis and Philander opossum) were studied in secondary and mature forest in French Guiana in relation to food supply and seasonal variation. Both forests exhibited a period of low fruit availability which was longer and more acute in the mature forest. Nevertheless, survival rate of pouch young was higher for C. philander and P. opossum in the mature forest. It was correlated with high nectar availability during the season of fruit scarcity, and with lower population density compared to the secondary forest site. Conversely, D. marsupialis had a more seasonal breeding pattern, with low mortality of pouch young on both sites, and thus appeared less directly dependent on environmental conditions. Annual variations in body weight were compared for the three species on both study areas. Influence of parturition dates, age and body weight of the female upon litter size and pouch young survival is discussed.
10.2307/2388607|Based on sampling of a hurricane-damaged Caribbean mangrove forest, stand structure and composition are characterized for both pre- and posthurricane vegetation. Before the storm, stand structure was typical of mangrove forests throughout the region, but poorly developed compared to upland forests in the same life zone, as expressed in a composite index of tree height, basal area, stem density, and species diversity The hurricane inflicted the most severe damage upon the largest trees and markedly reduced the complexity index of the stand, but it appears to have favored the establishment of abundant regeneration by all of the original mangrove species. Periodic destruction of Caribbean mangrove forests by cyclonic storms is proposed as one explanation for their characteristically low structural complexity as well as the lack of typical "climax" components in the vegetation.
10.2307/2388907|The fruiting phenology and avian consumer set of cardon cactus (Stenocereus griseus) fruits were observed on the semiarid Macanao Peninsula of Margarita Island, Venezuela. The cardon population had two peak fruiting seasons (late May-early June and late August-early September) which correspond to the local rainy seasons, but many plants also produce low numbers of fruits throughout the year. Fruits were fed on continuously by a variety of consumers for several days while still attached to the plant. The avian consumer set included 14 species and was dominated by two species of parrots (Aratinga pertinax and the endangered Amazona barbadensis). Most of the avian consumers are omnivores that include variable amounts of fruit in their diet. Feeding observations in the wild, captive feeding trials, and seed germination trials indicated that six of the bird species are seed predators, six act as seed dispersets, and two are neutral with respect to seed survival. Bats fed on the fruits but were unable to open the husks, and thus must rely on naturally dehisced fruits or fruits opened by psittacines.
2663830|In 1990 and 1991, Samoa was struck by two cyclones, Ofa and Val. In the Tafua Rain Forest Preserve on the island of Savai'i, one part of the forest also burned after the first cyclone. Here we report on patterns of regeneration and changes in tree species composition in the Tafua lowland rain forest after five years of recovery from cyclone and fire disturbance. In the unburned area, tree canopy cover increased from 27 percent after the last cyclone to 58 percent, and in the burned area from below 12 to 49 percent. Nine of the ten most common tree species decreased in relative abundance in the entire forest after the last cyclone. One fast growing pioneer species, Macaranga harveyana, now makes up 42 percent of the total number of trees (>5 cm DBH) in the unburned area and 86 percent in the burned area. Large interspecific differences occur in size distribution and there are at least four distinguishable regeneration patterns, which may be related to shade tolerance. Mean number of species per plot was generally higher in the unburned area than in the burned area, while the Shannon evenness index was higher in the unburned than in the burned area only for trees above 1 cm DBH. Species with fruits known to be fed upon by birds and/or bats generally made up a larger proportion of all trees in the burned than in the unburned area. In contrast to other studies of postcyclone regeneration, in which recovery is often rapid due to resprouting of trees, recovery in the Tafua forest was a slow process with regeneration more dependent on vertebrate seed dispersal than on resprouting.
30043277|To assess the impact of bats on seed dispersal in a tropical mature forest (Nouragues, French Guiana), we conducted a bat exclusion experiment and tested the hypotheses that an artificial reduction in the abundance of bats would result in: (1) a decrease in seed species diversity, at the community level; and (2) an increase in seed limitation (a failure of seeds to reach all suitable sites for germination) at the species level. Seed rain was sampled in two contiguous forest plots for a total of 120 d, using 49 seed traps (1 m2) arranged in 7 x 7 grids and spaced at 5-m intervals. Using mist nets, bat activity was reduced in one forest plot for a total of 60 nights. Thirty-nine plant species, or species groups, likely to be consumed and dispersed by bats, were collected within a total sample of 50,063 seeds. The overall seed rain was dominated by epiphytic Araceae and Cyclanthaceae (83.3%) and tree species within the genera Cecropia and Ficus (16.0%). Seeds from bat-dispersed shrubs and treelets (Piper, Solanum, and Vismia) were relatively rare (0.7%). The bat exclusion resulted in a 30.5 percent reduction in seed species richness and increased seed limitation for most of the species sampled. Seed limitation was caused mainly by a reduced seed rain (seed source limitation) rather than a decrease in seed dispersal uniformity (seed dispersal limitation). Therefore, bat-dispersed plants with low seed production are likely to be particularly affected by a decline in bat abundance, as a result of anthropogenic change.
30044943|Vertebrate responses to hunting are widely variable for target and nontarget species depending on the history of hunting and productivity of any given site and the life history traits of game species. We provide a comprehensive meta-analysis of changes in population density or other abundance estimates for 30 mid-sized to large mammal, bird and reptile species in 101 hunted and nonhunted, but otherwise undisturbed, Neotropical forest sites. The data set was analyzed using both an unnested approach, based on population density estimates, and a nested approach in which pairwise comparisons of abundance metrics were restricted to geographic groups of sites sharing similar habitat and soil conditions. This resulted in 25 geographic clusters of sites within which 1811 population abundance estimates were compared across different levels of hunting pressure. Average nested changes in abundance across increasingly greater levels of hunting pressure ranged from moderately positive to highly negative. Populations of all species combined declined across greater differences in hunting pressure by up to 74.8 percent from their numeric abundance in less intensively hunted sites, but harvest-sensitive species faired far worse. Of the 30 species examined, 22 declined significantly at high levels of hunting. Body size significantly affected the direction and magnitude of abundance changes, with large-bodied species declining faster in overhunted sites. Frugivorous species showed more marked declines in abundance in heavily hunted sites than seed predators and browsers, regardless of the effects of body size. The implications of hunting for seed dispersal are discussed in terms of community dynamics in semi-defaunated tropical forests.
30044959|Although flying foxes (fruit bats in the genus Pteropus) in continental forests often fly between scattered resources, little is known about their ranging behavior among islands. The inhospitable water matrix that surrounds the food patches (islands) in archipelagos may prevent flying foxes from tracking resources as efficiently as their counterparts on larger landmasses do. Our aim in this study was to determine whether the abundance of foraging flying foxes (Pteropus tonganus) reflected food availability on islands in the Vava'u archipelago of Tonga, regardless of island size and isolation. Overall, food availability was the strongest determinant of flying fox abundance, and spatial aspects of the islands (land area within 10 km) had only a small influence. Food availability appears to regulate flying fox abundance only when food resources are low, but when food sources are plentiful, flying fox abundance may be high or low. These results provide indirect evidence that flying foxes are able to track food resources efficiently in an archipelago, and the water matrix that surrounds the food patches (islands) is not a strong deterrent for foraging animals.
30043125|Ants of the genus Oecophylla are predators of other insects and are able to protect a variety of terrestrial plants against pest insects; however, observations on the ecology of these ants in mangrove forests are lacking. General observations on the ecology of Oecophylla smaragdina were carried out in a Thai mangrove forest to determine if these ants can protect their host plants in less favorable mangrove habitats. Leaf herbivory and the density of O. smaragdina ants were measured on Rhizophora mucronata trees at two sites. The results showed a negative correlation between ant density and herbivory. At both sites, the mean percent damaged leaf area was more than four times higher on trees without ants compared to "ant-trees." A significant negative correlation was found between tree mean percent leaf damage and the density of ants on the tree. Furthermore, on trees with ants, there was less herbivory on leaves close to ant nests compared to other leaves on the tree. Most damage was caused by chrysomelid beetles (62%) and sesarmid crabs (25%) and both types of herbivory were significantly reduced on ant-trees.
10.2307/2389060|The reproductive biology of the threatened, endemic and economically important palm species (Neodypsis decaryi) of Madagascar was studied in order to understand its interaction with pollinators. Inflorescences were monoecious, protandrous, and primarily insect pollinated. The honey bee Apis mellifera was the most effective pollinator although there were other insect visitors. None of these visitors were specialists restricted to N. decaryi. The Neodypsis decaryi populations examined in this study produced staminate flowers continuously all year long, but fruit production was highly seasonal. Our hypothesis is that continuous staminate flower production throughout the year may provide a reliable food resource for flower visitors and habituate the pollinators to the system. Fruit set is low and appears to be associated with both water resource and pollen limitation.
2663894|We compared early plant succession in four abandoned pastures of differing age since abandonment and a nearby secondary forest site in northwestern Ecuador. Two "Open" pastures had no tree canopy covering, and two "Guava" pastures had a well-developed canopy cover of Psidium guajava. No site had been seeded with pasture grasses. All pastures were compared in a chronological sequence; two were monitored for 18 months. Species richness was consistently higher in Guava sites than in Open sites and it continued to increase over time, whereas it remained static in Open sites. Species richness was highest in secondary forest. Recruitment of tree saplings in Guava sites was lower than in secondary forest; however, it was nearly absent in Open sites. The seed bank contained predominantly herbaceous species at all sites, and was highly dissimilar to aboveground vegetation. Dominance-diversity curves for Guava sites showed a more equitable distribution of species that increased over time. In contrast, dominance-diversity curves for Open sites were static and indicated dominance by a few aggressive species. Soil characteristics among sites were variable; however, a principal components analysis on soils isolated the older Open site from all others. The older Open site had the lowest species richness and was dominated by Baccharis trinervis, an aggressive shrub species. The site appears to be in a state of arrested succession and some form of restorative intervention may be necessary to initiate succession toward a forested condition. Succession in Guava sites appears headed toward secondary forest, whereas it does not in Open sites.
30043196|The ecology and distribution of thirty-seven Melastomataceae species found on 29 inselbergs in the rain forest of Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Cameroon are described. The relative contributions of climatic determinism, and stochastic and historical processes to the present distribution of the species amongst the study sites are investigated. Inselbergs are rock outcrops enduring very harsh edaphic and microclimatic conditions, forming "xeric islands" in the rain forest, where natural grasslands develop. For each Melastomataceae species, the habitats where they were collected on the inselbergs and in other biotopes were listed, and their phytogeographical distribution was established. Three species are restricted to rock outcrops. Most species are distributed inside the Guineo-Congolian Region. Three species have disjunct distributions on rain forest inselbergs and have their main distribution area outside the forested zone. The distribution of the species amongst the inselbergs is correlated to the altitude and the annual rainfall of the sites, and to inselberg geographical location. This correlation of the species distribution with the geographical location of the inselberg is attributed to the spatial autocorrelation of environmental variables and to the combined effects of the history of past vegetation changes due to climatic fluctuations and dispersal limitation. /// L'cologie et la distribution de trente-sept espces de Melastomataceae rcoltes sur 29 inselbergs inclus dans la fort de Guine Equatoriale, du Gabon et du Cameroun sont dcrites. Les contributions relatives du dterminisme climatique, de processus stochastiques et de l'histoire de la vgtation  la distribution actuelle des espces entre les sites d'tudes ont t investigues. En consquence de leurs conditions microclimatiques et daphiques, les inselbergs constituent dans la fort dense humide, des lots xriques partiellement couverts de prairies. Pour chaque espce de Melastomataceae, les diffrents habitats o croissent ces espces au sein et en dehors des inselbergs ont t recherchs, ainsi que leur distribution phytogographique. Trois espces sont confines aux inselbergs et affleurements rocheux. La majorit des espces ont une distribution phytogographique Guino-Congolaise. Trois espces ont une aire de distribution disjointe: les populations des inselbergs de fort dense sont en position satellite par rapport  leur aire de distribution principale. La distribution des espces entre les diffrents inselbergs est corrle  l'altitude et aux prcipitations moyennes annuelles des sites, ainsi qu' leur position gographique. Cette corrlation de la distribution des espces avec une variable spatiale s'explique par l'autocorrlation spatiale des variables environnementales et les effets combins de la dispersion limite des espces et de l'histoire de la vgtation suite aux fluctuations climatiques.
10.2307/2389070|Tree species, genus, and family richness (DBH  10 cm) is recorded in 95 plots of 0.1 ha, situated in most physiographic units in the middle Caqueta area, east of Araracara, in the Amazon lowlands of Colombia. A positive correlation is present between forest canopy height and tree species density. Highest tree taxon density. Highest tree taxon density is found in poorly drained swamps, while plots on podzolized ("white sand") soils show intermediate levels. In well-drained flood plains tree taxon density is lower in comparison with well-drained uplands, but this difference become smaller when stem densities are taken into account. Patterns of cumulative numbers of tree taxa in series of plots combined are similar. The results suggest that general patterns of tree taxon richness are mostly related to habitat hostility and environmental stress factors. Fluvial dynamics, between plot soil heterogeneity and beta diversity, play only a subordinate role in the maintenance of the high tree species diversity in the well-drained upland. Here, tree species density in proportion to stem density is slightly higher in forests on the less nutrient poor, more clayey and reddish soils with thinner humus forms compared to forests on very poor, loamy, and yellowish soils with thicker humus forms. These results may be explained in terms of habitat hostility (stress ) or forest dynamics. Gap phase dynamics could be important in maintaining high levels of tree species alpha diversity in well-drained upland forests. Extinction of tree species related to cyclic forest disappearances on a regional scale has probably been relatively unimportant.
10.2307/2989823|It is proposed that tropical nutrient-poor white sand soils produce blackwater rivers, rivers that are rich in humic acids and poor in nutrients, because the vegetation growing on these soils is exceptionally rich in secondary compounds. The humic acids (= tannins and other phenolics) may even be only the more conspicuous of the secondary compounds that leach out of the living vegetation and the litter. While the water and the soil (including litter) may be expected to have a low productivity and animal biomass solely on the basis of its low nutrient content, it is quite possible that large amounts of secondary compounds are also debilitating to the animal community. An exceptionally high concentration of secondary compounds is expected in the vegetation growing on white sand soils for two reasons. First, this is an expected outcome in habitats where the loss of a leaf to an herbivore or through deciduous behavior is relatively a much greater loss than on nutrient-rich soils. Second, the plants growing there belong for the most part to families exceptionally rich in secondary compounds, a characteristic which is in turn selected for by the chemical defense requirements of plants growing in low diversity stands. The small amount of data that is available from Sarawak white sand habitats shows that the carrying capacity for animals is very greatly reduced. The postulated cause is reduced primary productivity and/or much of the productivity being used by the plant for secondary compounds (unharvestable productivity), or stored for seed crops at very long intervals (unavailable productivity). It is proposed that mast fruiting at the community level, as displayed by trees in the Dipterocarpaceae, is a mechanism of escape from seed predators that is unique to this part of the tropics (S.E. Asia) because this area has reduced animal communities (both on white sand soil sites and in general), and because the climate is sufficiently uniform for such an intra- and inter-population cueing system to evolve. Without experimentation, it is impossible to know, however, if the animal community is reduced solely due to overall lowered primary and harvestable productivity, or as well to the inevitable reduction in animal numbers when many of the trees in a habitat wait more than a few years for their highly synchronized seed crops. The occurrence of numerous tropical habitats with a very low diversity of trees inviolates the currently popular dogma that diversity is mandatory for stability in tropical habitats. I propose that the trees in such monotonous habitats are exceptionally well-protected chemically with respect to foliage, and have either very toxic seeds or well-developed mast cycles.
10.2307/2989807|The abundance and biomass of species of nonvolant mammals on Barro Colorado Island are estimated and compared with data from other areas. The edentates, particularly the sloths, are shown to be dominant elements in neotropical forests. The sloths and howler monkeys together constitute more than 50 percent of the biomass of mammals, emphasizing the importance of the forest canopy. The bulk of the mammalian biomass is maintained by species which are browsers or frugivores and browsers. The total energy consumption of each species is estimated and the metabolic rate of the whole mammalian fauna is judged to be between 3000 and 4000 kilocalories per hectare per day on Barro Colorado Island.
30043299|The populations of the Mexican mantled howler monkey (Alouatta palliata mexicana) in the Los Tuxtlas region, Mexico, have declined drastically due to habitat loss and fragmentation. Nevertheless, several troops still inhabit very small and isolated rain forest fragments. We identified the main vegetation attributes that can favor the presence of howlers within 18 small (< l0-ha) fragments that did not differ significantly in size, shape, and isolation (nine occupied and nine unoccupied by howlers). We found that habitat quality (i.e., food resources and vegetation structure) affected howler incidence in small fragments. Particularly, the occupied fragments showed greater density of big trees (dbh > 60 cm), greater total basal area, greater basal area of persistent tree species, and greater basal area of top food species than the unoccupied fragments; suggesting that even for small fragments the loss of big trees and particularly the decrease in size class of the top food species can negatively affect howler distribution in highly fragmented landscapes. These findings could be used to establish foreground conservation areas for this critically endangered subspecies in fragmented landscapes of Los Tuxtlas.
10.2307/2989647|Pseudacanthotermes militaris explores and attacks timber in the vicinity of cracks. Maximum stimulation of the termite was observed when the crack width approximated both the modal height of the runways and the height to which a minor worker could lift a soil particle.
10.2307/2387854|Thirteen species of clubionid and salticid ant-mimicking spiders studied on Barro Colorado Island in Panama are listed with their model ants, if known. The mimicry is "proven" in five (possibly six) cases by associating specific mimetic structures of the mimic with unique characteristics of its model ant. Adaptations for mimicry are discussed with special attention given to the antennal illusion.
20492566|Primates are an extraordinarily well-known tropical forest, mammalian taxon. We investigated potential modes of niche separation in primates by identifying sympatric species with putatively similar niche characteristics and assessing potential competition using data gleaned from an extensive literature review. We defined competing species-pairs as (a) sympatric species in which (b) the body mass of the larger species was within 30 percent of the smaller species' mass and (c) the species had the same category of diet. A sample of 43 well-studied forests (7-20 per continent) provided 673 pairs of sympatric primate species. Of these, 45 pairs (7%) are potential competitors by our definition. Africa has the largest number of competing pairs (17 pairs), while Asia might have the highest percentage of competitors in each forest site (17%). Niche separation was investigated for each pair by examining them for each of eight possible modes of separation: detailed differences in diets (28% of potential competitors), use of different heights in the forest (25%), use of different types of forest (14%), use of different locations within the forest (11%), use of support branches of different diameters (7%), different ranging behavior (6%), different techniques of prey capture (4%), and differential timing of activity (4%). The use of different heights in the forest is the dominant form of potential separation in Africa (31% of competing species-pairs) and Asia (38%), while detailed differences in diet appears to be the primary mode of niche separation in the Americas (26%) and Madagascar (32%).
10.2307/2388613|An analysis of termite fauna from two sites of primary forest in Brazilian Amazonia is presented, based on 0.25 ha plot sampling. Species lists are presented for these areas and for three other sites in Brazilian Amazonia. Sixty-four species of termites were found in a primary terra firme forest and 11 in a primary swamp ("varzea") forest in Western Brazilian Amazonia. Twenty-seven species were found in a terra firme forest in Eastern Brazilian Amazonia. The Nasutitermitinae, especially the genus Nasutitermes. were the dominant group both in number of species and abundance. Only six species in the terra firme and none in the swamp forest built epigeal nests. In terra firme forest, many species were found associated with termitaria built by other species. The majority of the species were wood-feeders, many of them restricted to rotten wood. The humus-feeders were the second group in number of species. The termite fauna of the terra firme and of the swamp forest were distinct, as shown by the low similarity index. The species composition and diversity were highly variable among different sites, apparently without correlation to climate or vegetation type.
10.2307/2388120|The reflectance of infrared light is a phenomenon rarely reported in amphibians and never reported in reptiles in connection with background substrate matching. Five species of chameleons (Chamaeleo hohnelii, schubotzi, gracilis, jacksoni, fischeri) were photographed in Kenya shortly after capture using Kodak infrared film. Two species (gracilis, fischeri) reflected infrared light while the others did not. Infrared reflectance may be a thermoregulatory mechanism or may allow the animal to blend in with its surroundings for both avoiding predators and capturing prey; all suggestions are speculative.
10.2307/2989717|The section Neurophyllodes of Geranium, a highly distinctive group endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, consists of four species, three of which contain two or more well-marked subspecies. Although all are alpine, their habitats range from dry cinder fields up to 3300 m to wet montane bogs with up to 1500 cm rainfall annually. Progressive adaptation by leaves to xeromorphy is hypothesized for all species except G. humile. Features representing xeromorphy include diminution in leaf size; isolateral versus bifacial leaf construction; increase in thickness and in number of palisade layers; increase in glandular trichomes to form a dense felt on one or more surfaces; development of a hypodermis near one or both surfaces, together with hypodermis-like cells in the central mesophyll. Selective factors inducing this xeromorphy include brilliance of sunshine with pronounced ultraviolet-radiation; radiation from and aridity of bare lava or cinders; brisk winds; and marked diurnal fluctuation of humidity. Geranium humile is hypothesized to be a secondary entrant into bogs, based on xeromorphic ancestors resembling G. cuneatum. Foliar features other than those probably indicative of xeromorphy are discussed, and a nomenclatural revision is proposed.
10.2307/2388165|A foraging bat hawk (Macheiramphus alcinus) was observed for six consecutive nights near a cave in Zambia. Feeding bouts lasting an average of 18.3 minutes per night caught an average of seven insectivorous bats (average percent success was 49.3 per attempt). Average weight of meals was 56.3 g. Kill-ingestion rates averaged 6.0 sec. Bats were the only observed prey. The morphological and behavioral adaptations of bat hawks are discussed and interpreted as strategies that are a sensitive reflection of the biology, behavior, and ecology of small, insectivorous bats.
10.2307/2388149|Several characteristics of successional species and communities typical of the lowland, humid tropics are compared with those of drier and colder tropical environments. Suggested trends of successional species characteristics along a gradient from benevolent to harsh tropical environments include: fewer but more specialized taxa; more striking ecological equivalence between biogeographic regions; increased vegetative reproduction; less palatable leaves; denser wood; and decreased importance of chlorophyllous stems. Hypothesized trends of the communities along this same gradient include: slower regrowth; increased resilience (drier sites only); fewer seral stages; and patchier distribution of leaf area. As tropical soils are degraded through misuse, there is a tendency for ruderal vegetation from drier (or colder) environments to invade degraded landscapes in wetter (or warmer) areas. Regrowth and resilience of high-elevation tropical forests are so slow that these communities may never reestablish after clearing.
2388823|The trees, vines, and stranglers 10 cm in diameter in 1 ha of terra firme forest in Amazonas State, Brazil, were measured and identified. The plot contained 645 trees representing 201 species, 95 genera, and 34 families (basal area ca 31 m
2663829|In temperate forested streams, fruit from riparian trees is generally a minor and seasonal component of the allochthonous detritus. In contrast, riparian fruit input to tropical streams is often high and continuous. Detrital fruit is abundant in some forested Hawaiian streams compared to other forms of riparian detritus, and rates of leaf litter processing by macroscopic invertebrates are very low. These observations suggested that fruit is an important food resource for detritivores. A microcosm system was used to measure the rates at which two common detrital fruits, guava and mango, were processed by two common detritivores, the prawn Macrobrachium lar and the gastropod Tarebia granifera. Comparisons of fruit weight loss rates normalized by detritivore weight indicated that M. lar processed guavas at significantly higher rates than T. granifera; differences in rates of mango processing by M. lar and T. granifera were not significant. Microcosms containing both M. lar and T. granifera were used to test for interactions between the invertebrates that affected rates of mango processing. No interspecific interactions were detected. A field study was conducted in Kaiwiki Stream, Island of Hawaii, to determine rates of detrital fruit input and export. Detrital fruit was supplied to the study area year-round, with peaks corresponding to summer and autumn fruiting seasons. Guavas and mangos accounted for 85 percent of the fruit biomass entering the stream and 92 percent of the fruit exported from the stream. Mean daily export rates of guava were 7 percent of input, and export rates of mango were 5 percent of input. These measurements suggested that most of the fruit entering the stream is retained and comprises a substantial food resource for detritivores. Comparisons of the biomass-specific rates at which M. lar and T. granifera processed mangos and guavas with the rates at which mangos and guavas entered Kaiwiki Stream suggested that these invertebrates can process most of the detrital fruit in the stream.
10.2307/2389231|Responses of a tree fern (Cibotium glaucum) to nutrient additions were examined in two rain forest sites in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii. In the younger forest (ca 200 yr old), separate additions of nitrogen and of phosphorus (but not additions of all other macro- and micronutrients) increased fern stem height growth. Nitrogen but not phosphorus increased leaf production, but fertilization had no effect on maximum leaf longevity (39 mo). In the older forest (> 1000 yr old), nitrogen additions did not alter fern growth parameters; fern stem height growth and leaf production were greater in unfertilized plots of the > 1000 yr old forest than in unfertilized plots in the younger forest; and leaf longevity (maximum of 34 mo) was shorter. Leaf production (February-April) and leaf mortality (August-November) were highly seasonal, with mortality occurring several months after expansion of new leaves. The asynchronous leaf recruitment and mortality resulted in cyclic monthly variability in leaves per fern. Our data support other studies suggesting that more rapid leaf turnover occurs in nutrient-rich sites, and that nitrogen appears to be the nutrient most limiting to growth in the early stages of primary succession.
30043130|We studied the population dynamics of the lesser long-nosed bat Leptonycteris curasoae in a cave in central Mexico for a two-year time. The population had substantial seasonal changes in size and composition during this time. Colony size was largest from February to July (22,000-27,000 adults) and contained equal numbers of males and females. In June and July, males had enlarged testes and presumably mated with females. In August, the population size began to decline and was mostly composed of pregnant females. Between September and December, the colony was composed exclusively of pregnant and lactating females and their young, and population size decreased to about one-third of the observed maximum size. In January, adult males returned to the roost and the population size increased. We also observed an increase in body mass and fat accumulation in both sexes, apparently related to reproductive activity. This is the first report of the continuous presence of a substantial female population of L. curasoae throughout the year in a single roost in Mexican tropics, indicating that some populations of L. curasoae in central Mexico complete their life cycle without having to migrate. /// Se estudi la dinmica poblacional del murcilago nectarvoro Leptonycteris curasoae en una cueva localizada en el centro de Mxico durante dos aos. La poblacin present cambios sustanciales en su tamao y composicin durante este perodo. El tamao ms grande de la poblacin se registr entre febrero y julio (22,000-27,000 individuos) con una proporcin similar de hembras y machos. En junio y julio los testculos de los machos crecieron y aparentemente se aparearon con las hembras. En agosto, la poblacin empez a disminuir y se encontraron casi exclusivamente hembras preadaz. Entre septiembre y diciembre, la colonia estuvo compuesta exclusivamente de hembras preadaz o lactantes y de sus cras. La poblacin disminuy en este periodo hasta equivaler a una tercera parte del tamao mximo registrado en el ao. En enero, la poblacin empezo a crecer de nuevo con la incorporacin de machos adultos. Durante el ao, en ambos sexos se observaron tambin cambios en la masa corporal y en la acumulacin de grasa aparentemente relacionados con la actividad reproductiva. Este es el primer estudio que reporta la presencia continua de hembras en una colonia de L. curasoae en la misma cueva durante todo el ao para el centro de Mxico. Nuestros resultados indican que esta poblacin no es migratoria a diferencia de otras poblaciones de esta especie.
2663769|The fauna of water-filled tree holes in Neotropical forests is not well documented. Cumulatively, 54 macroinvertebrate and 5 vertebrate taxa were found in artificial and natural tree holes censused over four wet seasons on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Most of the species were in the insect order Diptera, occurred as aquatic larvae in tree holes, and were detritivore/omnivores. Half (49%) of the collected species are considered specialists in this and similar container habitats, and three invertebrate taxa were previously unknown from tree holes. Successional patterns were weak in tree holes, but some taxa predictably colonized holes shortly after they were filled. The mosquito Culex urichii was more common and abundant in artificial than in natural tree holes; occurrence frequencies and densities of most other taxa were similar between hole types.
30043206|Fire is a natural ecological force in the cerrado. However, the increasing use of fire by people means that conservation areas are subject to frequent burns. The aim of this study was to assess the potential of fire in an ecological reserve in the Brazilian savannas {cerrado) of central Brazil. Data about vegetation type, topography, climate, and fuel characteristics were input into the fire prediction models BEHAVE and FARSITE to simulate fire behavior during different weather conditions and from different entry points into the conservation area. The results indicated that there is a higher probability of fire entry from particular border regions as a result of the fuel characteristics. The presence of invasive grasses, such as Melinis minutiflora, within parts of the reserve also significantly affected the pattern of fire spread. Wind speed greatly increased the spread and extent of fire. The study showed that significant improvements in modeling fire behavior in savannas still need to be made. This study was the initial stage in the development of a decision support system for fire management in the cerrado. /// O fogo  uma das foras naturais que atuam sobre o cerrado. Entretanto, o aumento do uso do fogo pela populao faz com que reas de conservao tambm estejam permanentemente sujeitas a incndios freqentes. O objetivo do presente estudo foi avaliar o potencial de dano pelo fogo em uma unidade de conservao da vegetao de cerrado no Planalto Central do Brasil, por meio de ferramentas de modelagem. Dados sobre o tipo de vegetao, topografia, clima e material combustvel foram utilizados na aplicao dos modelos BEHAVE e FARSITE, para similar o comportamento do fogo em diferentes condies climticas e a partir de diferentes pontos de entrada na unidade de conservao. Os resultados indicam que a probabilidade de incndios  elevada especialmente a partir de algumas zonas de borda, como resultado das caractersticas do material combustvel nesses locais. A presena de gramneas invasoras no interior da rea protegida, tais como Melinis minutiflora, afetou tambm, significativamente, o padro de disseminao do fogo. A velocidade do vento fez aumentar muito o alcance e a extenso do incndio. Este estudo demonstrou que a modelagem do comportamento do fogo no cerrado ainda precisa ser aprimorada. Foi, portanto, o estgio inicial no desenvolvimento de um sistema de suporte  tomada de deciso sobre o manejo do fogo no cerrado.
4132936|Diversity of arboreal carabid beetles was sampled by fumigation in 100 3 x 3 m stations within a 100 x 1000 m terra firme forest plot in Ecuadorian Amazonia. Nine sampling dates from January 1994 to October 1996 yielded 2329 individuals belonging to 318 species of which more than 50 percent were undescribed species. A high percentage of the species sampled were rare; the proportion that occurred once per sampling date (singletons) ranged from 50.0 to 62.5 percent. Estimates of species richness were from 82 to 282 species of arboreal carabids in the study plot on a given sampling date. Most richness values were greater than 173 species. Species accumulation curves attained asymptotes for all but one sampling date, indicating that an adequate level of sampling effort was used to characterize the diversity of carabid fauna. Total accumulation curves based on pooled data failed to reach asymptotes. There was a high turnover in species composition between sampling dates; less than 50 percent of the species between the majority of sampling dates were shared, suggesting that the total species pool may be extremely large. Although species composition changed seasonally, species richness varied little. Spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed that the structure of this species assemblage was significantly patterned at distances below 280 m. Taken together, the large percentage of undescribed species, the failure of the overall species accumulation curves to level off, and the high turnover in species composition indicate that the species diversity of carabid beetles is far higher than previously thought.
10.2307/2388080|The nectar-foraging behavior of male euglossine bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) was studied at a population of Calathea latifolia (Marantaceae) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, for two weeks. Several marked males of Exuerete smaragdina and Euglossa imperialis foraged at C. latifolia on a daily basis. Immigration rates were low, and the site fidelity of bees was high. Selection of inflorescences by the marked individuals was not random. The bees learned specific locations of inflorescences at which they consistently foraged and ignored nearby inflorescences. However, not all inflorescences in a bee's repertoire were included in each foraging bout. The sequence of inflorescences visited was not the same within or between days nor were the foraging routes uni-directional. Foraging bouts of both male and female bees did not conform to rigid time schedules. Thus, male euglossine bees are not necessarily as transient and vagabond as previously portrayed. Those males that are site-constant forage in a fashion reminiscent of the traplining behavior once described for females. We propose that euglossine bees change their foraging habits as shifts in resource availability and dispersion occur.
30044928|Most plant species in tropical forests are pollinated by animals, and yet the diversity and specificity of pollinator assemblages are poorly documented. Here, we investigated pollinator relationships for 11 species of understory herbs in the genus Costus, with the goal of documenting visitation rates and pollinator assemblages among a variety of habitats. For a subset of species, we documented pollinator visitation for multiple years and/or multiple sites to examine temporal and spatial variation in pollinator relationships. Furthermore, we examined the extent to which specialization in pollination systems can contribute to reproductive isolation for sympatric species. Each species was primarily pollinated by either euglossine bees or hummingbirds. Total visitation rates were generally low, averaging 3.2 visits per flower per hour for bee-pollinated species and 0.5 visits per flower per hour for hummingbird-pollinated species. All of the higher elevation species studied were hummingbird-pollinated, while low elevation species were pollinated either by euglossine bees or hummingbirds. Spatial and temporal variation in visitation rates and pollinator identities was minimal. Pollinator specificity was found to contribute strongly to reproductive isolation for the 11 pairwise combinations of sympatric species differing in pollination syndrome, in some cases functioning as a complete barrier to potential pollen flow. /// La mayora de las especies vegetales de los bosques tropicales son polinizadas por animales, pero la diversidad y las especies de los gremios de polinizadores son poco conocidas. En este trabajo investigamos las interacciones de los polinizadores de 11 especies de hierbas del sotobosque pertenecientes al gnero Costus, con el objetivo de documentar la frecuencia de visitas y los gremios de polinizadores en distintos habitats. Para un subconjunto de las especies, documentamos las visitas de los polinizadores en varios aos y/o sitios para examinar la variacin espacial y temporal de las interacciones de los polinizadores. Adems, examinamos como la especializacin de los sistemas de polinizacin puede contribuir al aislamiento reproductivo de especies simptricas. Cada especie fue polinizada principalmente ya sea por abejas euglosinas o colibres. Las frecuencia de visitas fue baja en general, con un promedio de 3.2 visitas/flor/ hora en las especies polinizadas por abejas y 0.5 visitas/flor/hora en las especies polinizadas por colibres. Las especies localizadas a mayor altitud fueron polinizadas por colibres, mientras que las de bajas elevaciones fueron polinizadas por ambos. La diferencia espacial y temporal en frecuencia de visitas e identidad de polinizadores fue mnima. Se encontr que la especificidad de los polinizadores contribuye al aislamiento reproductivo, en las 11 combinaciones reciprocas de especies simptricas se observaron sndromes de polinizacin diferentes, que en algunos caso sirvieron como una barrera efectiva al flujo potencial de polen.
10.2307/2989643|The Antilles support an impoverished butterfly fauna when compared with tropical continental America, but they host approximately the same number of species as southern Florida. The number of species, and especially the number of endemics, on each island depends on the size and diversity of the island. The Greater Antilles have developed a considerable number of endemics, but the smaller islands have few endemics and more than 60 percent are widespread continental species of great dispersal ability. For the Antilles as a whole, slightly more colonizations have come from Central than from South America, although including subsequent radiation, the butterfly fauna has come almost equally from Central and South America. The Greater Antilles have received more species from Central America, and the southern Lesser Antilles have received more species from South America. The poor representation of weak-flying taxonomic groups, the small number of endemic genera, the importance of the Lesser Antillean invasion route, the closer similarity of Antillean butterflies to those of Florida than to those of Mexico despite a continental connection from Florida to Mexico, the correlation of the number of restricted continental species per island with shortest distance to the mainland, and the similarity in origin of two groups of species with different ages of colonization, indicate that recent biological factors rather than possible past land connections have produced the modern fauna.
10.2307/2388207|Population characteristics of Boiga irregularis, a vertebrate predator introduced to Guam in the late 1940s or early 1950s, were studied. Size class distributions reflected prey availability. Large snakes (> 150 cm) were rate in forest habitat, where their preferred food (birds and mammals) were scarce or nonexistent, yet were commonly found in urban locations that supported a variety of vertebrate prey. Males reached larger body sizes than females in both urban and nonurban habitats. The sex ratio was about equal in the smaller size classes (< 120 cm), but became increasingly male-biased with increasing snout-vent length. Snakes colonizing a previously snake-free area were significantly larger than individuals present in an area that had been colonized at least a decade earlier. Night searches in forest habitat indicated snake densities in northern Guam were about 1.6 times greater than those in southern Guam. A conservative density estimate of approximately 16 snakes/ha was obtained by grid trapping in an area where birds had been essentially eliminated by snakes.
10.2307/2388771|The floral biology of the tree Mabea fistulifera and the behavior of its floral visitors were studied in Viosa, Minas Gerais State, southeastern Brazil. M. fistulifera is monoecious and self-incompatible. Its inflorescences present a female phase that lasts ten days, followed by a bisexual phase of three days during which animals exploit the nectar and pollen produced by male flowers. Pollination is effected by nocturnal as well as diurnal visitors, including mammals, birds and insects. The bats Artibeus lituratus. Vampyrops lineatus and Sturnira lilium and the opossum Didelphis marsupialis are the nocturnal pollinators. Several passerine birds and bees are the diurnal pollinators. The broad spectrum of unspecialized pollinators suggests that M. fistulifera reproduction may be little affected by disturbances of the animal community. Besides being visited by pollinators, the inflorescences are also visited by nectar thieves such as the flower bat Glossophaga soricina and hummingbirds.
10.2307/2388208|We examine intercolonial interactions of the giant tropical ant, Paraponera clavata, at food resources and investigate the role of nestmate recognition in these interactions. Workers near colony entrances express discrimination of nestmates from non-nestmates by attacking the latter. Foragers engage in scramble competition with non-nestmates for large ephemeral food resources; agonism may occur secondarily in this context. Nests of this species are significantly overdispersed, but discrete territorial boundaries are apparently not defended. Agonistic interactions effectively exclude non-nestmates from the area near the nest; the nestmate recognition system serves primarily to protect the nest itself.
10.2307/2388343|Mating behavior of the fungus beetle, Stenotarsus rotundus Arrow (Endomychidae: Coleoptera), is described. This species spends up to 10 mo/yr in a diapause aggregation on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Mating normally does not occur until after the first heavy rain at the beginning of the wet season, yet beetles collected during the dry season could be stimulated to mate merely by handling. Neither drinking water nor high humidity was required. Males mated just as readily with sexually immature, diapausing females as with females that had initiated flight muscle development and egg maturation. None of the 3000 marked beetles ever returned to the same aggregation site after dispersal, and dissection of beetles arriving at the aggregation site indicated no evidence of any previous reproductive activity. These observations suggest that the aggregated beetles remain as virgins until the rains trigger mating and dispersal. Abstinence in sexually mature males during the dry season may be important for conserving energy reserves.
30043091|This study investigated the seed dispersal of the canopy palm Attalea oleifera in a 3500 ha fragment of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. We monitored ten fruiting palms during six months, when the following mammals were recorded feeding on Attalea fruits and/or seeds: (1) Brazilian squirrels (Sciurus aestuans, 78 diurnal records); (2) white-eared opossums (Didelphis albiventris, 8 nocturnal records); (3) black-humped agoutis (Dasyprocta prymnolopha, 3 diurnal records); (4) pacas (Agouti paca, 1 nocturnal record); (5) rice rats (Oryzomys capito, 11 nocturnal records); and (6) short-tailed opossums (Monodelphis americana, 4 diurnal records). Fruit removal on the ground reached 71.9  21.9 percent after a three-month period, and most fruits were moved less than 5 m from parental palms. Squirrels generally moved fruits and endocarps 5-10 m from parents, whereas opossums, pacas, and agoutis moved 91.7, 78, and 74.1 percent of fruits less than 5 m, respectively. Oviposition on endocarps by the bruchid Pachymeros cardo ranged between 62.1 and 84.3 percent of endocarps previously manipulated by white-eared opossums, squirrels, and rice rats, whereas 57.9 percent of old endocarps collected around reproductive palms were attacked by bruchids. Moreover, oviposition on endocarps varied from 42.3 percent in the case of single endocarps to 70.9 percent of endocarps in piles. Attalea seeds abundantly germinated beneath parental palms despite the high levels of predation, and distribution of both seedlings and adults suggested that squirrels played an important role in palm recruitment at the study site. /// Este estudo investiga a disperso de sementes da palmeira de dossel Attalea oleifera em um fragmento de floresta Atlntica brasileira com 3500 ha. Dez palmeiras em frutificao foram monitoradas durante seis meses. Neste perodo, as seguintes espcies de mamferos foram observadas alimentando-se dos frutos/sementes de Attalea'. (1) esquilo (Sciurus aestuans, 78 registros diurnos); (2) gamb (Didelphis albiventris, 8 registros noturnos); (3) cutia (Dasyprocta prymno-lopha, 3 registros diurnos); (4) paca (Agouti paca, 1 registro noturno); (5) rato-porco (Oryzomys capito, 11 registros noturnos); e (6) rato catita (Monodelphis americana, 4 registros diurnos). A remoo de frutos no cho da floresta alcanou 71.9  21.9 porciento aps trs meses e a maioria dos frutos foi removida a menos de 5 m de distncia das palmeiras em frutificao. Os esquilos removeram frutos e endocarpos preferencialmente entre 5 e 10 m de distncia das palmeiras matrizes, enquanto que gambs, pacas, e cutias removeram 91.7, 78, e 74.1 porciento dos frutos a menos de 5 m de distncia, respectivamente. A oviposio de endocarpos pelo bruqudeo Pachymeros cardo variou entre 62.1 e 84.3 porciento dos endocarpos manipulados pelos gambs, esquilos, e ratos-porco; 57.9 porciento dos endocarpos velhos coletados ao redor de palmeiras reprodutivas foram tambm predados por bruqudeos. Alm disso, a oviposio nos endocarpos variou entre 42.3 porciento no caso de endocarpos isolados e 70.9 porciento no caso dos endocarpos empilhados. As sementes de Attalea germinaram abundantemente embaixo da copa das palmeiras a despeito dos altos nveis de predao. A distribuio espacial de plntulas e de adultos sugere que os esquilos podem ter um papel importante no recrutamento de Attalea oleifera na rea de estudo.
2389124|The effect of canopy closure on spatial and morphological patterns of three understory Chusquea species was studied in pristine upper montane oak forests. Plots with either Chusquea talamancensis Widmer & L.G. Clark or C. tomentosa Widmer & L.G. Clark were set out in gaps, under intermediate tree canopy and under closed canopy. The third species Chusquea foliosa L.G. Clark was only found in gap and intermediate canopy sites in the study area. Clumps of all bamboo species tend to be few and large under open conditions and numerous and small under more shady conditions. The larger size of clumps in gaps is reflected in the number of culms per clump, the diameter of the culms and, as a consequence, clump basal area, clump crown area, and biomass (index of plant volume) compared to intermediate and closed canopy. The smaller clump density in gaps compared to closed canopy implies that there is more intraspecific competition and density dependent mortality (self-thinning effect) when a bamboo species is dominant under favourable light conditions. Parameters of performance like culm length, number of nodes per culm, number and length of primary branches, and number of branch nodes seem not to be affected by the light regime, unlike total number of branches, total branch length, and the branching pattern. Species differ in their response to the light environment: C. tomentosa and C. foliosa have a higher degree of morphological plasticity than C. talamancensis, which in turn, appears to be more shade tolerant. No difference between species has been found regarding their contribution to vegetation, parameters reflecting abundance per unit area (site clump area, site crown area and site index of clump volume) were similar for all three species.
30043132|Canopy invertebrates may reflect changes in tree structure and microhabitat that are brought about by human activities. We used the canopy fogging method to collect ants from tree crowns in primary forest, secondary forest, and pasture in a Neotropical cloud forest landscape. The total number of species collected was similar in primary forest (21) and pasture (20) habitats, but lower in secondary forest (9). Lower diversity in secondary forest was caused by lower species density (no. of species per sample). Rarefaction curves based on number of species occurrences suggest similar community species richness among the three habitats. This study has implications for conservation of tropical montane habitats in two ways. First, arboreal ant species density is reduced if secondary forest replaces primary forest, which increases the chance of extinction among rare species. Second, pasture trees may serve as repositories of primary forest ant communities due to similar tree structure. /// Los disturbios antropognicos sobre la estructura de los rboles y microhabitat afectan la diversidad de invertebrados del dosel. Se us la tcnica de fumigacin para colectar hormigas de las copas de los rboles en tres ambientes en un bosque nuboso Neotropical; bosque primario, bosque secundario, y pastizal. La cantidad total de especies colectadas fue similar entre el bosque primario (21) y el pastizal (20), pero menor en el bosque secundario (9). La baja riqueza en el bosque secundario fue consequencia de menor densidad de especies (cantidad de especies por muestra). Las curvas de rarefaccin basada en presencia/ausencia de especies sugieren que la riqueza a nivel de la comunidad es similar entre los tres tipos de hbitat. Estos resultados puede aportar a la conservacin de los hbitat tropicales nubosos de dos maneras. Primero, sugieren que la densidad de especies de hormigas es baja cuando un bosque primario es reemplazado por un bosque secundario. Segundo, los rboles grandes de pastizales pueden servir como refugios para las comunidades de hormigas, debido a que presentan similitud con la estructura de un bosque primario.
10.2307/2389106|We determined patterns of variation in leaf morphology along independent gradients of elevation, precipitation, and substrate age for the wide-ranging Hawaiian species Metrosideros polymorpha. Leaf mass per unit area, leaf size, and the quantity of leaf pubescence all varied significantly and independently along these gradients. Most importantly, leaf mass per area increased, leaf size decreased, and the amount of pubescence increased with increasing elevation from 70 to 2350 m. Pubescence accounted for up to 35 percent of leaf mass in the high elevation sites.
10.2307/2388346|We recorded 11 species of North American migratory land birds during fall migration in and scrub habitats on the Paraguana Peninsula in northwestern Venezuela. Passage of migrants was greatest during October and gradually declined through December. By the latter month virtually all migrants were gone from Paraguana and no species permanently winters in the xerophytic environments of the peninsula. The total period of transience of fall migrants was approximately 17 weeks. During spring migration birds avoided the northernmost and coastal sites and with few exceptions did not enter the peninsula proper. Sampling in similar habitats on the nearby "mainland" showed a shorter period of passage of spring migrants (5 weeks) and a smaller number of species (seven) than during the fall sampling. A comparison with xerophytic habitats of the Netherlands Antilles and northern Colombia shows a similar temporal pattern of habitat use by migrants, that is, a conspicuous fall migration, little or no permanent overwintering, and a very inconspicuous spring migration. By contrast, migrants overwinter closer to the North American mainland in xerophytic habitats. We suggest that the need to deposit larger fat reserves under unfavorable spring conditions make xerophytic habitats farther from North America more stressful for premigratory birds.
30043047|In an old-growth tropical wet forest at La Selva, Costa Rica, we combined radiocarbon (
10.2307/2388013|The structure of mangrove vegetation, soil salinity, and topographic relief of the mangrove ecosystem were studied along the south coast of Puerto Rico, Culebra, and Mona Island. All systems, with the exception of the forest at Mona Island, were characterized by having a coastal fringe of live vegetation (usually dominated by the red mangrove), a zone of dead trees, and a hypersaline lagoon or dry salt flat on the landward side. Mean soil salinities were 44% for the zone of live trees, 72% for the zone of dead trees, and 87% for the salt flats. The Mona Island forest grew over a sandy hardpan that prevented mixing of sea water and the fresh water. Soil salinities were low in this forest, and trees reached a height of 15 m. Tree height was inversely proportional to soil salinity (r = 0.72) between 17 and 72%. When soil salinities exceeded 65%, dead tree basal area was higher than live tree basal area. It is suggested that mangrove growth is limited by soil salinities higher than 90%. Mangrove succession in offshore overwash islands and arid coastlines is described. It is proposed that cyclic rainfall patterns and hurricanes act as regulators of speed and direction of succession. Rainy periods are associated with lower soil salinities and expansion of the red mangrove zone. Droughty periods result in high soil salinities, mangrove mortality, and expansion of salt flats. Hurricanes set back succession and reverse successional trends that reduce mangrove areas. A model of mangrove ecosystem function and implications for management are also discussed.
2663910|During the filling of the Petit Saut dam in French Guiana, a wildlife rescue operation was conducted for 17 months. Over 900 sloths (Bradypus tridactylus and Choloepus didactylus) were captured along the Sinnamary River in a primary rain forest that was largely undisturbed at the outset. Raw densities of 1.7 B. tridactylus/km
10.2307/2388182|Piassava (Attalea funifera) is a tropical rain forest palm that produces male, female, and rarely monoecious inflorescences. I examined the possibility that sexual expression is related to size, competition, and the differential cost of male vs female function. Field data suggest that piassava changes sexual function during its life cycle, from male under various conditions to increasingly female as it becomes taller and less crowded. The cost of reproducing through female as opposed to male function is found to be 13.2 to 1, and the allocation of resources to reproduction is shown to increase with size. It is proposed that varying access to sunlight in the rain forest environment sets thresholds to gender expression. Thus, with its low reproductive budget, piassava initially reproduces as a male in the understory. As it grows and enters the energy-rich canopy, piassava increases its reproductive budget, the cost restraints on fruit production are relaxed, and female function can be realized.
20492493|Spatial subsidies of energy and nutrients can influence the distribution of consumers in riparian habitats. This study compared the abundance and composition of bird assemblages and the availability of volant insect prey within the riparian zone ( 30 m from the stream) and further inland (100-250 m away) within a secondary forest in monsoonal Hong Kong. Replicated point-counts of birds and insect light trapping were conducted in each zone during the wet and dry season of 2006-2007. The biomass of adult aquatic insects in the riparian zone was nine to 12 times higher than inland during both seasons, however, total insect biomass (aquatic plus terrestrial insects) in the riparian zone was only 49 percent (wet season) and 18 percent (dry season) greater. More birds (both numbers of individuals and species) were recorded in the riparian zone, and this difference was particularly conspicuous during the wet season. Most of the wet-season difference was due to the greater number of insectivorous birds in the riparian zone (123% greater than inland), and may have reflected the relative availability of adult aquatic insects. These findings confirm the importance of riparian zones as feeding habitats for forest birds, and have implications for conservation planning and setting the boundaries of protected areas.
30043180|Pelliciera rhizophorae is a Neotropical mangrove species whose distribution is mostly restricted to the Pacific Coast, between the Gulf of Nicoya (Costa Rica) and the Esmeraldas River (Ecuador). In the Caribbean, patches of Pelliciera have been found in Nicaragua, Panama, and Colombia. The genetic variation and the population structure of P. rhizophorae were evaluated in six zones of the Colombian Pacific, using AFLP molecular markers. Of the 225 amplified fragments produced, 155 (69%) were polymorphic in 57 individuals of P. rhizophorae collected in the localities of Virud, Charambir, La Plata Island, Tumaco, Milagros, and Chontal. Genetic diversity within populations varied significantly, with the lowest levels of within-population variation (
41241947|Habitat fragmentation and disturbance are two of the most significant drivers of species extinctions in plant populations. The degree of impact of fragmentation on plant populations depends on the level of specificity of plant-animal interactions, as well as on the availability of suitable sites for seedling recruitment. In this study, we describe the population density and structure, pollen limitation and reproductive success of the endangered tropical orchid Myrmecophila christinae, an epiphytic species with a specialized pollination system. We surveyed a total of 14 populations located in a fragmented landscape. Seedling density was related to habitat disturbance and host plant density; while density of juveniles was related to density of adults. Adult and total individual densities were related to habitat affectation. We also found that fragments < 1 ha had significantly fewer seedlings, as well as an over-representation of large adults. On the other hand, fruit production was higher in fragments > 10 ha, and fruit set was significantly lower in highly disturbed fragments. Hand pollination experiments showed that M. christinae was pollen limited in all the studied populations, suggesting that pollen limitation is unrelated to habitat disturbance. Overall, our results suggest that fragmentation has affected key demographic features of M christinae, including reproduction and recruitment.
30043096|Information on an undescribed keroplatid fly (tribe Orfeliini) from Cameroon is presented. Its myrmecophagous larvae live in hollow stems of an understory myrmecophytic tree. Data on the biology of this fly and its interaction with one of the plants strictly associated ant species Cataulacus mckeyi (Myrmicinae) showed that the number of keroplatid larvae per tree was not limited by occupation competition with the ant. Through predation on workers, keroplatid larvae may have a sizeable impact on colonies of mckeyi. /// Nous prsentons des informations sur une espce non-dcrite de Keroplatidae (tribu Orfeliini), au Cameroun. Les larves myrmcophages se dveloppent dans les tiges creuses d'une myrmcophyte de sous-bois. Des donnes sur la biologie de cette espce et son interaction avec l'une des fourmis-htes de cette plante, Cataulacus mckeyi, montrent que le nombre de larves par arbre n'est pas limit par la comptition pour l'occupation avec la fourmi. En prdatant les ouvrires, ces larves ont un impact potentiellement important sur les colonies de C. mckeyi.
41419467|Hurricanes are an important part of the natural disturbance regime of the Yucatn Peninsula with the potential to alter forest structure and composition, yet investigations of species-level responses to severe winds are limited in this region. The effect of a category 5 hurricane (Hurricane Dean, 21 August 2007) on dry tropical forests across the southern Yucatn was examined with respect to tree damage, mortality, and sprouting. Damage was assessed 9-11 mo following the hurricane in 92 (500 m) plots stratified by wind speed and normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) change classes over a 25,000 km study area. We investigated the relative importance of biotic (i.e., species, size, and wood density) and abiotic (i.e., wind speed) factors to better explain patterns of damage. Overall mortality was low (3.9%), however, mortality of less common species (8.5%) was elevated more than fourfold above that of 28 common species (1.8%), indicating immediate selective consequences for community composition. Species varied in the degree and type of damage experienced, with susceptibility increasing with tree diameter and height. Wood density influenced damage patterns only in areas where a critical threshold in storm intensity was exceeded (wind speeds 210 km/h). Although overall, damage severity increased with wind speed, common coastal species were more resistant to damage than species distributed farther inland. Our findings suggest that selective pressure exerted by frequent hurricane disturbance has, and will, continue to impact the floristic composition of forests on the Yucatn Peninsula, favoring certain wind-resistant species.
30043106|The five papers in this Special Section illustrate that pollination processes are often disrupted by changing plant distributions. They further demonstrate that plant pollination and seed production outcomes are highly complex due to multidimensional spatial effects and numerous interactive biological responses of both plants and pollinators at individual and population scales. Nevertheless, these studies also lend support to some emerging generalities that (through modeling) begin to provide a coherent framework by which further research, and ultimately management planning, could proceed.
27742870|This study aimed to compare canopy herbivore diversity and resultant insect damage to vegetation in two distinct and adjacent ecosystems, specifically a dry forest ecosystem and a cerrado (savanna) ecosystem that occur together in an abrupt transition zone in southeastern Brazil. In the dry forest, the canopy was reached using a single rope climbing technique, whereas the shorter canopy of the cerrado was assessed using a 7 m ladder. Insect specimens were collected by beating the foliage, and 20 representative leaves were collected to calculate the specific leaf mass (SLM) and leaf area loss through herbivory. Also, we collected ten soil samples from each habitat to determine soil nutrient content. We sampled 118 herbivorous insects from ten families, mostly in dry forest trees (96 individuals belonging to 31 species). A higher abundance of chewing and sap-sucking insects were observed in dry forest trees than in cerrado trees. The same pattern was observed for the richness of chewers, with a higher degree of diversity of chewers found in dry forest trees than in cerrado trees. Herbivorous insects were not affected by SLM regardless of guild and habitat. However, we observed a negative correlation between the herbivory rate and the specific leaf mass (SLM). The cerrado trees showed a higher SLM and lower herbivory rates than trees occurring in the dry forest. These results suggest that herbivory rates in the transition dry forestcerrado may be driven by soil nutrient content, which is thought to influence leaf sclerophylly.
20492572|We used a standard sampling protocol to measure elevational patterns of species richness and abundance of eusocial paper wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) in Costa Rica. The sample transect of six sites spanned approximately 2000 m in elevation from lowland to montane forest. Species accumulation curves and species richness estimates both document a low elevation peak in paper wasp species richness at 50 and 300 m asl, with a decline in species richness at higher elevations. Comparison of species composition among elevations revealed strong species turnover from a rich lowland fauna to a depauperate, but distinct, montane fauna. We also observed a general trend toward a greater abundance of paper wasps at higher elevations, a pattern not usually observed in eusocial insects. Army ant species that prey on paper wasps declined in abundance with elevation across the sample transect, a pattern that has been observed at other sites. We discuss the possibility that elevational changes in predation pressure affect variation in paper wasp abundance and species richness. Eusocial paper wasp species employ one of two modes of colony founding, independent and swarm founding. We found that the total abundance of individual swarm-founding wasps was higher at all elevations than the abundance of independent-founding wasps, supporting previous suggestions that Neotropical swarm founders are more successful ecologically.
30045472|River damming causes ecosystem losses and habitat fragmentation. In the Cerrado, the flood affects mainly forested habitats in valleys. In 1996, the Tocantins River (Brazil) was dammed to create the Serra da Mesa hydroelectric plant, and 14 sites were monitored during flooding. Eight hills that formed islands were monitored with pitfall traps. Only one frog species was found on islands 3 yr after complete reservoir formation. Cerrado amphibians showed rapid decline during and after flooding. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergyacom/loi/btp.
2663919|This paper describes the phenology of leaf, flower, and fruit phenology in the Atlantic rain forests of southeastern Brazil. For 17 months, we observed the phenological patterns of trees from two Atlantic forest types at four sites: premontane forest (Sites I and IV; the "typical" Atlantic rain forest) and coastal plain forest (Sites II and III). All sites experience a nonseasonal, tropical wet climate, characterized by an annual rainfall usually > 2000 mm and lacking a dry season. We tested for the occurrence (or absence) of seasonal phenological patterns within each site and compared the patterns detected among the four different forest sites using circular statistics. The expected weakly seasonal phenological patterns were not observed for these forests. Flowering and leaf flush patterns of Atlantic rain forest trees were significantly seasonal, concentrated at the beginning of the wettest season, and were significantly correlated with day length and temperature. These results stress the influence that seasonal variation in day length has on ever-wet forest tree phenology. Fruiting phenologies were aseasonal in all four forests. Flowering patterns did not differ significantly among three of the four forest sites analyzed, suggesting the occurrence of a general flowering pattern for Atlantic rain forest trees.
2663818|I examined the fate of seeds from ten focal trees of Afzelia quanzensis (Leguminosae), a canopy tree in the Arabuko-Sokoke, Kenya. The study was conducted for one fruiting season, between August 1990 and July 1991. Yellow baboons (Papio cynocephalus), Syke's monkeys (Cercopithecus albogularis), sun squirrels (Heliosciurus rufobrachium), and bush squirrels (Paraxerus palliatus) were all observed to interact with A. quanzensis seeds at various stages of pod development. Baboons and squirrels consumed high percentages of seeds when they were still immature, but the seeds were still unavailable to Syke's monkeys at this stage. Baboons bit open the hard green pods and squirrels gnawed through the pods to extract the immature seeds (hereafter referred to as seed predation), but monkeys were unable to open the pods. Upon maturity, the pods opened slightly, revealing red arils that were sought by baboons, monkeys, and squirrels. Monkeys removed the highest percentage of mature seeds from these pods. These mammal dispersers ate the arils from the mature seeds and discarded the viable part that germinates (hereafter referred to as seed dispersal). My data indicate that baboons and squirrels are seed predators while monkeys are seed dispersers of A. quanzensis.
30045378|Mucuna (Fabaceae) has explosive flowers that open only if a pressure is applied on their wings and keel. The cacique Cacicus haemorrhous inserts its bill into a flower and spreading its mandibles apart it opens the flower to take nectar. This icterine bird also preys upon caterpillars of the butterfly Astraptes talus that pupates within the flowers. Foraging with use of bill movements to take nectar or insects within a flower is an adequate mechanism to open and pollinate explosive flowers. We suggest that a plausible behavioral scenario for the pollination relationship between icterines and Mucuna-like flowers might start with the birds' searching for insects within flowers. /// El gnero Mucuna (Fabaceae) tiene flores explosivas que abren cuando se aplica una presin sobre sus alas o quillas. El boyero cacique, Cacicus haemorrhous, introduce su pico dentro de la flor y expande sus mandbulas abriendo la flor para beber el nctar. Esta ave Icterinae tambin depreda larvas de la mariposa Astraptes talus, la cual empupa dentro de las flores. El forrajeo con uso de movimientos del pico, para consumir el nctar o de insectos dentro de una flor, es un mecanismo adecuado para abrir y polinizar las flores explosivas. Sugerimos que este es un escenario comportamental razonable para la relacin de la polinizacin entre especies de Icterinae y flores del tipo Mucuna, que podra iniciar con la bsqueda de las aves por insectos dentro de las flores.
10.2307/2388099|Sometime between the years 1486 and 1502 A.D., the great-tailed grackle Quiscalus mexicanus, an exotic tropical bird from Veracruz, was introduced into the Valley of Mexico by Aztec Emperor Auitzotl. From there, this species spread to other areas of the Central Highlands, and is today one of the most common birds in that part of Mexico. The example of the great-tailed grackle, along with our knowledge of the extensive traffic of exotic birds that occurred during pre-Columbian times, leads us to suspect that the ancient Indians may have altered the ranges of other Latin American birds. The strange disjunctions and extraordinary distributions that we see today, and which have baffled ecologists for so long, are possibly the result of disturbance to the natural fauna long ago by Indians.
40863757|Migratory behavior in bats is poorly described, particularly in the Neotropics. Stable-hydrogen isotope (D) analysis may allow tracking of altitudinal movements of bats but has not been explored. < 5D values in rainwater (Dp) deplete linearly with altitude and are reflected in the keratinous tissues of animals through diet. A mismatch between keratin D (D <sub>k</sub> ) and that expected at the capture site based on D <sub>p</sub> can indicate prior migration. We collected rainwater, claws and hair from eight bat species at two lower-montane forest sites in Nicaragua. Claw D for Carollia brevicauda and hair and claws for Desmodus rotundus (known to be non-migratory) fell within the predicted range based on rainwater ( 17 to  60) suggesting these tissues were synthesized at the study site. D tissue values for Artibeus toltecus, Sturnira lilium, Glossophaga soricina, Anoura geoffroyi, and hair for C. brevicauda were more negative than predicted for the capture site (60) suggesting tissue synthesis at higher elevation and migration downslope to the capture site. However, our study area represents the highest elevation in the region; the nearest appropriate higher elevations are 350-500 km away and seasonal migration is expected to be < 200 km. Thus we consider that seasonal shirts in Dp (9 to  45) may result in differences in species which molt at different times, and that diet may have driven differences in D. Our results suggest that the effects of molt timing and diet may first need to be understood before D may be successfully used to track bat movements.
10.2307/2387933|In Bako National Park in Sarawak we investigated leaf damage, enzyme inhibition, condensed tannins, total nitrogen and leaf structure in young and mature leaves of Eugenia ochneocarpa and three species of Shorea. The amount of leaf removed by herbivores (measured as the total percentage area, not as a rate) was 3.8 percent in young leaves and 6.2 percent in mature leaves for E. ochneocarpa, and was 12.1 percent in young leaves and 13.4 percent in mature leaves for Shorea spp. The relative importance of the three guilds of herbivores examined was edge-grazing, mining, then holing, in both taxa. E. ochneocarpa mature leaves were 425  m thick with a specific leaf area (SLA) of 93 cm
10.2307/2388733|Ficus fistulosa is a small dioecious tree of forest margins and old hedges. In Singapore both male and female trees show intratree synchronization of fig production but little synchronization between trees. Individual trees bear 4-7 crops a year and leaf production occurs at irregular intervals throughout the year.
40645549|Seed germination is determined by the environmental conditions typical of a habitat and also by the geographical origin of the source species pool. During the Quaternary, Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest species expanded their distribution into the sandy coastal plains (restingas). Periods of water shortage, however, are frequent in the sandy substrate of the restinga. We investigated whether the germination characteristics of restinga species are more related to their biogeographical origin in the humid forest or to water shortage on sandy substrates. We characterized the seed dispersal phenology of a restinga community and conducted experiments to determine the water requirements for seed germination and the short-term seed dehydration sensitivity of different species. Species shed seeds throughout the year in the restinga. When subjected to  =0.37 MPa, seed germination percentage decreased and germination time increased in six of ten species when compared with  = 0 MPa. Most species showed high seed moisture content (MC > 40 %) at seed dispersal. Seeds took 3-17 d to dehydrate when subjected to relative humidity  76 percent and only two of eight species had seeds sensitive to short-term dehydration. Thus, rather than a specific set of germination characteristics related to humid or dry habitats, we gathered evidence to show that the germination characteristics of restinga species represent a multiplicity of responses that may be found in both kinds of habitat.
30045412|For hundreds of millions of people, biodiversity is about eating, staying healthy, and finding shelter. Meeting these peoples basic needs should receive greater priority in the conservation agenda. Wild and semi-wild plants and animals contribute significantly to nutrition, health care, income, and culture in developing countries, and the poorest and most vulnerable people often rely on those resources most. Depleting those resources or making them inaccessible can impoverish these people even further. 'Pro-poor conservation'-that is, conservation that aims to support poor people-explicitly seeks to address basic human needs. Such an emphasis has many potential synergies with more conventional conservation goals. Nonetheless, pro-poor conservation requires a distinct attitude to gauging conservation outcomes and a different approach to conservation science. Biologists can make a vital contribution.
27742837|Epiphytic plants are a dominant component of the rain forest canopy biota. They represent a significant proportion of canopy plant biomass and diversity, play a key role in nutrient cycling, and support highly abundant and diverse animal communities. Understanding the factors affecting their distribution in this three-dimensional habitat is consequently of great importance, not least because they may be particularly vulnerable to climate change and habitat conversion. Here we investigate how canopy architecture affects the distribution of two species of bird's nest fern (Asplenium spp.) in pristine rain forest. Both species were found at high abundances (Asplenium phyllitidis: 136/ha, SE  31.6, asplenium nidus: 44/ha, SE  9.2) and their distributions were differentially affected by canopy architecture. Asplenium phyllitidis was found only at heights &lt; 30 m in areas with a thicker lower canopy layer. Asplenium nidus was found at all heights in the canopy and was associated with emergent trees and areas with an open understory. Larger A. phyllitidis were found higher in the canopy while larger A. nidus were found on trunks and branches with a wider diameter. Asplenium nidus seems adapted to withstand the hot dry conditions in the upper canopy and in gaps, and its size is consequendy limited only by the size of its support. Asplenium phyllitidis is dominant in areas that are cooler and damper, and so the growth rate of individuals may be limited by light levels. We discuss possible implications of this partitioning for epiphyte communities in the face of climate change and habitat conversion.
30043127|The "deflection hypothesis" asserts that conspicuous marginal patches on insect wings function to deflect predator attacks toward such patches and away from more vital body parts. As a result of selection from predator attacks, these marks are predicted to increase the probability of escape by tearing relatively easily. To test if a conspicuous marginal patch is weak relative to a homologous wing area without such a patch, hindwing tear weight was compared among three Pierella species (Satyrinae) differing in the presence of a conspicuous patch in the hindwing tornus. The species with a conspicuous white hindwing patch (P. astyoche) had significantly lower tear weights than the two species lacking the patch (P. lamia and P. lena). Forewing length did not explain variation in wing-tear weight, but wing-tear weight was positively related to insect age in a manner consistent with the deflection hypothesis. Older individuals of P. lamia and P. lena had higher tear weight, whereas this relationship was absent in P. astyoche. These results represent the first direct evidence that deflection marks on butterfly wings are relatively weak and should have an increased tendency to tear when handled by a predator. /// La "hiptesis de desvio" propone que las conspicuas manchas marginales en alas de insectos funcionan para desviar los ataques de depredadores hacia tales manchas y lejos de partes del cuerpo ms vitales. Como resultado de seleccin por ataques de depredadores, se predice que estas manchas deberan rompese fcilmente para aumentar la probabilidad de escape. Para probar si un mancha marginal conspicua es dbil comparada con un rea homologa de alas sin tales manchas, se compar el peso de rotura del ala posterior entre tres especies de Pierella (Satyrinae) que difieren en la presencia de un mancha visible en el torus del ala posterior. Las alas posteriores de la especie con una mancha blanca visible (P. astyoche) se rasgaron con pesos significativamente ms bajos comparadas con las alas posteriores de las dos especie sin mancha (P lamia y P. lena). La longitud del ala anterior no explic la variacin en el peso de rotura, pero el peso de rotura estuvo relacionado positivamente con la edad del insecto de una manera consistente con la hiptesis de desvo. Los individuos ms viejos de P. lamia y P. lena tuvieron los pesos de rotura ms altos, mientras que sta relacin no se encontr en P astyoche. Estos resultados representan la primera evidencia directa de que las manchas de desvo en alas de mariposas son relativamente dbiles y deben tener una tendencia aumentada a romperse cuando son manipuladas por un depredador.
10.2307/2663956|Edge structure is one of the principal determinants of the extent and magnitude of edge effects in forest fragments. In central Amazonia, natural succession at forest edges typically produces a dense wall of vegetation dominated by Cecropia spp. that buffers the forest interior. Fire encroachment into forest edges, however, eliminates the soil seed bank, enhances plant mortality, and promotes succession to an open, Vismia-dominated edge that does not buffer the forest interior. Contrasting open, fire-encroached forest edges and closed, non-fire-encroached edges were examined in central Amazonia to assess the effects of edge structure on microclimate and vegetation structure in tropical forest fragments. Edge penetration distances for most microclimate and vegetation structure variables were as much as two to five times greater at open edges than at closed edges. The magnitude of these differences suggests that edge structure is one of the main determinants of microclimate and vegetation structure within tropical forest fragments. Edge effects also varied systematically with fragment area. For a given edge type, 100-ha fragments had consistently lower canopy height, higher foliage density, higher temperature, a higher rate of evaporative drying, lower leaf litter moisture content, and lower litter depth than continuous forest, at all distances from the forest edge. These differences, however, were relatively minor compared to the striking differences in edge penetration between open and closed forest edges. For organisms in small fragments, the difference between open and closed edges may be the difference between total edge encroachment on one hand and an effective nature reserve on the other, relatively independent of absolute fragment area.
4132956| The composition, structure, and ecology of epiphyte communities have been intensely studied in tropical rain forests. Studies involving epiphytes, however, are scarce in other vegetational physiognomies. This study examined the composition of an epiphyte community on Vellozia piresiana (Velloziaceae) in a Brazilian rupestrian field, and investigated the factors influencing their abundance and distribution. In July 1998, 98 individuals of V. piresiana were sampled inside three transects in rocky outcrops of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, and their height were measured. All epiphytes growing on these phorophytes were counted and identified. Height and branch diameter at which each epiphyte individual occurred were recorded. Luminosity intensity was measured in the upper canopy, middle canopy, and 10 cm above ground 100 phorophytes in the same population; 712 epiphytes were found growing on V. piresiana, belonging to six species: Vrisea oligantha (Bromeliaceae; 344 individuals), Epidendrum saxatile (251), Constancia cipoencis (50), Prosthechea vespa (31) Sophronites brevipedunculata (30; all Orchidaceae), and Tillandsia usneoides (1; Bromeliaceae). A higher abundance of epiphytes occurred at intermediate heights on the phorophytes, probably because of an intermediate light incidence at these positions. We found epiphytic species across different distributions, both in terms of height and branch diameter of V. piresiana, which may have reflected distinct degrees of tolerance to drought and excessive luminosity. These results indicated that despite the low richness observed in this study, the epiphyte community on V. piresiana presented ecological features similar to that observed for tropical rain forests (e.g., phorophyte partitioning and differential vertical distribution). 
10.2307/2989621|Quantitative study of the vegetation along a limited altitudinal gradient (183 m rise in 12,900 traverse) on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos, demonstrates the presence above the coastal mangrove zone of three distinctive zones, the Cryptocarpus, arid, and protean (transition) zones. The Cryptocarpus (immediate coastline) and arid zones differ only in species composition, while the protean zone vegetation differs from that of the lower altitudes in both species representation and stand organization. The two lower zones are dominated by one or two species; the protean zone contains a larger number of more equitably represented species. Much of the variability of the vegetation is continuous and associated with altitude (39.8%, first canonical variate). Deviation from the altitudinal trend is evidenced in the arid zone vegetation where local patchiness is characteristic. Factors contributing to the continuity include precipitation, evaporation, and substrate, but all associated with altitude. Cover provided by the tree canopy also increases with altitude. Discrete breaks in continuity were observed between zones. This disjunction might result from the effect of steep slopes on the physical environment; it is evidenced wherever a 10-meter rise in altitude occurs in a relatively short distance when compared with the remainder of the gradient. At this scale, few associations were observed among plant species; individual species presumably appear and disappear according to their range of tolerances.
10.2307/2989697|Decomposition of lizard (Iguana iguana, Ctenosaura similis) and toad (Bufo marinus) carrion open to arthropods was studied in a tropical dry and a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica. Carcass fates, feeding interactions of necrophagous animals and their predators, temporal succession patterns, and species compositions differed between sites. More than 170 species representing 49 families were associated with the carrion baits; calliphorid and sarcophagid larvae and adults and adult Formicidae and Scarabaeidae were most important in reducing carcasses to the dry skin stage. The significance of these results is discussed in relation to nutrient cycles and the decomposition submodel of a tropical forest ecosystem.
2388888|Pitfall traps were used to monitor the activity of ants in a forest floor and a one-year-old fallow plot in Ile-Ife, Nigeria, at monthly intervals between November 1980 and October 1981. Similar studies were carried out between October 1987 and June 1988. These studies also included manual collection of ants from the floor of the experimental plots. Of all the 10 species of ants recorded, Pheidole crassinoda was the most abundant in the forest and fallow plots both in 1980-81 and 1987-88. P. crassinoda accounted for 52 percent and 88 percent of the ant populations collected manually from the forest and fallow plots respectively between December 1987 and June 1988. This species was also significantly higher in the pitfall catches of the fallow than the forest plots. Pitfall traps were not effective in sampling the populations of the belligerent Dorylus nigricans. The data are consistent with the widely accepted notion that forested areas support less ants than unforested areas. Differences in physical habitat characteristics, food availability, nesting habits, predation and microenvironmental factors were considered responsible for the differences in activities and abundance of ants in the forest and fallow plots.
41241890|The diversity of mutualistic interactions influences many ecological components of community structure, including biodiversity and ecosystem stability. However, mutualistic interactions are not well resolved because of a historical bias toward examining antagonistic interactions. Here we examine both antagonistic and facilitative interactions between tropical plants and arthropods by characterizing the biotic interactions between a common myrmecophytic shrub, Piper immutatum Trel. (Piperaceae), the ants hosted by this plant, Pheidole sp. (Formicidae: Myrmicinae), and their associated communities of herbivorous and predatory arthropods. To determine if ant mutualists affect the altitudinal distribution of Neotropical myrmecophytes, P. immutatum interactions with arthropods were quantified across a tropical elevational gradient. Piper immutatum was most abundant in lower montane forests (10001600 m asl) and disappeared above 1600 m asl, and colonies of Pheidole sp. inhabited 90 percent of the sampled plants. The myrmecophyte was then transplanted within and beyond its altitudinal range, excluding ants from half of the transplanted plants. Plant survival was affected primarily by elevation, with only 20 percent surviving above 1600 m asl. Ant exclusion did not significantly affect plant mortality. Nevertheless, ant colony size did affect both herbivory and nutrient availability for surviving P. immutatum, with nutrient availability having a stronger effect than antiherbivore defense on growth and biomass. This approach of studying the contributions of ant mutualisms across the myrmecohpyte's habitat range yields an improved picture of the role of mutualistic interactions in determining community structure.
10.2307/2989634| Tanagers (Pipraeidea melanonota) have been found preying heavily and selectively on winter concentrations of 22 species of ithomiine butterflies in the region of Sumar, So Paulo. Flying birds catch resting butterflies in the cold of the early morning, take them to favored perches, and squeeze out and eat the abdominal contents, leaving the remainder of the butterfly as testimony to the predation. No other insectivorous birds in the region have been observed to attack these butterflies, nor are any literature reports known for such predation on ithomiines, which are well-known aposematic models for mimicry rings throughout the Neotropics. The commonest ithomiine species in the colonies, Mechanitis polymnia, is attacked in far greater proportion than its true abundance, probably because of its conspicuous coloration and roosting habits, and its more sluggish behavior than the other two common larger species, which are taken in proportions lower than expected from analysis of net captures. This behavior pattern is probably a function of abundance in the butterflies, thereby leading to the density-dependent predation observed in the system. 
10.2307/2388735|Many species of tropical mistletoes have fruits with either hard exocarps visited by a particular taxon of birds, like the New World euphonias and the Old World flowerpeckers, or soft exocarps visited by a greater diversity of bird species. A comparative study of two species of Neotropical mistletoes in the Republic of Panama suggests that predation might be important in selecting for these fruit characters. Fruits of Phoradendron quadrangulare with hard exocarps have minimal predispersal predation but suffer from postdispersal predation due to clumped deposition of seeds. Fruits of Oryctanthus alveolatus with soft exocarps suffer less postdispersal predation of seeds but have high predispersal fruit loss.
10.2307/2389186|To analyze the influence of microenvironmental heterogeneity on soil microarthropods, populations of soil and litter springtails (Collembola) of a secondary regrowth forest plot and an adjoining cassava plot in southwestern Nigeria were investigated over an annual cycle. Data on rainfall, moisture content, relative humidity, and soil temperature were simultaneously collected. Although there was a decrease in activity of springtails of the litter layer in the dry season, soil springtail densities were not significantly different in the wet and dry seasons in both the forest and cassava plots. With the exception of Tullbergia sp. that reached a single peak population in the cassava plot, fluctuations in numbers and activity of litter and soil springtails were similar in both the forest and cassava plots. Most springtail genera reached multiple peaks during the annual cycle, a phenomenon which is characteristic of iteroparous and potentially multivoltine species. The relative roles played by soil temperature and moisture content in influencing numbers of springtails extracted from the soil were found to be different in the forest and cassava plots. Relative humidity of the litter layer was found to play a minor role in influencing variation in the activity of epigeal springtails of the forest and cassava plots. It is concluded that population fluctuations are caused by life history phenomena, which are different for the litter springtails compared to the soil springtail genera.
10.2307/2387893|Changes in the properties of volcanic soil during wet forest succession in Costa Rica were determined by comparisons among four sites on a 31 yr successional continuum, and a mature forest site. Whilst physical properties were stable throughout, chemical properties showed four successional patterns: (1) a temporary peak of organic matter and related total N, NH
2389034|One hundred and thirty-eight scat (faecal) samples from 17 mammal species native to forests of northeastern Queensland were examined for the presence of spores of both ectomycorrhizal and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Spores of mycorrhizal fungi were found in 57 percent of scat samples representing 12 animal species (Aepyprymnus rufescens, Antechinus godmani, Bettongia tropica, Hypsiprymnodon moschatus, Isoodon macrourus, Melomys cervinipes, Perameles nasuta, Rattus fuscipes, R. tunneyi, Thylogale stigmatica, Trichosurus vulpecula, Uromys caudimaculatus). Spores were absent in scats of Antechinus stuartii, Dasyurus hallucatus, Dendrolagus lumholtzi, Petaurus australis and Mesembriomys gouldii. Spores of ectomycorrhizal fungi occurred in 38 percent of scats, and all but one of these samples were from Eucalyptus-dominated sclerophyll forests. Based on the frequency and abundance of spores in scats, five mammals were considered active consumers of hypogeous mycorrhizal sporocarps in sclerophyll forests (A. rufescens, B. tropica, I. macrourus, P. nasuta, and U. caudimaculatus). Individual scats of these animals generally contained a range of distinctive spore types. Spores of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi were found in low abundance in almost 40 percent of scat samples collected, from both sclerophyll forest and rainforest habitats. We suggest that the majority of these spores were acquired incidentally through ingestion of soil during foraging activities on the forest floor. Glasshouse inoculation experiments in which seedlings of Eucalyptus grandis and Sorghum bicolor were inoculated with scat material from several species of mammal demonstrated that the spores of ectomycorrhizal and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi retained some viability and colonized the roots of host-plant seedlings. Insufficient information is known of the ecology of mycorrhizal fungi in Australia's tropical forests to speculate as to the implications of these findings for forest conservation and rehabilitation.
30043030|The goal of this study was to define differences in species richness and tree and liana species assemblages of three adjacent terra firme forests in the middle Rio Caquet, Colombia. A vegetation survey of trees and lianas equal to or more than 10 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) was carried out along a single longitudinal transect (10 X 2160 m) passing through a low plain terrace, a high dissected terrace, and a high plain terrace. Species were classified as either locally abundant or locally rare. Abundant species were defined as "generalists" (in all environments), "intermediate" (in two environments), and "specialists" (in only one environment) using a 2 X 3 contingency table. There were 146 (39%) species classified as locally abundant and 231 (61%) as locally rare. Among the abundant species, 70 percent were generalists, 25 percent were specialists, and 5 percent were intermediate. Although there was a significant number of rare species, for those species with sufficient numbers to statistically test spatial distribution, the results suggest that many species are generalists and that beta diversity at the local scale (2.16 ha) is low. Larger data sets over larger geographical areas should be analyzed to determine the degree of species turnover in Amazonian forests. /// En el presente estudio, se evaluaron las diferencias en la riqueza de especies y los agrupamientos florsticos de rboles y lianas en tres unidades del paisaje de tierra firme en el ro Caquet, Colombia. Se llev a cabo un inventario de los rboles y lianas con dimetro a la altura del pecho  10 cm, a travs de un transecto longitudinal (10 X 2160 m) pasando sobre una terraza plana baja, una terraza alta disectada y una terraza alta plana. Las especies fueron clasificadas como localmente abundantes y localmente raras. Las especies abundantes fueron definidas como "generalistas" (en todas las unidades de paisaje), "intermedias" (en dos unidades) y "especialistas" (en unicamente una unidad), usando tablas de contingencia de 2 X 3. En todo, 146 (39%) especies fueron clasificadas como localmente abundantes y 231 (61%) como localmente raras. Entre las especies abundantes, el 70 por ciento fueron generalistas, el 25 por ciento especialistas, y el 5 por ciento intermedias. Aunque hubo un gran nmero de especies raras, para aquellas especies con abundancia y frecuencia suficiente para que su distribucin fuera analizada estadsticamente, los resultados sugieren que muchas especies son generalistas y que la diversidad beta a escala local (2.16 ha) es baja. Bases de datos mucho ms grandes son necesarias para determinar el grado de recambio de las especies en los bosques amaznicos.
10.2307/2388428|Mammal species specializing on rocky habitats constitute 11 percent of Australia's marsupial and rodent species. The majority of rock-dwelling species is limited to the seasonally dry tropics. These habitats experience a single wet season followed by a long dry season. Runoff from rocky escarpments, water absorption by large rock formations, and the presence of aquifers in rock result in greater water availability close to rock escarpments. Escarpment vegetation, therefore, is higher in species richness and plant productivity than the surrounding forested habitaat. These species-rich habitats provide a greater variety of potential foods for hebivores. The impact of large rock formations on surrounding vegetation is less marked in regions with a more evenly distributed or very low rainfall and/or a temperate climate. The impact of rock escarpments on vegetation in the seasonally dry tropics, rather than the existence of more opportunities for speciation via genetic isolation, is likely to have been instrumental in the evolution of the often regionally endemic rock faunas of Australia's dry tropics.
2663917|The year 2000 marks 500 years of massive destruction for the Brazilian Atlantic Forest, as a consequence of the European colonization of Brazil. Today, the Atlantic Forest is restricted to ca 98,800 km
41058543|Multispecies agro-forestry is generally lauded for providing ecosystem services, especially in tropical environments. Avian communities contribute to services such as biodiversity and pest management. Characterizing and evaluating avian community composition in similar cropping systems will help optimize management for ecosystem services. We examined the relationship between cropping system vegetation and avian communities in four shaded agro-forestry systems common to the Limn province of Costa Rica: abandoned and managed systems of cacao, cacao with banana, and banana. During two field seasons, we detected 2605 birds from 106 species and identified 2791 trees and shrubs from 62 morphospecies. We compared vegetation and avian species richness across systems with mixed-effects linear models. Canopy, understory, and groundcover vegetation differed among agro-forestry systems. More ground-and understory-foraging forest species were detected in agro-forestry systems lacking banana, whereas richness of agricultural generalist species was highest in systems with banana. Richness of understory-and groundforaging species correlated with understory tree species richness and leaf litter. Our results indicate that shaded cacao and banana systems can have similar canopyforaging species richness that includes both agricultural and woodland generalist species, but that interspersing banana with cacao can adversely influence understory forest bird community composition. Agro-forests with diverse understory vegetation support more understory-foraging bird species that have proven valuable in pest management.
10.2307/2387871|Previous laboratory studies on phototactic behavior of five species of neotropical anurans led to predictions that they would be active in natural habitats under only a limited range of ambient illuminations relative to the range available during 24-h periods. Generally, the species were found to be active within a <4 log-unit range of illuminance and to feed within an even narrower range. Evidence suggests that photic cues may aid in niche partitioning among species. Bufo marinus and Leptodactylus pentadactylus were active at night, the former in brighter, open places, the latter in the dimmer forest. Dendrobates auratus had bimodal diel activity periods in early morning and late evening. Bufo typhonius and Physalaemus pustulosus were active during the day, the former in the dimmer forest, the latter in brighter, open areas. Thus, activity rhythms, phototactic behavior, and habitat selection interact to allow an anuran to be active under a relatively narrow range of light levels during a day, theoretically the range within which its eyes are best adapted evolutionarily.
10.2307/2388217|In this paper an explanation for the spatial variation in the structure of a Sumatran rain forest is suggested. The forest area consisted of a series of topographical units (terraces, mountain slopes) of increasing age and decreasing pH and fertility. With increasing soil age the production of leaf litter and fruit decreased whereas the proportion of mature-phase forest increased and gap cover decreased. There is variation in the growth strategies of trees depending on soil fertility; this results in higher tree longevity on poor soils, and hence in forest with fewer gaps and with more large trees, than on rich soils. Thus, Janzen's (1974) hypothesis of the effect of soil fertility on the prevalence of anti-herbivore defenses and fruiting periodicity is extended to include aspects of forest structure.
10.2307/2387726|Use of coconut husk-piles, a man-made habitat, by two native and two introduced species of terrestrial-breeding frogs was investigated in Jamaica. Introduced species Eleutherodactylus johnstonei and E. planirostris were abundant at drier sites while sympatric endemics E. gossei and E. cundalli were common at sites with higher rainfall. Fewer frogs of all species occurred in husk-piles in the wet season than in the dry season. Sixty-five husk-piles examined contained 0-38 frogs (0-25/m
10.2307/2388086|The role of different temperatures on the germination of spores of five species of Cyatheaceae is analyzed in this paper. Lophosoria quadripinnata and Trichipteris bicrenata have the widest tolerance to extreme temperatures, while Trichipteris scabriuscula has a reduced range of tolerance. The results show that a rough correlation can be established between the temperatures where the species grow best and its general distribution in America.
2389128|This paper reports thrips (Thysanoptera) cross-pollination in the primitive angiosperm, Popowia pisocarpa (Annonaceae), in lowland rain forest of Sarawak, Malaysia. Flowers of P. pisocarpa have a tiny pollination chamber (3-4 mm in depth) with the entrance almost closed by the disk-shaped stigmatic heads, allowing only small insects to enter. Experiments showed that thrips were effective pollinators and flowers of P. pisocarpa were self-incompatible. Seed set was limited by pollen. Clumped adult trees had higher seed-set than more distant individuals (>5 m from nearest flowering neighbor), indicating limited inter-tree movement by thrips.
30043153|Spatial ecology of Puerto Rican boas (Epicrates inomatus, Boidae) was studied with radiotelemetry in a subtropical wet forest recovering from a major hurricane (7-9 yr previous) when Hurricane Georges struck. Different boas were studied during three periods relative to Hurricane Georges: before only; before and after; and after only. Mean daily movement per month increased throughout the three periods, indicating that the boas moved more after the storm than before. Radio-tagged boas also became more visible to observers after the hurricane. Throughout the three periods, the sexes differed in movements, with males moving greater distances per move and moving more frequently than females. Males showed a bimodal peak of movement during April and June in contrast to the females' July peak. Sexes did not differ in annual home range size, which had a median value of 8.5 ha (range = 2.0-105.5 ha, N = 18) for 95 percent adaptive kernal. Females spent more time on or below ground than did males, which were mostly arboreal. Trees used by boas had larger diameters and more vines than random trees. Hurricane winds that strip leaves, vines, and branches from trees may reduce cover for boas and limit access to arboreal sites, at least for several years until succession brings about recovery with increased vine growth. Boas were especially difficult to observe; telemetrically monitored boas were detected visually at an average of only 15 percent of their fix sites, indicating that the species is more abundant than generally perceived. /// La ecologa espacial de las boas Puertorriqueas (Epicrates inomatus; Boidae) fue estudiada con radio telemetra en un bosque subtropical lluvioso, en recuperacin de un fuerte huracn (7-9 aos antes) cuando el Huracn Georges azot la isla. Varias boas fueron estudiadas durante tres perodos relativos al Huracn Georges: antes, antes y despus, y despus del huracn. El desplazamiento diario promedio por mes se increment a lo largo de los tres perodos, indicando que las boas se desplazaron ms despus que antes de la tormenta. Las boas con radio transmisor eran ms visibles a los observadores despus del huracn. El desplazamiento de los sexos difiri a lo largo de los tres perodos, recorriendo los machos mayor distancia por movimiento y desplazndose con mayor frecuencia que las hembras. Los machos mostraron un desplazamiento bimodal, con picos en abril y junio, en contraste de las hembras donde el pico fue en julio. Los sexos no difirieron en el tamao del territorio, el cual presenta una mediana de 8.5 ha (intervalo = 2.0-105.5 ha, N = 18) para el 95 por ciento adaptive kernal. Las hembras pasaron mayor tiempo encima o bajo tierra que los machos, los cuales eran principalmente arbreos. Los rboles utilizados por las boas tenan un dimetro mayor y ms lianas que rboles escogidos al azar. Los vientos huracanados que despojan a los rboles de sus hojas, lianas y ramas, pueden reducir la cobertura de las boas y limitar su acceso a ubicaciones arbreas al menos por varios aos hasta que la sucesin traiga consigo recuperacin en incremento del crecimiento de lianas. Las boas estudiadas fueron especialmente difciles de observar; boas seguidas con telemetra fueron detectadas visualmente en promedio en slo el 15 por ciento de las veces buscadas, indicando que la especie posiblemente sea ms abundante de lo que se percibe.
10.2307/2388629|The nest and colony characteristics, distribution, and ecology of four taxonomically diverse species of ants that build nests on leaf surfaces in a tropical wet forest are documented and compared. Significant differences were observed in the material used to construct nests, in the nest architecture, nest and colony size, social organization, nest density and distribution, and in the apparent food habits of the four species. The observed differences between the four species reflect the great taxonomic distance between them and indicate that each evolved the leaf nesting habit independently rather than through a common leaf nesting ancestor. The leaf nesting habit does not put obvious, common constraints on the nest or colony characteristics or the ecology of ant species, but may limit ants of this lifestyle to habitats and microsites that have a narrow range in ambient temperature and relative humidity.
10.2307/2989782|Carabid beetles that have reached the Greater Antilles are all small (or at least not very large) and winged. The lowland, Central American source fauna of Carabidae also apparently consists chiefly of small, winged species. Factors favoring small size and possession of wings apparently operated on the mainland before dispersal to the islands. Selection in favor of carabids living in waterside habitats apparently has occurred during dispersal. This is an example of an apparent rule: that plants and animals in unstable or marginal habitats and not members of complex communities are most likely to disperse into new places. Carabidae that have reached the Greater Antilles (and New Guinea) have usually not evolved strikingly at low altitudes, although some speciation has occurred and some ecologic shifting, notably from waterside habitats onto the floor of rain forest. However, on the higher mountains on these and other tropical islands strikingly differentiated faunules have evolved characterized by extreme reduction in number of species and by wing atrophy. This is apparently not a result of exposure on mountains, for the Carabidae concerned live in dense wind-free cloud forest. Rather, existence in very small but relatively favorable, stable areas probably modifies population structures and reverses the usefulness of wings and flight. Three actual cases are described on islands of the West Indies illustrating the complexities that underlie the main pattern of dispersal and evolution. A set of "equilibrium models" of ecologic fractions of a carabid fauna, with arrows indicating ecologic shifts, may show what is actually happening on islands like the Greater Antilles and New Guinea.
3593196|I studied the relationship between diurnal raptor diversity, density, and richness, and landscape heterogeneity in continuous primary forests and forests farmed by native Amerindians in the Rio
30043636|We investigated the diet of the southern cassowary (Casuarius casuarius) by identifying the seeds and fruits in fecal droppings encountered on a set of transects over 2 yr in upland rain forest in the wet tropics of North Queensland. A total of 198 droppings containing 56 plant species were found. We surveyed fleshy fruit availability over the subsequent 68 mo on transects in the same area to ascertain fruiting patterns in the study area. The number of droppings found each month did not correspond to the pattern of available fruit biomass. There was no relationship between the fruit traits of moisture content, flesh to seed mass ratio, color, or crop size to contribution of a species to the diet. During the lean fruiting season (May-July) cassowaries relied more on species that fruited continuously throughout the year as they were significantly over-represented in droppings, while annual fruiting species were under-represented. During months of high fruit availability (October-December), continuously fruiting species were still over-represented in the diet but became less important while annual and biennial species became more important. Significantly more species with large fruit and large seeds appeared in the diet than expected and we confirm that the cassowary contributes to the continued dispersal of these species over long distances and in large quantities.
10.2307/2388040|Data on litter size were collected during the course of a study of nine sympatric species of African rainforest squirrels (Makokou, Gabon). As previously recorded for these species, embryo number is between one and two; or approximately half of the number normally produced by Holarctic tree squirrels. Observations on development of one species, Aethosciurus poensis, show that it is born at an advanced stage of development corresponding to that reached by temperate squirrels at an age of three to four weeks. Predation and resource levels are discussed as possible sources of selection producing latitudinal gradients in squirrel litter size.
30043250|Dipterocarp rain forest reaches its northern latitudinal limit in Xishuangbanna, Southwest China. We studied the soil seedbank of dipterocarp rain forest in Xishuangbanna during the dry and wet seasons. Results showed that there were large seed accumulations in both the dry (mean  SD; 3925  2533 seeds/m2) and wet seasons (5415  3232 seeds/m2 ). One hundred and sixteen species of seed plants were identified from germination, 66 percent of which were woody species. Weed or pioneer species dominated the seedbank. The soil seedbank in Xishuangbanna had similar species composition as compared to those in tropical Asia, but higher seed storage reflects the intense disturbance and forest fragmentation in this area.
30044055|Seedling density and the condition of stony endocarps of the tree Dipteryx panamensis were assessed in protected continuous forest and two forest fragments exposed to hunting and selective logging. Seedling density was higher in forest fragments than in continuous forest, while more whole endocarps and fewer chewed and half endocarps were found in fragments, indicating lower seed predation at fragment sites. These findings appear to contradict two earlier D. panamensis studies and we discuss methodological differences that could account for our disparate results. Hunting and fragmentation effects on mammal populations are suggested as a cause for the altered recruitment pattern in fragments. /// La densidad de las plantulas y la condicin de los endocarpios de Dipteryx panamensis fueron determinadas en bosque intacto no perturbado y dos bosques fragmentados expuestos a caza y a tala selectiva. La densidad de los plantulas fue mayor en los fragmentos del bosque que en el bosque intacto. Mas endocarpios enteros y menos endocarpios masticados y medios fueron encontradas en los fragmentos, indicando menor depredacin de las semillas en los fragmentos de bosque. Estos resultados contradicen dos estudios anteriores de D. panamensis y discutimos las diferencias metodolgicas que pueden explicar nuestros resultados dispares. Se sugiere la presin de la caza como una causa para el ambiente alterado de reclutamiento en los fragmentos.
30044923|The fine root systems of three tropical montane forests differing in age and history were investigated in the Cordillera Talamanca, Costa Rica. We analyzed abundance, vertical distribution, and morphology of fine roots in an early successional forest (10-15 years old, ESF), a mid-successional forest (40 years old, MSF), and a nearby undisturbed old-growth forest (OGF), and related the root data to soil morphological and chemical parameters. The OGF stand contained a 19 cm deep organic layer on the forest floor (i.e., 530 mol C/m2), which was two and five times thicker than that of the MSF (10 cm) and ESF stands (4 cm), respectively. There was a corresponding decrease in fine root biomass in this horizon from 1128 g dry matter/m2 in the old-growth forest to 337 (MSF) and 31 g/m2 (ESF) in the secondary forests, although the stands had similar leaf areas. The organic layer was a preferred substrate for fine root growth in the old-growth forest as indicated by more than four times higher fine root densities (root mass per soil volume) than in the mineral topsoil (0-10 cm); in the two secondary forests, root densities in the organic layer were equal to or lower than in the mineral soil. Specific fine root surface areas and specific root tip abundance (tips per unit root dry mass) were significantly greater in the roots of the ESF than the MSF and OGF stands. Most roots of the ESF trees (8 abundant species) were infected by VA mycorrhizal fungi; ectomycorrhizal species (Quercus copeyensis and Q. costaricensis) were dominant in the MSF and OGF stands. Replacement of tropical montane oak forest by secondary forest in Costa Rica has resulted in (1) a large reduction of tree fine root biomass; (2) a substantial decrease in depth of the organic layer (and thus in preferred rooting space); and (3) a great loss of soil carbon and nutrients. Whether old-growth Quercus forests maintain a very high fine root biomass because their ectomycorrhizal rootlets are less effective in nutrient absorption than those of VA mycorrhizal secondary forests, or if their nutrient demand is much higher than that of secondary forests (despite a similar leaf area and leaf mass production), remains unclear.
10.2307/2388791|Vocalizations of wild Atiu Swiftlets (Aerodramus sawtelli Holyoak 1974) were recorded as they entered and exited their roost/nesting cave on Atiu Island in the Cook Islands. The echolocation calls of the Atiu Swiftlet resemble those of other Aerodramus spp. in their short durations (1-3 msec). peak frequencies (6-7 kHz) and broad bandwidths (3-10 kHz) but are emitted as distinct single pulses rather than the double or multiple clicks typical of most swiftlets. Spectral analyses indicate that the birds do not adjust the peak frequencies of their calls as they fly within the cave and we suggest the bird does not systematically structure the frequency content of its calls. Birds decrease their interpulse periods upon entering the cave and increase them upon exiting, presumably in response to differing light levels. As they land at their roost/nest site, birds emit a train of low interpulse period calls that is occasionally followed by a vocalization that we suggest serves as an announcement to other birds on or near the nests.
10.2307/2388909|The capacity for seed dispersal by two herbivorous turtles, the aquatic Rhinoclemmys funerea and the terrestrial R. annulata, was investigated in the vicinity of Tortuguero, Costa Rica. Defecated seeds of several riparian plant species from R. funerea feces and defecated seeds of several terrestrial plant species, mainly characteristic of treefall areas, from R. annulata feces germinated as well as uningested seeds with which they were compared. The Rhinoclemmys funerea habit of regularly emerging from water to forage and defecate on river banks may contribute to the establishment of riparian species such as Dieffenbachia longispatha and Ficus glabraia. Rhinoclemmys annulata forages through tropical wet forest habitats, spending a disproportionate amount of time feeding in treefall areas. Its movement between these areas and defecation of seeds while foraging in them may contribute to the establishment of the distinctive flora of these small, disjunct habitats.
30045414|Land-use change in the Sarapiqu region of Costa Rica has resulted in a fragmented forest landscape with abrupt edges between forest and pasture. Forest responses to edge effects vary widely and can significantly affect ecosystem integrity. Our objective was to examine forest structure at 20+ yr old forest-pasture edges in Sarapiqu. Three transects with 0.095-ha plots at seven distances from forest edges were established in each of six forest patches. Stem density, basal area, and aboveground biomass in trees and palms  10-cm diameter at breast height were measured in all plots. In addition, hemispherical photographs were taken to determine leaf area index, understory light availability, and percent canopy openness. Linear mixed-effects models showed significantly higher tree stem density at forest edges, relative to interiors, a pattern reflected by increased stem density, basal area, and aboveground biomass in small diameter trees ( 20 cm) growing near edges. No differences in total tree basal area, aboveground biomass, or hemispherical photograph-derived parameters were detected across the forest edge to interior gradient. The recruitment of small diameter trees following edge creation has contributed to the development of dense vegetation at the forest edge and has aided in the maintenance of similar tree basal area and aboveground biomass between edge and interior environments. These data reflect on the robustness of forest edges in Sarapiqu, a characteristic that will likely minimize future detrimental edge effects and promote a number of high-value environmental services in these forests.
30043249|Xishuangbanna is a region located at the northern edge of tropical Asia. Biomass estimates of its tropical rain forest have not been published in English literature. We estimated forest biomass and its allocation patterns in five 0.185-1.0 ha plots in tropical seasonal rain forests of Xishuangbanna. Forest biomass ranged from 362.1 to 692.6 Mg/ha. Biomass of trees with diameter at 1.3 m breast height (DBH)  5 cm accounted for 98.2 percent of the rain forest biomass, followed by shrubs (0.9%), woody lianas (0.8%), and herbs (0.2%). Biomass allocation to different tree components was 68.4-70.0 percent to stems, 19.8-21.8 percent to roots, 7.4-10.6 percent to branches, and 0.7-1.3 percent to leaves. Biomass allocation to the tree sublayers was 55.3-62.2 percent to the A layer (upper layer), 30.6-37.1 percent to the layer (middle), and 2.7-7.6 percent to the layer (lower). Biomass of Pometia tomentosa, a dominant species, accounted for 19.7-21.1 percent of the total tree biomass. The average density of large trees (DBH  100 cm) was 9.4 stems/ha on two small plots and 3.5 stems/ha on two large plots, illustrating the potential to overestimate biomass on a landscape scale if only small plots are sampled. Biomass estimations are similar to typical tropical rain forests in Southeast Asia and the Neotropics.
10.2307/2388090|Mating behavior in Atya innocous begins with pursuit by males of a freshly molted female prior to any physical contact. The female then stops and weaves slowly from side, vibrating the third maxillipeds. The males touch her with their atennae and climb on her cerphalothorax. At this point she accepts one of the males, who moves under her. The male then climbs on the female's dorsal area and swings his telson and abdomen under her, perpendicular to her first abdominal sternite. Both sexes vibrate while the male rapidly beats his pleopods, presumably transferring a spermatophore. The morphology of the male copulatory appendages is described in relationship to spermatophore transfer.
30044036|Montane cloud forest (MCF) has high levels of species diversity, contributes positively to the catchment water yield, and is a globally threatened habitat type. The shortage of reliable data regarding the area currently occupied by MCF remains an obstacle to operational conservation planning in Mexico. This paper assesses how much MCF remains in the central Highlands of Chiapas (Mexico) and how fragmented it is in relation to other forest cover. We estimated that the area covered by MCF was between 3700-5250 ha. This estimate contrasted with the approximately 40,000 ha reported for the same region by the Mexican National Forestry inventory in 2000. MCF was highly scattered and fragmented within a matrix of other tropical montane forest types. Other forest types may be partially buffering the remaining MCF habitats, however, mitigating their disturbance and enhancing their connectivity. We conclude that mechanisms should be sought to promote the protection of core areas containing MCF fragments in agreement with communal and private landowners and to conserve the ecological functions of surrounding buffer zones. Such a conservation strategy would match the natural configuration of these endangered habitats. /// El Bosque Mesfilo de Montaa o Bosque Nublado (BN) es un ecosistema nico y de gran valor ecolgico. Ello se debe, en parte, a la gran diversidad de especies que alberga y al papel que juega en la captacin del agua. Aunque estos bosques se encuentran amenazados a nivel mundial, no existen datos fiables sobre la superficie que ocupan actualmente ni su distribucin. Esto impide la elaboracin de estrategias concretas de conservacin. En el presente trabajo se investiga cunto Bosque Nublado queda en Los Altos de Chiapas (Mxico) y cun fragmentado se encuentra en relacin a otras formaciones forestales. Los resultados de este estudio sugieren que todava existen entre 3700-5250 ha en el rea de estudio. Estas cifras contrastan notablemente con las cerca de 40,000 ha obtenidas por el Inventario Forestal Nacional de Mxico del ao 2000. Los remanentes de BN se encuentran muy dispersos, fragmentados e inmersos en una matriz constituida mayormente por otros tipos de bosques tropicales de montaa. Sin embargo, la existencia de otras formaciones forestales que aparecen entremezcladas con el BN podra favorecer la conectividad de estos hbitats y mitigar, al menos en parte, la perturbacin a la que estn sometidos. Concluimos que es necesario buscar distintos mecanismos para promover la proteccin de reas protegidas que contengan los remanentes actuales de BN en acuerdos establecidos con las comunidades y los propietarios de los predios, y la conservacin de las funciones ecolgicas de las reas forestales colindantes.
30043281|Hoolock gibbons (Hoolock hoolock) are endangered small apes occurring in Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, and south China. All known populations have undergone declines primarily due to habitat destruction or alteration. We examined the influence of area of natural forests, area of plantations, area of agricultural land and edible plant species richness on the hoolock gibbon numbers from 22 sites in Bangladesh using multiple regression analysis. Area of natural forests and plantations were not linked to hoolock gibbon numbers, whereas area of agricultural land and edible plant species richness were both significantly linked. Higher edible plant species richness was directly related to hoolock gibbon numbers, while the area of agricultural land was inversely related. This is the first quantitative study illustrating the importance of these two variables with hoolock gibbon numbers. We also analyzed the existing habitat characteristics in two of the largest hoolock gibbon populations in Bangladesh: Lawachara (42 individuals) and Kaptai (84 individuals). Trees in Lawachara were generally smaller compared to those in Kaptai. Artocarpus, Tectona, and Dipterocarpus were the three most important genera in both sites, although Artocarpus was more important in Lawachara. Each site also had an abundant variety of tree species utilized by hoolock gibbons for food. We discuss the current context of primate conservation in Bangladesh and suggest that the current conservation priority for gibbons in the country should be protection and improvement of habitat.
30044955|Seedlings of five species of dipterocarp trees were planted in experimental plots in rain forest gaps in Sabah, Malaysia, and the rates of herbivory on their mature leaves recorded over 6 mo. A novel method was used to estimate the feeding pressure exerted by the local insect herbivore community, derived from the relative abundances of the dominant generalist herbivores and their feeding preferences. Characteristics of the leaves related to their defense and nutritional value were measured-phenolic content, laminar fracture toughness, laminar thickness, and nitrogen content. Three main groups of herbivorous insects were present-coleopteran and lepidopteran herbivores, which were sampled by hand from the seedlings, and orthopteran herbivores, which were sampled by sweep netting. The feeding preferences of the main coleopteran and orthopteran herbivores were determined using laboratory feeding trials. Combining variables in a Principal Components Analysis, a clear separation was found between the five seedling species along the first extracted component. This correlated closely with herbivory rates between species. The first extracted component comprised a negative influence of phenolic content and positive effects of nitrogen content, laminar fracture toughness, abundances of coleopteran and lepidopteran herbivores, and estimated feeding pressure of the coleopteran community. Further studies are required to determine the potential applications of the latter measure of estimated herbivore community impact.
10.2307/2388740|Low levels of extractable phosphorus (1.6 $\pm$ 0.14 $\mu$ g/g) were observed in soils which apparently developed from an old lava flow at La Selva, and progressively higher levels were found in soils derived from another lava flow (2.6 $\pm$ 0.15 $\mu$ g/g), old alluvial material (3.9 $\pm$ 0.31), and recently deposited alluvium (36.6 $\pm$ 3.4). No significant differences in nitrogen mineralization were observed among these soils. Seedlings of Phytolacca rivinoides accumulated more biomass when grown in old alluvial soils than in soils in derived from lava flow. Studies of population-, physiological-, and ecosystem-level processes could benefit from considering such differences.
10.2307/2389098|The long-term response of shallow groundwater chemistry to the canopy disturbance and defoliation associated with Hurricane Hugo was studied at two sites in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. The sites differed in bedrock type, dominant vegetation, and availability of pre-hurricane data. At the primary study site, the Bisley catchment, hurricane disturbance resulted in increased concentrations of NO
40891352|The Atlantic Forest deserves special attention due to its high level of species endemism and degree of threat. As in other tropical biomes, there is little information about the ecology of the organisms that occur there. The objectives of this study were to verify how fruit-feeding butterflies are distributed through time, and the relation with meteorological conditions. Species richness and Shannon index were partitioned additively at the monthly level, and  diversity, used as a hierarchical measure of temporal species turnover, was calculated among months, trimesters, and semesters. Circular analysis was used to verify how butterflies are distributed along seasons and its relation with meteorological conditions. We sampled 6488 individuals of 73 species. Temporal diversity of butterflies was more grouped than expected by chance among the months of each trimester. Circular analyses revealed that diversity is concentrated in hot months (September-March), with the subfamily Brassolinae strongly concentrated in February-March. Average temperature was correlated with total abundance of butterflies, abundance of Biblidinae, Brassolinae and Morphinae, and richness of Satyrinae. The present results show that 3 mo of sampling between September and March is enough to produce a nonbiased sample of the local assemblage of butterflies, containing at least 70 percent of the richness and 25 percent of abundance. The influence of temperature on sampling is probably related to butterfly physiology. Moreover, temperature affects resource availability for larvae and adults, which is higher in hot months. The difference in seasonality patterns among subfamilies is probably a consequence of different evolutionary pressures through time.
10.2307/2989785|The frequency with which land birds wander to islands, including remote ones, has been much underestimated. I therefore conclude, tentatively, that the primaeval habitats on islands are "ecologically full" so far as birds are concerned, and that the reduced numbers of bird species are due to ecological impoverishment, as exemplified by the reduced numbers of plant species (with which the numbers of bird species are correlated). Similarly, the high degree of endemism in island land birds can be explained if there are big ecological differences between islands and the mainland (though such differences need not be at all obvious), provided that birds can evolve differences adapted to the local conditions with sufficient rapidity. I am hoping to document many of the points made in this commentary in later publications.
2663852|Cacti growing in forests potentially experience growth limitation due to reduced light availability. To test this hypothesis, we studied the population structure of Opuntia echios var. gigantea at 15 sites on the south side of Isla Santa Cruz, Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. Populations were located in communities ranging from arid scrub at low elevations to closed-canopy tropical dry forest at higher elevations. Ordination confirmed the existence of a strong elevation-vegetation gradient. Opuntia abundance peaked at lower elevations (<ca 30 m), with lower densities in closed-canopy sites. For populations in scrub vegetation, density declined fairly regularly with plant height. Populations in forested sites had few plants of intermediate height, suggesting periodic recruitment. Scrub populations had random dispersion, while those in forests were aggregated. The change in spatial pattern may be related to a change in primary reproductive mode from asexual propagation via fallen fruits to propagation via fallen cladodes. Height was significantly correlated with stem diameter. Intercepts of these relationships increased toward higher elevations, probably in response to the increasing height of the surrounding canopy.
40891349|Habitat complexity is an important factor structuring local faunal assemblages. Many invasive plant species alter vegetation complexity because they are both functionally and structurally different from native flora. This study investigated the effects of an invasive grass (Andropogon gayanus Kunth.), which is invading undisturbed savannas in northern Australia. Although A. gayanus is a similar lifeform to that dominant in the native understory (i.e., a C4 grass), it is structurally different and significandy alters habitat complexity. We, therefore, hypothesized that there would be a substantial effect of the invasive grass on ant, spider, and other invertebrate assemblages. Contrary to our hypothesis, there was no effect of A. gayanus on ant species richness, abundance, or composition, nor were spiders or other invertebrates affected. Instead the change in weather conditions with season was more important in structuring the local invertebrate assemblages. Change in habitat complexity was most pronounced vertically, rather than horizontally at ground level, thus although there was a clear difference in the vertical structure between invaded and noninvaded habitats, the limited invertebrate response to different A. gayanus densities suggests some invertebrates are less sensitive to vertical changes in vegetation structure.
10.2307/2387857|Regeneration of vegetation during the first six years on three clearcut sites and one plane-wreck site which had suffered breakage and burning in an elfin woodland was by mainly woody sprouts, ferns, and graminoids. The abundance of the latter two and the scarcity of seedlings are atypical of tropical successions on non-degraded soils at lower elevations. Ferns may be favored by the abundance of moisture and graminoids by low competition, while the scarcity of seedlings may reflect inefficient dispersal, wash-out by torrential rains, or low selective pressure for colonizing ability in an infrequently disturbed vegetation type. All aspects of regeneration were slow, suggesting a high-stress environment. A major cause of stress may be low transpiration in a saturated atmosphere, impeding nutrient distribution within plants; temperatures apparently do not become low enough seriously to retard growth, and superficial root systems seemingly adapt plants to the saturated soil. The space needed by these superficial systems may hinder coverage of the ground.
2663897|Shade-tolerant understory shrubs and subcanopy trees constitute most of the woody species in Neotropical moist forest, but studies demonstrating physiological differences among these species are few. Shade-tolerant species that coexist in the forest understory exhibit differences in leaf life span that have been associated with variation in physiological traits. We hypothesized that water relations of understory species with widely divergent leaf life spans differ in response to drought. Although severe drought is infrequent in Neotropical moist forest, we studied the water relations of shade-tolerant understory species with short or long leaf life spans during the severe 1991-1992 dry season on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. The predawn leaf water potential declined to -2.8 and -3.6 MPa during the dry season in Hybanthus prunifolius and Psychotria horizontalis, respectively, two species with short leaf life spans, but remained above -1.3 MPa in two species with long leaf life spans, Swartzia simplex and Ouratea lucens. The midday leaf water potential dropped as low as -3.4 and -4.5 MPa for H. prunifolius and P. horizontalis, respectively. The osmotic potential of H. prunifolius and P. horizontalis and another species with short leaf life span, Alseis blackiana, decreased early in the dry season, a period during which all three had substantially negative predawn water potential. In contrast, the osmotic potential of S. Simplex, O. lucens, and Licania platypus, a third species with long leaf life span, declined late in the dry season, even though we observed little change in predawn water potential for S. simplex and O. lucens. We conclude that the variable and potentially severe dry season in Neotropical moist forest can be sufficiently intense to severely limit soil moisture availability for understory plants. H. prunifolius and P. horizontalis tolerated dehydration, whereas S. simplex and O. lucens postponed dehydration.
10.2307/2388608|In most tropical trees, vegetative and reproductive development are distinctly periodic, but often poorly correlated with seasonal climatic change. Growth periodicity of individual trees is proposed here to reflect primarily an endogenous rhythm of vegetative growth resulting from periodic leaf replacement. This endogenous periodicity determines the species-specific timing of flowering and can be entrained secondarily to seasonal changes in water stress. These assumptions have been incorporated into a simple computer model which illustrates the effects of various degrees of seasonal drought on tree growth periodicity A range of periodic growth patterns observed in individual trees and tree communities subject to increasing seasonal drought can be simulated by the model suggesting that causal interactions similar to those operating in the model are sufficient to determine growth periodicity in tropical trees and forests.
10.2307/2388737|We report the results of the first complete samples of all plant species and individuals for any lowland tropical forest in the world. The three forests sampled are in western Ecuador; Rio Palenque, Jauneche, and Capeira are, respectively, wet, moist, and dry forests. In each forest we sampled all vascular plants in a 0.1-ha area. At wet forest Rio Palenque, nontree habit groups make up most of the sampled species and individuals. Over a third of the species and almost half the individual plants are epiphytes, 13 percent of the species are terrestrial herbs, 10 percent are shrubs, and 9 percent nonepiphytic climbers. The moist and dry forest samples have many fewer species, largely due to many fewer epiphytes. The new data are compared with the most diverse 0.1-ha samples from elsewhere in the world. Our wet forest sample is by far the most species-rich such sample yet recorded and would remain so even if all tree species were excluded from the data.
10.2307/2388344|We captured and marked 29 anteaters within an area of 21 km$^2$ Two births and one death occurred during the study. Home ranges for adult females averaged 3.67 km$^2$ and for adult males, 2.74 km$^2$ Home range overlap was significantly greater among females than among males. Anteaters became active between 1300 and 1400 hr, with activity peaking at about 1800-1900 hr and gradually diminishing until 0200 hr. For diurnal bedsites, anteaters selected brushland (cerrado) more frequently than expected but used it less frequently than expected for foraging. Courtship behavior was noted during January, although young were apparently born at any time of year. Ten agonistic encounters were recorded in ca 300 hr of observation and generally involved males.
20492496|The selection of suitable oviposition sites is crucial for successful reproduction of many organisms, including the endangered Madagascan frog Aglyptodactylus laticeps. In a preceding study, a conservation-oriented model of habitat use for this species extracted key habitat factors that reliably predict whether given ponds are used as oviposition sites. However, habitat-use models are descriptive and thus their explanatory power for true causal relationships between habitat variables and species distributions is presumably limited. Furthermore, these models are mostly insufficient with regard to incorporating dynamic components of habitat choice, such as the colonization history. Therefore, the explanatory power of habitat-use models within the context of dynamic components was experimentally investigated by creating artificial breeding ponds in the natural habitat of this frog species and manipulating two environmental factors within these breeding ponds. The absence of tadpoles proved to be the most decisive factor determining colonization. Leaf litter on the pond bottom, that had been suggested to be of importance by the habitat-use model, did not influence oviposition-site selection. Although pond characteristics may be important, the overriding factor affecting pond use in the experimental study was avoidance of pools that already contained tadpoles by ovipositing adults.
40645577|Using the geometric framework for the first time in a field study of ant nutritional biology, we show that Ectatomma ruidum colonies actively regulate proteincarbohydrate intake, self-selecting a carbohydrate-biased diet. These data, combined with quantitative recruitment data, provide a more comprehensive understanding of colony-level nutritional requirements of ants.
10.2307/2388917|Analyses of leaf osmolality and total nutrient content (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) of the coastal vegetation of the Sontecomapan lagoon (Veracruz, Mexico) reveals the influence of penetration of sea water, and the differences in mineral uptake by typical halophytic species (Rhizophora mangle and Laguncularia racemosa), facultative halophytes (Acrostichum aureum) and non-halophytes (Pachira aquatica). In these species leaf sap osmotic pressure and the leaf area/weight ratio increase, while the leaf area decreases with the salinity of interstitial water. Total N and P contents are correlated in all species, and in the mangrove species their contents decrease in the sampling sites with higher influence of marine water. The K/Na ratio is considerably higher in the non-halophyte species (P. aquatica 15.9; A. aureum 18.1 to 14.1) compared to the halophytic mangrove species (R. mangle 1.4 to 0.6; L. racemosa 3.3 to 1.9).
10.2307/2663964|The probability of achieving a sustainable tropical logging operation is increased if the growth of surviving trees is maximized after logging. This research examined the growth ecology of seedlings and trees of the Neotropical timber species, Carapa nicaraguensis (Meliaceae). Shadehouse experiments, field plantings, and growth rate analyses tested the hypothesis that Carapa seedlings and trees experience higher growth rates in high light levels (recently formed logging gaps or logged forest plots) than in low light levels (old logging gaps or undisturbed forest plots). Consistently poor seedling growth rates under low light conditions suggest that seedlings establishing in newly formed gaps will be more successful than those establishing in building-phase gaps. Thus, the first year after logging is a critical time for gap recolonization by Carapa, and seed casting into gaps after logging is recommended. Growth of Carapa trees was significantly faster in logged forest than in undisturbed forest, and was positively associated with light availability. The results provide evidence that harvest models can be both diameter- and illumination-based. Crown illumination was not significantly higher in logged forest than in undisturbed forest, indicating that the illumination scale for this study was not sensitive enough to detect increases in light availability brought about by selective logging. Potential silvicultural methods (particularly poison-girdling) that maintain adequate forest light levels in Carapa swamps without significantly altering long-term tree diversity or allowing invasion of secondary species should be explored.
10.2307/2388084|Sexual reproduction in the actinians Anthopleura handi Dunn and Haliplanella luciae (Verrill) was studied through one year at Jeram, on the Malacca Straits. No evidence could be marshalled to support periodicity in gametogenesis of either species. The absence of cyclicity in prevalence and size of internally brooded young of A. handi substantiates this finding for the species. Female, sterile, and hermaphroditic anemones brood. The sex ratio of smaller individuals is heavily biased toward females; that of larger anemones is more balanced, suggesting that some but not all individuals are protogynous. Sterile and hermaphroditic brooders are inferred to be transitional from female (when the young are produced) to male (by which time all young have been released). Only sterile and female individuals of H. luciae were found. Although as many as half the anemones may bear eggs at any time, the absence of males presumably precludes sexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction by pedal laceration appears to be the sole means of progagation.
40863782|In Papua New Guinea, the fate of forests is governed by forest-dwelling tribal societies. A rapidly increasing pace of logging compels us to ask why tribal communities prefer logging to conservation. In the absence of feasible development opportunities, remote communities become quickly enthusiastic about conservation projects, but once an area is opened up to logging few such projects survive. Direct payments to forest owners to cover the costs of missed opportunities for economic development are advocated here to make conservation competitive. A conservation royalty scheme would deliver a higher proportion of the conservation funds to the resource owners than the management-intensive community development projects currently favored. Such an approach requires a profound cultural change within conservation organizations from a ' development aid' approach to one more oriented toward business.
30045404|We studied the effect of forest gaps and cattle grazing on survival and growth of seedlings of seven native tree species, planted in dry forest fragments with different intensities of past logging in Central Brazil. Seedling survival after 12 mo ranged from 35 to 77 percent among species. Survival of most species was similar in gaps and understory in minimally disturbed forest remnants, but was lower in the gaps of more heavily logged forests. In contrast, growth was much higher in gaps than in understory in minimally disturbed forests, but for most species was similar in gaps and understory in more heavily logged forests. We did not detect an effect of cattle on seedling survival. Seedlings of the most commonly logged species show a high potential to survive and grow when planted in logged forests.
2663784|We measured mature tree and sapling density, tree associations, crown size, age structure, recovery from ungulate browsing, and grass cover at four study sites in two types of subalpine woodland on Mauna Kea volcano, island of Hawaii. Beginning in 1981, introduced ungulates were reduced in number to allow regeneration of Sophora chrysophylla (mamane) in habitat supporting the endangered Hawaiian finch, Loxioides bailleui (palila). We found Sophora regeneration at all four study sites, but regeneration was higher in mixed species woodland with codominant Myoporum sandwicense (naio) than in areas where Sophora dominated. Regeneration of Myoporum was uniformly very low in comparison. Invasive grass cover, which suppresses Sophora germination, was highest in mid-elevation woodland where Sophora dominated. The distribution of mature and sapling Sophora were both related to study site, reflecting previous ungulate browsing and uneven recovery due to grasses. Densities of Sophora snags were not different among any of the sites, suggesting a more even distribution in the past. Selective browsing before ungulate reduction may have favored Myoporum over Sophora, leading to high densities of mature Myoporum in codominant woodland. After ungulate reduction, however, we found no pattern of competitive inhibition by Myoporum on regeneration of Sophora. Reduction of Myoporum is not likely to enhance habitat for Loxioides as much as supplemental plantings of Sophora, grass control, and continued ungulate eradication. Mid-elevation Sophora woodland areas, where Loxioides forage and nest in high densities, would benefit the most from these management actions.
10.2307/2389074|The traditional milpa agriculture system (slash-burn) of the Lacandon Maya people in eastern Chiapas, Mexico has created and uses a variety of habitat patches including the whole range of seral stages during forest development. This study examines seed bank attributes in habitats associated with slash-burn agriculture and with the more recent expansion of grasslands. We estimated the abundance and floristic composition of seeds in the soil from induced grasslands, milpa fields neighboring early and mature forests, and from secondary forest and mature tropical rain forest (15 samples by site, 2-3 replicated sites per successional stage). A total of 130 species germinated from the soil samples. The seeds of late successional tree species were scarce in all the seed soil samples (<2% of the species). Twenty-five early successional species accounted for ca. 70 percent of all individuals. Soil seed density (but not species richness) increased as milpas and fallows dominated the landscape. Affinity analysis based on presence/absence and abundance data showed a different soil seed bank composition for the grasslands when compared to that of all other successional communities. Our results suggest that current expansion of pastures and agricultural fields modifies seed deposition and storage patterns in the soil that may alter the process of secondary succession. This compromises both the regenerating potential of tropical rain forest in the region, and the sustainability of traditional practices and economic relationships of the Lacandon Maya.
2663798|It is currently recognized that the method used to collect phenology data can affect the resulting pattern. However, to date, the underlying influences have not been examined. To examine potential methodological biases, we investigated the effects of phenological method, sample size, and species composition on phenological patterns using data collected to estimate food availability for three primate species in Ranomafana National Park, Madagascar. Two phenological methods were compared: selected tree observations and systematic transect monitoring. By generating bootstrapped subsamples derived from the transect tree data set, we simulated two selected tree data sets and subsequently compared the observed and bootstrapped values. Although the observed values fell within the bootstrapped confidence intervals, suggesting no significant effects of sampling protocol or sample size, additional lines of evidence suggest otherwise. Observed samples composed of different plant species, whether based on species attributes such as life-form or categories such as food versus nonfood plants, consistently produced different phenological patterns. Wide confidence intervals of the bootstrapped samples indicate high individual variation in reproductive activity within the species sampled. Finally, we compared how well the selected tree and the transect methods represented food items used by all three primate species studied and found that transect methods sampled a wider diversity of food items, including rare foods, and a higher percentage of main primate food items than selected tree methods.
41058534|In a recent article in this journal Zhang and colleagues investigated the factors affecting the distribution of a species of epiphytic fern Asplenium nidus L. in rain forest in Peninsular Malaysia. Here we suggest that their findings may be interpreted in the light of there being two cryptic species present, each with different ecologies, as is the case in Malaysian Borneo. We also discuss the implications of the existence of cryptic species when attempting to conserve forest diversity in the face of climate change and habitat conversion.
2388935|A comparative study of vegetation structure and primary production was conducted at two mangrove sites differing essentially from each other due to their hydrological conditions. At each site, stand structure was characterized along a transect set up in the main slope direction. Litter fall was monitored using 0.5 m
10.2307/2388976|Root grafting was commonly found in tabonuco (Dacryodes excelsa Vahl), a dominant tree species of tabonuco forest in the subtropical wet forest of Puerto Rico. Over 60 percent of all stems and basal area of tabonuco occurred in unions, clumps of trees interconnected by root grafts. Self and intraspecific grafting were extensive, while interspecific grafting was not common in tabonuco trees. Seedlings and saplings did not show any grafting, probably because of their size or age. Grafted trees were taller and had a smaller crown/DBH ratio. Hurricane damage was significantly higher in isolated individual tabonuco trees than those in unions. Weak relationships between diameter class, area, and size of union, and inter-tree distances and the sum of the trunk circumferences of the two nearest neighbors suggested that a noncompetitive force such as root grafting was more important than competitive forces in maintaining the unions of tabonuco, and thus the forest community. A conceptual model of the costs and gains of tabonuco in unions is presented.
10.2307/2388922|The obligate mutualism between figs and their species-specific pollinator wasps has been thought to be relatively fragile in the face of population fluctuations of either mutualist. Here we report on the recovery of a Florida fig pollination mutualism devastated by Hurricane Andrew in August 1992. Damage to Ficus aurea included loss of all leaves and fruits and many branches, as well as the presumed local extinction of its pollinator Pegoscapus jimenezi. Within five months, however, fig flowering plenology and fig wasp abundance (measured by the number of pollinators entering inflorescences) had recovered to near prehurricane levels. Unusual phenological traits of F. aurea may have aided in the rapid reestablishment of pollinator populations; in addition, the wasps may have previously underappreciated capacities for long distance movements. This study suggests that obligate interactions can be surprisingly resilient to certain population-level catastrophes.
10.2307/2388921|Vines are significant components of rain forests, yet their role in succession has received little attention. Changes in vine communities on the Krakatau Islands, Indonesia, during the last 111 years provide an insight into colonizational patterns in a regenerating tropical rain forest. In surveys of Krakatau between 1979 and 1992, 71 species of plants that may be described as having a vining growth habit are identified out of a total of 306 spermatophytes (i.e., 23% of the flora). Most vines on Krakatau are hermaphrodite, approximately 24.6 percent are dioecious, and just 3.7 percent are monoecious. All the vines are insect-pollinated, but the proportion of wind-, animal- and sea-dispersed vines varies according to the recent history of the islands. Rakata, the least disturbed island in the group carries the greatest diversity of vines and the highest proportion of sea-dispersed species. As with many island biotas the vine flora of Krakatau is a disharmonic subset of the mainland (southeast Asian) pool and certain families, e.g., Annonaceae, Apocynaceae, Bignoniaceae, are relatively under- or unrepresented.
10.2307/2388224|Levels of leaf herbivory (percentage area loss) in primary forest understory, a pioneer plot, and vegetation in forest gaps were compared at St. Elie, French Guiana. Leaf laminas were analyzed for nitrogen, total phenol, and condensed tannin concentrations, as bulked vegetation samples irrespective of species. Mature leaves of the shaded forest understory were more heavily (greater than threefold) grazed than those on pioneer trees and small trees which grow up from the saplings in lighted gaps, while young leaves did not differ significantly in levels of defoliation between vegetation types. Defoliation levels averaged 5.5 percent on mature leaves. Herbivory on mature leaves was significantly negatively correlated with total leaf phenols. In the context of the optimal defense hypothesis, these chemicals may be deterring herbivory on pioneer and gap leaves, but a more likely primary cause is that total phenols are higher in plants in direct light than in those in shade conditions.
10.2307/2989815|An analysis of shoot extension growth of Rhizophora mangle is presented, based on the continuous observation of a small population over a period of two years. This provides phenological information for a tree which fits the general category of "evergrowing" although in South Florida the climate is distinctly seasonal. Environment has a strong governing influence, but the general progression of events is mediated endogenously. Growth is morphologically non-articulate, without obvious flushes, so that the unit of growth is regarded as the single internode. The apical bud has a uniform construction throughout the year, consisting of three leaf primordia and associated stipules, the expansion of the oldest pair of leaf primordia coinciding with the initiation of a new pair. Consequently environmental control of growth is effected through developmental processes in the apical bud. The rate of leaf expansion and leaf fall is at a peak in summer when temperatures and radiation levels are highest. Leaf fall is closely correlated with leaf expansion so that there is a relatively constant number of leaves on a shoot. However, there is some evidence that propagule abscission also affects leaf fall. All lateral organs (vegetative branches, inflorescences, and suppressed axillary buds) are developed within the apical bud, the types of organ differentiated at any one node apparently depending on plastochron length. This is most evident with regard to precocious (sylleptic) branches which are produced periodically in groups of from one to three. Suppressed axillary buds are very reduced and subject to apical dominance. When released from this, by pruning for example, they can reach a size which permits them to grow out as normal apical buds. Under continued apical dominance the life span of their potential for further growth is limited. Rhizophora mangle is, in a general sense, "everflowering" but expansion of flower buds is most frequent in summer, leading to a peak of fruit production about 4-7 months later and the largest crop of propagules 4-6 months later still. These observations are summarized in the form of a model which indicates how a single reproductive shoot might appear during this cycle, and how the population, as a whole, behaves. A hypothetical model of interrelationship between phenological phenomena is also presented as a basis for further work. The models serve to illustrate how shoot growth occurs in this tropical species, and how this is in marked contrast to the more familiar patterns of shoot growth in temperate trees.
30043041|We offered Australian tropical stingless bees (Trigona hockingsi) artificial nectar (30% sucrose w/v) either with or without added amino acids (3.30 mM). Bees showed no preference for nectar type, suggesting that sugars, rather than amino acids, play a greater role in nectar choice by this species.
10.2307/2388904|The effects of shoot damage on starch concentrations in large roots and lower boles of the tropical timber tree, Cedrela odorata, were measured over a 30-day period following mechanical shoot removal. The degree of damage was based on amounts typically destroyed by Hypsipyla grandella. a serious lepidopteran pest of C. odorata. From 14-month-old plantations at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, three treatments were established based on the length of shoot and number of leaves removed: controls (no tissue removed), moderate damage, and severe damage. Initial starch concentrations were compared with concentrations observed 18 to 30 days following shoot removal using enzymatic starch hydrolysis and colorimetry. Root starch concentrations increased in undamaged trees, decreased slightly in the moderately damaged trees, and decreased markedly in severely damaged trees during the sampling period. Starch concentrations in lower boles did not decrease following shoot damage, suggesting a specific role of root starch reserves in responding to aboveground carbon requirements. The dry weights of regrown shoots were similar for the moderately and severely damaged trees, but severely damaged trees produced numerous basal shoots while moderately damaged trees produced only one or two terminal shoots near the point of excision. Decreases in root starch concentrations following shoot damage and rapid shoot regrowth suggest that starch remobilization in roots of C. odorata might provide a survival mechanism after attack by H. grandella.
10.2307/2989707|Aerial roots of Rhizophora mangle have a long apical elongating zone, throughout which cell divisions occur, up to 23 cm (mean about 12 cm) long. Growth rates of up to nine mm (mean six mm) per day have been measured. The region of apical initials proper is sharply segregated from the elongating zone by its lack of tannin cells which are otherwise abundant. Trichosclereids appear in the ground parenchyma of cortex and medulla less than one mm behind the root apex and continue to be initiated throughout the elongating zone. Each trichosclereid usually has four arms which extend by intrusive growth within the well-developed longitudinal air-space system of the ground tissue, their extension being independent of that of the roots as a whole. The earliest vascular tissues originate in a position normal for roots, but subsequent vascular differentiation modifies this so completely that a stem-like pattern appears. The earliest protoxylem is exarch, but passes through subsequent phases when it is mesarch and finally endarch. Protoxylem differentiates throughout the elongating zone, the last-formed elements being derivatives of a cambium which is initiated before elongation ceases. These observations permit some comparison with the growth of aerial roots in other tropical plants.
30044010|I compared the effectiveness of sympatric brown howlers (Alouatta guariba) and muriquis (Brachyteles arachnoides) as seed dispersers in terms of quantitative and qualitative attributes. I hypothesized that differences in feeding and behavioral patterns between these large-bodied folivorous/frugivorous primates would lead to dissimilarities in their effectiveness as endozoochoric seed dispersal agents. The study was carried out in a semideciduous forest fragment of Fazenda Barreiro Rico, southeastern Brazil. Through behavioral sampling of frugivory and defecation events as well as analyses of fecal samples, I determined that A. guariba dispersed fewer species and produced a lower proportion of dung with intact seeds than B. arachnoides. There was no difference between the number of seeds in fecal samples of A. guariba and B. arachnoides. These primates affected to a similar degree both germination percentage and latency to germination of seeds they ingested or removed the pulp from. Howlers and muriquis were also similar in carrying seeds away from the parent trees. Contrary to muriquis, howlers defecated seeds under the canopy of conspecific lianas, where seeds are expected to suffer high mortality rates, and voided seeds predominantly in a clumped pattern. B. arachnoides was a more effective seed disperser when compared to A. guariba in some attributes evaluated, but not in others. Given the interspecific variation in recruitment patterns of tropical plants and the loss of frugivorous bird species at the study site, the differences between howlers and muriquis in their abilities as seed dispersers may crucially influence the composition and maintenance of seedling diversity. /// A eficcia de bugios ruivos (Alouatta guariba) e muriquis (Brachyteles arachnoides) como dispersores de sementes foi comparada atravs de atributos quantitativos e qualitativos. A hiptese testada foi de que diferenas nos padres alimentares e comportamentais destes primatas de hbito folvoro/frugvoro conduz a divergncias na eficiccia da disperso endozoocrica de sementes. O estudo foi conduzido em um fragmento de floresta semidecdua da Fazenda Barreiro Rico, no sudeste do Brasil. Atravs da amostragem de eventos de frugivoria e defecao, assim como da anlise de amostras fecais, determinei que A. guariba dispersou um nmero menor de espcies e produziu uma proporo menor de amostras fecais com sementes intactas do que B. arachnoides. No houve diferena entre o nmero de sementes em amostras fecais de A. guariba e arachnoides. Estes primatas afetararam em grau semelhante a porcentagem de germinao e a latencia de germinao das sementes que ingeriram ou das quais removeram a polpa. Bugios e muriquis tambm foram semelhantes no transporte de sementes  partir da rvore-me. Ao contrrio dos muriquis, os bugios defecaram sementes sob a copa de lianas co-especficas, onde altas taxas de mortalidade de sementes so esperadas, e depositaram sementes de forma predominantemente agregada. Brachyteles arachnoides foi um dispersor de sementes mais eficaz do que A. guariba em alguns dos atributos avaliados, mas no em outros. Em funo da variao interespecfica nos padres de recrutamento de plantas tropicais e da perda de espcies da avifauna frugvora na rea de estudo, as diferenas na habilidade de bugios e muriquis quanto  disperso de sementes podem influenciar de forma crucial a composio e manuteno da diversidade de plntulas.
30043137|We analyzed Ficus perforata seed removal by canopy ants under four treatments: syconia seeds; howler monkey-defecated washed seeds; syconia seeds with howler dung; and defecated seeds with howler dung. Ants removed more defecated washed seeds in the wet season, while during the dry season, removal was greater for syconia seeds and defecated washed seeds. Our results suggest that ants tended to remove more seeds when they were not embedded in feces; however, even seeds set on howler dung were still attractive to ants. /// Determinamos la preferencia de hormigas para remover semillas de Ficus perforata bajo cuatro tratamientos: semillas provenientes de siconos y semillas defecadas por monos aulladores; y dentro de cada uno de estos tipos se colocaron semillas sobre heces frescas. Las hormigas removieron ms semillas defecadas en la estacin hmeda, mientras que en la estacin seca la mayor remocin fue para las semillas de siconos y semillas defecadas. Los resultados sugieren que las hormigas remueven ms semillas cuando no estn embebidas en excretas, sin embargo tambin las semillas colocadas en excretas fueron atractivas para las hormigas.
10.2307/2388439|Data were collected on epiphyte occurrence on tree trunks of four diameter classes in a Guatemalan cloud forest in order to document the vascular epiphyte flora and to explore aspects of species associations. Of the 68 species recorded, the largest groups were the Orchidaceae (29 species) and the Polypodiaceae (18 species). Conditional clustering and constellation analyses revealed associations of small, closely related species on smaller and consequently younger trunks, and associations of larger, less closely related species on larger, and hence older, trunks. The associations of small species possess characteristics correlated with the earlier stages of plant succession and the density-independent and non-equilibrium diversity model. The associations of larger species possess characteristics correlated with the later stages of plant succession and appear to approach equilibrium in species composition.
27742848|The Nevados del Aconquija (5500 m) and Cumbres Calchaques (4600 m) are isolated mountain ranges that contain at least three physiognomic units in their eastern slopes: Neotropical rainforests, Andean grasslands and High Andean Steppes. Despite phytogeographical similarities, the two ranges differ in the amount and spatial distribution of rainfall over the elevation gradient. We studied terrestrial small mammals by direct trapping in two altitudinal transects on the eastern slope of the two mountain ranges. We recorded the changes in richness and species composition, as well as the relationships between species and microhabitats at each altitudinal level. The results show a similar structure of the small mammal assemblage in the two ranges. The largest differences, in terms of species composition, were registered at lower elevation forests, and faunal affinities increased with elevation to the point of finding identical species composition at the top of the mountains. Species richness showed a clear curvilinear pattern with a peak at the upper limit of the forests. Our findings suggest that total rainfall has an important influence on the composition and abundance of small mammal species but apparently not on the species richness along the elevation gradient. The highest values of species richness were observed at the sites where a contact between two different physiognomic units exists. These results indicate that habitat heterogencity plays an important role in allowing the juxtaposition of small terrestrial mammal assemblages of the highlands and lowlands at a given point, contributing significantly to the considerable diversity of species observed in intermediate altitudinal sites.
10.2307/2388426|The dynamics of a seed cohort over a one-year period and its laboratory germination requirements at eight constant temperatures in light and darkness were studied in Espeletia timotensis Cuatr., a giant rosette species from the Venezuelan Andes (paramo) at 4200 m elevation. After one year (coinciding with the end of the rainy season) 55 percent of the seeds remained viable, 17 percent had germinated, and mortality accounted for 30 percent. Soil samples collected at the beginning and the end of the rainy season and sieved to separate the buried seeds revealed naturally occurring viable seeds on both occasions. In the laboratory, maximum germination percentages were 80 and 67 percent in light and darkness, respectively, much higher than the germination percentage observed in the field. The adaptive significance of the asynchronous germination pattern in the seed bank of E. timotensis and the differences between field and laboratory germination are discussed.
3593189|Seed germination and seedling establishment patterns have been used to classify species as shade tolerant or intolerant. The main objective of this research was to investigate, under controlled conditions, seed germination of species from different successional positions as well as to follow seed germination and seedling survival under natural shade in the field. The species studied were Solanum granuloso-leprosum, Trema micrantha, Cecropia pachystachya, Croton piptocalyx, Bauhinia forficata subsp. pruinosa, Senna macranthera, Schizolobium parahyba, Piptadenia gonoacantha, Chorisia speciosa, Pseudobombax grandiflorum, Ficus guaranitica, Esenbeckia leiocarpa, Pachystroma longifolium, Myroxylon peruiferum, and Hymenaea courbaril. Field trials were carried out at Santa Genebra Municipal Reserve, Campinas, SP, Brazil, at the forest edge and in the understory. No significant correlations were detected between successional status and seed size or seed water content. Light-regulated germination was present only in small-seeded species. In field experiments, most species, including the light-sensitive ones, were able to germinate under the canopy, where a low red/far-red ratio predominates. Most species, mainly those of early- and intermediate successional positions, presented low seedling survival rates under shade. Myroxylon peruiferum was the most shade tolerant species, while S. granuloso-leprosum, C. speciosa, P. gonoacantha, F. guaranitica, T. micrantha, and S. parahyba were the most shade intolerant. These latter species showed little or no survival under the shade conditions.
10.2307/2388493|We conducted a 2-yr study with semi-monthly collections of forest floor arthropods and periodic monitoring of temperature, relative humidity, and soil moisture for three habitats of different soil drainage (terra firme, bamboo and flood plain) at a single site in southeastern Peru. Several diurnal and seasonal patterns of arthropod biomass occurred. All habitats followed parallel and coincident profiles of arthropod biomass through the four major seasons covered by this study (2 yr of wet and dry seasons). Biomass in wet seasons was greater than biomass in dry seasons. The strongest association between arthropod biomass and environmental measures occurred with the contemporary measurement of maximum temperature, but only two habitats, terra firme and bamboo, showed this association. The flood plain habitat showed no detectable associations between arthropod biomass and short term environmental measures. The total number of individual arthropods trapped over the 2 yr was highest for the bamboo habitat and lowest for the flood plain. The smallest overall mean individual mass was in the bamboo habitat. The highest was in the flood plain. The seasonal change in this mean individual mass value was regular for the flood plain, less regular for the bamboo habitat, and irregular for the terra firme forest. Of all the higher arthropod taxa trapped, the Coleoptera, and to a lesser extent the Collembola, exhibited consistent and distinct seasonal patterns. Other taxa such as ants, Diptera, and Orthoptera either showed seasonal patterns in one forest type or none at all.
10.2307/2387694|This study of Podococcus barteri in Cameroon, equatorial West Africa, shows that the longevity of this small palm is in the range of 63-74 years. Seasonality is more pronounced in flowering than in leaf production. Adults produce one leaf per year, each lasting about five years in the crown. Proliferation by stolons begins many years before flowering. The leafy stolons may grow two-eight or more years before establishing the ramets. Inflorescence development, flowering, and seed maturation take about 1.4 years. Only 0.08 percent of the ovules become mature seeds. A stage projection matrix gives the annual population growth rate as 1.2 percent. The growth index  is more sensitive to changes in mortality of juveniles and young adults than of seeds-seedlings, mature-old adults, or stolons. Mortality at several stages of sexual reproduction and the size advantage of ramets account for the greater importance of cloning to population dynamics, although the relative energetics have not been assessed.
30044053|In recent years the coastal dune vegetation of the state of Yucatan, Mexico has become highly fragmented due to clearing for development. We evaluated patterns of genetic differentiation and genetic variability among orchid populations (Myrmecophila christinae var christinae) in eight habitat fragments along a west-to-east disturbance gradient in which sites located on the western end began experiencing fragmentation earlier than those in the east. Leaf samples from adult individuals and juvenile plants were collected from all eight populations, and analyzed using starch-gel electrophoresis in a lithium buffer system. Per population estimates of genetic diversity, proportion of polymorphic loci at 95 percent, mean number of alleles per locus, allelic richness, and population structure were calculated, as well as estimate comparisons between generations. Genetic diversity at the loci analyzed did not show significant differences among the eight populations. Based on the results, the model of isolation by distance does not fit the M. christinae populations under study; in some cases, populations close to one another apparently experienced very little genetic exchange. Thus, we propose that so far, fragmentation has not led to significant genetic differences between populations subject to different historical backgrounds of disturbance {i.e., time since onset of disturbance), as well as between generations within each of the M. christinae study populations. Nevertheless, the genetic characteristics of some remnant populations might change over time due to a future decrease in the opportunities for genetic exchange with other populations. /// En aos recientes en la vegetacin de duna costera del estado de Yucatn se ha venido dando un proceso de fragmentacin del habitat y desmonte debido al desarrollo turstico. Para conocer el efecto de este desmonte sobre la vegetacin natural, se evalu el patrn de diferenciacin y variabilidad gentica entre ocho poblaciones remanentes de la orqudea Myrmecophila christinae que tienen un patrn oeste - este de perturbacin. Se tomaron muestras de tejido foliar de plantas adultas y platulas con las cuales se llevaron acabo anlisis con electroforesis de geles de almidn en un sistema de buffer de litio. Se estimaron, la diversidad gentica, la proporcin de loci polimrficos al 95 por ciento, la riqueza allica, el nmero promedio de alelos por locus, as como la estructura gentica de las poblaciones bajo estudio. Apartir de los resultados obtenidos se observ que la diversidad gentica en todos los loci no fue notablemente diferente entre generaciones o entre las ocho poblaciones. El modelo de aislamiento por distancia mostr un ajuste muy pobre; en algunos casos poblaciones cercanas muestran aparentemente poco intercambio gentico. Nosotros vemos que no se han detectado efectos significativos entre las poblaciones que tienen diferentes historias de perturbacin (timepo desde que comenz el disturbio) o entre generaciones en la variabilidad gentica ni en la diferenciacin. Sin embargo, nuestros resultados igualmente muestran que las caractersticas genticas de algunas poblaciones remanentes, en trminos de las frecuencias allicas, pueden cambiar en el tiempo debido un intercambio restringido de genes con otras poblaciones.
20492509|Females of an orchid bee, Euglossa viridissima, recently naturalized in southern Florida, routinely collect resin to construct their brood cells from the flowers of two Clusia (Clusiaceae) and two Dalechampia (Euphorbiaceae) species. We demonstrated that the bee pollinates three of these species including: (1) the newly naturalized D. scandens, which it pollinates in Mexico; (2) the ornamental D. aristolochiifolia native to Peru; and (3) the ornamental C. lanceolata native to Brazil, but not the apomictic Clusia rosea native to Florida. Field observations indicated that the bee promotes outcrossing in a naturalized D. scandens population. Comparisons of fruit set between unmanipulated control flowers and flowers supplemented with additional pollen indicated that the presence of bee eliminates pollen limitation for cultivated C. lanceolata. The orchid bee's pollination of ornamental resin-reward plants may promote their naturalization.
2389166|We examined the typhoon wind disturbance regime of the Fu-Shan Experimental Forest in northeastern Taiwan. Mean number of typhoons passing within 200 kilometers of Taipei (40 kilometers from the site) was 1.4 per year. Category 4 and 5 typhoons, which are intense enough to uproot large numbers of trees, occurred every 8.3 and 12.5 years respectively, although it is likely that some category 4 and 5 typhoons did not produce extensive blowdowns at Fu-Shan because the area of maximum winds missed the study site. Uprooting was more common than snapped boles; the most common damage to trees, however, was probably defoliation, although this damage was not quantified in the current study. Thirty-five percent of wind-damaged trees were associated with a gap. Six percent of the land area was in gaps. Canopy turnover time was calculated at 175 years when all gaps  9 years old were included in the calculation, but the time decreased when older gaps were excluded from the calculation. Turnover time was somewhat higher than calculated for other tropical forests. Because turnover time increases as the percent of land in gaps decreases, the short life span of gaps at Fu-Shan probably contributed to our higher calculated time. Probability of being damaged was not related to tree species identity, and only a few species of trees were found regenerating in gaps. Principal Components Analysis indicated that damaged trees varied largely in treefall orientation and aspect; gaps varied primarily in aspect and in gap size.
10.2307/2387896|Nesting of Passeriformes was studied in an area of savanna subject to periodic flooding in Apure State (Venezuela). The most important climatic characteristic of this region is the alternation of a rainy season (May to October) and a dry season (December to March). One hundred sixty-four nests of 35 species were observed, and the shape, construction, location, and egg color were noted. The majority of the nests were found in aquatic environments or shrubbery. The average nest contained 2.54 eggs. The 8-month nesting period was found to be highly correlated with the rainy season, and the nesting success was low (34.84%), being somewhat higher in enclosed nests than in open ones. Predation was the main cause for nest loss.
10.2307/2388850|The button cactus, Melocactus violaceus (Cactaceae), occurs in open, sandy soils in southern Brazilian coastal areas. The fruits of this species are pink, cone-shaped, and have a high water content and low sugar concentration. The fruits of M. violaceus develop while completely protected inside the cephalium and are driven out by internal pressure when ripe. Fruits can be exposed in only a few minutes during the hottest part of the day, and they become easily visible over the cephalium. They are expelled more quickly when temperature is high and lizards are more active. During the dry season these fruits appear to be eaten exclusively by the lizard Tropidurus torquatus (Tropiduridae). The cephalium is positioned close to soil level and the bright color of the fruits apparently improves fruit detection. Lizards defecate viable M. violaceus seeds. These seeds germinated quickly under laboratory conditions, while seeds collected directly from ripe fruits did not germinate under the same conditions. Cactus and fruit morphology, and the diurnal pattern of fruit release, may represent a suite of adaptations for dispersal by Tropidurus torquatus.
10.2307/2388777|A mark-recapture study of cave bats was carried out in the Alto Vale do rio Ribeira, SE Brazil. The size of the colonies varied monthly, indicating the occurrence of frequent movements among caves and a low degree of roost fidelity for the commonest species: Desmodus rotundus, Carollia perspicillata. Anoura caudifer, Artibeus fimbriatus. Phyllostomines (Trachops cirrhosus, Chrotopterus auritus) and Peropteryx macrotis seem more sedentary, as suggested by their higher recapture rates. D. rotundus uses multiple roosts, mostly within relatively small areas, with a 2-3 km radius. These vampires move preferentially along valleys, males moving more than females. Frequency of movements is probably related to the availability of roosts and climate. The climate of the Alto Ribeira is subtropical, with cool nights during the "dry" season, when part of the vampire population (and other species as well) would migrate to warmer regions. Recapture rates and the estimated individual ranges are similar to those observed for this species in other regions. The minimum population density of D. rotundus varied monthly from one to 3.5 individuals per km
10.2307/2663965|The large seeds of Aglaia mackiana (Meliaceae) germinate and produce vigorous seedlings under closed canopies or in large gaps. To assess seedling ecology after germination, we measured growth, herbivore damage, and survivorship of seedlings over one year. The sample included shaded seedlings from dispersed seeds, undispersed seeds under parent trees, and seedlings transplanted to gaps. We quantified the light environment using hemispherical canopy photographs taken above seedlings at the beginning and end of the one-year study. Seedlings transplanted to gaps grew faster and had more leaves, larger total leaf surface area, longer secondary roots, and greater root mass than shaded seedlings. Seedlings in gaps did not differ from shaded seedlings in survivorship or amount of herbivore- and pathogen-caused leaf damage. The canopy photographs taken one year apart suggest there is a rough equilibrium in closed canopies with slight changes occurring around an average light level. Sites with < 0.06 ISF (a unitless, relative measure of canopy openness or reflected sunlight) tended to remain the same with minor fluctuations toward brighter or darker. Sites with canopy openness > 0.06 ISF tended to close; few gaps grew larger. Seedlings under parent trees and seedlings away from parent trees had similar amounts of leaf damage and virtually identical survivorship after 18 months, but seedlings under parent trees had slower growth rates and smaller total leaf surface areas. Dispersal did not strongly benefit seeds via escaping high levels of mortality or competition around the parent.
30044930|We studied patterns of removal and predation on seeds of ten plant species over two years in four abandoned pastures adjacent to forest fragments in Costa Rica. We hypothesized that: (1) removal within pastures would be greater nearest forest fragments and decline at farther distances; (2) removal rates would be greater on smaller-seeded species; and (3) removal rates would differ among pastures. We placed seeds of two species in three pastures in 1997 and eight species in two pastures during 1998. In each pasture, removal was monitored at three distances from the forest edge. Rates of seed removal in 1997 and 1998 were significantly greater 1-5 m from the forest than at 20 m distances, but removal rates at the 40 m distance did not differ from the 1-5 m distance. Rates of removal for both species were low in 1997, although removal was significantly greater for the smaller-seeded species Sorocea trophoides than for the large seeds of Nectandra sp. Removal rates differed significantly among pastures for both species in 1997 and among pastures for five small-seeded species in 1998. No removal of three large-seeded species was detected in 1998. Interspecific differences in seed removal rates were consistent with the hypothesis that larger seeds are removed less in pastures than smaller seeds. While some seed removal patterns appear predictable, species-specific variation in removal within and among sites was substantial. Predator population densities and other among-pasture differences may also influence patterns of spatial variation in seed predation. /// Estudiamos los patrones de remocin y depredacin de semillas en diez especies de plantas durante dos aos, en cuatro pastizales abandonados adyacentes a fragmentos de bosque en el sur de Costa Rica. Planteamos las siguientes hiptesis: (1) la remocin de semillas de los pastizales ser mayor cerca a los bordes de los fragmentos y disminuir a medida que la distancia al borde aumenta, (2) las tasas de remocin sern mayores para semillas pequeas, (3) las tasas de remocin diferirn entre los diferentes pastizales. Colocamos semillas de dos especies de plantas en tres pastizales en 1997 y de ocho especies de plantas en dos pastizales en 1998. En cada pastizal monitoreamos la remocin de semillas a tres distancias del borde. Las tasas de remocin en ambos aos fueron mayores a 1-5 m del borde que a 20 m, pero no fueron significativamente diferentes de las tasas de remocin a 40 m. La tasa de remocin para ambas especies fue baja en 1997, aunque la remocin fue mayor para la especie con semillas pequeas (Sorocea trophoides) que para la especie con semillas grandes (Nectandra sp.). Las tasas de remocin para estas especies fueron significativamente diferentes entre los pastizales en 1997 y para 5 especies con semillas pequeas en 1998. Ese mismo ao, no detectamos remocion en ninguna de las 3 especies con semillas grandes. Aunque algunos de estos patrones de remocin de semillas parecen predecibles, hubo una variacin substancial a nivel especfico dentro y entre pastizales. Sugerimos que la densidad poblacional de los depredadores y otras diferencias biticas y/o abiticas entre pastizales, pueden influenciar la variacin espacial observada en la remocin de semillas.
30043156|The jumping spiders Eustiromastix nativo, Psecas sumptuosus, and Uspachus sp. n. (Salticidae) live on terrestrial bromeliads in areas with different phytophysiognomies in southeastern and northeastern Brazil. To understand these spider-plant interactions, we investigated if (1) these spiders were associated specifically with bromeliads, (2) the spiders utilized particular bromeliad species, and (3) plant size and density of bromeliads affected spider distribution. The jumping spiders were not found outside bromeliads, indicating a strict spider-plant association. Eustiromastix and Uspachus occupied bromeliads in open areas, whereas Psecas was found on forest bromeliads. Eustiromastix occurred at a higher frequency on larger bromeliads and in patches with higher bromeliad density. This is one of the few studies to demonstrate specific relationships between jumping spiders and a particular plant type. /// As aranhas saltadoras Eustiromastix nativo, Psecas sumptuosus e Uspachus sp. n. (Salticidae) vivem sobre bromlias terrestres em reas com diferentes fitofisionomias no sudeste e nordeste do Brasil. Para compreender estas interaes aranha-planta, ns investigamos se (1) estas aranhas estavam associadas especificamente a bromlias, (2) as aranhas utilizam espcies particulares de bromlias e (3) tamanho e densidade das bromlias afetam a distribuio das aranhas. As aranhas saltadoras nao foram encontradas fora das bromlias, indicando urna associao estrita entre aranha e planta. Eustiromastix e Uspachus ocuparam bromlias em reas abertas enquanto Psecas foi encontrada em bromlias de floresta. Eustiromastix ocorreu em maior freqencia sobre bromlias maiores e em manchas com maior densidade de bromlias. Este estudo  um dos poucos a demonstrar relaes especficas entre aranhas saltadoras e um tipo particular de planta.
10.2307/2387815|Species of the fern genus Bommeria occur from the southwestern United States, throughout much of Mexico and into Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Acetocarmine squashes of spore mother cells, root tips, and gametophyte meristems have yielded chromosome counts for the five putative species: n = 30, 2n = 60 in B. hispida (Mett.) Underw., B. subpaleacea Maxon, B. ehrenbergiana (Kl.) Fourn., and B. knoblochii Maxon; n = 2n = 90 in B. pedata (Sw.) Fourn. The first four of these species are sexual, producing 64 functional spores per sporangium and requiring the addition of free water to gametophyte cultures for sporophyte initiation. Bommeria pedata produces both well developed sporangia containing 32 functional spores and shrunken sporangia with aborted contents. Although gametophytes of B. pedata produce structurally complete archegonia and functional antheridia, culturing and sectioning data indicate that sporophytes arise apogamously near archegonia whose contents are necrotic. The generally greater geographic distribution of B. pedata relative to its sexual congeners may be taken to indicate the present success of this apogamous species.
10.2307/2389114|The responses of four primate species-saddleback tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis avilapiresi), moustached tamarins (S. mystax pileatus), brown capuchins (Cebus apella), and gray woolly monkeys (Lagothrix lagotricha cana)-to seasonal changes in plant phenology were examined in a 900 ha plot of undisturbed terra firme forest in the upper Urucu river, western Brazilian Amazonia. These species represented the entire body size spectrum of habitat - generalists in a high diversity primate community. Changes in the diet of these species are related to a concurrent phenological study of a random sample of 996 large trees, and to monthly censuses of understory fruit patches, both of which show a clear annual bottleneck in fleshy fruit availability. Primate species fed largely on ripe fruit pulp for most of the year, but shifted to alternative plant resources during the dry season, when the density of fruiting trees and the abundance of ripe fruit reached their lowest levels. The main dry season plant resource used by the two tamarin species was nectar, while those of brown capuchins and wooly monkeys were immature seeds and young foliage, respectively Exudates of Parkia seedpods were heavily used by all species. Nondietary seasonal adaptations to lean fruit supplies are described for these and other sympatric primate species mainly in terms of pronounced shifts in habitat use and ranging behavior.
27742821|Most predictions of vegetation responses to anthropogenic climate change over the next 100 yr are based on plant physiological tolerances and do not account for the ability of plant species to migrate over the distances required in the time available, or the impact of habitat fragmentation on this ability. This review assesses the maximum routine dispersal distances achievable in tropical East Asia and their vulnerability to human impacts. Estimates for various plantvector combinations range from &lt; 10 m, for species dispersed by ants or mechanical means, to &gt; 10 km for some species dispersed by wind (tiny seeds), water, fruit pigeons, large fruit bats (tiny seeds), elephants, rhinoceroses, and people. Most plant species probably have maximum dispersal distances in the 1001000 m range, but the widespread, canopy-dominant Dipterocarpaceae and Fagaceae are normally dispersed &lt; 100 m. Large fruit bats and fruit pigeons are particularly important for long-distance dispersal in fragmented landscapes and should be protected from hunting. The maximum seed dispersal distances estimated in this study are potentially sufficient for many plant species to track temperature changes in steep topography, but are far too small for a significant role in mitigating climate change impacts in the lowlands, where temperature and rainfall gradients are much more shallow.
10.2307/2388555|The soils of a secondary regrowth forest plot and an adjoining cassava plot in southwest Nigeria were investigated over an annual cycle to show the seasonal variations in their mite (Acarina) populations. Data on rainfall, soil moisture content, and soil temperature were simultaneously collected. Microenvironmental differences in the two plots were reported to have influenced the densities, age structure, and fluctuation patterns of the mite populations. Like most other arthropods, mostly insects and spiders studied in other tropical environments, the soil mites showed within and between seasonal changes in abundance at both the forest and cassava plots. Two patterns of seasonal fluctuations characterized by a single maximum population density on the one hand and multiple peak populations on the other hand were shown by the mite groups in the forest and cassava plots. Unlike most mite groups whose patterns of fluctuation were similar in the forest and cassava plots, Haplozetes sp., Carabodes sp., Oppia sp., Tectocepheus sp., and Parasitidae were reported to have reacted to the difference in environmental attributes between the forest and the cassava plots by exhibiting different fluctuation patterns between the two plots. The population build-up potential of mites in the cassava plot, especially Haplozetes sp., is discussed.
30043260|Endozoochorous seed dispersal by erama deer (Cervus nippon keramae) was investigated at four sites on Aka Island, the Ryukyu Archipelago, Japan. Kerama deer feces contained seeds of 35 plant species. Most of the germinated seeds were small (1.3  0.18 mm) and had a hard coat, comparable to the germinated seeds in several other studies of endozoochorous seed dispersal by herbivores. Both the numbers and species compositions of seeds differed among the four sites, reflecting differences in the food available to erama deer among habitats. Although many graminoid seeds were found in the two open habitats (Sites A and B) and in the adjoining forest habitat (Site woody plant seeds dispersed endozoochorously by birds and mammals were dominant in the forest (Site D), away from the marsh. Although a majority of the graminoid species was growing in open habitats such as the marsh and open fields, few were growing in the forest. Therefore, the erama deer spread many open-habitat graminoid seeds to the open and forest habitats. If a high density of erama deer persists for a long time and gaps in forests are created by browsing erama deer or by other means, graminoid species may spread substantially on Aka Island. Therefore, it is possible that seed dispersal by forest deer contributes to the expansion of grasslands.
10.2307/2387683|A population of the ripple bug Rhagovelia scabra (Bacon) (Hemiptera: Veliidae) in the Rio Guacimal, Costa Rica, is structured by interference competition into three components: (1) optimal habitat users, who occupy fast-flowing areas such as the heads of pools; (2) suboptimal habitat users, who occupy stiller water; and (3) non-users, who form dense lethargic clusters by the margins of the stream. The distributions are enforced by the dominant animals and lead to a priority of prey capture. Dominance is determined mostly by age, sex, and disability.
10.2307/2388073|Fruiting phenology of Ficus trigonata and foraging ecology of Artibeus jamaicensis were examined in the llanos of Venezuela. Data indicate that fruit maturation in F. trigonata is characterized by at least a three-week period during which unripe fruits increase in size and hardness. Ripening per se is abrupt and involves softening of fruits. A. jamaicensis forages more at fig trees containing ripe fruits than at trees with unripe fruits. The apparent preference for ripe fruits by A. jamaicensis possibly involves maximizing net energy and nutritional yield. A. jamaicensis transports viable fig seeds to prime germination sites (palm canopies) and is the most reliable dispersal agent in the Venezuelan llanos. Visual similarity between ripe and unripe F. trigonata fruits may be an adaptation to minimize fruit consumption by birds, thus leaving more fruits for bats. By transporting fig seeds to palms, A. jamaicensis may play an important role in llanos savanna succession. Fruit production by F. trigonata is best described by the Model II or Model III fruiting strategies of Howe and Estabrook (1977) and Howe (1979). Avian dispersal of figs is best described by Model II, whereas A. jamaicensis represents a Model III disperser. The apparent plasticity by Ficus in making fruits available to either birds or bats may be an adaptation to ensure maximal seed dispersion under different germination-site restrictions.
40645543|Several species of stenodermatine bats congregate in large numbers at collpas in southeastern Peru to drink water. We conducted the first experimental tests of preference for collpa water by representative bats. Artibeus species preferred mineral-rich collpa water over water from other sources, supporting the hypothesis that they seek resources (especially sodium) at collpas.
41241938|Canopy trees are largely responsible for the environmental heterogeneity in the understory of tropical and subtropical species-rich forests, which in turn may influence sapling community dynamics. We tested the effect of the specific identity of four cloud forest canopy trees on total solar radiation, canopy openness, soil moisture, litter depth, and soil temperature, as well as on the structure and dynamics of the sapling community growing beneath their canopies. We observed significant effects of the specific identity of canopy trees on most understory microenvironmental variables. Soil moisture was higher and canopy openness lower beneath Cornus disciflora. In turn, canopy openness and total solar radiation were higher beneath Oreopanax xalapensis, while the lowest soil moisture occurred beneath Quercus laurina. Moreover, Chiranthodendron pentadactylon was the only species having a positive effect on litter depth under its canopy. In spite of these between-species environmental differences, only C. pentadactyhn had significant, negative effects on sapling density and species richness, which may be associated to low seed germination and seedling establishment due to an increased litter depth in its vicinity. The relevance of the specific identity of canopy trees for natural regeneration processes and species richness maintenance depends on its potential to differentially affect sapling dynamics through species-specific modifications of microenvironmental conditions.
10.2307/2389109|When a nectar reward is relatively low in quality and quantity, is it an effective pollinator attractant? In Puerto Rico, Comparettia falcata, a hummingbird-pollinated epiphytic orchid, produces an average one-time secretion of 3.3-4.0  l of nectar (composed of 12.9-15 1% sugar) per flower. In contrast, nectar sugar concentrations of other hummingbird flowers on Caribbean islands are 17-37 percent, and those of Puerto Rico visited by the C. falcata pollinator have standing crops averaging 2.0-6.2  l and daily secretion rates of 3.1-10.6  l. In 1989 and 1990, we monitored pollinator abundance, effective flower visitation, pollinarium removals (male success), pollinations, and fruit production (female success) at two sites in the Toro Negro Forest Reserve. Reproductive success at the two sites did not differ in either year when adjusted for differences in pollinator activity In 1991, we clipped the spur tips of all flowers at one site rendering them nectarless. Visitation frequencies and measures of male and female fitness were adjusted for site differences in pollinator activity, and all were significantly lower at the site where flowers were nectarless. In 1992, we abandoned one site and manipulated the other by clipping the floral spurs of a randomly chosen subset of plants so that 25 percent of the flowers in the population were nectarless. Pollinarium removals from intact flowers were significantly different from those with cut spurs and total visits were nearly significant as well. However, the difference in female success was clearly not significant between the two treatments. The number of visits per flower dropped dramatically from previous years despite the highest level of bird activity yet censused. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the pollinator, Chlorostilbon maugaeus. perceives the nectar reward despite its small quantity and low sugar content, this to the advantage of Comparettia flacata.
10.2307/2389183|Nectar samples from a wide range of flowers (120 samples, 112 species, 22 families) visited by hummingbirds (subfamilies Phaethorninae and Trochilinae) were collected over a wide range of elevations and environments in Costa Rica. Some species visited are believed to be pollinated principally by perching birds, lepidopterans, and bees, however. We measured sugar composition (% fructose, glucose, and sucrose), daily secretion rates, and sugar concentration. In general, sugar compositions of all hummingbird nectars were found to be highly clustered toward the high-sucrose end of the composition spectrum and not significantly different from sugar compositions of other hummingbird nectar assemblages from northwestern Mexico and the southwestern United States. Significant correlations were detected between elevation and the percentage of fructose and of sucrose in the nectar, with the fructose percent positive and the sucrose negative. These correlations were found to be due to both elevation and hummingbird-group effects. Daily secretion rate and sugar concentration were both negatively correlated with elevation. Discriminant analysis indicated that nectar sugar concentration and daily secretion rates together could usually predict whether a species was pollinated by hermit (Phaethorninae) or nonhermit (Trochilinae) hummingbirds and could often predict which eco-morphological group of nonhermits.
10.2307/2387862|The taxonomic status of the genera included within the anguid lizard subfamily Diploglossinae has been uncertain. A new character, the structure of the osteoderms, has been studied in hope of clarifying this situation. The history of the literature, structural detail, and taxonomic importance of osteoderms are reviewed. On the basis of osteoderm structure, two genera (Celestus, Sauresia) are recognized in addition to Diploglossus, Wetmorena, and Ophiodes. A possible history of the evolutionary trends and movements of the recognized genera is presented, with special reference to the situation in the West Indies.
10.2307/2387756|Leaves of 50 tree species from five montane rain-forest types at c. 1500 m in Jamaica were examined microscopically. The following characters were measured (mean values for all species in parentheses) blade thickness (237  m), thickness of the outer walls of the upper (5.4  m) and lower (4.3  m) epidermis (including cuticles), the non-palisade mesophyll to palisade mesophyll ratio (2.1.1) the incidence of: a hypodermis (28%), crystals (76%), sclerenchyma along vascular bundles (92%); and transcurrent sclerenchyma (26%); the density of stomata (299 mm
10.2307/2388743|Seasonal abundance, microhabitat preference, and diet were determined over 3 field seasons for adults of 3 riparian species of robber flies on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Adults of all species were rare during the dry season. During the wet season, Eumecosoma gibbum and Eumecosoma shropshirei were relatively common for approximately 2 months, and Psilonyx sp. had a flight period of only 3-4 wk. All 3 species perched in deep shade and at similar heights above ground. Both E. gibbum and E. shropshirei displayed pronounced specificity for a particular type of perching substrate, whereas Psilonyx sp. utilized several different substrates for perches. Although the species fed upon prey of similar size, they varied in the types of prey consumed. E. gibbum and E. shropshirei fed primarily upon nematocerous Diptera and Coleoptera, whereas Psilonyx sp. consumed greater proportions of acalypterate Diptera and Psocoptera.
40645555|Effective management and conservation of an ecosystem requires information on species assemblages as well as reliable estimates of population sizes to plan, implement and evaluate management strategies. The Brazilian Pantanal is one of the world's largest freshwater wetlands and considered a priority landscape for wildlife conservation. It is subject to pluri-annual extreme dry and wet periods, which cause extreme flood and drought events, which strongly affect wildlife. Using the line-transect method, this study examined the distribution of densities and metabolic biomass of medium-to large-sized nonvolant mammals in forest, cerrado and floodplain landscapes, in an area with low anthropogenic influence, in the central area of the Brazilian Pantanal during a prolonged drought. Comparisons with a previous survey conducted during years of average rainfall in part of the study area suggest that population fluctuations of certain species are closely associated with water due to the drought. Results from this study showed that mammal assemblages varied between landscapes. Forested landscapes have the highest densities of mammals and are the most important in terms of relative energy consumption. In addition, at the time of the study, frugivores were found to have higher energy consumption than browser/grazers across the three landscapes; most fruits are produced in forested areas stressing their importance. By converting forested landscapes into grasslands, the intensification of ranching practices seriously threatens biodiversity and ecological processes in the region.
10.2307/2989695|This report compares flowering seasons in perennial woody plants at four altitudinal levels in the Harar Highlands of eastern Ethiopia. In this area a majority of woody species flower in the dry season only in the montane evergreen forest formation above about 2200 meters altitude. In the other three deciduous formations at lower altitudes flowering is primarily in the wet season. In the drier Acacia (microphyll) formations there is a burst of flowering at the beginning of the rainy season.
2389127|Fungal pathogens that infect reproductive structures of plants (e.g., flowers and fruits) can reduce the seed production and seedling recruitment of host plants. We report here on the effects of a rust, Aecidium farameae, that infects the ovaries and pedicels of mature flowers on Faramea occidentalis (Rubiaceae), a small tree common on Barro Colorado Island, Republic of Panama. Rust infection of ovaries reduced the number of maturing fruit on infected trees. Trees with low rust incidence in June of 1992 had 68 percent fruit survival, compared to 17 percent fruit survival for those with high rust incidence. Infected fruits developed abnormally and were usually aborted long before uninfected fruits were mature. One hundred percent of the infected ovaries marked in July were diseased or missing in August. We conclude that infection by A. farameae has the potential to seriously decrease the reproductive output of Faramea occidentalis and may represent an important source of variation in the relative fitness of individual plants.
10.2307/2388188|We studied nonmigratory populations of red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis jamaicensis) along a gradient of altitude and moisture in Puerto Rico, at the southeastern limit of the species' geographic range. Territories in dry and moist lowland study sites were dominated by pastures, whereas those in our montane rain forest and cloud forest study sites were dominated by closed-canopy forests. Populations in rain and cloud forests lived at higher densities than those in the dry and moist lowlands, but they had a lower reproductive success. Frequent rain and fog reduced flying time of adults and reduced prey delivery rates at rain and cloud forest nests, increasing nestling mortality. Peak fledging occurred at the beginning of the rainy season and coincided with peak abundance of prey species. The diet of lowland hawks was comprised mostly of mammals, whereas that of hawks in rain and cloud forests was comprised mostly of birds, reptiles, and amphibians captured in the canopy. Rain and cloud forest hawks lived at higher densities than red-tailed hawks in continental North America. The breeding season in Puerto Rico extended from November to August and lasted longer than those reported for other populations of red-tailed hawks. Clutch size and incubation and nestling periods were similar to those reported for continental North America, but fledglings remained in their parents' territories for more prolonged periods in Puerto Rico.
10.2307/2388201|Of a total of 273 trees and 91 lianas species for a tropical rain forest at SE Veracruz, Mexico, 68 species (18.7%) are wind dispersed. The anemochorous syndrome is represented better in lianas (42.9% of the species), while trees are predominately zoochorous (80.9%). Specifically, data in relation to the phenology and frequency of diaspore type for 59 anemochorous species trees and lianas are presented. At the community level, winged diaspores predominate (45 species, 76.3%); nonwinged species are much less common. Of a total of 20 families, Bignoniaceae, Leguminosae, and Malpighiaceae are the families with the most species 14, 7, and 6 taxa respectively; all have winged diaspores. For both life forms flowering is highly correlated with the late dry season. Fruiting has two peaks, the first one late in the dry, hot season ("secas"), and the second one in the late wet season, when precipitation is high and temperature is low ("nortes"). The period of fruiting in trees and lianas is clearly separated in time. Dispersal by trees is concentrated in "secas," while dispersal by lianas is more frequent during "nortes." The fruiting in relation to diaspore type revealed two patterns. Plumed diaspores were more abundant during "secas" independent of life form. In contrast, species with winged diaspores had a bimodal distribution, one during "secas" and the other one during "nortes"; the latter was due primarily to fruiting lianas.
10.2307/2387710|Swarming behavior, dispersion, swarm sizes, and composition were recorded for Metapolybia azteca and Polybia occidentalis, two species of polybiine social wasps. A division of labor between workers of different ages and queens during swarm movement was observed. Low dispersal distances and aggregated nest groups were recorded. Worker movement between colonies suggested high degrees of relatedness exist in some nest groups.
10.2307/2388690|The Ituri Forest of Eastern Zaire contains the richest recorded assemblage of anthropoid primates in the world (13 sympatric species), the behavior and ecology of which have not previously been studied. This study reports the result of line transect censuses at seven locations in the northern and central Ituri, and presents analyses of primate habitat use according to forest type, treefall gaps, tree species in which primates were observed, and height of primates in the vegetation. Estimated total anthropoid primate density is 112 ind/km$^2$, corresponding to a biomass of 715 kg/km$^2$. Three common species of frugivorous/insectivorous Cercopithecus monkeys (C. ascanius, C. mitis, C. pogonius) showed pronounced habitat preferences for secondary forest, as did one folivore, Colobus guereza. The two more abundant colobine monkeys (Colobus angolensis and C. badius) were seen mainly in mature "mixed" forest. Very few primates of any species were observed in areas of "mbau" forest, a forest type dominated by the single tree species Gilbertiodendron dewevrei. The smallest Cercopithecus monkey, C. ascanius. was frequently observed in and around treefall gaps, and may be a "gap-specialist" in this species-rich primate community. The abundance of common Cercopithecus monkeys in secondary forest may be a response to continuous fruiting of pioneer tree species which constitute a dependable but low-quality resource during the seasonal hiatus of fruit availability in primary forest.
41058548|Dietary proteins are considered crucial for growth and maintenance in mammals, but many fruit-eating mammals feed largely on a protein-poor diet. In the Chiroptera, frugivory has evolved twice, in the Old World Pteropodidae and in the New World Phyllostomidae, especially the Stenodermatinae. Recent studies based on the analysis of nitrogen isotope ratios (N) suggest that phyllostomids feed to varying degrees on arthropods to meet their nitrogen (N) requirements. Arthropod feeding has rarely been observed in Pteropodidae. Thus, we asked whether pteropodids meet their N requirements by feeding exclusively on plant matter. We predicted that tissue from pteropodid wing membranes should be depleted in  N relative to those of obligate insectivorous rhinolophoid, vespertilionid or emballonurid bats, if pteropodids acquire proteins exclusively from fruits, leaves or nectar. We found that N in pteropodids were significandy lower than in obligate insectivorous bats. In addition, mean N of Old World pteropodids was similar to that of obligate frugivorous stenodermatines of the New World tropics. We infer from these data that pteropodids are predominantly phytophagous bats. From a nutritional perspective, pteropodids and stenodermatines are very similar, suggesting that they share convergent physiological adaptations to compensate for the lack of dietary nitrogen.
10.2307/2989777|The seasonal patterns of adult emergence in several co-occurring species of cicadas were determined in Costa Rican low-land tropical rain forest through exhaustive census of nymphal skins in three major habitats: primary-growth forest understory and floor, banks of forest streams, and old cultivated second-growth bordering forest. Both seasonal and horizontal habitat selection were demonstrated for the cicadas studied. Vertical habitat selection of adults in forest and micro-habitat selection in the forms of oviposition site-selectivity and eclosion substrates were also seen. Three species show strong seasonal peak adult emergence, two of these emerging in the dry season, and a third at the beginning of the wet season. These cicadas are periodical. Other non-periodical species emerge continually in low numbers throughout the year. Of the two emerging during the dry season, there is character displacement for annual alternation of peak adult emergence: both species appear to be very similar morphologically and occupy the same habitat but one species emerges one dry season and the other emerges the following dry season. This character displacement is hypothesized to be a unique mechanism of habitat selection made possible by the multi-year life cycles of cicadas, and functions to reduce competitive interactions between two sympatric congeneric species. For another pair of congeneric species in the same habitat, micro-habitat selection was seen in oviposition and eclosion sites, another mechanism reducing inter-species competition in closely related sympatric species of cicadas.
10.2307/2387712|Effects of phosphorus enrichment (195 kg P ha
27742869|We examined structural and physiological traits relevant to the phenology of the tropical dry forest (TDF) pioneer tree Cochlospermum vitifolium. Despite marked seasonality in rainfall, meristem activity occurred throughout the year. Leaves were produced almost continuously during the rainy season, while leaf shedding started early during drought, before changes in soil water content were observed. Phenological activity under drought included flowering and fruiting of leafless trees; bud break and shoot extension took place before the end of the dry season. Low wood density of C. vitifolium stems (0.17 g/cm3) and lignotubers (0.14 g/cm3) provided water and starch storage needed to support phenological events such as branch extension, leaf flushing, and reproduction during the dry season, and probably also contributed to survival following mechanical damage and fire, typical of early TDF successional stages. Lignotuber water and starch contents showed substantial seasonal variation, declining from the beginning of the dry season to their lowest levels at the time of reproduction and dry-season flushing. Stems progressively replaced lignotubers as main storage organs as tree size increased. Evidence for a role of water stores in buffering daily water deficits was weak. Leaf water potentials remained above  1.2MPa and stomatal conductance below 350 mmol/m2/s, suggesting that gas exchange during the rainy season was limited to prevent xylem cavitation. Leaf shedding occurred when early-morning and mid-day L converged at the rainydry season transition, without changes in lignotuber or soil water content, suggesting that leaves of C. vitifolium are closely tuned to atmospheric drought.
20492565|Soils from 18 parrot collpas ('clay licks') in southeastern Peru averaged four times more available sodium than uneaten control soils. Collpa soils contained marginally more clay than control sites and clay content was uncorrelated with available sodium content. Parrots may select and ingest soils based on available sodium content.
30044903|Changes in tree, liana, and understory plant diversity and community composition in five tropical rain forest fragments varying in area (18-2600 ha) and disturbance levels were studied on the Valparai plateau, Western Ghats. Systematic sampling using small quadrats (totaling 4 ha for trees and lianas, 0.16 ha for understory plants) enumerated 312 species in 103 families: 1968 trees (144 species), 2250 lianas (60 species), and 6123 understory plants (108 species). Tree species density, stem density, and basal area were higher in the three larger (> 100 ha) rain forest fragments but were negatively correlated with disturbance scores rather than area.per se. Liana species density, stem density, and basal area were higher in moderately disturbed and lower in heavily disturbed fragments than in the three larger fragments. Understory species density was highest in the highly disturbed 18-ha fragment, due to weedy invasive species occurring with rain forest plants. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling and Mantel tests revealed significant and similar patterns of floristic variation suggesting similar effects of disturbance on community compositional change for the three life-forms. The five fragments encompassed substantial plant diversity in the regional landscape, harbored at least 70 endemic species (3.21% of the endemic flora of the Western Ghats-Sri Lanka biodiversity hotspot), and supported many endemic and threatened animals. The study indicates the significant conservation value of rain forest fragments in the Western Ghats, signals the need to protect them from further disturbances, and provides useful benchmarks for restoration and monitoring efforts.
10.2307/2388256|Hurricane Hugo struck Puerto Rico on 18 September 1989 and radically altered the canopy structure of forests in the Luquillo Mountains. We measured canopy structure before and after the hurricane in hectare-sized plots of "tabonuco forest" (subtropical wet forest) at 350 m elevation, "colorado forest" (lower montane wet forest) at 750 m, and "cloud forest" (lower montane rain forest) at 1000 m. In all three plots the chief effect of the hurricane was to reduce significantly the vegetation cover in upper height intervals. Foliage profiles (showing percent vegetation cover in height intervals above ground) changed significantly, average maximum canopy height decreased (by as much as 50%), and the amount of low canopy area (vegetation $\leq$2 m high) markedly increased (up to 60-fold) in all three plots. In the colorado forest plot the hurricane caused more damage on ridges than in valleys; whereas, the cloud forest plot sustained equal damage on windward and leeward slopes. Overall, the hurricane altered forest structure so much that forest composition and dynamics could be affected for many years. Local variation in hurricane damage can contribute to forest complexity in the Luquillo Mountains.
10.2307/2387860|Thirty-one families of beetles were collected in December 1974 in beach drift near Gerroa, New South Wales, Australia. The taxonomic composition of the beetles in the beach drift was neither entirely representative of, nor proporuonal to, that of the adjacent forest beetle fauna but more closely resembled oceanic island faunas. Comparisons are made with the fauna of the Samoan and Hawaiian Islands. Inferences are made on the usefulness of beach-drift studies as a method that can assist in determining long-distance chance dispersal.
10.2307/2387791|Observations on the diet and field behavior of the iguanid lizard Corytophanes cristatus were made in Costa Rica and Panama. Stomach-content analyses show that this lizard is a specialist, feeding on extremely large arthropods. The average prey item is sufficiently large to provide more than the daily caloric requirement of a Corytophanes. The normal foraging behavior of C. cristatus appears to consist of brief and infrequent bouts of prey capture (bipedal dashes on the forest floor were observed) alternating with long periods of immobility. By eating arthropods which are large relative to its body size, C. cristatus minimizes conspicuous feeding activities and the associated risk of attracting the attention of predators. Such behavior is adaptive in tropical rainforests where lizards are under heavy predation pressure.
30043173|One application of ecological niche modeling is predicting suitable areas for the establishment of invasive species. Herein, I model the fundamental niche of the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, a pathogen linked to amphibian declines on several continents. Niche models were generated with the Genetic Algorithm of Rule-Set Prediction using point distribution data of the pathogen and digital maps of environmental variables integrated in a GIS environment. The distribution of regions suitable for B. dendrobatidis in the New World is extensive and includes significant portions of: (1) Sierra Madre Occidental pine-oak forest; (2) Sonoran and Sinaloan dry forest; (3) Veracruz moist forest; (4) Central America east from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; (5) Caribbean Islands; (6) temperate forest in Chile and western Argentina south of latitude 30 S; (7) Andes above 1000 m of altitude in Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador; (8) eastern slopes of the Andes in Peru and Bolivia; (9) Brazilian Atlantic forest; (10) Uruguay, Paraguay, and northeastern Argentina; (11) southwestern and Madeira-Tapajs Amazonian tropical rainforests. The regions with the highest suitability for B. dendrobatidis include habitats that contain the world s most diverse amphibian faunas. Models were built with New World localities, but also showed strong predictability for B. dendrobatidis localities in the Old World. Out of a total of 59 reported Old World localities for B. dendrobatidis; 56 occurred within regions with high predicted suitability. I also present analyses of the environmental envelope of B. dendrobatidis and discuss the implications of the results for the conservation of amphibians in the neotropics. /// Una de las aplicaciones de los modelos de nicho ecolgico es la prediccin de reas idneas para el establecimiento de especies invasivas. En el presente trabajo modelo el nicho fundamental del hongo qutrido Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, un patgeno que ha sido relacionado con disminuciones poblacionales de anfibios en varios continentes. Los modelos de nicho fueron generados con el Algoritmo Gentico de Conjuntos de Reglas de Prediccin, basado en datos de distribucin puntual del patgeno y variables ambientales obtenidas de mapas digitales integrados por medio de sistemas de informacin geogrfica. La distribucin de regiones idneas para el qutrido en el Nuevo Mundo es amplia e incluye: (1) bosque de pino y roble en la Sierra Madre Occidental; (2) bosque seco de Sonora y Sinaloa; (3) bosque hmedo de Veracruz; (4) Amrica Central al este del Isthmus of Tehuantepec; (5) Islas del Caribe; (6) bosques temperados en Chile y el occidente de Argentina, al sur de 30S; (7) Andes sobre 1000 m de altitud en Venezuela, Colombia, y Ecuador; (8) estribaciones orientales de los Andes en Per y Bolivia; (9) bosque atlntico del Brasil; (10) Uruguay, Paraguay, y nororiente de Argentina; (11) bosques lluviosos tropicales de la Amazonia sur occidental y Madeira-Tapajs. Las regiones con las probabilidades ms altas de presencia del nicho del qutrido incluyen los hbitats que tienen las faunas de anfibios ms diversas del mundo. Los modelos fueron construidos en base a localidades del Nuevo Mundo solamente. Sin embargo, mostraron una alta predictividad de presencia del qutrido en el Viejo Mundo. De las 59 localidades de presencia conocida del patgeno en frica, Australia, Europa, y Nueva Zelanda, 56 fueron incluidas en regiones de alta probabilidad de presencia del qutrido. Adems de los mapas de distribucin, presento anlisis de la envoltura ambiental del qutrido y discuto las implicaciones de los resultados para la conservacin de los anfibios del Neotrpico.
10.2307/2389112|The distribution of arboreal-foraging ants on cocoa trees was investigated at the Centre for Cocoa Research in Bahia, Brazil. The interactions between ant species were quantified using data on the presence or absence of ant species on 1100 cocoa trees. The distribution of ants was also mapped in four 30 x 40 m plots of cocoa, and the species richness and biomass of ants was assessed by chemical knockdowns from within the territories of five of the dominant ant species. Ninety-one species of ant were encountered, of which seven reached dominant status. A quantitative evaluation of the number of positive and negative associations between each ant species confirmed the status of most of these dominants and also indicated that a further 10 species may have sub-dominant status. The dominants were distributed in a mosaic-like fashion and, except in an old, non-pesticide-treated cocoa plot, gaps in the mosaic were few. Some of the dominant ants influenced the number of associated ant species, the length of those ant species with which they were able to co-exist, and also the species composition of ants within their territory.
27742834|The number of host species utilized by Australian mistletoe species increase with their geographic range sizes. Rather than resulting from deterministic processes, we demonstrate that this pattern results from wider-ranging species being sampled more efficiently, and we discuss how sampling effects might be addressed in future analyses of mistletoe biogeography.
10.2307/2388910|Observations on the ecology of Xenosaurus grandis near Cuautlapan, Veracruz revealed that this rarely studied lizard is locally abundant in crevices of boulders in perennial tropical forest. Individuals are solitary and highly aggressive when placed together. A diurnally active thermal conformer, body temperatures (average = 22.7
27742800|Tropical stream ecosystems in montane forest watersheds are important centers of endemism and diversity and provide essential ecosystem services. These habitats are subject to a variety of stressors, including the conversion of adjacent terrestrial habitats from forest to agriculture, but the impacts of these anthropogenic effects are largely unknown because of the paucity of studies in these systems. In montane habitats in the wet tropics, large-scale cultivation of tea is common and can represent an important source of income at local and national scales. However, little is known about how tea cultivation impacts adjacent stream ecosystems. In this study, we examine stream macroinvertebrate assemblages in a biodiversity hotspot the East Usambara Mountains, Tanzania. Specifically, we compare diversity of macroinvertebrate assemblages found on cobbles in stream riffles in watersheds dominated by forest with those surrounded by tea cultivation. We found that streams surrounded by tea were characterized by significantly lower dissolved oxygen and had lower total estimated species richness and number of families. Furthermore, the richness of invertebrate taxa known to be sensitive to anthropogenic disturbance were substantially reduced in tea streams and general assemblage-level analysis shows significant differences in the composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages between tea and forested streams. Our results suggest that tea cultivation may reduce stream habitat quality and biodiversity in the East Usambaras. Further research is needed to evaluate the effects of tea cultivation on streams over longer times scales and to address methods for minimizing negative effects of agriculture on montane stream communities.
30044946|Throughout the tropics, mammalian seed dispersers are being driven to local extinction by intense hunting pressure, generating concern not only about the loss of these species, but also about the consequences for the plants they disperse. We compared two rain forest sites in Cameroon-one with heavy hunting pressure and one protected from hunting-to appraise the loss of mammalian seed dispersers and to assess the impact of this loss on seed removal and seed dispersal of Antrocaryon klaineanum (Anacardiaceae), a mammal-dispersed tree. Surveys of arboreal frugivores indicate that three of the five monkey species, as well as chimpanzee and gorilla, have been extirpated from the hunted forest. Diaspore counts underneath A. klaineanum adults (six trees per site) indicate that seed removal is severely reduced in the hunted forest. Finally, genetic maternity exclusion analysis (using 3-7 nuclear microsatellite loci) of maternally inherited endocarp tissue from diaspores collected under the canopies of 12 fruiting "mother" trees (six trees per site) revealed that seed dispersal in the hunted forest is also greatly reduced. In the hunted forest with reduced mammal dispersal agents, only 1 of the 53 assayed endocarps (2%) did not match the mother and was determined to be from a dispersed diaspore. By contrast, in the protected forest, 20 of the 48 assayed endocarps (42%) were from dispersed diaspores. This study provides strong evidence that loss of dispersal agents can lead to reduced seed removal and loss of seed dispersal, disrupting the seed dispersal cycle.
20492468|We studied foundress number and its effect on seed production in a dioecious fig Ficus fistulosa in Sarawak, Malaysia. The effects of flowering time and the two-way interaction of flowering time and tree location on foundress number were statistically significant. A multiple regression indicated seed production increased significantly with the number of foundresses. Our results indicate that phenology and local ecological factors generate a large variance in foundress number, which in turn affects the reproductive success of F. fistulosa.
10.2307/2388054|Non-flying mammals were surveyed by trapping and transect census at seven localities in Peru, Ecuador, and Brazil. Relative numbers of individuals of smaller species varied dramatically from site to site while those of large species tended to be quite constant. The observed pattern of variation in numbers of individuals is mirrored by species richness differences between western Amazonia and the Guiana Shield region of Brazil, suggesting that similar environmental factors may regulate both the numbers of individuals and species in a locality. Soil fertility and undergrowth density are positively correlated with the density and species richness of mammals in a locality, but quantity or pattern of rainfall does not seem to account for any of the observed differences. Competition, home range size and diet are discussed as possible causes of the differential reduction in density and species richness of small, compared to large species in unfavorable habitats. Hunting has extirpated or severely reduced populations of large mammals, especially primates, at five of the seven localities surveyed.
10.2307/2388706|Hawkmoths (Sphingidae) constitute a major class of pollinators in the lowland dry forest of Costa Rica. In our study area, hawkmoths are the primary pollinators of about 10 percent of the tree species; they also pollinate various species of shrubs, herbs, lianas, and epiphytes. We found a total of 65 hawkmoth species and 31 native plant species that were adapted primarily for hawkmoth pollination. Abundance of both hawkmoths and hawkmoth flowers peaked in the first half of the wet season (May-July). Numbers of hawkmoths decreased through the dry season (December to April) with lowest numbers during April. Species of hawkmoth flowers also decreased through the dry season, but several species began flowering before the onset of the wet season and before the sudden increase in hawkmoth numbers that followed shortly after the first rains. Tube lengths of hawkmoth flowers ranged from 0 to 19 cm ($\bar{x}$ = 5.1 cm), matched by the range in length of hawkmoth tongues (1-20 cm, $\bar{x}$ = 4.9 cm). Hawkmoth tongue lengths were correlated with body size (wing length) (r = .70). Long flower tubes restricted access to nectar to long-tongued moths. However, long-tongued moths did not restrict their visits to long-tubed flowers. In fact, hawkmoths visited many species of flowers adapted for other pollinator types-e.g., hummingbirds, bees, and bats-along with hawkmoth flowers whose tubes were much shorter than their tongue lengths. The attractiveness of hawkmoth flower species varied greatly: some flowers were always heavily visited, other species were virtually ignored. In less attractive flowers, nectar accumulated during the night and attracted a variety of diurnal visitors the following morning. Similarly, hawkmoth flowers that opened before dark attracted diurnal and crepuscular visitors (bees, wasps, hummingbirds, butterflies) that robbed nectar and pollen, possibly decreasing flower attractiveness to hawkmoths.
40863754|Early forest gap regeneration may be generated by postdisturbance seed rain and by seed, seedling or bud banks (i.e., resprouting). The relative importance of each process may depend on several factors (e.g., fruit/seed production, abundance and behavior of seed dispersers, gap characteristics, etc.). We experimentally compared the importance of seed-bank and seed-rain affecting early recruitment of seedlings in an Amazonian forest (Zafire Biological Station, Colombia), using soil transplants from forests to gaps and seed rain enclosures. We found that, during the 8-mo study, the seed-bank contributed with a larger number of individuals and species than seed-rain. The low seedling recruitment rates may be associated with reduced populations of animal seed-dispersers due to hunting and/or low levels of forest fruit production.
30043172|A generalized decline of amphibian populations is occurring worldwide. The causes for such a decline are not completely understood; however, climate change has been identified as a possible cause for amphibian extinction, among others. Ecological niche modeling has proven to be a useful tool to predict potential distribution of species in the context of climatic changes. In this paper, we used the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) to model the potential distributions of two species of plethodontid salamanders: Pseudoeurycea cephalica and P. leprosa. We projected their potential distributions under climatic scenarios expected in 50 yr based on a conservative scenario of global climate change and assuming a moderate dispersal ability for both species. Our analyses suggest that climate change effects may pose an additional long-term risk to both species of plethodontid salamanders, with a more dramatic scenario in the case of P. leprosa. By the year 2050, this species may lose almost 75 percent of its distributional area, and this projection is even worse when deforestation (in the way it is occurring at present) is considered within the predicted model. Our results concur with those obtained for species with limited dispersal capability because they do not track changing climates, but rather face a loss of distributional area. The survival of these species is not secure, even though their potential distributional area falls within a considerable number of natural protected areas. /// El declive de las poblaciones de anfibios a nivel mundial es un hecho bien documentado. Diversos factores se han identificado como las causas del declive, y entre ellos, el cambio climtico se ha sealado como un factor importante en la extincin de poblaciones de anfibios. El modelado de nicho ecolgico ha demostrado ser una herramienta til para predecir la distribucin potencial de las especies en el contexto del cambio climtico global. En el presente trabajo utilizamos el algoritmo GARP (Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction) para modelar la distribucin de dos especies de salamandras pletodntidas: Pseudoerycea cephalica and P. leprosa; asimismo, proyectamos su distribucin potencial bajo escenarios de cambio climtico esperados que ocurran en 50 aos, basndonos en un escenario de cambio global conservativo y asumiendo una capacidad de dispersin moderada para ambas especies de salamandras. Nuestros anlisis sugieren que el cambio climtico puede representar un riesgo adicional para ambas especies, siendo el escenario an ms dramtico para el caso de P. leprosa. Para el ao 2050, podramos esperar que esta especie perdiera alrededor del 75 por ciento de su rea de distribucin y si consideramos la deforestacin (tal como ocurre en el presente), la proyeccin sera an ms desoladora. Nuestros resultados concuerdan con aquellos obtenidos en especies con una capacidad de dispersin limitada dado que stas no responden a los cambios climticos desplazndose a zonas ms favorables, sino que enfrentan una prdida de su rea de distribucin. La supervivencia de estas especies de salamandra est en riesgo, sin embargo el rea de distribucin potencial est comprendida dentro de un nmero considerable de reas Naturales Protegidas.
20492476|The southernmost extension of tropical Andean-Amazonian forests protrudes into the arid to semiarid habitats in northwestern Argentina. We analyzed the decline of species richness of forest mammals along these Yungas forests. In particular, we tested whether species decline is due to a general latitudinal effect and whether the drop of species from the assemblages was independent from species' traits and environmental variables. For these tests, we estimated the geographic range edges of 39 species of forest mammal and estimated the species richness with bands of 30'. First, we compared the slope of the decline of species richness from north to south (5.8 species/degree) with the decline expected from the latitudinal species gradient (1-3 species/degree). The decline in species richness of forest mammals along the Yungas was significantly steeper than expected. Second, with a null model assuming a random drop of mammal species we derived confidence limits for the expected species richness and number of range edges within the bands. None of the forest mammals reached the tip of the forest, in marked contrast to nonforest mammals. More range edges than expected from the null model fell within the bands 2330-2400 S and a band near the tip of the Yungas indicating a nonrandom drop of species. The correlation between vulnerability traits and range edges suggests that processes associated with the availability of resources influence the drop of species. We propose that a suite of macroecological attributes interacting with a decrease in habitat quality determines the pattern of species richness in the Yungas forest.
10.2307/2388665|Nonvascular epiphytes within the canopy of tropical montane rain forest in Guadeloupe (French West Indies) are exposed to episodes of severe desiccation on more than 30 percent of all days each year. This exposure to wetting/drying cycles induces the accumulation of more than 950 kg ha$^{-1}$ of sugars and polyols by epiphytic bryophytes within the cloud forest canopy. These sugars are then released in pulse form during rewetting episodes and subsequently translocated by throughflow precipitation within the canopy. Sugars and polyols were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography and one- and two-dimensional proton and carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy Total sugar and polyol reserves equivalent to 17 percent of the dry weight were seen for the upper canopy liverwort Frullania atrata (Sw.) Nees. In contrast, standing reserves of the lower canopy moss Phyllogonium fulgens (Hedw.) Brid. were less than 6 percent of the dry weight. Exposure to simulated wetting/drying cycles resulted in the substantial loss of sugars. Among sugars and polyols detected in throughflow solution were fructose and mannitol, as well as glucose, erythritol, glycerol and sucrose. Mean release of sugars and polyols during rewetting episodes was greatest for lower canopy bryophyte mats, at 0.9 g m$^{-2}$, compared to 0.3 g m$^{-2}$ in the upper canopy. These release patterns were verified under field conditions, where net annual release of sugars from bryophytes epiphytic within the upper canopy was estimated at 122 kg ha$^{-1}$ These release episodes are postulated to have significant impact on nutrient cycling in the tropical montane rain forest environment, particularly for processes of microbial decomposition and asymbiotic nitrogen fixation, which are readily influenced by supply of exogenous sugars.
4132900|The role of bats and sunbirds in the pollination ecology of Musa itinerans Cheesman (Musaceae) was studied in the tropical seasonal rain forests of Xishuangbanna, southern Yunnan, China. It was found that both long-tongued fruit bats (Macroglossus sobrinus) and sunbirds (Arachnothera longirostris) were effective pollinators of M. itinerans. Nectar production had two peaks, one during the day and one during night (0800-1200 h and 2000-2400 h), which allowed the two different foragers to visit at specific times. The visitation patterns of the two foragers coincided with both flowering time and nectar production. By measuring the differences in fruit weight and seed production among different bagging experiments, we found that birds and bats were equally effective as pollinators of this species.
2389219|Ecological aspects of the mongoose (Herpestes javanicus) were studied in the Luquillo Mountains, a rain forest region in eastern Puerto Rico. Information was obtained by removal trapping of mongoose from grids placed in tree plantations, colorado and tabonuco forests. Trapping efficiency was two mongoose per 100 trap-days, suggesting mongoose abundance is low in wet montane forests of Puerto Rico. Sex ratio was biased (2.6:1) in favor of males. Body masses of male mongoose inhabiting rain forests of the Luquillo Mountains were larger than those in dry forests at Guanica (P < 0.0001). Stomach contents from 18 mongoose were examined, animal matter comprised 75 percent of the total food items encountered. Of these, 33 percent were from vertebrates. The food items most frequently encountered were lizards (Anolis spp.), centipedes (Scolopendra spp.), and cockroaches (Blatellidae).
2663908|We sampled litter frogs in an 1800-ha mid-elevation seasonal forest in southeastern Brazil. One hundred 8 x 8-m plots were sampled during the dry/cold season and wet/warm season (unburned areas); we also examined the effects of fire in recently burned areas. A total of 267 frogs (305 g), belonging to 16 species (4 families) were caught. A single species comprised 78.5 percent of the individuals in the dry/cold season and 54.3 percent in the wet/warm season. The density of individuals did not change significantly with season, biomass did. Density and biomass of frogs were positively correlated with altitude. A Mantel test indicated that biological data (species and their abundance) were significantly associated with environmental parameters. The burned areas showed low values in richness, density and biomass of frogs. Harsh seasonal climate and a history of human disturbance may produce the low observed diversity values. The greater densities of frogs in sites of higher elevation may primarily result from mist-generated humidity, which diminishes the harshness of the dry/cold season in relation to lower sites.
30043072|We used null model analyses to investigate the existence of structure in lizard assemblages from open vegetation enclaves in Rondnia, southwestern Amazonia, in relation to species richness, species co-occurrence, diet, and size overlap. These enclaves presumably have been isolated since the Holocene, providing a history of long-term isolation. We assumed that the presence of structure in lizard assemblages from the Rondnia enclaves is consistent with the notion that extinctions are a deterministic process, some species being more prone to extinction than others. We grouped enclaves into four categories: latosoil cerrado, sandy cerrado, transitional forest, and rocky field. We collected 14 Cerrado lizard species, consisting of five families in all sampled areas. Analyses of species richness, co-occurrence, diet overlap, and size overlap patterns suggested lack of organization in the assemblages. The assemblages from the rocky fields of Guajar-Mirim and the sandy cerrados in Vilhena were significantly structured in diet overlap, whereas the remaining assemblages lacked structure. This probably resulted from phylogenetic inertia and not from ecological interactions. Our results suggest that extinctions proceeded in a stochastic fashion and that historical factors had a dominant role in shaping lizard assemblages in detriment of present-day ecological factors. In addition, we identified endemic species in the enclaves as well as a tight association between unique ecogeographic features of the landscape and species occurrences. We propose that conservation measures in the region must adequately preserve these features to ensure the survival of the species. /// Ns utilizamos anlises de modelos nulos para investigar a existncia de estrutura em taxocenoses de lagartos de enclaves de vegetao aberta em Rondnia, sudoeste da Amaznia, em relao  riqueza de espcies, co-ocorrncia de espcies, dieta e sobreposio de tamanho corporal. Esses enclaves presumivelmente esto isolados desde o Holoceno, proporcionando uma histria de prolongado isolamento. Ns assumimos que a presena de estrutura nas taxocenoses de lagartos dos enclaves de Rondnia  consistente com a noo de que extines so um processo determinstico, algumas espcies sendo mais sujeitas  extino do que outras. Ns agrupamos os enclaves em quatro categorias: cerrado sobre latossolo, cerrado sobre solo arenoso, floresta de transio e campo rupestre. Ns coletamos 14 espcies de lagartos do Cerrado, consistindo de cinco famlias em todas as reas amostradas. As anlises dos padres de riqueza de espcies, co-ocorrncia, sobreposio de dieta e sobreposio de tamanho do corpo sugeriram ausncia de organizao nas taxocenoses. As taxocenoses nos campos rupestres de GuajarMirim e cerrados arenosos de Vilhena foram significativamente estruturadas na sobreposio da dieta, enquanto que as taxocenoses restantes no foram estruturadas. Isso provavelmente resultou de inrcia filogentica e no de interaes ecolgicas. Nossos resultados sugerem que as extines ocorreram de maneira estocstica e que fatores histricos tiveram um papel dominante na formao das taxocenoses de lagartos, em detrimento de fatores ecolgicos atuais. Ainda, ns identificamos espcies endmicas nos enclaves, assim como uma forte associao entre feies ecogeogrficas nicas da paisagem e a ocorrncia de espcies. Ns propomos que medidas de conservao na regio devem preservar adequadamesas feies, para assegurar a sobrevivncia das espcies.
30045504|From January 2000 through December 2002, focal plant censuses were carried out to assess monthly leaf, flower, and ripe fruit presence for 423 individual plants (96 plant species, 39 families) within the littoral forest of Sainte Luce, Madagascar. Fruit-on-trail counts were conducted additionally in 2000 to allow comparison between both phenological methods. Despite low climatic seasonality and the absence of a dry season in the littoral forest, interannual phenological patterns were seasonal. Within year variability was present with clear periods of abundance and scarcity. All phenophases were highly intercorrelated and peaked from November through February. This was found in other humid Malagasy forests as well, while in dry Malagasy forests phenophases were separated in time perhaps due to the more seasonal climate. Temperature and day length seemed to influence all phenophases, the latter showing the strongest effect, while rainfall was only weekly associated with flushing and flowering. Differences in the presence of ripe fruits when comparing between sampling methods can be explained by the differential contribution of several life forms. /// La prsence de jeunes feuilles, de fleurs et de fruits (mrs) ont t dtermines pour 423 plantes individuelles (96 espces, 39 familles) le long de transects phnologiques entre janvier 2000 et dcembre 2002 en fort littorale de Sainte Luce. Par ailleurs des relevs au sol ont t effectus pendant l'anne 2000 pour permettre la comparaison entre les deux mthodologies. Malgr la faible distinction des saisons et l'absence d'une vraie saison sche au niveau de la fort littorale, les tendances phnologiques inter-annuelles taient plutt saisonnires. Une variabilit intra-annuelle tait prsente avec des priodes d'abondance et de pnurie. Toutes les phnophases taient inter-corrles et arrivaient  un maximum dans la priode de novembre  fvrier. Ces tendances ont dj t observes dans d'autres forts humides malgaches, alors que dans les forts sches malgaches les diffrentes phnophases sont plutt espaces dans le temps et ce peut-tre  cause d'un climat plus saisonnier. La temprature et en particulier la dure du jour semblent influencer toutes les phnophases, alors que les prcipitations sont seulement associes avec la feuillaison et la floraison. Quand on compare les deux mthodologies, la diffrence de prsence de fruits mrs peut tre explique par la contribution diffrente des divers modes de vie.
2663881|Figs are a critical resource for many tropical frugivores, yet they often are referred to as low quality fruits. To determine their nutritional value, both as a group and for individual species, we analyzed 14 fig species from Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama, for fiber, tannins, lipids, protein, carbohydrates, amino acids, and minerals. Seeds and pulp were analyzed separately. Fig fruit pulp consisted of about one-third digestible components, mostly carbohydrates with some lipids and proteins. Tannin, lignin, and water-soluble carbohydrates showed considerable variation among species, as did fruit size. Figs contained high amounts of amino acids, such as leucine, lysine, valine, and arginine, and minerals, such as potassium, calcium, magnesium, sodium, and phosphorus. One species, Ficus insipida, contained the highest concentrations of almost all amino acids, many minerals, and protein. Small figs had as much nutritional value per gram as large figs. Free-standing figs had higher percentages of protein, complex carbohydrates, and ash than strangler figs, which had higher percentages of water-soluble carbohydrates, tannins, and hemicellulose. The guild of fruit-eating bats on BCI included ten common species with diets dominated by figs. Fecal analyses and captures at ripe fig trees showed a consistent pattern of resource partitioning. Small bats preferentially ate small-fruited and strangler figs while large bats consumed mostly large-fruited and free-standing figs. Small bats most often ate F. bullenei, which has high levels of lipid and carbohydrates, and F. yoponensis, which has high levels of protein. Medium and large bats most often ate F. insipida, a nutritionally superior species; their second most eaten species was F. obtusifolia, in which the large size may make it efficient to eat. Each bat ate a variety of fig species, supporting the idea that although no single species of fig may be sufficient to sustain frugivores, a mix of fig species can provide a complete set of nutrients.
30045371|We documented bark consumption by painted ringtails (Pseudochirulus forbesi) and other arboreal marsupials at Mt. Stolle, Papua New Guinea. Evidence consisted of scratch marks on the boles of trees in conjunction with the removal of all moss and direct sightings of animals eating bark. Only 43 trees 10 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) of 19 species showed signs of consumption at the study site; five of these species were confirmed by direct sighting to be consumed by painted ringtails. We sought to determine if bark of these trees contained important dietary minerals. Analyses showed that calcium and potassium, individually and combined, were significantly more abundant in eaten versus uneaten trees of the same species. On average, eaten trees showed 4.7 and 2.2 times the amount of these minerals, respectively, as found in uneaten trees. Adult males were more likely than adult females or juvenile males to be captured at eaten trees than away from them. Two species of Syzygium and one species of Sloanea were highly selected for bark consumption, but not all trees of a species were eaten; rather, particular individuals of these species were preferred. We conclude that bark appears to be an important source of calcium and potassium, and speculate on the relationship between the limited availability of these special trees and the social behavior of painted ringtails.
3593165|Variation in post-dispersal seed predation between mature forest and fallow swidden agriculture sites (young forest) was examined for 26 tree and liana species in Peruvian lowland tropical forest. Exclosures were also used to determine the relative importance of vertebrate and invertebrate seed predators. Although species differed significantly in levels of predation, predation of seeds exposed to vertebrates was high (>75%) for all species, while seed predation by invertebrates was lower and more variable. Seed and seedling predation by insects was significantly higher in mature forest, while seed predation by rodents was higher in fallow areas. Other sources of mortality (primarily desiccation) were higher for seeds in fallow areas. The percentage of seeds moved was significantly different among species but not between forests.
30045443|In managed landscapes, tree-dominated habitats often show promise for biodiversity conservation. In Bangladesh where natural forest cover is less than 10 percent, homegardens, which are maintained by at least 20 millions households, represent one possible strategy for biodiversity conservation. This study investigated the floristic and structural diversity of 402 homegardens from six regions across southwestern Bangladesh. All plants were censused, totaling 419 species (59% native), including six IUCN Red Listed. The median homegarden (800 m2) contained a mean of 34 species. Each region contained a mean of 293 species in a mean of 67 homegardens. A total of 49,478 individuals (107 per homegarden and 1003 per hectare) of trees and shrubs were counted from 45.2 ha total sampled area. Thus, significant botanical richness was exhibited in the homegardens across southwestern Bangladesh. However, most species were rare: 82 percent of all species including 189 native were found in 50 or fewer homegardens, and 63 species (36 native) were found in only one or two homegardens. Sixty percent of all tree and shrub species had 50 or fewer individuals each. Thus, whereas richness across the landscape was high, serious effort must be made to increase the populations of most species. We propose three main conservation activities: (1) awareness building; (2) protection of existing individuals of rare species; and (3) propagation. Overlaying all of these activities is the inclusion of local communities in the process, who were the ones to retain these species in homegardens in the first place, and the stakeholders who will determine whether homegardens indeed act as long-term repositories to biodiversity conservation.
10.2307/2388651|We examined nest site selection of the zenaida dove (Zenaida aurita) on two islands on the Culebra National Wildlife Refuge, Puerto Rico, to determine the adaptations of the doves for nesting within seabird colonies. Whereas bridled (Sterna anaethetus) and roseate (Stena dougallii) terns used particular parts of islands, zenaida doves nested in all available habitats. Nonetheless, most dove nests were within the parts of the islands where terns nested. On both islands, doves nested on flatter places near taller rocks, on less visible places farther from clearings, and closer to tern nests than were the random points. On Cayo del Agua doves nested mainly in rock crevices, whereas on Cayo Raton they nested mainly on the ground under vegetation. The doves nested closer to the terns than expected, suggesting that they derive antipredator advantages from nesting near the terns.
10.2307/2388140|Recent workers have considered Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms to be distylous since the short-styled form had not been reliably recorded. This "missing" form was recently found in the Lower Amazon, and the species should now be considered tristylous. Populations of E. crassipes in the native and adventive range are characterized by the predominance of a single style form, a condition atypical for heterostylous species. In most of the adventive range of E. crassipes the midstyled form predominates, with long-styled forms occurring less frequently. The short-styled form is apparently restricted to tropical South America. Associated with floral trimorphism in E. crassipes is a weak pollen trimorphism. The three floral forms of E. crassipes are highly self-compatible. Within style forms there is little difference in seed production between self and legitimate pollinations. During a study of populations in the Lower Amazon, the major insect visitor to flowers of E. crassipes was the bee Ancyloscelis gigas. Of 1208 flowers sampled from four monomorphic populations, 67.5 percent produced seed. In the majority of populations of E. crassipes tristyly does not function as an outcrossing mechanism due to population structure.
10.2307/2388220|Patterns in the growth of palms support the hypothesis that stilt roots enable arboreal palms to produce an axis early in their development. The height of stilt roots is positively related to axis diameter for Socratea durissima and Iriartea gigantea. Both species achieve greater heights per unit diameter earlier in development than the non-stilt root species Welfia georgii; however, at maturity all three palms exhibit similar relationships of height and diameter. Stilt root production and axis elongation are more rapid for S. durissima than for I. gigantea. Among immature palms, W. georgii has a greater percent of biomass underground than the stilt root species. Comparing the stilt root species, S. durissima produces a lower percent of leaves but a higher percent of stilt roots than I. gigantea.
10.2307/2388854|Natural disturbances can have large effects on ecosystem structure and function depending on their scale, intensity, and frequency. On 18 September 1989 Hurricane Hugo struck Puerto Rico, with the eye of the hurricane passing within 10 km of the Luquillo Experimental Forest. This provided a rare opportunity to evaluate the effects of an infrequent but large scale and high intensity disturbance on tropical bat species. Data on demographic parameters of three common phyllostomid bats (Artibeus jamaicensis. Stenoderma rufum, and Monophyllus redmani) were examined for three years prior and three years after the hurricane. Population levels as estimated by captures per net hour of all three species were affected by Hurricane Hugo. Populations of A. jamaicensis and M. redmani returned to predisturbance levels within two years. In contrast, population levels of S. rufum declined to about 30 percent of prehurricane levels and have not recovered after three years. Moreover, telemetry data indicate that foraging and home range size expanded to encompass an area approximately five times larger than its prehurricane size. The cost of foraging, in terms of time and energy, may be considerably elevated over prehurricane scenarios. In fact, a significant change in the age structure of the population (juvenile individuals have been absent from the population since Hurricane Hugo) as well as significant decline in the percent of reproductively active females indicate a failure to reproduce in the posthurricane environment.
2389169|The light environment within forests presents complex patterns of brightness and spectral distribution of light. The polarized light field is no less complex. Using an imaging polarized light analyzer, we examined the natural fields of linearly polarized light in the tropical rain forest of Guatopo National Park, Venezuela. We found that the celestial polarization pattern remains visible underneath the forest canopy, although cloud and fog coverage may diffuse the light and reduce the polarization signal. We characterized several distinct light environments, each having a characteristic polarized light field. Furthermore, objects throughout the forest reflect light that is polarized in a predictable fashion depending upon the material, structure, and orientation of the reflecting surface. As a consequence of these patterns in the distribution of polarized light, some functions of polarization vision, such as navigation, must be limited to the spaces exposed to several extended portions of the sky, while others, such as remote sensing of surface orientation, object detection, and breaking of camouflage would be useful throughout the forest. The polarization of light adds another dimension to the complexity of the rain forest photic environment.
27742845|In Neotropical regions, fruit bats are among the most important components of the remaining fauna in disturbed landscapes. These relatively small-bodied bats are well-known dispersal agents for many small-seeded plant species, but are assumed to play a negligible role in the dispersal of large-seeded plants. We investigated the importance of the small tent-roosting bat Artibeus watsoni for dispersal of large seeds in the Sarapiqu Basin, Costa Rica. We registered at least 43 seed species &gt; 8 mm beneath bat roosts, but a species a accumulation curve suggests that this number would increase with further sampling. Samples collected beneath bat feeding roosts had, on average, 10 times more seeds and species than samples collected 5 m away from bat feeding roosts. This difference was generally smaller in small, disturbed forest patches. Species-specific abundance of seeds found beneath bat roosts was positively correlated with abundance of seedlings, suggesting that bat dispersal may influence seedling recruitment. Our study demonstrates a greater role of small frugivorous bats as dispersers of large seeds than previously thought, particularly in regions where populations of large-bodied seed dispersers have been reduced or extirpated by hunting.
40645591|This study examined the importance of habitat heterogeneity on the avian community composition, and investigated the scale at which species abundances respond to habitat variables. The study was conducted within a diverse landscape matrix of a shaded coffee region in Mexico. To detect at which characteristic spatial scale different species and foraging guilds respond most strongly we analyzed the effect of plot-, patch-and landscape-level variables at different spatial extent (i. e., different kilometer radii) on species composition and foraging guilds. We used redundancy analysis to identify species-environment correlations, and to identify predictor variables that best explained the bird community structure, quantified the influence of plot-, patch-and landscape-level variables on the bird community composition. In addition, we used the 4th-corner method to detect significant relationships between the dietary guilds and plot-, patch-and landscape-level variables. We recorded 12,335 individuals of 181 bird species; 105 bird species were recorded foraging within the shaded coffee plantations. We found that plot-and landscape-level variables significantly explained the bird community composition best across all scales, and were significantly correlated with the abundance of the dietary guilds. In contrast, patch-level variables were less important. Habitat composition variables (i. e., coffee, forest and agricultural area) were among the most important predictors. Canopy structure was more important than other vegetation structure variables in explaining dietary guild structure. Hence, the maintenance of a heterogeneous landscape with a high-quality matrix within an agro-ecological region enhances bird conservation.
2663945|Harengula jaguana is a dominant species in the southern Gulf of Mexico. It is a demersal, estuarine-dependent species, distributed throughout the Campeche Sound area (12-54 m). It is found in areas influenced by coastal discharges. The size at first maturity of females is 117 mm total length. Reproduction occurs from February to October in depths 18-36 m. The juveniles are found on the shelf (<20 m) and inside the Terminos Lagoon. Recruitment is in two distinct periods, March-June and August-November, when adults and juveniles migrate to the outer shelf. Greatest abundance is observed in depths of 12-36 m. The biology and ecology of H. jaguana was analyzed in the Campeche Sound to better understand the structure and function of the demersal fish communities. It is a very important species in the trophic dynamics of the ecosystem because it transports matter and energy. A model of the biological pattern for this species in the area is proposed.
10.2307/2663968|Primary seed dispersal by two species of monkeys and the effects of rodents and dung beetles on the fate of dispersed seeds are described for a rain forest in southeastern Peru. During the six-month study period (June-November 1992) spider monkeys (Ateles paniscus) dispersed the seeds of 71 plant species, whereas howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) dispersed seeds of 14 species. Spider and howler monkeys also differed greatly in their ranging behavior and defecation patterns, and as a consequence, produced different seed rain patterns. Monkey defecations were visited by 27 species of dung beetles (Scarabaeidae). Dung beetles buried 41 percent of the seeds in the dung, but the number of seeds buried varied greatly, according to seed size. Removal rates of unburied seeds by rodents varied between 63-97 percent after 30 d for 8 plant species. The presence of fecal material increased the percentage of seeds removed by seed predators, but this effect became insignificant with time. Although seed predators found some seeds buried in dung balls (mimicking burial by dung beetles), depth of burial significantly affected the fate of these seeds. Less than 35 percent of Brosimum lactescens seeds buried inside dung balls at a depth of 1 cm remained undiscovered by rodents, whereas at least 75 percent of the seeds escaped rodent detection at a depth of 3 cm and 96 percent escaped at 5 cm. Both dung beetles and rodents greatly affected the fate of seeds dispersed by monkeys. It is thus important to consider postdispersal factors affecting the fate of seeds when assessing the effectiveness of frugivores as seed dispersers.
41057995|Understory herbs are an essential part of tropical rain forests, but little is known about factors limiting their reproduction. Many of these herbs are clonal, patchily distributed, and produce large floral displays of nectar-rich 1-d flowers to attract hummingbird pollinators that may transport pollen over long distances. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of clonality, cross-proximity, and patchy distribution on the reproduction of the hummingbird-pollinated Amazonian herb Heliconia metallica. We experimentally pollinated flowers within populations with self-pollen and with pollen of different diversity, crossed flowers between populations, and added supplemental pollen to ramets growing solitarily or in conspecific patches. Only flowers pollinated early in the morning produced seeds. Selfed flowers produced seeds, but seed number and mass were strongly reduced, suggesting partial sterility and inbreeding depression after selfing. Because of pollen competition, flowers produced more seeds after crosses with several than with single donor plants. Crosses between populations mostly resulted in lower seed production than those within populations, suggesting outbreeding depression. Ramets in patches produced fewer seeds than solitary ramets and were more pollen-limited, possibly due to geitonogamy and biparental inbreeding in patches. We conclude that high rates of geitonogamy due to clonality and pollen limitation due to the short receptivity of flowers and patchy distribution constrain the reproduction of this clonal herb. Even in unfragmented rain forests with highly mobile pollinators, outbreeding depression may be a widespread phenomenon in plant reproduction.
10.2307/2388215|The fall of four morphological components of Avicennia germinans L. was measured at monthly intervals along a transect in a monospecific mangrove near the inlet of the Laguna de Mecoacan, Tabasco, Mexico. Estimated mean total annual litter fall was 614.4 g$\cdot$m$^{-2}\cdot$yr$^{-1}$. Seasonal fluctuations of mean water level, insolation, temperature and evaporation were highly intercorrelated and were summarized in a principal component axis that explains 82 percent of their variability. The results suggest that litter fall in A. germinans responds to the environmental variables already mentioned but is statistically independent from local rainfall. Each litter component (leaves, flowers and reproductive parts, branches and woody parts, and propagules) shows a distinctive sequence, and significant correlations were obtained when comparing the principal component axis against leaf and propagule fall. Phenologic variation in litter fall as an adaptive response to environmental changes is discussed.
10.2307/2989817|The mode of attack by vampire bats, Desmodus rotundus (E. Geoffroy Saint Hilaire), on cattle in Mexico, under field conditions, was observed by means of night vision viewing 'scopes. The behavior reported includes the approach and landing of vampire bats on cattle; the reactions of cows to them; the apparent searching by bats for a suitable feeding site; interactions among vampires at a feeding site, suggesting a social hierarchy or the requisites of territoriality while feeding; the urination of bats while feeding; the drinking of water; the multiple feeding, where as many as four vampires were observed feeding at the same time from the same bite; the location of biting sites on the cow were the neck and flanks. The bats had no difficulty in launching themselves into flight after feeding. The foraging behavior of the vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus, under natural conditions in Mexico has been previously reported. However, little is known about the behavior of free-living vampire bats prior to foraging, when they actually approach and attack their prey. This paper describes the mode of attack of wild vampire bats on cattle and discusses its relation to the transmission of disease. These studies have been undertaken during the course of the Research on Paralytic Rabies Project conducted by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations at the Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Pecuarias, Palo Alto, Mexico, and financed by the United Nations Development Programme and the Government of Mexico.
10.2307/2388272|On 22 October 1988 Hurricane Joan severely damaged 500,000 ha of lowland tropical rain forest in southeastern Nicaragua near Bluefields. An expedition in February 1989 detected virtually no birds in formerly forested sites, although standing trunks that had been snapped were resprouting and the forest appeared to be recovering. In March 1990 I observed birds along rivers and at a secondary forest site and surveyed and mist-netted birds at three sites reported to be largely mature forest before they were damaged by the hurricane. I recorded a total of 161 species throughout the hurricane-damaged region. In seven days at the regenerating forest sites, I recorded 113 species of birds, a species richness comparable to undamaged lowland forest I visited six months later near the R\acute{i}o Santa Cruz, Nicaragua. Mist net capture rates at the damaged sites suggested overall bird abundance similar to that of a comparable lowland rain forest at La Selva, Costa Rica, but the typical habitats of mist-netted frugivores differed significantly between the two areas: the hurricane-damaged sites had proportionately fewer captures of species typical of the forest interior. Most of the birds encountered in the hurricane-damaged forest were species typical of forest edge, forest canopy, and second-growth habitats; only 19 species were birds typical of the forest interior, and only two were exclusively so. Woodcreepers, forest antbirds, and furnariids, families characteristic of lowland rain forest, were notably absent or under-represented. Overall forest structure appeared to be important in determining the species composition of the reappearing bird community.
10.2307/2388559|Feral goats (Capra hircus) on the tropical atoll of Aldabra, Republic of Seychelles, were observed drinking seawater at the end of extended dry periods when no fresh water was available. These observations represent the first documentation of voluntary consumption of seawater by an ungulate under natural field conditions. The kidneys of the goats showed no unusual gross morphology In addition to consuming seawater, the goats produced relatively dry feces and fed on plants with relatively high water content.
4132929|Effects of feeding by atyid shrimp, Caridina weberi, on the rate of decomposition of leaf litter were studied in the Opunohu River, Moorea, French Polynesia. In a laboratory feeding experiment shrimp consumed microbially conditioned Hibiscus leaves, but in a field study shrimp did not affect the rate of decomposition of leaf litter. In this system, the rate of decomposition was influenced more by water discharge or by microbial activity than by shrimp.
2663772|Two tropical upland forests, Mount Kupe in Cameroon and Bosque Protector Palo Seco in Panama, were compared in terms of herpetofaunal species richness and density of individuals. Based on rarefaction, whereby samples are standardized for abundance, Palo Seco had significantly more species of frogs and lizards. Extrapolations to total local species richness, by fitting the Michaelis-Menten equation to the species accumulation curves and by using Chao's estimator, yielded divergent results: more lizard species on Mount Kupe, and an equal number of frogs at both sites. These disparities can be accounted for by differences in evenness, which was higher in Palo Seco. Frog density was significantly higher on Mount Kupe, snake density significantly higher in Palo Seco, and lizards exhibited no density difference. Overall, the results revealed a less consistent pattern and more moderate differences than what is known from southeast Asian-Central American comparisons. This outcome is discussed in the light of available knowledge, but quantitative data from African forests are too sparse to allow general conclusions.
2663989|We studied the reproductive phenology of isolated populations of Spondias mombin to determine the degree of flowering and fruiting synchrony among populations and to examine spatial and temporal variability in fruit production. The study was conducted on six small islands (1.8-3.5 ha) in the Panama Canal. All individuals (10 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH) were marked in 1991 and censused each year through 1994 to record recruits and deaths. All marked trees were censused monthly for flowering and fruiting activity from April 1992 through December 1995. Spondias mombin was seasonal and highly synchronous in flower and fruit production among islands and across years. Proportions of individuals fruiting varied among islands, years, and tree size classes. There was a positive relationship between probability of fruit production and tree size. Synchronous reproductive activity in S. mombin probably was due to responses to proximate environmental cues such as fluctuations in irradiance, but other factors must have been responsible for temporal and spatial variation in reproductive performance. We suggest that this variation may have been due partly to temporal and spatial differences in pollinator abundance.
27742825|Stream shredders play an important role in the breakdown of allochthonous leaf littera well-known, key process in temperate headwater streams. In contrast, it has been suggested that litter breakdown in tropical streams is driven by microorganisms, shredders being scarce or absent. We propose that shredders have been overlooked in some tropical streams for two reasons: (1) assuming that tropical shredders belong to the same taxa as temperate ones, without determining the diet of tropical litter fauna; and (2) the small spatial scale of most tropical stream studies, which do not account for intra- and inter-site comparisons. We explored shredder abundance and species richness in six streams in each of two tropical regions, the Australian wet tropics (AWT) and Panama (PAN), finding 734 individuals of 12 shredder species in AWT and 391 individuals of 16 species in PAN. Shredder species richness was positively related to altitude in AWT, but not in PAN. Shredder contribution to total leaf breakdown in the field was 24  3 SE percent in AWT and negligible in PAN, but this was probably due to the unsuccessful colonization of experimental cages by PAN shredders. In the laboratory, shredder contribution to total leaf breakdown was higher than in the field (35%  2 SE in AWT and 64%  3 SE in PAN) and varied with leaf decomposability. Our results support earlier indications that shredders are not scarce or functionally unimportant in the tropics, and suggest that their contribution to litter processing should be determined along altitudinal gradients.
10.2307/2387668|A deposit of small-vertebrate bones from 5 km E. Puerto Pizarro, Departamento de Tumbes, Peru, is interpreted as probable owl-pellet remains. The remains included Amphibia (Ceratophrys stolzmanni), Reptilia (Phyllodactylus sp., Dicrodon guttulatum), Aves (probably Pionus chalcopterus, Cambylorhynchus fasciatus, Thryothorus sp., and unidentified emberizids), and Mammalia (Marmosa simonsi, Phyllostomus discolor, Artibeus fraterculus, Desmodus rotundus, Molossus molossus, Oryzomys xantheolus, Mus musculus, and an unidentified larger species). Living Artibeus fraterculus and Lonchophylla hesperia were captured at the locality.
10.2307/2389055|Seed dispersal of C. priscus was studied in a semideciduous forest in S.E. Brazil. C. priscus is a pioneer tree, with abundant capsules containing three elaiosome-bearing seeds. The seeds are explosively dispersed and the mean ballistic dispersal distance for two trees were 3.2 and 3.4 m. The explosive ejection of seeds is followed by ant exploitation. Eleven ant species were attracted to the elaiosomes of the seeds, but only two species regularly removed seeds. On average, Atta sexdens and Pheidole sp. 1 move seeds 2.5 and 1.0 m, respectively. The ants usually deposit the seeds in the nest. The seed removal rate was 88 percent (N = 100) over the first 24 hr of exposure. Our results indicate that elaiosome removal by ants probably does not improve germination rates in C. priscus. Seeds without elaiosomes and seedlings of C. priscus were frequent on refuse piles of ant nest in the study area, suggesting that transport of the seeds by Attini and Pheidolini may provide beneficial effects in the Croton system.
10.2307/2388605|Charcoal fragments in soils and sediments document Holocene fires in the rain forests of the La Selva Biological Station in the northern Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica, and in the paramo surrounding Cerro Chirripo in the Cordillera de Talamanca. Radiocarbon determinations on soil charcoal from La Selva and charcoal-rich lake sediment from Chirripo cluster at 2430 yr B.P and at 1110-1180 yr B.P., dates in each cluster are coeval, suggesting that the rain forest and paramo fires occurred at similar times. Fires at La Selva were likely set by human activity but may have spread into intact rain forest during exceptionally dry periods; fires at Chirripo were set by people or lightning during what may have been lower lake stands. The drought periods suggested by our charcoal samples may have been associated with short-term atmospheric anomalies such as El Nino, or with longer-term shifts in climate.
10.2307/2387825|Casuarius casuarius inhabits the rainforests of northeastern Australia and some of the islands to the north. It depends on fruit which has fallen from the middle and upper forest canopy. During the two-year study period diaspores of 78 plant species were found in cassowary dung. Although the germination percentage of seeds in dung were variable, some germination was observed for 70 species. The passage of most diaspores through a cassowary does not appear to greatly affect seed germination characteristics. These birds are the only extant frugivores large enough to effectively disperse many of the plant species found in the rainforests of this region.
30043630|This study examines how human land uses and biophysical factors serve as predictors of land cover change in and around Madidi National Park in Bolivia. The Greater Madidi Landscape ranges over an elevational gradient from < 200 m in the Amazon basin to 6000 m in the high Andes, contains more than ten major ecosystem types, and several protected areas and sustainable use zones. In this study, Landsat Thematic Mapper satellite images collected over the study area at the beginning of the 1990s and then the 2000s were classified according to broad land cover types. Below elevations of 3000 m, the landscape experienced equal rates of deforestation and secondary forest increases of approximately 0.63 percent annually, resulting in no significant net change. Below elevations of 1000 m, however, we found an annual net loss in forest cover of 0.11 percent. Across the landscape, land cover change was most likely to occur near areas previously deforested, near roads and population centers, and at low elevations. We found net deforestation rates to be inversely related to strength of natural resource protection laws in protected areas and other jurisdictions. Results suggest little net change for the landscape as a whole, but that local scale changes may be significant, particularly near roads. Management policies favorable for biodiversity conservation in this landscape should limit the building of new roads and immigration to biologically sensitive areas and continue to support protected areas, which are achieving a positive result for forest conservation. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
3593161|We addressed the interacting effects of a natural large-scale fire and a subsequent major hurricane on relative positions of epiphytes in a subtropical forest. In Everglades National Park, subtropical hammocks (hardwood tree "islands"; burned and unburned) during the Ingraham Fire (1989) were surveyed for trees and epiphytic bromeliads (Tillandsia spp.) one year before, as well as one and five years after, Hurricane Andrew (1992). We measured trees (species, diameter, and status [alive/dead]) and epiphytes (species, height, host tree characteristics, substrate life status, and density). The fire decreased the height of epiphytes during the hurricane because branches and bark of trees killed by the fire were unstable epiphyte substrates in the high winds. Proportions of epiphytes on Quercus virginiana were equally increased after the hurricane in both unburned and burned hammocks; the large size and bark characteristics resulted in greater proportional survival of epiphytes on this species. During the five years following the hurricane, changes in the distributions of epiphytes generally were toward pre-hurricane distributions, but recovery was faster in unburned than burned hammocks. We conclude that disturbances that kill trees are likely to amplify the vertical reduction of epiphytes during a subsequent hurricane and that effects of a single disturbance on plant populations can be influenced by the disturbance history of the system, including different types of disturbances.
30044936|Armases angustipes (Grapsidae) crabs were recorded on 31.5 percent of Aechmea pectinata inflorescences, a common ornithofilous bromeliad in rain forests of southeastern Brazil. Crabs foraged mainly in the morning and used newly opened flowers, usually damaging the corolla, consuming the stamens and stigma, and interfering with hummingbird visits. This florivory may reduce the reproductive success of A. pectinata, both directly through consumption of flowers and indirectly by reducing pollinator visits.
2663900|We assessed the effects of litter cover on herbivory and performance (annual survival and relative growth rate in height and leaf number) for established seedlings (9 cm tall, and 4 mo old), of four shade-tolerant, large-seeded, co-occurring Sapotaceae species. Seedlings were divided into three litter treatments: (1) litter addition, (2) control, and (3) continuous litter removal. The mean survival for all treatments in descending order were: Chrysophyllum pomiferum (89%), Pouteria peruviensis (84%), P. caimito (75%), and Micropholis venulosa (40%). For all variables, species differed significantly within litter treatments. In M. venulosa, survival and relative growth rate in leaf number significantly decreased with the removal of litter, whereas herbivory increased. Relative growth rate in height of P. peruviensis decreased significantly with litter removal, while the levels of herbivory were higher with the addition of litter. Conversely, litter quantity had no effect on the performance of C. pomiferum, but herbivory was lower in the removal treatment. Finally, in P. caimito, litter treatment did not affect performance or herbivory. Results suggest that differences in litter quantity differentially affect tree species with similar biology (i.e., large-seeds, shade tolerance) in life stages other than germination and early establishment. The variability in species' responses to litter might be an important factor in determining species richness, abundance, and distribution of tropical rain forest tree species at the seedling level.
30043147|We tested the hypothesis that growth and survival of aerial roots impose a limit on the height at which a primary hemiepiphyte can become successfully established within tree crowns and evaluate the implications for the vertical distribution of hemiepiphytes in the forest canopy. Density and spatial distribution, and growth and survival of aerial roots were studied in two common species of hemiepiphytic Araceae, Philodendron radiatum and Anthurium clavigerum, in a lowland tropical moist forest in Panama between March and October 2001. Additionally, root growth and survival were studied both in normal, unmanipulated, and experimentally cut roots to investigate the effect of damage on root resprouting and survival. Survival analysis revealed much greater survival of aerial roots of A. clavigerum than P. radiatum. In contrast, growth rates in the latter were on average about three times higher when compared to A. clavigerum. In both species, experimental cutting of the root invariably led initially to the development of dieback symptoms; however, plants responded to root damage by producing resprouts. A risk model for the two species suggests that only the fastest-growing roots of P. radiatum are likely to survive long enough to reach the soil from a host branch 6.8 m high, which equals the mean height of occurrence observed for the epiphytic stage of this species at our study site. In contrast, slow-growing appressed aerial roots of A. clavigerum may never be able to establish a connection with the soil from similar heights in the canopy before roots die. Consistent with our hypothesis, A. clavigerum is found much lower in the forest (it rarely exceeds ca 5 m). /// Probamos la hiptesis que el crecimiento y la sobrevivencia de races areas imponen un lmite en la altura en que una hemiepfita primaria puede establecerse con xito dentro de la copa de los rboles, y evaluamos las implicaciones para la distribucin vertical de hemiepfitas en el dosel del bosque. La densidad y la distribucin espacial y el crecimiento y la sobrevivencia de races areas fueron estudiados en dos especies comunes de hemiepfitas de la familia Araceae, Philodendron radiatum e Anthurium clavigerum, en un bosque hmedo tropical en Panam entre Marzo y Octubre del 2001. Adicionalmente, el crecimiento y sobrevivencia de las races se estudi en races normales sin manipular y races cortadas experimentalmente para investigar el efecto de dao en la punta de crecimiento y sobrevivencia de races. El anlisis de sobrevivencia revel que hay una mayor sobrevivencia en las races areas de A. clavigerum que en P radiatum. En contraste, las tasas de crecimiento en esta ltima fueron en promedio casi tres veces ms altas comparado con A. clavigerum. En ambas especies, el corte experimental de la raz invariablemente conllev al principio al desarrollo de sntomas de "dieback", sin embargo las plantas respondieron al dao de la raz, produciendo nuevas puntas de crecimiento. Un modelo de riesgo para las dos especies sugiere que solamente las races de crecimiento rpido de P radiatum probablemente sobrevivan un tiempo suficientemente para alcanzar el suelo desde una rama hospedadora a 6.8 m de altura, la cual iguala la altura promedia de ocurrencia observada, para la etapa epiftica de esta especie en nuestro rea de estudio. En contraste, debido al crecimiento lento de las races areas de A. clavigerum, probablemente esta nunca sea capaz de establecer una coneccin con el suelo desde alturas similares en el dosel antes de que las races mueran. Consistente con nuestra hiptesis, A. clavigerum se encuentra a una altura menor dentro del bosque (raramente suele ocurrir arriba de ca 5 m).
40645557|We investigated the effects of forest fragmentation on golden-headed lion tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas) by qualitatively and quantitatively characterizing the landscape throughout the species range, conducting surveys, and exploring predictive models of presence and absence. We identified 784 forest patches that varied in size, shape, core area, habitat composition, elevation, and distance to neighboring patches and towns. We conducted 284 interviews with local residents and 133 playback experiments in 98 patches. Results indicated a reduction in the western portions of the former species range. We tested whether L. chrysomelas presence or absence was related to the aforementioned fragmentation indices using Monte Carlo logistic regression techniques. The analysis yielded a majority of iterations with a one-term final model of which Core Area Index (percent of total area that is core) was the only significant type. Model concordance ranged between 65 and 90 percent. Area was highlighted for its potential predictive ability. Although final models for area lacked significance, their failure to reach significance was marginal and we discuss potential confounding factors weakening the term's predictive ability. We conclude that lower Core Area Index scores are useful indicators of forest patches at risk for not supporting L. chrysomelas. Taken together, our analyses of the landscape, survey results, and logistic regression modeling indicated that the L. chrysomelas metapopulation is facing substantial threat. The limited vagility of lion tamarins in nonforest matrix may lead to increasingly smaller and inbred populations subject to significant impact from edge effects and small population size. Local extinction is imminent in many forest patches in the L. chrysomelas range.
10.2307/2387894|Founding queens of the leaf-cutting ant Atta capiguara colonized fields at a rate directly proportional to the standing biomass of Atta colonies, which was estimated by the amount of soil excavated by ants. The percentage of queens that were successful in their initial colony foundation attempts (i.e., that successfully excavated and sealed their embryo nest) was inversely proportional to the standing Atta colony biomass. Elimination of mature Atta colonies by poison baits led to a higher success rate during initial colony founding than found in control plots with mature Atta colonies.
4132899|Fruit abundance in tropical forests thus far has been studied in relation to consumer populations. Area-based surveys that focus on the quantity and quality of the standing fruit crop of an entire plant community, however, are lacking. This paper presents the results of a four-month study on the seasonality and vertical distribution of the standing fruit crop within a tropical forest during the dry season in southern Venezuela. Fruit numbers ranged from 262,000 to 424,000 fruits/ha. The standing crop was between 39 and 92 kg/ha, yielding 67,000 to 126,000 kJ. Fruits were not evenly distributed in different forest layers. They were most abundant in the canopy above 16 m and scarce between 4 and 12 m above the ground. Despite a scarcity of fruits in the mid-strata, the caloric value of the total fruit supply peaked within a narrow layer of subcanopy at 12 to 16 m above ground due to a high amount of energy per fruit. Palms fruited mostly in this layer, their fruits contributing 59 percent of the energy supplied by all fruits. Above 12 m, we found a broader range of fruit sizes than in the forest below 12 m. Small-sized fruits were distributed in the understory and in the canopy but were nearly absent from the mid-story. Corresponding to the abundance of small-sized fruits in the canopy, small frugivorous species, such as members of the Thraupidae, limited their foraging to the canopy strata whereas larger avian frugivores foraged mainly in the mid-story.
30043300|Adaptations that reduce water retention on leaf surfaces may increase photosynthetic capacity of cloud forests because carbon dioxide diffuses slower in water than air. Leaf water repellency was examined in three distinct ecosystems to test the hypothesis that tropical montane cloud forest species have a higher degree of leaf water repellency than species from tropical dry forests and species from temperate foothills-grassland vegetation. Leaf water repellency was measured by calculating the contact angle of the leaf surface and the line tangent to a water droplet through the point of contact on the adaxial and the abaxial surface. Leaf water repellency was significantly different between the three study areas. The hypothesis that leaf water repellency is higher in cloud forest species than tropical dry forests and temperate foothills-grassland vegetation was not confirmed in this study. Leaf water repellency was lower for cloud forest species (adaxial surface = 50.8; abaxial surface = 82.9) than tropical dry forest species (adaxial surface = 74.5; abaxial surface = 87.3) and temperate foothills-grassland species (adaxial surface = 77.6; abaxial surface = 95.8). The low values of leaf water repellency in cloud forest species may be influenced by presence of epiphylls and loss of epicuticular wax on the leaf surfaces.
30045405|The obligate interaction between figs and their pollinating wasps is often cited as an extraordinary example of reciprocal species specificity and evolutionary cospeciation. However, recent studies have shown that breakdowns in one-to-one specificity are not rare (30-60% of species depending on the locality). Combined with evidence of hybridization in some species, this led researchers to propose that a better evolutionary model was one of groups of genetically well-defined pollinators coevolving with groups of frequently hybridizing figs. Nevertheless, these recent studies still indicate that a majority of fig species have one or more host-specific pollinator. The extent to which specificity barriers in these species are leaky will have important consequences for the evolutionary process in Ficus. At Lambir Hills N.P., Sarawak, a single individual of Ficus acamptophylla has become recently isolated from conspecifics through clearance of its specialized habitat, but adjacent forest has a diverse fig flora, including 16 species with congeneric pollinators. Thus, when this individual flowered I was able to investigate the maintenance of its specificity barriers in the absence of competition from the normal pollinator. Only 1 percent of inflorescences were entered by a single pollinator species, which had very low reproductive success, and no viable seeds were produced. Nonpollinating wasps also failed to reproduce in any of the inflorescences. These results indicate the maintenance of strict specificity barriers in this fig individual.
40645587|Giant tortoises were once a megafaunal element widespread in tropical and subtropical ecosystems. The role of giant tortoises as herbivores and seed dispersers, however, is poorly known. We evaluated tortoise impacts on Opuntia cactus (Cactaceae) in the Galapagos Islands, one of the last areas where giant tortoises remain extant, where the cactus is a keystone resource for many animals. We contrasted cactus populations immediately inside and outside natural habitats where tortoises had been held captive for several decades. Through browsing primarily and trampling secondarily tortoises strongly reduced densities of small (0.5-1.5 m high) cacti, especially near adult cacti, and thereby reduced densities of cacti in larger size classes. Tortoises also caused a shift from vegetative to sexual modes of reproduction in cacti. We conclude that giant tortoises promote a sparse and scattered distribution in Opuntia cactus and its associated biota in the Galapagos Islands.
10.2307/2989716|Males of the phalangid Zygopachylus albomarginis (Chamberlain) construct nests which females visit to copulate and/or lay eggs. This type of behavior is unknown in other members of the order Opiliones. The males remain in their nests almost continuously for up to several months, and are capable of relocating their nests from distances of several meters; they defend the nests against other males, which occupy and defend vacated nests. Females lay only a few eggs during a given visit to a nest, and may restrict their visits to only one or two nests. Neither parasitism nor predation of eggs in nests was observed. Possible functions of the nests are discussed.
2663817|The location of the nutrient-rich organic refuse produced by a leaf-cutting ant colony varies among ant species. Atta cephalotes locate their organic refuse in subterranean chambers, whereas A. colombica place their organic refuse on the soil surface near the nest. We studied the effect of the absence or presence of external organic refuse on the abundance of fine roots and seed bank composition in the superficial horizons of ant nests. We sampled soils from ant nests or dumps and adjacent areas of 15 adult nests of A. cephalotes at La Selva (LS), Costa Rica, and of 15 of A. colombica nests on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Soils from A. cephalotes nests did not differ from adjacent soils in abundance of fine-root and seed diversity. In contrast, organic refuse from A. colombica nests was less diverse in seed composition (due to the great abundance of Miconia argentea) and had a greater abundance of fine roots than adjacent areas. Thus the external location of the ant-nest organic refuse is potentially important in determining the different types of plant recolonization in abandoned or dead ant nests. The relative abundance of these Atta species may influence the structure and/or composition of tropical forests.
30044038|Spatial-scale-dependent patterns of Attalea maripa seed predation and removal by the beetle Pachymerus cardo and vertebrates were examined in a palm patch and its adjacent forest in southeastern Amazon. Seed survivorship depended on the distance from the palm patch, but was unrelated to distance from individual fruiting palms. /// Padres dependentes de escala espacial de predao e remoo de sementes de Attalea maripa Mart. (Arecaceae) por besouros Pachymerus cardo e vertebrados foram examinados em um palmeiral e urna floresta adjacente, no sudeste da Amazonia. A sobrevivncia de sementes dependeu de sua posio em relao ao palmeiral, mas no esteve relacionada  distncia de palmeiras em frutificao.
10.2307/2387856|Arboreal carton nests of four speces of termites (Nasutitermes corniger, N. columbicus, N. nigriceps. and Microcerotermes exiguus) and of ants (genus Azteca) were monitored periodically for one year on Barro Colorado Island, Panama Canal Zone. The nests were examined for signs of damage, new growth, and nest abandonment. Nest damage was attributable to predation by anteaters (Tamandua tetradactyla), to nesting activities of birds, or to unknown causes. Nest damage due to anteater predation occurred frequently, but rarely resulted in destruction of the nest. Small nests of Microcerotermes termites were most prone to anteater damage, while large nests of Nasutitermes termites suffered more damage from nesting birds. Azteca ant nests were attacked by anteaters, but not by nesting birds. Fewer Azteca nests than termite nests showed signs of predation during the year's census, with 37 percent of the ant nests damaged as compared with 91 percent of the termite nests. There were few instances of multiple damage to ant nests, while 60 percent of termite nests were damaged two or more times. No Azteca ant nests were abandoned during the census, but 16 percent of termite nests were; most abandonments followed tree or nest-falls. The significance of predation on nests by anteaters and of nest damage by nesting birds is discussed in relation to seasonality, nest longevity, nest defense, and anteater feeding behavior. The census data and estimates of the daily attack rates of anteaters on termite and Azteca ant nests are used to estimate the impact of anteaters on these nests, and population densities of anteaters.
10.2307/2387892|Muntingia calabura produces a few flowers each day throughout the year. The flowers are usually borne in fascicles of two or three, and within each fascicle, four to nine days separate the sequential opening of individual 1-day flowers. Phyllotaxy is distichous on more or less horizontal branches and the tree architecture conforms to Troll's model. The continuous and regular growth pattern, with frequent branching, facilitates continuous initiation of supra-axillary flowering fascicles. Flowers are pollinated above the branches by bees, and fruit is dispersed from below the branches by bats. By elongation and erection of the pedicel, buds are raised into a flowering position, and following pollination, young fruit are lowered to a position for dispersal. As these movements of reproductive structures allow for pollination and dispersal simultaneously from different positions, it is suggested that for a continuously flowering species this may be a mechanism whereby pollinator-disperser interference is avoided.
27742842|Fig trees (Ficus) and their obligate pollinating wasps (Hymenoptera, Chalcidoidea, Agaonidae) are a classic example of a coevolved mutualism. Pollinating wasps are attracted to figs only when figs are receptive. It has been shown that figs will lose their attraction to pollinators sooner in monoecious and male dioecious figs when multiple pollinators have entered the enclosed inflorescence. However, little is known about the nature of the stimulus inducing the loss of attraction. By conducting experiments on the functionally dioecious fig, Ficus hispida, we show that (1) different stimuli induce the loss of attraction in each sex, pollination in female figs, and oviposition in male figs; and (2) foundress number affects the loss of attraction in both sexes only when the prerequisites (i.e., pollination in female figs and oviposition in male figs) have been satisfied. In general, the more foundresses that enter, the earlier the fig will lose its receptivity. We argue that the stimuli in male and female figs are adaptations to the fulfillment of its respective reproduction.
10.2307/2387776|The epiphytic deciduous forest orchid Encyclia cordigera was manually self-pollinated, out-crossed against one other parent, and out-crossed against a maximum number of other parents in Santa Rosa National Park, Costa Rica. There was no difference in the percent inflorescences that set fruit between selfed and single-parent out-crossed plants, and on the inflorescences that set fruit there was no difference in the percent flowers that bore fruit (85 to 92% for 119 and 82 flowers). However, only 5 percent of the multiple-fathered inflorescences failed to set some fruit, and 97 percent of the flowers set fruit; these values are significantly different from those for the selfed plants and flowers. The overall percent of inflorescences that bore fruit and the percent flowers that bore fruit was very much greater on the hand-pollinated plants than on the unmanipulated ones growing only a few meters away. This finding may indicate that fruit set by E. cordigera is pollinator limited, but other interpretations are given.
10.2307/2387698|Anthocyanin pigments and nectar constituents of Cheirostemon platanoides and Kigelia pinnata were analyzed in an effort to define provisionally a "bat syndrome" of floral phytochemical characters. Amounts and composition of sugar, protein, amino acid, and phenolic nectar constituents are presented. Genetic homology with related taxa appears to dominate over special adaptation to pollination by bats in determining floral pigments, but some evidence of adaptative change is present in nectar sugar composition. The contribution of nectar constituents to bat nutrition and energetics is discussed.
30045519|In the tropical rainforest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, lianas (woody-climbing plants) had a clumped distribution on trees, and 63.3 percent of trees 10 cm in diameter carried at least one liana. Trees with larger diameters supported more lianas and a higher total basal area of lianas than trees with smaller diameters. There was no relationship between liana diameter and the number of trees a liana climbed, but tendril climbers climbed on more trees than stem-twiners. /// En el bosque tropical de Los Tuxtlas, Mxico, las lianas (plantas trepadoras leosas) se distribuyeron de forma agregada en los rboles, y 63.3 por ciento de los rboles 10 cm de dimetro sostuvieron al menos una liana. rboles con dimetros mayores soportaron ms lianas y mayor rea basal de lianas que rboles con dimetros menores. No hubo relacin entre el dimetro de las lianas y el nmero de rboles que estas trepaban, pero las lianas con zarcillos treparon sobre ms rboles que las lianas que enroscan el tallo.
20492505|Large-fronded tree ferns are critical components of many tropical forests. We investigated frond and whole-plant allometries for Hawaiian keystone species Cibotium glaucum, for prediction and to compare with global scaling relationships. We found that C. glaucum fronds maintain geometric proportionality across a wide range of plant and frond sizes. These relationships result in strong allometries that permit rapid field estimation of frond size from simple linear dimensions. C. glaucum frond allometries complied with intra- and interspecific global trends for leaf area versus mass established for much smaller-leafed species, indicating 'diminishing returns' in photosynthetic area per investment in mass for larger fronds. The intraspecific trend was related to declining water content in larger fronds, but not to a significantly larger investment in stipe or rachis relative to lamina. However, C. glaucum complied with the global interspecific trends for greater allocation to support structures in larger leaves. Allometries for frond number and size versus plant height showed that as plants increase in height, frond production and/or retention progressively declines, and the increases of leaf size tend to level off. These frond and whole plant-level relationships indicate the potential for estimating frond area and mass at landscape scale to enrich studies of forest dynamics.
2663796|Previous work has shown that water loss in some populations of Anolis cristatellus from the British Virgin Islands is closely tied to the conditions available on the islands they inhabit. This manifested itself in a strong correlation between habitat aridity and several water loss rate parameters. Here we report on a similar study conducted in the same locations in 1994, a year of extreme drought. We hypothesized that lizards caught at the height of the drought will experience lower rates of water loss than those measured during a normal year. Our findings show that in 1994, as in 1993, habitat aridity and water loss parameters were strongly correlated. Also as before, the Guana Island population of A. cristatellus displayed higher resistance to water loss than expected by the island's aridity. However, a striking change occurred within populations. All were at least as good at retaining water (measured as integumentary resistance to water loss, R) as in 1993, and some were over 3.5 times better. Existing evidence is insufficient to determine whether these changes were the result of phenotypic plasticity or attributable to differential mortality of nonresistant individuals.
10.2307/2989761|The tribe Lobelioideae (Campanulaceae) is represented by woody species in certain insular and island-like areas, most notably the Hawaiian Islands, the mountains of East Africa, and the Andes. Because the lobelioids are basically an herbaceous group in which increase in woodiness is a response to uniform, often tropical conditions, they have developed wood of a type unlike that found in basically woody groups of dicotyledons. Vessel element length and diameter are greatest in species of very wet areas. Ray size appears related to the size of plant: taller, wider rays occur in larger shrubs and trees. Scalariform pitting on lateral vessel walls is common in many lobelioids, especially those of a somewhat succulent nature where mechanical strength scems less important. To explain how long vessel elements, predominantly erect ray cells, and presence of scalariform lateral wall pitting of vessels can occur in such a specialized group of dicotyledons, the concept of paedomorphosis (juvenilism, neoteny) is invoked. Data on 56 species (several collections for many of these) are summarized in chart form, and anatomical features are discussed with relation to both taxonomy and ecology.
30043219|There is a growing emphasis on developing methods for quantifying the structure and composition of tropical forests that can be applied over large landscapes, especially for tropical dry forests that are severely fragmented and have a high conservation priority. This study investigates the relationships between various measures of forest structure (annual woody increment, canopy closure, stand density, stand basal area) and composition (tree species diversity, tree community composition) measured in semi-deciduous tropical dry forests on islands in Lago Guri, Venezuela and three spectral indices derived from Landsat ETM+: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Infrared Index (IRI), and Mid-Infrared Index (MIRI). Even though there were significant autocorrelations among spectral indices, there were significant differences in the relationships between spectral indices and forest attributes. IRI was not significantly correlated with any of the structural variables while MIRI was correlated with canopy closure and NDVI values were correlated with canopy closure as well as annual woody increment. NDVI and MIRI were both related to relative tree diversity and all three indices were associated with aspects of tree species composition. Based on the results of this study, it appears that spectral indices, and in particular NDVI, may be useful indicators of forest attributes in tropical dry forest habitats. Further research needs to be undertaken to identify if the results of this study can be applied to other tropical dry forests at a global spatial scale. /// Existe un inters cada vez mayor en desarrollar mtodos para cuantificar la estructura y composicin de los bosques tropicales que se puedan aplicar a nivel de paisajes grandes, especialmente para los bosques secos tropicales que estn severamente fragmentados y tienen una alta prioridad para su conservacin. Este estudio investiga las relaciones entre las diferentes medidas de la estructura forestal (crecimiento anual, densidad de la copa, densidad de rboles, y rea basai) y la composicin (diversidad de especies de rboles y composicin de la comunidad de rboles) en bosques secos tropicales semi-deciduos en las islas en el Lago Guri, Venezuela, con tres ndices espectrales provenientes de Landsat ETM+: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Infrared Index (IRI), and Mid-Infrared Index (MIRI). Aunque se obtuvieron autocorrelaciones significativas entre los ndices espectrales, tambin se obtuvo diferencias significativas en las capacidades de proyeccin de cada ndice para las cualidades del bosque que se midieron. IRI no fue correlacionado con las variables estructurales, pero MIRI fue correlacionado con, y los valores de NDVI eran correlacionados con la densidad de la copa y tambin el crecimiento anual de los rboles. NDVI y MIRI fueron relacionados con la diversidad relativa de especias y los tres ndices fueron asociados a aspectos de la composicin forestal. De acuerdo con los resultados de este estudio, sugerimos que los ndices espectrales y en particular el NDVI, pueden ser indicadores tiles de las caractersticas generales de los bosques secos tropicales. Se necesitar llevar a cabo mayores investigaciones para determinar con precisin si los resultados de este estudio pueden ser aplicados a los bosques secos tropicales en una escala espacial global.
10.2307/2389234|I collected 99 scats of Philander opossum and 73 of Didelphis marsupialis in the Chajul region of the Selva Lacandona rain forest of Chiapas, Mexico. The objective was to evaluate the role of these didelphids as dispersers of seeds of Cecropia obtusifolia Bertol. (Moraceae). Didelphis marsupialis disperses more seeds and more frequently than P. opossum (69.9% of scats with seeds and a mean of 501 seeds per scat vs 56.6% and a mean of 218 seeds, respectively). Dispersal distances (measured from the capture site to the nearest adult tree) varied from 0 to 71 m (mean = 14.5 m) for P opossum and from 0 to 61.5 m (mean = 13.3 m) for D. marsupialis. Most dispersal events consisted of few seeds dispersed short distances, and there never were events of many seeds dispersed long distances. The leptokurtic distribution of the data agrees with those in literature for the dispersal of this and other species of pioneer trees. Given the habits of didelphids and their habitat use patterns, probably these species provide an important and advantageous seed dispersal vector for C. obtusifolia by dropping seeds in sites adequate for germination.
30043133|We show that tropical forest tree saplings with greater belowground carbon allocation have more breakage scars along their stems. We suggest the existence of alternative carbon allocation strategies in relation to physical damage in the forest understorey. "Tolerators" allocate more belowground, have enhanced resprouting ability and slower aboveground growth, whereas "escapers" allocate less belowground, are not well prepared for recovering from damage, but grow fast enough to escape from the damage-susceptible size class. /// Brinzales de rboles tropicales que asignan mayor cantidad de carbono bajo el suelo muestran ms cicatrices de fractura en sus tallos. Sugerimos la existencia de estrategias alternativas de asignacin de carbono en respuesta a dao fsico en el sotobosque: los "tolerantes" asignan mayor cantidad de carbono bajo el suelo, tienen mayor capacidad para rebrotar y su crecimiento areo es lento; los "escapistas" asignan menor cantidad de carbono bajo el suelo y no estn bien preparados para recuperarse despus de ocurrido un dao, pero crecen lo suficientemente rpido para escapar de la clase diamtrica ms susceptible a daos.
10.2307/2388616|Between 11 September and 2 November 1990, 26 tent roosts, four of which were occupied by Macconnell's bat (Vampyressa macconnelli), were discovered in an area of mature flood plain forest in Manu National Park, Madre de Dios, Peru. All were constructed in the terminal blade of unseparated pinnae in fronds of Astrocaryum macrocalyx Burret (Palmae). Tents generally were not found in fronds of A. macrocalyx shorter than 2 m or longer than 4 m, or in other species of palms or broad-leaved plants that have been reported to harbor tent roosts of bats. The proximal four to nine unseparated pinnae of the terminal blade were severed to form the tent. Tents averaged 50.7 cm long, 17 1 cm maximum width, and 16.7 cm maximum depth, and were an average of 2.33 m above the ground. From one to seven bats were present in the four occupied tents but were not present in a tent every day The density of active tents was ca 0.74/ha.
10.2307/2389228|To better understand the physiognomy and dynamics of tropical forest canopy trees, the mortality, recruitment, and growth rates of trees 30 cm DBH were quantified on a montane tropical rain forest hillslope over the 10-yr period 1982-1992. The results indicate that the smaller stature of canopy trees growing on or near ridge-crests of montane rain forests is a consequence of higher turnover rates, not slower growth rates. The annual canopy tree turnover rate of approximately 1.7 percent in the upslope section of the sample area was two times greater than in the downslope section. The DBH growth increments in the upslope and downslope sections also were significantly different (P < 0.05), but it was the upslope trees that grew at the faster rate (upslope = 3.1 mm yr
10.2307/2989648|The structure of the vegetation of Guam and the position of invading species is investigated. Three species groups, endemic, native non-endemic, and invader, were found to have characteristic growth forms, ranges, and habitats on the island. Endemic species and native species of limited distribution are largely woody; invaders are generally herbaceous. The proportion of endemic species in each habitat was found to vary inversely with the proportion of invaders. Invasion was most successful in communities with large proportions of widely distributed native species. Invaders originating in the New World outnumber those from the Old World, but Old World invaders proved to be more successful in establishing themselves in highly organized, complex vegetation communities. The type of invading species and the organization of native species into communities appear to be important factors in the success of plant invasion.
30043634|Water availability is the most important factor determining tree species distribution in the tropics, but the underlying mechanisms are still not clear. In this study, we compared functional traits of 38 tropical tree species from dry and moist forest, and quantified their ability to survive drought in a dry-down experiment in which wilting and survival were monitored. We evaluated how seedling traits affect drought survival, and how drought survival determines species distribution along the rainfall gradient. Dry forest species tended to have compound leaves, high stem dry matter content (stem dry mass/fresh mass), and low leaf area ratio, suggesting that reduction of transpiration and avoidance of xylem cavitation are important for their success. Three functional groups were identified based on the seedling traits: (1) drought avoiders with a deciduous leaf habitat and taproots; (2) drought resisters with tough tissues (i.e., a high dry matter content); and (3) light-demanding moist forest species with a large belowground foraging capacity. Dry forest species had a longer drought survival time (62 d) than moist forest species (25 d). Deciduousness explained 69 percent of interspecific variation in drought survival. Among evergreen species, stem density explained 20 percent of the drought survival. Drought survival was not related to species distribution along the rainfall gradient, because it was mainly determined by deciduousness, and species with deciduous seedlings are found in both dry and moist forests. Among evergreen species, drought survival explained 28 percent of the variation in species position along the rainfall gradient. This suggests that, apart from drought tolerance, other factors such as history, dispersal limitation, shade tolerance, and fire shape species distribution patterns along the rainfall gradient.
30043235|Two Neotropical ant species, Stenamma expolitum Smith and S. alas new species (described here), exhibit three unusual nesting behaviors: (1) they build architecturally sophisticated nest entrances that elevate the nest opening away from the surface; (2) they maintain multiple identical nests but occupy only one of them; and (3) they keep a round "door pebble" at the nest entrance, with which they plug the opening in response to army ants. Adaptive hypotheses for these behaviors are discussed, including the possibility that there are multiple lines of defense against army ant predation. /// Dos especies de hormigas Neotropicales, Stenamma expolitum Smith y S. alas especie nueva tienen tres comportamientos extraordinarios perteneciente de sus nidos: (1) construyen estructuras complejas que eleva la entrada del nido arriba del superficie del suelo; (2) mantienen hasta tres nidos identicos pero ocupan solamente uno; y (3) mantienen una pelota redonda cerca de la entrada del nido que se usan para cerrar la entrada a su nido evitando acceso a las hormigas Ecitoninae. Se discuten las varias hiptesis sobre la funcin y evolucin de estos comportamientos. Es posible que todos son defensas para evadir las hormigas Ecitoninae.
30045373|Generalized pollination systems may be advantageous on island systems or regions of substantial disturbance. We examined whether or not specialization breakdown has occurred in a presumably bat-pollinated columnar cactus, Pilosocereus royenii, on Puerto Rico, an island subjected to periodic hurricanes. The flowers show characteristics related to bat pollination including nocturnal anthesis, morphology, and amount and quality of nectar reward. The cactus produces flowers whose styles are temporally and mechanically separated from its anthers and do not self-pollinate. Hand manipulations indicated that it is partially self-incompatible or suffers some inbreeding depression. In 217 h of observations conducted biweekly over the course of 1 yr, P. royenii received visits from bats, moths, bees, and birds, but the only effective pollinator was the carpenter bee, Xylocopa mordax. Only four bat visits were recorded, all prior to stigma receptiveness. Floral morphology of P. royenii was significantly more variable than that of other bat-pollinated species of the genus. We propose that infrequent bat visits are a consequence of a population crash and that floral variability is due to either relaxed selection for bat pollination or a transitional stage from bat pollination to bee pollination. /// Los sistemas de polinizacin generalizada pueden ser ventajosos en sistemas de islas o regiones de perturbacin sustancial. Examinamos si un colapso de especializacin ha ocurrido en el cactus columnar (Pilosocereus royenii [L] Byles & Rowley [Cactaceae]) aparentemente polinizado por murcilagos en Puerto Rico, una isla peridicamente sujeta a huracanes. Las flores demuestran caractersticas relacionadas con la polinizacin por murcilagos, incluyendo apertura nocturna, morfologa, cantidad y calidad de recompensa de nctar. Las flores producen estilos que estn mecnicamente y temporalmente aisladas de las anteras las cuales son incapaces de autopolinizarse. Manipulaciones manuales indican que esta especie es parcialmente autoincompatible o sufre de depresin endogmica. En 217 horas de observacin realizadas bisemanalmente durante un ao, P. royenii recibi visitas de murcilagos, mariposas nocturnas, abejas y aves, pero el nico visitante efectivo fue la abeja carpintera (Xylocopa mordax). Solo cuatro visitas de murcilagos fueron notadas, todas antes de la receptividad de los estigmas. La morfologa floral de  royenii fue significativamente ms variable que las otras especies de Pilosocereus polinizadas por murcilagos. Proponemos que las visitas infrecuentes de murcilagos son una consecuencia de una disminucin en la poblacin de murcilagos y que la variabilidad floral es debido a una seleccin relajada de los murcilagos polinizadores o un estado de transicin de polinizacin por murcilagos a polinizacin por abejas.
10.2307/2663971|We report observations and experiments on associations of the frogs, Phrynomantis microps and Kassina fusca, and the ponerine ants, Megaponera foetens and Paltothyreus tarsatus, in a West African savanna. Several experiments show that the tolerant behavior of the ants toward these frogs is due to chemical components of the frogs' skin. Comparisons to other syntopic frog species suggest that this enables these frogs to make use of burrows that otherwise are unavailable. This is advantageous because in the savanna, most hiding places that remain moist during the dry season are occupied by ants.
30043095|We investigated the impact of seed predation by large macaws (Ara spp.) on Brazil nut, the seed of Bertholletia excelsa (Lecythidaceae). Counts of macaw-damaged fruit below 50 focal trees in a Peruvian Brazil nut harvesting concession indicated that macaws destroyed about 10 percent of the concession's crop. We compared this impact to other sources of variation in profits from harvesting and suggest methods to compensate harvesters while encouraging them to conserve macaws in their concessions. /// Se investig el impacto causado por guacamayos (Ara spp.) en la depredacin de semillas de castaa (Bertholletia excelsa: Lecythidaceae) en un rodal castaero en el Per. En una muestra de 50 rboles se cont el nmero de frutos afectados por guacamayos encontrados en el suelo, y los resultados indican que alrededor del 10 porciento de la produccin total del rea de aprovechamiento ha sido eliminada por accin de guacamayos. Se compar este impacto con otras causas de variabilidad en la rentabilidad de la cosecha, presentndose recomendaciones para compensar a los castaeros por la prdida de produccin, proporcionando incentivos para la conservacin de guacamayos en sus reas de aprovechamiento.
10.2307/2388998|In response to tactile stimulation and to ultrasonic pulses such as those of attacking bats, many moths of the family Arctiidae produce ultrasonic clicks. To test the hypothesis that these clicks are aposematic sounds, warning bats of unpalatable prey, African moths of these two families were captured at lights, assayed for clicking responses to tactile and ultrasonic stimulation and placed, together with moths of similar body sizes and other families captured at the same time, in a small cage with sympatric Tadarida pumila bats. Arctiid fragments were sought among the insect remains (mostly moth wings) dropped by free-foraging Hipposideros caffer bats. There were no arctiid wings among them, and the captive bats ate a significantly larger proportion of control moths than arctiids. There were no significant differences by species or sex in the arctiids' clicking responses to either stimulus or in their palatability to bats. Since the arctiids did click in response to bat-like stimuli and were clearly less palatable to the bats than the control moths, we conclude that the sounds of these moths can act as aposematic sounds.
20492552|Plants frequently display fruit characteristics that support multiple seed-dispersal syndromes. These ambiguous characteristics may reflect the fact that seed dispersal is usually a complex process involving multiple dispersers. This is the case for the Neotropical ginger Renealmia alpinia (Zingiberaceae). It was originally suggested that the aromatic fruits of R. alpinia located at the base of the plant are adapted for terrestrial mammal seed dispersal. However, the dark-purple coloration of the fruits and bright orange aril surrounding the seeds suggest that birds may play a role in R. alpinia seed dispersal. At La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, we used camera traps to record vertebrate visits to infructescences of R. alpinia. Most visitors were toucans and aracaris (Ramphastidae). However fruits were also removed by terrestrial mammals (coatis and armadillos). In addition to vertebrate fruit removal, some of the fruits dehisce and the seeds that fall on the ground are dispersed by ants. Fruitfall traps showed that 77 percent of fruits are removed by vertebrates. However, 15 percent of fruits fall to the base of parent plants to be potentially dispersed by ants. Experiments using a laboratory ant colony showed that ants are effective seed dispersers of R. alpinia. Ant seed manipulation increased germination success and reduced time to germination. In conclusion, primary seed dispersal in the Neotropical ginger R. alpinia is mostly performed by birds, additionally ants are effective dispersers at short distances. Seed dispersal in R. alpinia is a complex process involving a diverse array of dispersal agents.
30045512|Hurricanes frequently affect the forests of South and Central America; however, few studies have quantified their effects to forest structure, especially when concentrating on the food supply of an animal population. Hurricane Iris made landfall in Southern Belize on 8 October 2001, severely damaging a 52 hectare site where the behavioral ecology of a population of Central American Black Howlers (Alouatta pigra) had been under study for 2.5 yr. The hurricane resulted in a mortality rate of 35 percent for major food trees, which was primarily attributed to uprooting, snapping, and major delimbing. This damage accounted for 97 percent of the food tree loss between the two sample periods. Tree species differences were found in both the percentage loss and category of damage to food trees. Trees of different heights also experienced different percentage loss and levels of damage; subcanopy and emergent trees experienced higher loss than canopy trees, and subcanopy trees were frequently uprooted. This was partially attributed to a lack of buttressing on these subcanopy trees. Buttressing was found to decrease the frequency of uprooting. Tree size was the only factor that did not influence either damage or death. Trees from which fruit were eaten by black howlers died more than twice as often as did trees eaten for leaves.
2388943|Much of the remaining "forest" vegetation in eastern Chiapas, Mexico is managed for coffee production. In this region coffee is grown under either the canopy of natural forest or under a planted canopy dominated by Inga spp. Despite the large differences in diversity of dominant plant species, both planted and rustic shade coffee plantations support a high overall diversity of bird species; we recorded approximately 105 species in each plantation type on fixed radius point counts. We accumulated a combined species list of 180 species on repeatedly surveyed transects through both coffee plantation types. These values are exceeded regionally only by moist tropical forest. Of the habitats surveyed, shade coffee was second only to acacia groves in the abundance and diversity of Nearctic migrants. The two plantation types have similar bird species lists and both are similar in composition to the dominant woodland-mixed pine-oak. Both types of shade coffee plantation habitats differ from other local habitats in supporting highly seasonal bird populations. Survey numbers almost double during the dry season-an increase that is found in omnivorous migrants and omnivorous, frugivorous, and nectarivorous resident species. Particularly large influxes were found for Tennessee warblers (Vermivora peregrina) and northern orioles (Icterus galbula) in Inga dominated plantations.
2663762|A tree species replacement sequence for dry broadleaved forests (tropical hardwood hammocks) in the upper Florida Keys was inferred from species abundances in stands abandoned from agriculture or other anthropogenic acitivities at different times in the past. Stands were sampled soon after Hurricane Andrew, with live and hurricane-killed trees recorded separately; thus it was also possible to assess the immediate effect of Hurricane Andrew on stand successional status. We used weighted averaging regression to calculate successional age optima and tolerances for all species, based on the species composition of the pre-hurricane stands. Then we used weighted averaging calibration to calculate and compare inferred successional ages for stands based on (1) the species composition of the pre-hurricane stands and (2) the hurricane-killed species assemblages. Species characteristic of the earliest stages of post-agricultural stand development remains a significant component of the forest for many years, but are gradually replaced by taxa not present, even as seedlings, during the first few decades. This compositional sequence of a century or more is characterized by the replacement of deciduous by evergreen species, which is hypothesized to be driven by increasing moisture storage capacity in the young organic soils. Mortality from Hurricane Andrew was concentrated among early-successional species, thus tending to amplify the long-term trend in species composition.
10.2307/2989631|The carton nests of the polistine wasps, Polybia occidentalis and P. barbouri, are frequently destroyed by predators feeding on wasp brood in northwestern Costa Rica. The remains of these nests and the signs left by the predators closely matched those observed after several nests were destroyed by the gray-headed kite, Leptodon cayanensis. The frequency of bird predation appeared lowest during the wet season, increased through the dry season, and reached a peak of 50 percent nest destruction in May 1973. In contrast to observations from wetter tropical habitats, ants appear to be a minor source of nest destruction for highly social wasps in a lowland deciduous forest-savanna habitat.
10.2307/2989745|Evidence from morphological and behavioral investigations shows that the genus Brachyphylla, presently referred to the subfamily Stenoderminae, is more properly regarded as a phyllonycterine. Certain aspects of the natural history of Cuban phyllonycterines are discussed.
10.2307/2989797|The cohune palm is one of the most abundant trees in Central America, and its distinctive leaf fronds and tap root system play an important role in soil formation. The results of quantitative studies are presented on the effect of infilling of the stump voids and the subsequent inversion of the soil profile, and also on the influence of the organic matter derived from the palm fronds. These results suggest that, over a period of time, the pedogenesis of communities characterized by an abundance of cohunes is very closely allied to the ecology.
27742824|Lianas are an integral part of tropical forest ecosystems, which usually respond strongly to severe disturbances, such as logging. To compare the effect of different logging systems on the lianas diversity in tropical rain forest, we recorded all lianas and trees  1 cm dbh in two 40-year-old forest sites after clear cutting (CC) and selective cutting (SC) as well as in an old-growth (OG) lowland tropical rain forest on Hainan Island in south China. Results showed that OG contained fewer liana stems and lower species richness (stems: 261, richness: 42 in 1 ha) than CC (606, 52) and SC (727, 50). However, OG had the highest Fisher's  diversity index (17.3) and species richness per stem (0.184). Species composition and dbh class distribution of lianas varied significantly with different logging systems. The mean liana dbh in OG (22.1 cm) were higher than those in CC (7.0 cm) and SC (10.4 cm). Stem twining was the most frequent climbing mechanism represented in the forest, as shown by the greatest species richness, abundance, basal area, and host tree number with this mechanism. The percent of host tree stems 4 cm dbh hosting at least one liana individual in SC (39%) was higher than CC (23%) and OG (19.5%). Large host trees (dbh  60 cm) were more likely to be infested by lianas in SC and OG. Our study demonstrated that logging disturbance could significantly change the composition and structure of liana communities in the lowland tropical rain forest of south China.
10.2307/2388803|Changes in wood density, nutrient content, and invertebrate populations throughout the decay of Cyrilla racemiflora (Cyrillaceaea) were compared with those observed in temperate woody tree species. Wood density tended to remain constant as decay advanced except in the late stages. Nutrients (N, P, Ca, Mg) were in highest concentrations in intact bark, surface wood, and wood in advanced decay Concentrations of N and P were highly correlated, as were concentrations of Ca and Mg. The C/N ratio was determined mainly by changes in N because C tended to remain constant as decay proceeded. The C/N ratio of wood in advanced decav was 79, one of the lowest reported, and the concentration of N was one of the highest reported (0.69%) in studies of wood decomposition. Nitrogen and P were in greater concentrations in the feces of the cerambycid Parandra cribata than in surrounding wood. A total of 138 invertebrate species was identified. The number of species increased as decay progressed. Termites (Parvitermes discolor and Glyptotermes pubescens) and ants (Pheidole moerens. Paratrechina spp. and Solenopsis spp.) were the most abundant invertebrates, with ants more abundant in snags than in logs. The scarcity of bark beetles and wood borers such as carpenter ants and bees in the wood of C. racemiflora contrasted with reports of their presence in dead wood from other tree species.
40645594|The vegetation near El Bosque Petrificado Piedra Chamana, in the northern Peruvian Andes, is evergreen sclerophyllous forest with significant shrub, epiphyte, and mat components. Important/characteristic genera include Dodonaea, Polylepis, Oreopanax, Oreocallis, Myrcianthes, and the mat-forming orchid Pleurothallis. A vegetation survey including 12 transects and 240 plots in high-and low-grazed areas documented 96 plant species. Compared with low-grazed areas, high-grazed areas had significantly fewer tree species, more herbs, and higher density of individuals. Both grazing categories exhibited high connectedness (as seen in network metrics) and positive biotic associations (nestedness), suggesting facilitation of some species by others, but high-grazed areas showed greater indications of positive associations (as seen in the C-score and V-ratio). These positive biotic associations may relate to the harsh environment and the role of keystone taxa such as Dodonaea viscosa, canopy trees, and mat-forming elements in moderating conditions and promoting species establishment. Only in the low-grazed areas was there any indication of competitive interactions (negative C-score/less than expected species-pair occurrence). The shift in sign of the C-score, from negative in low-grazed areas to positive in high-grazed areas, indicates a loss of competitive interactions as a factor influencing community structure where grazing pressure is higher. Conservation of the area's natural resources would be advanced by protection of areas where the vegetation structure is more intact, better controls on grazing animals, and identification of development alternatives that would reduce pressure on the area's unique vegetation.
4132937|The importance of bat pollination has been demonstrated for many plant species. Yet this mutualism has rarely been studied on a community-wide level. In this paper we present results of a yearlong study of a bat-flower community in cloud forests on the western slopes of the Ecuadoran Andes. Of eight plant-visiting bat species caught, only Anoura caudifera and A. geoffroyi were carrying pollen. These species of Anoura supplement their diets with insects. Unlike glossophagines in other environments, however, which switch completely to a frugivorous or insectivorous diet during certain seasons, they are nectarivorous year-round and were never found with seeds or fruit pulp in their feces. Of the 13 morphotypes of pollen carried by the bats, 11 were identified to genus and 7 to species. Floral characteristics of all of these plants fit the traditional chiropterophilous syndrome well. Our study represents the first direct evidence of bat pollination for those plants identified to species, including four species of Burmeistera (Campanulaceae), as well as the first record of bat pollination for a plant of the genus Meriania (Melastomataceae). While overlap in the diets of the two Anoura was high, significant differences in visitation frequencies to particular plant species were detected. The larger bat species (A. geoffroyi) preferred large flowers, whereas the smaller species (A. caudifera) preferred small flowers.
2663815|A survey of two Amazonian melastome ant-plants, Maieta guianensis and Tococa bullifera, revealed a significant difference in plant size according to the species of ant inhabiting the plant. Plants with Crematogaster laevis, on average, were smaller than those with Pheidole minutula (in M. guianensis) and those with Azteca sp. (in T. bullifera). There is no evidence that these patterns were due either to the deterministic replacement of C. laevis by another ant species during host-plant ontogeny or to a habitat effect on plant growth rates coupled with colony survival. More likely, the smaller size of C. laevis plants can be explained by its effects on host-plant performance. Plants with C. laevis lost their associated ant colonies more frequently than plants with P. minutula and Azteca sp. Plants that lost their C. laevis either died, or more commonly, were severely defoliated. Defoliated plants, once sprouted, tended to become recolonized, but such recolonizations were not deterministic so as to favor one species over another. Plants with C. laevis showed similar, or only slightly greater, standing levels of herbivory than plants with P. minutula or Azteca sp. This suggests that when C. laevis is present, it confers some degree of protection to its hosts. It was found that early in colony development, queens of C. laevis moved off their host plants to build satellite nests in dead twigs on the ground, a behavior not seen in the other two species and one that possibly renders colonies more vulnerable to mortality from predation, flooding, or nest decay. Comparable 
2663809|For 26 tree species in very dry tropical forest in Mexico, the developmental trends of relationships among trunk diameter, tree height, and crown diameter were inferred from a one-time measurement of dispersed individuals across the size range from saplings to large, mature trees. On hillside sites in this high diversity forest, maximum dimensions were usually <10-m height, 4-m crown diameter, and 0.3-m trunk diameter. The relationship of height to trunk diameter was characterized by an asymptotic, three-parameter model. Crown diameter was a linear function of trunk diameter. The parameter values for both models varied widely among the species. In general, the dispersion among species of the height-crown diameter relationship increased linearly with trunk diameter (up to 0.2 m). Arborescent cacti were distant from other species at all sizes, although they were well modeled using the same equations. Empirical and theoretical features and limitations of the present and previous models, including mechanical buckling and water-stress theories, are considered.
40863789|Tropical conservationists can benefit from understanding human thought processes. We are often less rational than we might believe. Our judgmental biases may sometimes encourage us to overlook or act against major conservation opportunities. Better appreciation of the tricks of the human mind might make us more openminded, humble, and ready to appreciate different viewpoints. We propose one inherent bias that we believe predisposes conservationists to neglect the value of modified habitats for biodiversity conservation. We call it the 'tainted-nature delusion'. Recognizing such biases can increase our effectiveness in recognizing and achieving viable conservation outcomes.
10.2307/2388285|Hand collecting of ants, sampling all ants in a specific area, and collection with pitfall traps baited with meat, tuna, honey, or with unbaited traps were compared with respect to efficiency in assessing species diversity and abundance in eight different localities in the Venezuelan Llanos. Hand collecting for over 8 hr was the most time-efficient and reliable technique for estimating the number of species. Intensive sampling of ants in a small area proved to be the least efficient method. Each of the techniques sampled a somewhat different set of ant species. The best results were obtained by a combination of hand collecting and pitfall traps. Abundance was better measured by the number of collection sites where the species occurred rather than by the number of individuals collected.
30043201|The role of macroinvertebrates in the process of leaf breakdown is well studied in temperate streams, but less is known about their role in the tropics. We investigated the effect of reducing macroinvertebrate access to leaf material on leaf breakdown rates in a forested headwater stream in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. We measured leaf mass loss using fine and coarse mesh bags over 12 weeks for two common riparian species: Cecropia schreberiana (Moraceae) and Dacryodes excelsa (Burseraceae). Coarse mesh allowed freshwater shrimp and other macroinvertebrates to access leaf material, while fine mesh did not. Leaf breakdown rates did not differ between schreberiana and D. excelsa in coarse mesh bags (-0.0375/day vs. -0.0395/day, respectively), but C. schreberiana breakdown was significantly slower than D. exceha in fine mesh bags (-0.0159/day vs. -0.0266/day). Additionally, breakdown in fine mesh bags was significantly slower compared to coarse mesh bags for C. schreberiana, but less so for D. excelsa. Breakdown rates for all treatments were fast relative to those in temperate-zone streams indicating that both macroinvertebrates and macroinvertebrate-independent processing can strongly influence leaf decomposition in tropical streams. The difference between C. schreberiana and D. exceha indicates that the effect of macroinvertebrate exclusion can change with leaf type. /// El rol de los macroinvertebrados en el proceso de la descomposicin de la hojarasca se ha estudiado extensamente en arroyos de climas templados, pero poco se conoce en los trpicos. Se investig el efecto en las tasas de descomposicin de las hojas a travs de la reduccin del acceso de macroinvertebrados a stas en la cabecera de un arroyo cubierto de vegetacin en el Bosque Experimental de Luquillo, Puerto Rico. Se midi la prdida de masa de hojarasca utilizando empaques de malla gruesa y fina por 12 semanas en dos especies ripcolas comunes: Cecropia schreberiana (Moraceae) y Dacryodes exceha (Burseraceae). Los empaques de malla gruesa permitieron que camarones y otros macroinvertebrados tuvieran acceso libre a las hojas, mientras que los empaques de malla fina no. No hubo diferencia en las tasas de descomposicin de las hojas para C. schreberiana y D. excelsa en los empaques de malla gruesa (-0.0375/da vs. -0.0395/da, respectivamente), pero en los empaques de malla fina la descomposicin de C. schreberiana fue significativamente ms lento que en D. excelsa (-0.0159/da vs. -0.0266/da). Adems, la descomposicin de schreberiana en los empaques de malla fina fue significativamente ms lenta en relacin a los empaques de malla gruesa, pero la diferencia fue menor para D. exceha. Las tasas de descomposicin para todos los tratamientos fueron rpidas en relacin a las encontradas en arroyos de climas templados, indicando que tanto los macroinvertebrados como algunos procesos independientes a los macroinvertebrados influyen grandemente en la descomposicin de hojas en arroyos tropicales. La diferencia entre C. schreberiana y D. excelsa indica que el efecto de exclusin de macroinvertebrados puede variar entre especies.
10.2307/2389237|Nocturnal Sphingidae (hawkmoths or sphinx moths) are important pollinators in tropical forests. Hawkmoth flowers are typically white to the human eye. As the retinas of hawkmoths contain ultraviolet-sensitive photoreceptors, flower patterns reflecting ultraviolet wavelengths (that are not visible to humans) might be significant to sphingid feeding behavior. The flowers of ten hawkmoth-pollinated species were examined with an ultraviolet sensitive video system in Monteverde, Costa Rica. All were found to lack ultraviolet reflectance. A common hawkmoth species, Manduca sexta, whose range extends to Costa Rica was then used in laboratory free choice experiments to determine which wavelengths elicited proboscis extension, probing and drinking of sugar water. When offered a choice between artificial flowers or backlighted filters, Manduca strongly preferred to feed at those reflecting or transmitting only wavelengths longer than 400 nm, avoiding those that also included ultraviolet wavelengths. That is, feeding behavior was best elicited by stimuli that mimicked the reflectance of typical hawkmoth flowers. Feeding behavior must be primarily activated by either the green- or violet-sensitive mechanisms (or both) of the hawkmoth visual system, while concurrent activation of the ultraviolet-sensitive mechanism interferes with it.
10.2307/2388489|The role of fire in recruitment to populations of two Neotropical savanna shrub species, Miconta albicans and Clidemia sericea, was investigated in the Mountain Pine Ridge Forest Reserve, Belize. Seed production and germination in both species were not found to be dependent on the occurrence of fire, although seed production in Clidemia declined with shoot age. Seedling densities for both species reached a peak within 3 yr following a burn and declined over long fire-free periods. A decline in the relative frequency of the smallest seedling size class indicated a decline in seedling establishment with time after a burn. The significantly lower seedling establishment obtained in a savanna hardwood thicket, when compared with that in open savanna and given a comparable artificial seed rain, suggested that the limiting factor was the availability of "safe sites" for seed germination and seedling establishment. Burning creates such safe sites by removing litter and exposing mineral soil. Although seedlings of both species had a high rate of post-burn vegetative sprouting, fire-caused mortality was significant until seedlings attained a height of 43-75 mm. Thus, fire frequencies short enough to allow periodic waves of seedling establishment but long enough to allow seedlings to develop fire tolerance would be expected to result in maximum recruitment and increasing population size.
30043254|We studied the ecological characteristics of 45-50-yr-old subtropical dry forest stands in Puerto Rico that were growing on sites that had been deforested and used intensively for up to 128 yr. The study took place in the Gunica Commonwealth Forest. Our objective was to assess the long-term effects of previous land use on this forest-i.e., its species composition, structure, and functioning. Previous land-use types included houses, farmlands, and charcoal pits. Stands with these land uses were compared with a nearby mature forest stand. The speed and path of forest recovery after deforestation and land-use abandonment depended on the conditions of the land. Study areas where land uses had removed the forest canopy and altered soil conditions (houses and farmlands) required a longer time to recover and had a different species composition than study areas where land uses retained a forest canopy (charcoal pits). Different forest attributes recovered at different rates. Crown area index, stem density, and litterfall rate recovered faster than stemwood and root, biomass, tree height, and basal area. Where previous land uses removed the canopy, Leucaena leucocephala, a naturalized alien pioneer species, dominated the regrowth. Native species dominated abandoned charcoal pits and mature forest. The change in species composition, including the invasion of alien species, appears to be the most significant long-term effect of human use and modification of the landscape. /// Estudiamos las caractersticas ecolgicas de rodales de un bosque seco subtropical en Puerto Rico que tenan 45-50 aos de recuperacin despus de haber sido usados intensamente durante 128 aos. El estudio se realiz en el Bosque Estatal de Gunica. Nuestro objetivo fue el de evaluar los efectos a largo plazo de los distintos tipos de usos del terreno en la composicin de especies, la estructura y el funcionamiento. Los usos de terreno en el pasado incluyeron viviendas, terrenos agrcolas y carboneras. Estos rodales fueron comparados con un rodal de bosque maduro en un rea cercana. La rpidez de recuperacin y la manera en cmo sucede depende de las condiciones del terreno despus de ser abandonado. Las reas de estudio en las que se haba removido el dosel y alterado las condiciones del suelo (casas y terrenos agrcolas) necesitaron ms tiempo para recuperarse y reflejaron una composicin de suelo diferente a las reas de estudio donde el dosel se mantuvo (carboneras). Los diferentes atributos forestales se recuperaban a ritmos diferentes. El ndice del rea foliar de la copa, la densidad de tallos y la cada de hojarasca se recuperaron ms rpido que la biomasa de tallos y races, la altura de los rboles y el rea basal. La especie pionera naturalizada, Leucaena leucocephala (Lam.) de Wit-Fabaceae, fue la especie dominante en los bosques donde se habia removido el dosel. Las especies nativas dominaban las carboneras abandonadas y el bosque maduro. El cambio en la composicin de especies e incluso la invasin de especies forneas, parece ser el efecto a largo plazo ms significativo del uso humano y de la modificacin del paisaje.
10.2307/2389093|We compared forest structure over a 12 yr period (1982-1994) that included measurements before and after a severe hurricane in two forests: a 64 yr old Swietenia macrophylla tree plantation and a paired natural forest of similar age in a subtropical wet forest life zone at 200 m elevation in Puerto Rico. We measured trees  4 cm diameter at breast height in a 40 x 50 m plot at each forest type. The natural forest had lower total tree height (8.8 vs. 10.2 m in 1984), and greater basal area (35.7 vs. 28.5 m
10.2307/2388042|Over 950 species of Malpighiaceae grow in a variety of neotropical habitats and have evolved great diversity in habit, fruit, pollen, and chromosome number. Their flowers, in contrast, tend to be very similar in general architecture, especially in those aspects concerned with the attraction, orientation, and reward of pollinators. The flowers are visited only by Hymenoptera, principally female anthophorid bees and trigonid bees. The anthophorids collect oil from the calyx glands, mix it with pollen, and use the mixture as food for their larvae. The trigonids collect pollen. The usual character-syndrome of the flower seems to be related to and maintained by pollination by oil-bees, and was probably ancestral in the family. Pollination by pollen-collecting bees is probably secondary in many genera and has shifted to primary importance in groups that have lost the calyx glands. Other families such as Polemoniaceae, which have evolved very diverse flowers, reward pollinators with a sugary nectar that attracts a variety of secondary pollinators. This faunal diversity provides a bridge between one character-syndrome in the flowers and another. The specialized rewards and resulting lack of diversity in pollinators in neotropical Malpighiaceae explain why the flowers have remained so conservative in spite of the evolution of great diversity in other aspects of the phenotype. Calyx glands seem to have been lost in most paleotropical lines in the absence of oil-bees, but field observations on the pollination of those plants are practically nonexistent.
30043152|We studied seasonal variation in bird assemblages in a Chaco subtropical semiarid forest, Santiago del Estero Province, Argentina. We carried out seven samplings during both breeding and non breeding periods, in order to assess the resident status and the trophic guild of each species. During the last four samplings we recorded bird populations using 30 fixed-radius points, in order to estimate bird density, species density, evenness, and species diversity. We found that: (1) the bird assemblage had 96 species (67 residents, 19 summer migrants, 1 winter migrant, 5 of doubtful residency and 4 species whose resident status was unknown); (2) higher values of species density, evenness and species diversity were found during breeding periods; and (3) higher community attributes were followed by higher densities of 4 trophic guilds: nectarivores, frugivores and short and long-flight insectivores during the breeding periods. Changes in guild densities were probably associated with the arrival of summer migrants and to seasonal fluctuations in food resources, which in turn promoted seasonal changes in species density and diversity. Different from observations in other avian assemblages of the Chaco, no temporal variations were observed in the terrestrial seedeaters guild. This could be due to the fact that our study site forests are located in a landscape matrix with agricultural fields and grasslands that may offer year-round seed supply. The Chaco subtropical semiarid forest seems to be an important breeding habitat for many migrant species from both Neotropical and Nearctic regions. /// Entre 1997 y 1999, se analizaron las variaciones estacionales de los atributos comunitarios (diversidad, densidad de especies y equitatividad) y de la densidad de gremios trficos en un ensamble de aves del bosque subtropical semirido del Chaco argentino. Se realizaron siete muestreos que abarcaron tanto los perodos reproductivos como los no reproductivos, lo que permiti clasificar a las especies segn su estatus de residencia. En los cuatro ltimos de esos siete muestreos se dispusieron 30 puntos de conteo de radio fijo dentro del bosque para hacer las estimaciones de densidad, densidad de especies, equitatividad y diversidad de aves. Los resultados indicaron: (1) que el ensamble estuvo compuesto por 96 especies (67 residentes, 19 migrantes estivales, 1 migrante invernal, 5 de residencia dudosas y 4 accidentales); (2) que los mayores valores de diversidad, densidad de especies y equitatividad se observaron durante perodos reproductivos; y (3) que los cambios en estos atributos comunitarios estuvieron acompaados por aumentos significativos en las densidades de los gremios de nectarvoras, insectvoras de vuelo corto, insectvoras de vuelo largo y frugvoras durante los perodos reproductivos. Es probable que los cambios estacionales observados en estos gremios estn asociados al aporte del componente migratorio estival y respondan a los incrementos en los niveles de recursos (nctar, frutos e insectos voladores) que tienen lugar en estos ambientes durante la estacin hmeda. Estos cambios gremiales son los que en definitiva promueven los aumentos de los atributos comunitarios. A diferencia de lo observado para otros ensambles de aves en el Chaco, no detectamos variaciones temporales en el gremio de las semilleras terrestres. Esto podra deberse a que en el rea de estudio los bosques estn insertos en una matriz de paisaje que cuenta con reas agrcolas y de pastizales que probablemente provean ofertas sostenidas de semillas a lo largo de todo el ao. Es importante destacar la importancia de los bosques subtropicales semiridos Chaqueos como habitat de reproduccin para las especies migrantes neotropicales y nerticas.
2388934|Processes of forest regeneration in two unlogged areas and in three areas that were logged nearly 25 years ago were quantified in Kibale National Park, Uganda. For forests to recover from logging, one would predict recruitment and growth processes to be accelerated in logged areas relative to unlogged areas, facilitating increased recruitment of trees into the adult size classes. We examined this prediction first by determining the growth of 4733 trees over a 51 to 56 month period and found that growth rates in the most heavily logged area were consistently slower than in the two unlogged areas. In contrast, the lightly logged forest had similar growth rates to unlogged areas in the small size classes, but trees in the 30 to 50 cm DBH size cohort exhibited elevated growth rates relative to the unlogged areas. Mortality was highest in the heavily logged areas, with many deaths occurring when healthy trees were knocked over by neighboring treefalls. We found no difference in the density or species richness of seedlings in the logged and unlogged forests. The number of seedlings that emerged from the disturbed soil (seed bank+seed rain) and initially seed-free soil (seed rain) was greater in the logged forest than in the unlogged forest. However, sapling density was lower in the heavily logged areas, suggesting that there is a high level of seedling mortality in logged areas. We suggest that the level of canopy opening created during logging, the lack of aggressive colonizing tree species, elephant activity that is concentrated in logged areas, and an aggressive herb community, all combine to delay vegetation recovery in Kibale Forest.
41419466|Old field secondary succession of tropical dry forests (TDFs) is poorly understood, particularly regarding the dynamics of seedlings, saplings, and sprouts (regenerative communities). We used chronosequence and dynamic approaches to: (1) document successional trajectories of regenerative communities during the first dozen years of regeneration in abandoned pastures at Chamela, Mexico; (2) test the usefulness of chronosequences to predict the dynamics of regenerative communities along time; and (3) assess the influence of surrounding forest matrix, stand density, and understory light availability (in the rainy season) as driving factors of such dynamics. More than 1000 plants and 95 species of shrubs and trees 10-100 cm tall were monitored between 2004 and 2007 in nine abandoned pastures (0-12 yr since abandonment) and two old-growth forest (OGF) sites; gain and loss rates of plants, species, and plant cover were obtained. Chronosequence predicted a rapid and asymptotic increase of plant density, species density, and plant cover toward the OGF values. Such prediction did not match with dynamic data that showed negative or neutral net community rates of change, independently of fallow age. Recruitment and species gain rates increased with the amount surrounding forest matrix. No other effect of the explored factors was detected. Strong rainfall shortenings could be responsible for the high loss and low gain rates of plants and species recorded in most sites. We highlight the critical role of supra-annual rainfall variability on the dynamics of TDF regenerative communities and the poor predictive value of chronosequences in forest systems subjected to strong environmental temporal variation.
30043220|We compared vegetation structure and species richness across a 56-yr chronosequence of six replicated age classes of dry tropical forest on the island of Providencia, Colombia, in the Southwest Caribbean. Stand age classes were determined using sequential, orthorectified panchromatic aerial photos acquired between 1944 and 1996 and Landsat 7 ETM + satellite imagery from 2000. Along the chronosequence we established 59 plots of 2 x 50 m (0.01 ha) to document changes in species richness, basal area, tree height, stem density, and sprouting ability. All woody trees and shrubs >2.5 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) were censused and measured. Although woody species density reached a peak in stands from 32 to 56 yr old, rarefaction analysis showed that species richness increased linearly with stand age and was highest in stands 56 yr old or greater. Nonparametric, abundance-based estimators of species richness also showed positive and linear associations with age. Basal area and mean tree height were positively associated with age since abandonment, while sprouting ability showed a negative relationship. Our results indicate rapid recovery of woody species richness and structural characteristics along this tropical dry forest chronosequence. /// Comparamos la estructura y la riqueza de especies del bosque seco tropical en la isla de Providencia, Colombia, en el Caribe sur occidental, a travs de una cronosecuencia > 56 aos con replicas en seis grupos de edad. Las clases etarias fueron determinadas utilizando fotografas areas pancromticas ortorectificadas tomadas entre 1944-1996 e imgenes de satlite Landsat 7 ETM+ del ao 2000. A lo largo de la cronosecuencia establecimos 59 cuadrantes de 2 x 50 m (0.01 ha) para documentar el cambio de riqueza de especies, rea basal, altura, densidad de fustes y capacidad de retoo. Se censaron y midieron todos los rboles y arbustos >2.5 cm DAR Aunque la densidad de especies alcanz un pico en el grupo de edad de 32-56 aos, el anlisis de rarefaccin mostr que la riqueza de especies incrementa linealmente con la edad de los cuadrantes, obtenindose el mayor valor para el grupo de edad > 56 aos. Los indicadores no-paramtricos de riqueza de especies, basados en abundancia, mostraron una asociacin positiva y lineal con la cronosecuencia. El area basal y la altura promedio exhibieron una asociacin positiva con la edad de abandono del bosque, mientras que la relacin de la edad del bosque con la capacidad de retoo fue negativa. Nuestros resultados indican una rpida recuperacin de la riqueza de especies leosas y de las caractersticas estructurales a lo largo de esta cronosecuencia.
10.2307/2388088|A novel pathway is proposed to explain the occasional breakdown of prezygotic (chemical-courtship) isolating mechanisms in mimetic ithomiine butterflies (Mechanitis polymnia and M. lysimma) In dense dry-season populations, mixed groups of males have been observed to court a single female. She becomes receptive through recognition of the pheromone produced by the conspecific majority males, but may be mated by a transpecific minority male in the courting group, leading to accidental interspecific hybridization. All five interspecific matings observed in Sumare, Sao Paulo, Brazil, were between a female of the more-abundant species, M. polymnia casabranca, and a male of the less-abundant M. lysimnia lysimnia. The F
10.2307/2387991|The reproductive biology of the Turquoise-browed Motmot (Eumomota superciliosa) was studied at five sites in Yucatan, Mexico, during 1980, 1981, and 1982. Pairs of E. superciliosa reared their young within beam-socket recesses in the walls of archaeological ruins. This novel situation facilitated the gathering of data, previously unpublished for E. superciliosa, on laying interval, hatch percentage, and nestling survival. Comparisons of this man-impacted population with other, relatively undisturbed populations of the species were possible. Initiation of laying was correlated with the onset of local spring (May-June) rainfall. Eggs were deposited at approximately 48-hour intervals. Mean fresh egg weight was 8.07 g during 1982. A clutch of four represented approximately 50% of adult body weight. In 1980, clutch size averaged 3.86 eggs per nest; hatch, 2.41 eggs per nest; nestling survival to 24 days, 1.05 young per nest; in 1982, these means were 3.97, 2.56, and 1.56, respectively. Significant differences in hatch and nestling survival occurred between several sites; these are discussed in relation to site-specific predator proximity and rainfall patterns.
27742846|Seed dispersal by small primates may be particularly relevant in areas where populations of larger frugivores have been reduced or extinguished by hunting and/or habitat disturbance. In this context, the aim of this study was to evaluate the role of the golden-headed lion tamarin Leontopithecus chrysomelas as a seed disperser in Atlantic forest remnants in Brazil. To this end, we opportunistically collected feces deposited during observations on the feeding behavior of two groups of golden-headed lion tamarins ranging in the degraded areas of the Una Biological Reserve, Bahia, Brazil, from February 2006 to January 2007. We collected 587 fecal samples, of which 524 contained seeds from 24 plant species, distributed over 13 families. Disregarding seeds of &lt; 3 mm, the majority of seeds recovered were bromeliad seeds. In general, ingestion of seeds by golden-headed lion tamarins did not improve the germination proportion or decrease the germination delay of seeds, with the exception of Aechmea spp. seeds. The tamarins encountered different habitats during their daily activity period, while feeding and defecating. Consequently, some seeds were transported to different habitats including disturbed areas. Thus, the role of seed dispersal in combination with the daily movement pattern of L. chrysomelas contributes to the persistence of fruit plants and epiphyte species and to the natural regeneration process within Atlantic forest remnants.
10.2307/2387898|Seasonal variation in population density, reproduction, and mortality was observed in an island population of the tropical forest rodent Proechimys semispinosus. Average density was 8.5 individuals per hectare, with the maximum in August being 1.3 times higher than the minimum in April. Reproduction continued year round, although breeding was most intensive in the dry season. The highest proportion of trappable young animals in the population occurred in July-August. Mortality was relatively constant throughout the year, but increased slightly from the dry season to late in the rainy season. Observed seasonal variation in density of spiny rats is caused by seasonal changes in reproduction intensity. The timing of reproduction is such that most young are born in the period of the richest food supply. This guarantees optimal food conditions for lactating females and weaned offspring.
3593162|We examined the interaction between a palm and two bruchid beetles along with several mammal species to explore how poachers and habitat fragmentation may indirectly alter the spatial pattern of seed dispersal, seed predation, and seedling recruitment in central Panama. The large, stony endocarps of Attalea butyraceae decay slowly and bear distinctive scars when opened by rodents or beetles. We determined the final distance between endocarps and reproductive trees (which we call an ecologically effective dispersal distance), the predation status of each endocarp, and the distance between seedlings and reproductive trees. The 68 focal trees were divided among 14 sites and four levels of anthropogenic disturbance. Levels of disturbance included full protection from poachers, light and heavy pressure from poachers, and small island habitat fragments. Ecologically effective seed dispersal distances were greatest for protected sites, intermediate for lightly poached sites, and shortest for heavily poached sites and habitat fragments. Seed predation by rodents increased with distance to the nearest reproductive Attalea and was greatest for fully protected sites, intermediate for lightly poached sites, and least for heavily poached sites and habitat fragments. Seed predation by beetles reversed the patterns described for seed predation by rodents. Total seed predation by beetles and rodents combined was independent of distance, greatest for fully protected sites, and lower for poached sites and habitat fragments. Seedling densities were always greatest close to reproductive trees; however, the increase in seedling densities close to reproductive trees was minimal for fully protected sites, clearly evident for poached sites, and pronounced for habitat fragments. Increased seedling recruitment near conspecific trees may in time reduce tree diversity where humans disrupt mammal communities.
10.2307/2388393|We quantified herbivory on leaves of two mangrove species, Rhizophora mangle and Avicennia germinans, at eight sites in Belize. Amounts and types of damage were compared among three mainland sites and five mangrove cays off the coast. Several environmental and autecological factors that potentially influence herbivory were examined, including canopy cover, tree age, leaf age, tidal height, and nutrient enrichment. Herbivores damaged 4.3 percent to 25.3 percent of Rhizophora leaf area and 7.7 percent to 36.1 percent of Avicennia leaf area, figures comparable to other mangal throughout the world. On average, Avicennia was less frequently damaged than Rhizophora at all sites but one. Herbivory at a bird rookery was not significantly higher than elsewhere, indicating that nutrient enrichment of leaves did not stimulate herbivory at this site. Significant but inconsistent differences in damage were detected between the cays and mainland sites. Significant differences, dependent on tidal height, were found between seedlings and trees. Rhizophora seedlings growing under a canopy of adult conspecifics suffered twice as much damage as seedlings growing in areas where the adult canopy was removed. Damage types occurring on each species were consistent across all sites, but the two species did not share the same herbivores.
27742791|Because of the large differences between flower buds and leaves as food resources we predict that florivore caterpillars compared with folivores would present: (1) higher degree of dietary specificity; (2) higher abundance; and (3) lower species richness. Based on emerged adults from caterpillars collected on leaves and inflorescences our results showed that the florivore fauna was strongly dominated by a few species with higher abundance and dietary specificity than the folivore fauna.
10.2307/2388038|Two species of small gekkonid lizards, genus Sphaerodactylus, occur on St. Croix. S. macrolepis occupies most of the island, and S. beattyi is restricted to three disjunct areas in the eastern part of St. Croix. There is little or no overlap of the two species' ranges. At several points the two are very sharply parapatric. We compare the current distributions with records from the late 1930's and from 1965. Borders between the two species appear to have oscillated back and forth during the last 40 years. This distributional pattern is probably due to the competitive exclusion of beattyi by macrolepis from the more mesic portions of the island, which appears to be the most favorable habitat for both species. Evaporative water loss is significantly lower for beattyi, supporting this interpretation. We discuss a model of interspecific competition along an environmental gradient which could explain these observations.
40891342|Stable carbon isotope ratios () of plants increase linearly from ground to canopy. Accordingly, I used C for estimating strata use of fig-eating bats. Data suggest that, overall, bats commuted at lower but fed at higher forest strata, and that small bats foraged at lower forest strata than large bats.
30045374|This study applies a novel, vertically stratified fogging protocol to document arthropod abundance, density, and biomass across a vertical gradient in a primary, lowland dipterocarp forest canopy in Borneo. We fogged arthropods at 5 m vertical intervals and 20 m horizontal intervals along six full-canopy transects and measured leaf surface areas along the same transects. The results show that arthropod biomass in the aboveground regions was 23.6 kg/ha, the abundance was 23.9 million individuals/ha, and the density on leaf surfaces was 280 individuals/m2 leaf area. All three numbers are five to ten times higher than estimated by previous surveys of tropical lowland rain forest canopies using mass-collection techniques. Arthropod abundance and biomass were analyzed in relation to canopy structure, composition, vapor pressure deficit (VPD), photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD), and height. Using stepwise regression we found that 13 of 14 arthropod groups had significant positive relationships with one-sided leaf area, 11 had significant negative relationships with VPD, 3 had significant relationships with height, and none showed positive relationships with light. Classifying the 14 taxa based on their responses to leaf area and VPD created three groups that corresponded roughly to the biology of these taxa. This study suggests that the biomass and abundance, and perhaps therefore-by extrapolation-the biodiversity, of tropical canopy arthropods may be very much higher than previously estimated.
10.2307/2388236|Predators inflict high mortality on the four species of wasps associated with the fig Ficus pertusa L. in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Because one of these wasps is the obligate pollinator of the fig, predation may have a strong impact on successful pollen donation by the plant. The natural histories of several predators are described: an ant that feeds on wasps arriving to oviposit, moth and weevil larvae that destroy wasps as they develop within the fruits, a staphylinid beetle that feeds on mature wasps before they leave the fruits, and a group of birds that gleans wasps as they leave. The synchrony of arrival and departure of pollinators from the fig trees probably make them the species least vulnerable to predation.
30043146|In many forest ecosystems, green leaf deposition (greenfall) constitutes an enrichment over background levels of litterfall nutrients and may therefore influence key ecosystem processes. This study examined the litter quality and decomposition rates of green leaves compared to senescent litterfall for four dominant tree species {Dacryodes excelsa, Manilkara bidentata, Guarea guidonia, and Cecropia schreberiand) in a lower montane rain forest at El Verde Field Station, Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Green leaves from the canopy and freshly senesced leaves from the forest floor were analyzed for carbon, nitrogen, and fiber and placed in litterbags in the field for up to 16 weeks. Green leaves displayed significantly higher rates of decomposition than did senescent litter among all four species. Green leaves also had significantly higher nitrogen concentrations and lower lignin to nitrogen ratios compared to senescent leaves. These results suggest that greenfall may have a major influence on decay processes and nutrient cycling in forests that experience large-scale green foliage removal. /// En muchos ecosistemas forestales, la adicin de hojas verdes constituye en altos niveles de enriquecimiento de nutrientes de hojarasca y por lo tanto puede influir en los procesos fundamentales de un ecosistema. Este estudio examina la calidad de hojarasca y la tasa de descomposicin de hojas verdes comparado con hojas senescentes recin cadas de cuatro especies dominantes (Dacryodes excelsa, Manilkara bidentata, Guarea guidonia, y Cecropia schreberiand) en un bosque lluvioso montaoso bajo en la estacin El Verde, Bosque Experimental de Luquillo, Puerto Rico. Hojas verdes de la copa de los rboles y hojas senescentes recin cadas en el suelo del bosque fueron analizadas para carbono, nitrgeno, y fibra, y fueron colocadas en bolsas de basura en el suelo del bosque por 16 semanas. Las hojas verdes mostraron tasas de descomposicin significativamente mayores que la hojarasca senescente entre todas las cuatro especies. Las hojas verdes muestran significativamente mayores concentraciones de nitrgeno y menores relaciones de lignina-nitrgeno comparado con las hojas senescentes. Estos resultados sugieren que la cada de hojas verdes puede influir en forma significativa en los procesos de descomposicin y ciclaje de nutrientes en bosques que experimentan a gran escala remocin de follaje verde.
10.2307/2388664|To investigate the dynamics of nutrient transfer in fine litter, we assessed the forest floor standing mass, input rates, and turnover rates of litter derived from terrestrially rooted material in a neotropical cloud forest in Monteverde, Costa Rica and compared them to litter dynamics in other tropical cloud forests. The mean standing crop of fine litter was 10.1 t ha$^{-1}$, and showed no striking seasonal differences but apparent annual differences. Input of fine litter was 7.0 t ha$^{-1}$ y$^{-1}$ and showed a strong seasonal pattern, with greatest amounts of fine litter falling during the dry season. Nutrient input from fine litter was (kg ha$^{-1}$ y$^{-1}$): N, 93; P, 6; Ca, 115; Mg, 15; and K, 12. Assuming a steady state condition in this old-growth forest, fine litter had an annual decay rate (K$_a$) of 0.69 and a turnover time (1/K$_a$) of 1.4 years. About 25 percent of N and 42 percent of P were retranslocated from foliage prior to abscission. Litter nutrient fluxes were high and nutrient use efficiency was low compared to other tropical montane forests, indicating that N and P may not be as limiting in this forest as in other montane forests.
3593160|Resistance and resilience of Najas marina to disturbance by flash floods were studied in a permanent fluvial pool of a Brazilian semiarid intermittent stream. A total of 21 macrophyte samples was collected in the high-rainfall season during two annual cycles (1996-1997). Decreases in macrophyte biomass were positively correlated with flood magnitude (Pearson, P = 0.047), varying from 25 to 53 percent when discharges were lower than or equal to
30043048|I analyzed patterns of variation in root mass allocation and root morphology among seedlings of woody species in relation to environmental factors in four Neotropical forests. Among forests, I explored the response of root traits to sites varying in water or nutrient availability. Within each forest, I explored the plastic response of species to different microhabitats: gaps and understory. Additionally, I explored evidence for life history correlation of root and shoot traits by comparing species differing in their successional group (light-demanding [22 spp.] or shade tolerant [27 spp.]) and germination type (species with photosynthetic cotyledons or species with reserve cotyledons). At each forest site, young seedlings from 10 to 20 species were excavated. A total of 55 species was collected in understory conditions and 31 of them were also collected in gaps. From each seedling, six morphological ratios were determined. Allocation to roots was higher in forest sites with the lowest soil resources. Roots were finer and longer in the most infertile site, while roots were deeper in the site with the longest dry season. Seedling traits did not differ between germination types. Shade tolerant species allocated more to roots and developed thicker roots than light-demanding species. Light-demanding species showed stronger plastic responses to habitat than shade tolerant species, and species with photo-synthetic cotyledons showed lower plasticity than species with reserve cotyledons. Overall, these results suggest that among Neotropical species, root allocation and root morphology of seedlings reflect plant adjustments to water or nutrient availability at geographic and microhabitat scales. In addition, life history specialization to light environments is suggested by differences among groups of species in their allocation to roots and in their root morphology. /// Analic los patrones de variacin en la asignacin de biomasa y en la morfologa de races de plntulas de especies leosas en relacin a factores ambientales en cuatro bosques Neotropicales. Entre los bosques, explor la respuesta promedia de caractersticas de las plntulas en sitios que varan en disponibilidad de agua o nutrientes en el suelo. Dentro de cada bosque, explor la respuesta fenotpica de las especies entre claros y sotobosque. Adems, explore correlaciones de la historia de vida de las especies con caractersticas de races y parte area, comparando especies con diferente hbito sucesional (demandante de luz [22 spp.] o tolerante a la sombra [27 spp.]) y tipo de germinacin (especies con cotiledones fotosintticos o cotiledones de reserva). En cada bosque, se excavaron plntulas de 10 a 20 especies manteniendo la integridad de sus races. Se colectaron 55 especies en el sotobosque y 31 de ellas fueron colectadas tambin en claros. De cada plntula obtuve seis parmetros morfolgicos de races y parte area. La asignacin de biomasa a races fue mayor en los bosques con menos recursos. Las plntulas desarrollaron races ms finas, y con mayor longitud por unidad de superficie fotosinttica, en el sitio menos frtil. En cambio, las races tendieron a ser ms profundas en relacin al rea fotosinttica en el sitio ms estacional. Las especies tolerantes a la sombra asignaron ms biomasa a races y desarrollaron races ms gruesas que las especies demandantes de luz. Las caractersticas morfolgicas de las plntulas no difirieron entre tipos de germinacin. Las especies demandantes de luz mostraron mayor plasticidad al habitat en la asignacin de biomasa a races, que las especies tolerantes a la sombra. Las especies con cotiledones fotosintticos mostraron menor plasticidad al hbitat en la asignacin de biomasa a races que las especies con cotiledones de reserva. En conjunto, mis resultados sugieren que para especies Neotropicales la asignacin de biomasa y la morfologa de races en plntulas reflejan ajustes de las plantas a la disponibilidad de agua o nutrientes a escala geogrfica y de micro-hbitat. Adems, se sugiere que la asignacin de biomasa y la morfologa de races son componentes del sndrome de especializacin a ambientes lumnicos en el bosque.
10.2307/2388787|Field observations and experiments on the floral biology and pollinators of Phenakospermum guyannense (Strelitziaceae) were conducted in the coastal savannahs near Cayenne, French Guiana. Phenakospermum is an arborescent herb that is distributed throughout tropical South America east of the Andes from Venezuela to Bolivia where it is usually found in open, secondary growth in savannahs and at forest margins. It reaches heights of over 10 m; each shoot is terminated by a massive inflorescence nearly 4 m long. Flowering occurs from the end of the rainy season to the middle of the dry season and a single inflorescence can produce flowers for 2 to 4 months. The large, hermaphroditic flowers emerge from the protective inflorescence bracts just before sunset and are receptive for one night. From 1.2 to 3.0 ml of hexose-dominant nectar, with a mean concentration of 16.9 percent, is produced by each flower. Flower-visiting bats of the genus Phyllostomus were the primary pollinators observed during the study in French Guiana. Caluromys philander, a nocturnally foraging marsupial, visited the flowers to rob nectar, but did not effect pollination. These observations on the floral biology of Phenakospermum suggest a pollination system that has coevolved with the bat visitors. Additional evidence on the pollination systems of the two other genera in the Strelitziaceae support the conjecture that specific characters, such as inflorescence habit, nocturnal flowering, and non-replenishable nectar, are specializations for pollination by bats.
10.2307/2989816|A general view of the past and present importance of secondary vegetation is mentioned as well as the role of man in the recent past as an important factor in the explosive increase of this type of vegetation. A dynamic classification system of secondary vegetation in the Mexican tropical lowlands is proposed. Environmental variability is discussed, particularly in relation to the selection of local populations of secondary species owing to the presence of different microenvironments. Niche diversity provided by secondary vegetation is exemplified by a study of the ecology of five sympatric species of the genus Piper. A proposal is offered to explain the richness of species in the tropics based upon the ecology of secondary environments. A model of the speciation of a genus of the secondary vegetation is presented using secondary environment as the selective factor and also as an indirect ecological barrier. This hypothesis is reinforced by a list of genera, the species of which occur mainly in secondary vegetation. It is the author's contention that the evolution of many tropical plant taxa cannot be understood without considering their behavior in the secondary vegetation. Se presenta un panorama de la importancia de esta vegetacin en el mundo actual y en el pasado, explicando el papel del hombre en esta vegetacin. Con base en un sistema de clasificacin de los distintos tipos de origen de esta vegetacin, se discute la variabilidad ambiental local en funcin de la posible seleccin de especies secundarias en distintos microambientes. En funcin de la diversidad de nichos creados por la vegetacin secundaria se mencionan algunos ejemplos de posible evolucin simptrica de poblaciones de gneros secundarios que han sido considerados de taxonoma compleja (Piper). Se postula la idea de que la riqueza de especies en los trpicos esta fuertemente vinculada a la vegetacin secundaria y que la evolucin de muchos taxa tropicales no pueden entenderse sin tomar en cuenta su comportamiento en la sucesin secundaria.
40863780|For tropical wild biodiversity to survive, it must occupy a large terrain, be permanently endowed, and be integrated with its local, national, and international society. Among other things, integration will be enormously facilitated by giving bioilliterate humanity all seven billion of us the ability to read wild biodiversity anywhere any time for the personal cost of a pocket comb. That is true universal bioliteracy. DNA barcoding is the technology for this, and a personal or an institutional decision to sustain its cheap cost will cut the Gordian knot.
10.2307/2388069|In this paper we present data on the seed shadows produced by frugivorous bats in a Costa Rican dry tropical forest and document the density and dispersion patterns of their food species. At Santa Rosa National Park, frugivorous bats are mobile foragers and have relatively broad diets. They create mixed-species seed shadows with most seeds being deposited around fruiting trees, under night roosts, or in their day roosts. Saplings and trees of small-seeded fruit species have clumped dispersion patterns, and mixed-species clumps involving associations among Cecropia peltata, Muntingia calabura, and Chlorophora tinctoria occur in disturbed forest sites. We discuss the general factors that influence plant distribution patterns and conclude that seedling establishment probabilities are concordant with seed-deposition probabilities, at least in small-seeded, bat-dispersed colonizing plant species. Single- and mixed-species clumps are the products of interactions between seed shadows created by frugivorous vertebrates and the non-random distribution of seed germination and seedling establishment sites.
10.2307/2388995|The levels of seed set and aborted seeds, ovules, and flowers and fruits were determined in 232 species of plants in relation to inflorescence type, inflorescence position, synchronization of anthesis within the inflorescence and the pollination unit, and the combination of these variables. The percentage of variance between the levels of aborted ovules, aborted flowers and fruits, and seed set was significantly greater for inflorescence type than the other variables. The percentage of variance explained by different groups of variables (grouped by cluster analysis) in the abortion levels and seed set does not differ from that of the individual variables. The lowest levels of aborted seeds occur in spadices, as well as in axillary and terminal/axillary inflorescences. The lowest levels of aborted ovules and the highest levels of seed set occurred in terminal, capituliform inflorescences. The lowest levels of flower-fruit abortion were found in solitary flowers and in terminal, capituliform inflorescences, and in synchronous anthesis. There was a general tendency in this sample for low levels of abortion and high seed set to be associated with the low cost of fruits and individual seeds in inflorescence units. These results are interpreted on the basis of the biomass assigned to flowers, fruits, and seeds, as well as particular characteristics of the qualitative characters.
10.2307/2388358|The influence of temperature and nectar production on the pollination of Mirabilis jalapa L. (the four o'clock) is documented for a Central Mexico population. Below about 13$^\circ$C at dusk, pollen transfer was nil because the hawkmoths that pollinate the plant failed to fly. Between 13$^\circ$C and 21$^\circ$C the pollination efficiency increased linearly with dusk temperature. As M. jalapa is capable of selfing, the breeding structure of the population seems to depend on temperature conditions, being mainly autogamous on cool nights and allogamous on warm nights. For a particular temperature the activity of the hawkmoths was dependent on nectar availability, their maximum rate of activity occurring after the maximum rate of nectar production.
30045454|We developed an automated tree crown analysis algorithm using 1-m panchromatic IKONOS satellite images to examine forest canopy structure in the Brazilian Amazon. The algorithm was calibrated on the landscape level with tree geometry and forest stand data at the Fazenda Cauaxi (3.75 S, 48.37 W) in the eastern Amazon, and then compared with forest stand data at Tapajos National Forest (3.08 S, 54.94 W) in the central Amazon. The average remotely sensed crown width (mean  SE) was 12.7  0.1m (range: 2.0-34.0 m) and frequency of trees was 76.6 trees/ha at Cauaxi. At Tapajos, remotely sensed crown width was 13.1  0.1 m (range: 2.0-38.0 m) and frequency of trees was 76.4 trees/ha. At both Cauaxi and Tapajos, the remotely sensed average crown widths were within 3 percent of the crown widths derived from field measurements, although crown distributions showed significant differences between field-measured and automated methods. We used the remote sensing algorithm to estimate crown dimensions and forest structural properties in 51 forest stands (1 km) throughout the Brazilian Amazon. The estimated crown widths, tree diameters (dbh), and stem frequencies differed widely among sites, while estimated biomass was similar among most sites. Sources of observed errors included an inability to detect understory crowns and to separate adjacent, intermingled crowns. Nonetheless, our technique can serve to provide information about structural characteristics of large areas of unsurveyed forest throughout Amazonia.
10.2307/2388173|The hispine bettle Xenarescus monocerus feeds on parts of three species of Heliconia plants in a Venezuelan premontane wet forest: the immature rolled leaves of H. bihai and H. revoluta and the flower bracts of H. bihai and H. aurea. Experimental results indicate that the larvae prefer leaves over bracts but grow most rapidly on H. bihai bracts, where, however, they may suffer the effects of competition from another hispine beetle, Cephaloleia neglecta. The result of this competition is the feeding of X. monocerus larvae on the youngest bracts and the rapid migration of these larvae from bracts to leaves.
10.2307/2387830|Fern-eating forest grasshoppers of two species were studied in Costa Rica. Hylopedetes nigrithorax lives in groups on particular ferns in light-gaps. Homeomastax dentata is solitary and found throughout the forest. The relative palatability of 13 species of fern was established, including species supporting Hylopedetes colonies, species on which Homeomastax was found, and controls. The palatability scores obtained with Homeomastax were relatively closely grouped and only the least palatable plant was significantly less preferred. The scores obtained from Hylopedetes were more widely spread, and the most palatable plants were significantly preferred. This suggests that Hylopedetes is more specialised in its feeding habits, Homeomastax more generalised. The rank order of palatability to the two grasshoppers was significantly positively correlated. The proximal basis of palatability differences seems to be chemical, but the content of phenols, nitrogen, tannins and fiber showed no correlation with palatability. The siting of Hylopedetes colonies appears to be determined by sunlight and fern palatability. Most colonies are found on the most palatable fern, but the longest lived colonies occur on a less preferred species which better survives successional change.
2663763|The distribution of lianas (woody climbing plants) on trees in a lowland "liana forest" of northeastern Bolivia was clumped and varied with characteristics of individual trees and tree neighbors. In twenty-four 900-m
10.2307/2387716|Litter and soil disturbance in the wake of white-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) herds in southeastern Peru indicates that these animals often forage intensively at the bases of "objects" such as trees, exposed roots, logs, and lianas. I sampled the litter and soil near such objects on the forest floor, and found that fruits of the common palm trees were encountered more frequently near objects than in the open. This pattern was especially well marked for seeds of an Astrocaryum palm having a very restricted fruiting season. Where white-lippeds had recently foraged, densities of some fruit types were significantly reduced near objects. Apparently the peccaries are consuming palm fruits that have been scatter-hoarded by rodents.
10.2307/2389180|Vegetation changes in Sahel have been partly explained by overgrazing. Some authors have queried the importance of herbivory as a cause of succession in arid areas, but this requires a differentiation between life-forms. In this study abundances of phanerophytes and chamaephytes were estimated on 30 hills on an arid mountain plateau in eastern Sahel, influenced by mist from the Red Sea. Their relative abundances were compared with a similar study in 1953 when the area was partly protected against browsing. Significant spatial and temporal trends were found by ordination techniques. Succession from an open woodland to a very open shrubland was revealed. Hardwood trees suitable for fuel and other plants of direct commercial value decreased. Plants with small, sclerophyllous leaves, and/or toxic chemicals increased. The changes are attributed to an increased human population and intensified browsing. These biotic factors interacted with drought periods. Species that also grow in the surrounding Sahelian transition zone were relatively more stable than those with a disjunct distribution in the region, which occur in the area of more moist regional climate found in the Ethiopian highland.
27742855|Estimates of the percent of Earth's land surface that has either been transformed or degraded by human activity range between 39 and 50 percent, with agriculture accounting for the vast majority of these changes. Although much of the focus of research on land use and cover change in the tropics has been on deforestation, ongoing socioeconomic changes both locally and globally have made land transitions in the tropics extremely fluid. In addition, feedbacks between land cover change and human behavior constrain the extent and trajectories of land transitions. The sustainability of land use systems in the tropics depends on an understanding of coupled humannatural systems that can lead to general frameworks for management and prediction. The unprecedented availability of land use/cover data together with ecological data collected at large spatial scales offer exciting opportunities for advancing our understanding of socioecological systems. We rely on six studies of land transitions in the tropics to illustrate some promising approaches and pose critical questions to guide this body of research.
10.2307/2387973|Atta cephalotes foragers transfer leaf fragments to "carrier" ants at junctions of new branch trails and the established trail. A more pronounced specialization into "harvesters" and "carriers" is exhibited by A. sexdens rubropilosa in which smaller ants harvesting in the tops of tall trees drop material to the ground where larger workers collect it.
30045432|Abstracts in Spanish and Portuguese are available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388703|The association between Azteca ants and Cecropia trees is the most conspicuous ant-plant mutualism in the neotropics, yet little is known about the identities or community ecology of the species involved. A survey of ant communities found in Costa Rican Cecropia trees revealed a community of Azteca species obligately associated with Cecropia, and a diverse assemblage of non-obligate ants in a variety of genera. High occupation rates of Cecropia saplings and trees, and presence of many incipient colonies in saplings vs single colonies in trees, suggest that Cecropia are a limiting resource for which ants compete. Obligate Azteca appeared competitively superior to non-obligate ants, since non-obligate ants were never found dominating mature trees. Competitive relationships between obligate Azteca were not clear; local communities contained three to four Azteca species using the same host tree species resource. Two Azteca species had a parapatric distribution, the zone of parapatry co-occurring with a similar zone of parapatry between two Cecropia species. At the boundary, the Azteca species were not host specific. Possible factors influencing the outcome of competition between ants for Cecropia trees include queen and worker behavior, priority effects, partial hostplant specialization, and habitat specialization. Explanation of current distributions may require knowledge of historical factors and stochastic effects.
30045510|In 1998, storms related to Hurricane Isis caused extensive gaps in the cloud forest of El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve in Chiapas, Mexico, where severe storms are infrequent. We examined how this disturbance affected bird species composition. Species richness and composition were similar both between pre- and post-disturbance forest and between newly created gaps and plots that remained forested after the hurricane. However, differences in response guilds were greater between pre- and post-disturbance plots than between forest plots with gaps after disturbance. Granivorous, omnivorous, and terrestrial species were more abundant before the hurricane, whereas insectivorous, midstory, and generalist foragers were more abundant after the hurricane. In addition, species with high sensitivity to disturbance were more abundant in the pre-disturbance forest, while low sensitivity species were more abundant after disturbance. In the post-disturbance forest, insectivorous species were most abundant in gaps and terrestrial-canopy foragers were most abundant in forest plots. Permanently open areas had significantly lower species richness, but had lowland generalist and second-growth species not present in the cloud forest. Results suggest that changes in species composition were not limited to the newly created gaps, but also affected the whole forest. The decline of high sensitivity species after disturbance supports the hypothesis that disturbance negatively affects specialists and benefits generalist species. Although there is evidence that natural communities tend to return to pre-disturbance conditions, changes in community structure could be aggravated if recurrent hurricanes occur before succession takes place. /// En 1998 tormentas asociadas al huracn Isis crearon huecos en el bosque de niebla de la Reserva de la Biosfera El Triunfo, Chiapas, Mxico. Daos severos causados por tormentas son infrecuentes en esta rea. La riqueza y composicin de especies fueron similar antes y despus de la perturbacin, as como entre los huecos creados por la tormenta y el bosque. Sin embargo, las diferencias en los gremios de respuesta fueron mayores entre pre-y post-perturbacin que entre huecos y bosque despus de la perturbacin. Especies granvoras, omnvoras, y terrestres fueron ms abundantes antes del huracn. Mientras que especies insectvoras, de sotobosque, y generalistas de estrato fueron ms abundantes despus del huracn. Adems, especies con alta sensibilidad a la perturbacin fueron ms abundantes antes de la perturbacin, mientras que especies con baja sensibilidad incrementaron despus de la perturbacin. Despus del huracn, especies insectvoras fueron ms abundantes en los huecos y especies forrajeras de terrestre/dosel fueron ms abundantes en el bosque. reas con perturbacin permanente mostraron una riqueza menor que el bosque, pero tuvieron especies generalistas y de crecimiento secundario no presentes en el bosque. Concluimos que los cambios en la composicin de especies no se limitan a los huecos creados, sino que tambin afectan al bosque circundante. El decremento de especies con alta sensibilidad despus del huracn apoya la hiptesis de que las perturbaciones afectan a especies especialistas y beneficia a las generalistas. Este decremento podra agravarse si huracanes recurrentes ocurren antes que la sucesin ecolgica natural tenga lugar.
10.2307/2387653|The diurnal, nonreproductive emergence of green turtles Chelonia mydas in Galapagos apparently occurs throughout the year on several islands. Turtles on beaches have cloacal temperatures that exceed temperatures of adjacent coastal waters. Basking turtles are predominately females. We hypothesize that females bask to accelerate digestion and fat build-up, necessary antecedents to egg production in reproductive periods. Basking turtles show a trend to clump among available beaches. Such behavior may be a response to microclimatic differences between beaches, although such differences were not apparent to us. The occurrence of thermoregulatory behavior in marine turtles in Galapagos may be a response to the cool waters of the Humboldt Current.
10.2307/2388266|Although the importance of disturbance regimes in affecting ecosystem structure and function is becoming an accepted paradigm in ecology, the consequences of catastrophic events are poorly understood. On 18 September 1989 Hurricane Hugo struck Puerto Rico, with the center of the hurricane passing within ten kilometers of the Luquillo Experimental Forest. This provided a rare opportunity to document direct and indirect effects of a natural disturbance of high intensity, large scale, but low frequency on selected aspects of animal ecology The densities and spatial distributions of six species of common invertebrates (four snails, Caracolus caracolla, Polydontes acutangula, Nenia tridens, and Gaeotis nigrolineata, and two walking sticks, Lamponius portoricensis and Agamemnon iphimedeia) in the tabonuco rain forest were estimated before and after the hurricane. Circular quadrats (radius = 5 m; area = 78.54 m$^2$) were established at each of 40 points in the Bisley watersheds. Numbers of individuals of each species were counted during nighttime surveys and densities were compared before and after the hurricane via paired t-tests. Both species of walking stick and three of the four species of snail exhibited statistically significant reductions in density after the hurricane. Densities of N. tridens, G. nigrolineata, and A. iphimedeia were reduced to the point that no specimens were detected in posthurricane surveys. In fact, all species of invertebrates were so rare after the hurricane that comparisons of spatial distribution were only possible for C. caracolla, and its distribution was significantly less clumped after Hurricane Hugo (G-test). At the Bisley watersheds, all size categories of C. caracolla suffered similar reductions in density; no significant alteration in size distribution was detected after the hurricane (G-test).
10.2307/2388289|A three-toed sloth (Bradypus variegatus) rapidly ascended a cecropia tree, fought briefly and intensely with another adult male, and descended even more rapidly Fighting was accompanied by short, strident vocalizations. The aggressor perhaps detected the occupant from a distance using the sexually dimorphic dorsal markings. The social system, visual abilities, and activity budgets of sloths are probably more complex than previously thought.
41241945|Recent studies on the impacts of forest fragmentation on understory insectivorous birds in the Neotropics have highlighted that even narrow linear clearings, such as roads, can affect the movements of this guild of birds. We used playback trials of territorial vocalizations to assess the movements of three understory insectivorous bird species across two unpaved roads bisecting Parque Estadual Carlos Botelho in southeast Brazil, located within one of the largest remaining continuous Atlantic Forests. Movement patterns varied among species. While Chamaeza campanisona never crossed these roads, Pyriglena leucoptera crossed them in almost 100 percent of tests. Although Conopophaga lineata exhibited a significantly lower number of crossings along cleared sites, it was eventually willing to traverse the roads, showing an intermediate pattern. Shaded areas with connected canopy did not improve birds' willingness to cross roads compared with areas where treecrowns were at least 3 m apart. Similarly, birds' willingness to cross an 8-m wide road with limited traffic (six vehicles/wk) was not significantly greater than that of a 12-m wide road with more intense traffic (41 vehicles/d). Our findings suggest that the negative impact of roads on bird movement is an issue that should be addressed by managers of Atlantic Forest conservation units, especially as economic development results in pressure to pave and widen roads.
40645579|Land-use history and large-scale disturbances interact to shape secondary forest structure and composition. How introduced species respond to disturbances such as hurricanes in post-agriculture forest recovery is of particular interest. To examine the effects of hurricane disturbance and previous land use on forest dynamics and composition, we revisited 37 secondary forest stands in former cattle pastures across Puerto Rico representing a range of exposure to the winds of Hurricane Georges in 1998. Stands ranged from 21 to > 80 yr since agricultural abandonment and were measured 9 yr posthurricane. Stem density decreased as stands aged, while basal area and species richness tended to increase. Hurricane disturbance exerted contrasting effects on stand structure, contingent on stand age. In older stands, the basal area of large trees fell, shifting to a stand structure characteristic of younger stands, while the basal area of large trees tended to rise in younger stands with increasing hurricane disturbance. These results demonstrate that large-scale natural disturbances can alter the successional trajectory of secondary forest stands recovering from human land use, but stand age, precipitation and soil series were better predictors of changes in stand structure across all study sites. Species composition changed substantially between census intervals, but neither age nor hurricane disturbance consistently predicted species composition change. However, exposure to hurricane winds tended to decrease the abundance of the introduced tree Spathodea campanulata, particularly in smaller size classes. In all sites the abundance of the introduced tree Syzygium jambos showed a declining trend, again most strongly in smaller size classes, suggesting natural thinning through succession.
41241919|We studied three different size classes of liana abundance representing proxies for three different life stages and aimed to identify the sequence of ecological filters that have led to current patterns of liana abundance. We tested the relationship between vegetation structure (including antagonistic support types) and soil texture on liana abundance, using 40 plots (1 and 0.25 ha) set at least 1 km apart, and distributed over 64 km in a Central Amazonian terra firme forest. Three support types were considered: palms, thin trees and an index of vegetation structure. Liana size classes responded hierarchically to ecological filters: larger size classes were progressively less associated with the environmental variables, while different aspects of vegetation structure were related to individual size classes. This hierarchical pattern suggests that selection mechanisms change throughout liana life cycles. Our results show that vegetation structure is an important predictor of liana abundance at a mesoscale and highlights the importance of considering the spatial structure in studies of tropical liana communities.
10.2307/2989701|Many herbaceous grasses of the bambusoid alliance which are found in the ground layer of vegetation in the tropical American rain forest are visited by numerous insects at time of flowering. Insect collections were made on the inflorescences of two such genera, Olyra and Pariana, at localities in Brazil, Colombia, Panama, and Venezuela. A list of these insects is given with the species of grasses on which they were found. Two species of phorid flies (Phoridae) and two of gall midges (Cecidomyiidae) were observed only on plants of Pariana on which their life cycles may perhaps be spent. Because the grasses under discussion flower in a habitat where wind is negligible and cannot be assumed to play a major role in pollen transfer, the question arises as to whether insects are here the pollinating agents. If so, this result would represent a specialized type of pollination in the grass family which is generally considered to be strictly anemophilous.
10.2307/2388634|In January 1985, features of coning behavior were examined in three populations of the cycad Zamia pumila (Zamiaceae) growing in different environmental conditions in the Dominican Republic. One population exists in a state of semi-cultivation in the relatively open lawns of the National Botanical Garden, Santo Domingo. A second occurs in moderately open areas at the edge of a second-growth forest at Boca Chica, and a third occupies shaded areas under the canopy of a relatively undisturbed forest at Bayahibe. One-third of the botanical garden females bore cones from the current and previous season, whereas only 9 percent of the Boca Chica females showed successive coning and none of the Bayahibe plants did. Four percent of the mature individuals in the botanical garden showed no evidence of coning in either season, whereas one-third and two-thirds of those in the latter two populations, respectively, fell into this non-coning category. The phenotypic sex ratio for the botanical garden and the Boca Chica populations was 1:1. Since nearly all individuals at the first site produced cones and thus were assignable to sex, the genotypic sex ratio of that population was 1.1. A male bias was evident at Bayahibe, where 73 percent of the coning individuals were male. Where environmental conditions are most favorable, the energetically costly female cones appear to be produced more frequently and by a greater proportion of females than where these conditions are less favorable. These environmental differences thus influence the phenotypic sex ratio, which is equality under good to excellent environmental conditions, but male-biased under less favorable environmental conditions under which fewer females than males produce cones each season.
10.2307/2387664|Heliconius hermathena is a little-known butterfly which is restricted to certain non-forest habitats in the Brazilian Amazon. Unlike forest species of the genus, H. hermathena has not undergone subspeciation in areas of presumed Quaternary forest refugia, but rather shows a unique racial distribution apparently related to present occurrence of isolated non-forest habitats. Three subspecies (two previously undescribed) are non-mimetic and little differentiated, whereas a fourth, H. h. vereatta, is strongly mimetic of sympatric H. m. melpomene and H. erato hydara. The non-mimetic subspecies are apparently widespread, although of patchy occurrence and often at very low population densities. In contrast, the mimetic subspecies is very restricted geographically, being known only near Faro, Para (though its models are widespread and even microsympatric with non-mimetic hermathena in many other areas). It occupies essentially continuous habitats within its limited range, and attains population densities and sizes much greater than do non-mimetic races. Adult morphology places H. hermathena near H. erato and H. charitonia, but the pupal characters suggest that the species is relatively primitive, near to the melpomene-group of the genus. Both erato and charitonia are widespread and successful species, whereas the distribution of hermathena suggests that it is a specialized relict. The larva is uniquely colored bright red or orange, possibly for the purposes of signaling (aposematism linked to Mullerian mimicry, or ease of location by adults). Imaginal hermathena are very sedentary, with individuals apparently establishing restricted home ranges, generally within a radius of 100 m of their nocturnal roosting sites. Roosting behavior is unique among Heliconius in that the butterflies aggregate on the undersides of leaves and grass blades about one-half meter from ground level. This behavior seems to afford maximum protection from weather and predators in their specialized habitats. As larval host plants, hermathena uses only two woody sclerophyllous species of primitive Passiflora, P. faroana and P. hexagonocarpa, characteristic of natural Amazonian scrub-vegetation communities on deep sandy soils. Alluvial sands supporting these communities are widely distributed over the Amazon, especially along the outwashes of the Brazilian and Guianan shields. The genetic basis for mimicry in H. h. vereatta is apparently a single factor with essentially dominant effects. The mimetic subspecies intergrades with a non-mimetic race north of Faro, resulting in a narrow hybridization zone. The comimics of vereatta become progressively rarer northwards across this zone, and are decreasingly microsympatric with hermathena where the non-mimetic phenotype exists in higher frequencies. Mimetic selection appears to be even strong enough to maintain local differences in genic frequencies, with mimetic forms becoming more common in closed habitats where models fly, and non-mimetic forms (perhaps profiting by "flash-disruptive" coloration) predominating in adjacent more-open habitats.
20492558|Strong hurricanes can cause population reductions in West Indian birds and bats, but the genetic consequences of such reductions have not been documented. For three species of phyllostomid bats, we report on the genetic effects of three strong hurricanes that struck the northern West Indies in 2004. Hurricane Ivan devastated Grand Cayman and severely depressed populations of several bat species. Despite being smaller than pre-hurricane levels, the population of Artibeus jamaicensis (the only species we could resample) on Grand Cayman contained greater mitochondrial haplotype diversity but similar microsatellite allelic diversity compared to pre-Ivan levels. We suggest that hurricane-aided dispersal from Cayman Brac introduced two new haplotypes into the Grand Cayman population. In the Bahamas, two other phyllostomids (Erophylla sezekorni and Macrotus waterhousii) did not suffer population losses or changes in genetic diversity as a result of Hurricanes Frances and Jeanne. Our results suggest that strong hurricanes usually have greater demographic than genetic effects but that hurricane-aided dispersal can occasionally introduce new genotypes or haplotypes into island bat populations.
10.2307/2387932|The epiphyte communities of a Costa Rican cloud forest make up a conspicuous portion of the canopy, especially on large canopy dominants. Non-destructive sampling methods were used to assess the composition, biomass, and nutrient concentration of live and dead epiphytes on representative host trees to determine the mineral capital contained in the epiphyte components of the standing vegetation. Epiphyte standing crop on a single large Clusia alata (Guttiferae) tree is 141.9 kg. The nutrient capital (in g) is: N = 3062; P = 97; K = 678; Ca = 460; Mg = 126; Na = 207. Using information on forest structure and epiphyte distribution, stand-level estimates of epiphyte mat nutrient capital were made. Although epiphyte biomass constitutes less than 2 percent of total elfin forest ecosystem dry weight, the nutrients they contain are equivalent to up to 45 percent of nutrients contained in ecosystem foliage of similar ecosystems. Assessment of epiphyte nutrient capital gives a more complete and accurate idea of the aboveground vegetation pools, and supports the idea that epiphytes may play a greater role in ecosystem nutrient dynamics than has been previously considered.
30043145|Understanding why there are so many kinds of tropical trees requires learning, not only how tree species coexist, but what factors drive tree speciation and what governs a tree clade's diversification rate. Many report that hybrid sterility evolves very slowly between separated tree populations. If so, tree species rarely originate by splitting of large populations. Instead, they begin with few trees. The few studies available suggest that reproductive isolation between plant populations usually results from selection driven by lowered fitness of hybrids: speciation is usually a response to a "niche opportunity." Using Hubbell's neutral theory of forest dynamics as a null hypothesis, we show that if new tree species begin as small populations, species that are now common must have spread more quickly than chance allows. Therefore, most tree species have some setting in which they can increase when rare. Trees face trade-offs in suitability for different microhabitats, different-sized clearings, different soils and climates, and resistance to different pests. These trade-offs underlie the mechanisms maintaining -diversity and species turnover. Disturbance and microhabitat specialization appear insufficient to maintain a-diversity of tropical trees, although they may maintain tree diversity north of Mexico or in northern Europe. Many studies show that where trees grow readily, tree diversity is higher and temperature and rainfall are less seasonal. The few data available suggest that pest pressure is higher, maintaining higher tree diversity, where winter is absent. Tree a-diversity is also higher in regions with more tree species, which tend to be larger, free for a longer time from major shifts of climate, or in the tropics, where there are more opportunities for local coexistence. /// Comprender por qu hay tantos tipos de rboles tropicales, se requiere aprender no slo cmo las especies de rboles coexisten, sino tambin, cules factores conducen a su especiacin, y qu determina la velocidad de diversificacin de un ciado de rboles. Muchos reportan que la esterilidad hbrida evoluciona muy lentamente entre poblaciones separadas de rboles. De ser as, las especies de rboles raramente se originaran por la separacin de grandes poblaciones; ms bien empezaran con pocos rboles. Los pocos estudios disponibles sugieren que el aislamiento reproductivo entre las poblaciones vegetales usualmente resulta de seleccin derivada del bajo xito de los hbridos: la especiacin generalmente responde a una "oportunidad de nicho". Usando la teora neutral de Hubbell de dinmica de bosques como hiptesis nula, nosotros mostramos que si las nuevas especies de rboles comienzan como poblaciones pequeas, especies que ahora son comunes deberan haberse expandido ms rpido que lo que el azar permite. Por lo tanto, la mayora de las especies de rboles tendran alguna condicin donde sus poblaciones podran crecer cuando son raras. Los rboles enfrentan compromisos en su adecuacin por diferentes microhbitats, claros de diferentes tamaos, diferentes suelos y climas, y resistencia a diferentes plagas. Estos compromisos sirven de base para los mecanismos que mantienen la diversidad  y al reemplazo espacial de especies. Los disturbios y la especializacin de microhabitats parecen ser insuficiente para mantener la diversidad  de rboles tropicales, sin embargo ellos pueden mantener diversidad de rboles al norte de Mxico o en Europa del norte. Muchos estudios muestran que en lugares donde los rboles crecen fcilmente, la diversidad de rboles es mayor donde la temperatura y la lluvia son menos estacionales. Los pocos estudios disponibles sugieren que la presin de las plagas es mayor, manteniendo as la diversidad de rboles en lugares donde no hay invierno. La diversidad  de rboles tambin es ms alta en regiones con ms especies de rboles, las cuales tienden a ser ms largas, exentas por un largo periodo de tiempo de grandes cambios climticos, o en los trpicos donde hay ms oportunidades de coexistir localmente.
10.2307/2388569|Under closed canopy, vegetation cover varies as much as 20 percent at ground level at the lowland rain forest study site, Estacion Biologica La Selva, in Costa Rica. To determine the effect variation in understory cover has on seed germination and seedling establishment, we followed the fate of naturally germinating seeds in treatment plots in which the understory vegetation had been removed, and in neighboring control plots. The overstory canopy was left intact in all plots. Average cover values for treatment and control plots were 85.0 and 90.4 percent, respectively. After a 3.5-mo period, we found no differences due to the treatment in germination or survival of new seedlings, suggesting that variation in understory vegetation had little influence on establishment compared to that of the overstory canopy during this time period.
2389173|Between 4 and 16 January 1996, during a period of cool weather, we studied the emergence and foraging behavior of Molossus ater at a site near Akumal, in the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico. The bats, a colony of at least 32 individuals, roosted in a north-facing cinder block wall, and emerged about sunset. Emerging bats were usually clustered in time, while those returning usually were not. Radio-tracking revealed that the bats foraged for short periods (mean 26.8 min) and captures of returning individuals indicated that 27 of 28 had fed, taking, on average, 4.4 g of insects, mainly hydrophilid beetles. On some nights, few or none of the radio-tagged bats emerged from the roost. Calculations concerning the costs of flight and roosting show that they were more than covered by the energy intake the bats achieved. Molossus ater have high aspect ratio (8.3-9.1) wings and high wing-loadings of 17.55-24.15 N/m
2388942|Seasonal variation and spatial distribution in ground foraging rain forest ants were studied in South Kannada-Kodagu District in Karnataka (India) between 1990 and 1991 by pit-fall trap sampling. All ant species showed marked seasonality. A total of 31 species were recorded from the primary forest over a period of two Years. More species were recorded from the closed canopy forest than from tree fall gaps in primary forest. All ant species showed marked seasonality with fewer species and individuals sampled/plot during the wetter seasons. The numerically dominant species, Pledole sp,. was markedly lower in abundance during the wet seasons. Spatial patterns were also studied during a dry season both in the primary forest and an adjacent logged forest. More species were recorded from the logged forest than the primary forest. Community composition in primary forest was different from that in logged forest. Common species were more ubiquitous than rarer species. Species were distributed bimodally across sampling plots. Probable underlying processes behind these seasonal and spatial patterns have been discussed.
10.2307/2388769|We examined correlatively the joint effects of light, supporting plant characteristics, plant size, and floral display on pollinia removal and fruit production of 103 individuals of the orchid Brassavola nodosa (L.) Lindl. at Peter Douglas Cay, Belize, Central America. This orchid is epiphytic on red mangroves (Rhizophora mangle L. {Rhizophoraceae}), and grows from 1-300 cm above ground. Light levels above each orchid, measured as direct site factor using hemispherical canopy photography, were 6-46 percent of potential direct sunlight. To characterize plant size, we counted the number of leaves of each plant and measured its longest leaf and the leaf subtending each inflorescence. The largest orchids were found in areas of high light availability, high above ground, and on large support structures. From June through early August 1993, and again in December 1993, orchids were surveyed every 3-4 days for reproductive status and success (removal of pollinia and/or fruit production). The 48 plants that flowered during these 7 months had more and longer leaves than the 55 plants that did not flower at any time in this time period. Plants flowered continuously throughout the summer; a complete reproductive cycle (bud appearance to fruit set) lasts 2-5 weeks. Pollinia were removed from 12 percent, and fruits were set by 30 percent, of the flowers produced in the summer. Because fruit set was much lower in the fall, the total proportion of fruit production relative to flower production over the 7-month study period was only 13 percent. Path analysis indicated that direct site factor, height above ground, and diameter of supporting structures significantly contributed to plant size and floral display area. In turn, floral display significantly affected both male and female reproductive success. We conclude that resources limit flower production and components of floral display, whereas pollinator availability likely limits reproductive success in Brassavola nodosa.
2663760|Air temperature, vapor pressure deficit, and light intensity microclimatic gradients were examined along four forest edge and four paired forest interior transects in the East and West Usambara Mountains, Tanzania. Between 14 August 1995 and 11 August 1998, 287, 282, and 196 air temperature, vapor pressure deficit, and light intensity gradients, respectively, were measured along the four forest edge and four interior transects. The relationship between microclimate and distance from the forest edge was examined using piecewise linear regression. All microclimatic gradients were classified into one of nine shapes based on the sign and the size of the two estimated slopes. The relative frequency in the shapes of 65 percent of air temperature gradients, 52 percent of vapor pressure deficit gradients, and 62 percent of light intensity gradients along forest edge transects exceeded the relative frequency of these same shapes along forest interior transects, indicating that a majority of the forest edge microclimatic gradients measured were influenced by edge effects. Yet this result also indicated that approximately one-third of all air temperature and light intensity gradients and nearly one-half of all vapor pressure deficit gradients recorded during this study were affected by factors independent of edge effects per se, and that forest edge microclimatic gradients were temporally nonconstant. For air temperature and vapor pressure deficit gradients, low spatial but high temporal variation existed in estimated edge width and the relative change in microclimate between the forest edge and interior. For light intensity gradients, both high spatial and temporal variability characterized estimated edge width and relative change in microclimate between the forest edge and interior. The pooled mean edge width and relative change in microclimate between the forest edge and interior across the four forest edge transects for air temperature, vapor pressure deficit, and light intensity gradients were 94.1 m and 2.00
10.2307/2388990|We measured spatial variation of important abiotic and biotic factors influencing landslide regeneration, contrasted variation among transects and microhabitats within a landslide with variation between two landslides, and tested for spatial gradients and patches in those factors. In addition, we performed multiple regression, principal components analysis, and canonical correspondense analysis to identify those factors important in defining patch structure and to investigate their ability to predict the current vegetative structure. We found that total daily photosynthetic photon flux density was 50 times greater in the landslide compared to the surrounding forest, but similar between landslides. The red: far red ratio was homogenous in the open areas of the landslides, but in areas covered by vegetation it was similar to those ratios found in the forest border. The soil had average extractable phosphorus of 0.108 g/m
41241931|Conservation initiatives that have worked well in temperate and developed regions have often been applied in the tropics but with only limited success. Part of this failure is due to top-down conservation planning that has been conducted without taking local socio-economic considerations into adequate account. Here, we argue that conservation approaches would benefit from a deeper understanding of human-nature interactions.
20492508|Insect herbivores were collected from five species of dipterocarp tree seedling within a large-scale reciprocal transplant experiment in Sabah, Malaysia, on alluvial and sandstone soils in both gap and understory plots. The aim was to determine whether the location and ecological specialization of seedlings influenced the herbivore communities found on and around them. Three major groups of folivores were collected: Coleoptera, Orthoptera, and larval Lepidoptera. Herbivory of all species was confirmed through laboratory trials. Herbivore abundance in the understory plots was extremely low relative to the gaps. Rank-abundance curves were similar on both soil types, differing only within the Lepidoptera. Coleoptera and Orthoptera communities were numerically dominated by a small suite of species capable of feeding on all dipterocarp species tested, whereas lepidopteran communities had both greater species richness and diversity. When corrected for leaf area surveyed, the abundance of Coleoptera was similar on both soil types, while larval Lepidoptera were more abundant in sandstone plots and Orthoptera were more abundant in alluvial plots. Estimated species richness of all three taxa was greater in alluvial forest, but there were contrasting patterns in Simpson diversity and evenness between groups. Species richness of Lepidoptera was greatest on seedlings when grown in their native soil type, providing partial evidence for possible escape effects, although this was not matched by differences in folivore abundance. The link between herbivore communities and herbivory rates on rain forest tree seedlings is complex and is unlikely to be detected through simplistic measures of abundance, species richness, or diversity.
30044954|Recent studies suggest that tropical tree species exhibit low inbreeding and high gene dispersal levels despite the typically low density of conspecifics in tropical forests. To examine this, we undertook a study of pollen gene dispersal and mating system of two Amazonian tree species. We analyzed 341 seeds from 33 trees at four microsatellite loci in a Carapa guianensis population from Brazil, and 212 seeds from 22 trees at four microsatellite loci in a Sextonia rubra population from French Guiana. Differentiation of allele frequencies among the pollen pool of individual trees was  FT = 0.053 (95% CI: 0.027-0.074) for C. guianensis and  FT = 0.064 (95% CI: 0.017-0.088) for 5. rubra. The mean pollen dispersal distances were estimated at 69-355 m for C. guianensis, and 86-303 m for S. rubra, depending on the pollen dispersal model and the estimate of reproductive tree density used. The multi-locus outcrossing rate was estimated at 0.918 and 0.945, and the correlation of paternity at 0.089 and 0.096, for C. guianensis and S. rubra, respectively, while no significant levels of biparental inbreeding were detected. Comparing trees with high and low local density of conspecifics, we found no evidence for differences in inbreeding levels. The results are discussed within the framework of the emerging picture of the reproductive biology of tropical forest trees.
10.2307/2388714|I investigated how a tropical hummingbird, Amazilia saucerottei, determines whether or not to defend a patch of Combretum farinosum and when to begin and end defense. Energetic value of a patch and number of flowers were not correlated through the period of flowering. First-day nectar production per flower declined from 68.11 J in late January to 19.07 J in early March. Patches of defended C. farinosum had a greater maximum number of nectar-producing inflorescences than did undefended patches. The threshold minimum number of nectar-producing inflorescences for defense decreased from 35 to 20 late in the flowering period. Defense began while the number of inflorescences producing nectar was below the threshold, indicating that birds assessed the patch's future value. The energetic value of a defended patch was the same at the beginning and end of territoriality (approximately 36 kJ), but the average number of nectar-producing inflorescences was twice as great at the end as at the beginning (11.6 vs 5.6), suggesting that birds asessed the value of the patch by direct measurement of energy intake. Daytime rate of energy expenditure estimated from time budgets was 0.545 J/sec. Total daily energy requirement was 34.14 kJ/day.
20492528|We evaluated temporal patterns of seedling survival of eight Neotropical tree species generated under multiple abiotic and biotic hazards (vertebrates, disease, litterfall) in the forest understory on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Seedlings were transplanted at first leaf expansion in low densities along a 6-km transect and damage and mortality were recorded for 1 yr. We also planted and monitored small and large artificial seedlings to estimate physical disturbance regimes. During 0-2 mo after transplant, vertebrate consumers of reserve cotyledons caused high mortality of real seedlings, but little damage to artificial seedlings. On real seedlings after 2 mo, disease became an important agent of mortality, despite a decrease in overall mortality rates. Damage by litterfall remained relatively low during the 1-yr study period. Survival ranks among species showed ontogenetic shifts over time, as species changed susceptibility to the mortality agents. Survival after 2 mo was positively correlated with stem toughness, not because species with tough stems were less likely to receive mechanical damage, but because they survived better after receiving mechanical damage. Within each transplant station, artificial seedlings were not good predictors of litterfall damage experienced by real seedlings. Forest-wide litterfall damage level, however, was similar for both real and artificial seedlings (ca 10%/yr), a moderate level compared to other tropical forests. In conclusion, species traits including biomechanical traits interact to create complex temporal patterns of first year seedling survival, resulting in ontogenetic shifts that largely reflect changes in the relative importance of vertebrate consumers relative to other hazards.
10.2307/2388554|Fifty-six species of eyeless and reduced-eyed (obligately cryptozoic) macroscopic arthropods are now known from the Galapagos Islands. These occupy cave, ground water, and soil-litter habitats. Sixteen soil-inhabiting species have become established after their probable inadvertent introduction by humans. The number and diversity of the remaining 40 native and endemic species are remarkable because of the geologic youth (about three million years maximum) and oceanic isolation of the islands. Soil habitats contain ten species whose ancestors naturally arrived on the islands in an already eyeless condition, demonstrating that such taxa have greater powers of overwater dispersal than is generally thought. Caves and soils are inhabited by ten eyeless or reduced-eyed species which have related fully-eyed epigean (sister?) species, usually on the same island, indicating relatively recent (possibly parapatric) adaptive radiation into subterranean environments. Another 20 species have no close Galapagos relatives, and 15 of these are probably relicts of lineages which became extinct in epigean terrestrial habitats, probably because of repeated periods of intense aridity during the Pleistocene. Similar evolutionary patterns exist in the eyeless arthropods of the Hawaiian and Canary archipelagos, indicating that there are common processes in the origins of such eyeless tropical oceanic island faunas.
41241939|Dioecy is a rare breeding system in flowering plants, but one that has evolved multiple times in different plant lineages. Dioecious species are commonly associated with several ecological traits, including woody habit, fleshy fruit, and small, inconspicuous flowers, although the significance of these correlations has been debated extensively. Monoecy is a breeding system that may lead to the evolution of dioecy, but ecological correlates of monoecious species have rarely been analyzed. We determined the diversity of breeding systems in the littoral forests of Madagascar and used multivariate methods to estimate which ecological traits have the strongest association with dioecy and are the best predictors of breeding systems. The Malagasy littoral forest flora is a well-documented subset of the Malagasy flora, with 13 percent of total species diversity in an area < 1 percent of the island's total. We found high levels of dioecy (18.4%) and monoecy (9.2%), similar to incidences in other tropical floras. Using multinomial logistic regression, dioecy has the strongest association with woody habit and fleshy fruit. Monoecious species have a strong association with small flowers, although this association does not hold at higher taxonomic levels. Using classification and regression tree (CART) methods, the best predictors of dioecy are woody habit and fleshy fruit; monoecy is equally predicted by fleshy and dry fruit. For the Malagasy littoral forest, both methods provide further support for the importance of woody habit and fleshy fruit in the evolution of dioecy.
2388937|We investigated the distribution of primary xylovores in Rhizophora mangle (red mangrove) first-order branches, i.e., "twigs", along an architectural gradient on Belizean mangrove cays. Greater structural diversity in R. mangle architecture, xylovore availability, occurrence of natural enemies, and habitat do not result in variable xylovore species richness. Despite large differences in architectural complexity, tall, fringe, dwarf, and sapling trees host the same set of primary twig borers. However, tall trees support greater diversity and abundance of twig inquilines than other tree forms. Primary twig borers have a key role in structuring these mangrove communities because their galleries and pupal chambers provide habitats for numerous species of secondary xylovores and inquilines. We also measured the amount of leaf area removed from R. mangle's canopy by wood- and leaf-feeding herbivores. Vigorously growing tall and sapling trees sustain greater losses because of twig borers than dwarf trees. However, xylovory in fringe trees was not different from any of the other categories. Cumulative herbivory was greatest in the tall trees. In most cases, leaf-area loss as an indirect or collateral result of primary xylovory equaled or exceeded leaf-area loss as a direct result of folivory.
10.2307/2388495|A minimum of 51 tamarao (Bubalus mindorensis) occurred in a 20-km$^2$ study area at the Mt. Iglit Game Refuge and Bird Sanctuary, Occidental Mindoro, the Philippines. Juvenile bull tamarao formed groups similar to those in juvenile water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis), but adult tamarao did not form clans or aggregations like buffalo.
10.2307/2388391|The mangal community fringing the Grand Cul-de-Sac Marin of Guadeloupe, French West Indies is composed of Rhizophora mangle (red), Avicennia germinans (black), and Laguncularia racemosa (white mangrove). These species form six discrete vegetation zones along a Canal Perrin transect. A. germinans supports dense epicaulous crusts of nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria which cover the bole and even the finest branchlettes. Crusts on red and white mangrove were less dense. Acetylene reduction activity (ARA) recorded for these previously unreported crusts ranged from 174 to 2012 nmol C$_2$H$_4 \cdot$mg Chl$\ldot a^{-1} \cdot$ hr$^{-1}$. The ARA in the aerial stratum represents a potentially important source of nitrogen to this mangal community. Preliminary data showed that the 42.3 g N$\cdot$ m$^{-2} \cdot$ yr$^{-1}$ biologically fixed by cyanobacteria growing epiphytically on Avicennia in zone IV of the Canal Perrin Transect was 3.2 times greater than the total nitrogen budget of an Avicennia community in Southern Australia. The rate-controlling effects of crust hydration and salinity on the ARA and the recovery rate of nitrogenase activity following a period of dehydration are reported.
10.2307/2387936|The predommant life-forms in a deciduous forest of northem Venezuela are found to be phanerophytes, lianas and chamaephytes. The dispersal mechanisms in this forest are anemochory (42%), zoochory (30%), barochory (19%), and autochory (9%). The distribution of dispersal mechanisms is a function of topography and the stratification of vegetation; anemochory dominates at higher elevations and in the upper strata of vegetation, whereas zoochory is most common at lower elevations and in lower levels of the forest.
30045482|Tropical forests are often shaped by disturbance events, especially in regions where hurricanes and other severe storms occur. We studied the effects of Hurricane Georges (September 1998) on the sierra palm (Prestoea acuminata var. montana) in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. We established riparian transects along two headwater streams that were similar in size and location, but differed in riparian tree species composition and land-use history. Following Hurricane Georges, sierra palms were surveyed periodically for damage and recovery (measured by initial loss and subsequent regrowth of palm leaves), tree height, sun exposure, and production of inflorescences and infructescences. Palm height had the highest association with damage, with most damage occurring to canopy palms. Palm recovery (4 mo and 10 mo post-hurricane) was associated with high tree density, indicating that sun exposure was not limiting. Hurricane Georges likely reduced production of flowers and fruits in sierra palms for at least 10 mo following the storm, although production of new leaves was rapid. Although palms recovered quickly from defoliation after the hurricane, decreased reproduction resulted in reduced availability of fruit for terrestrial and aquatic consumers. /// Huracanes y tormentas tropicales, interrumpen la ecologa de los bosques. Estudiamos los efectos del Huracn Georges (Septiembre de 1998), sobre las palmas de la sierra, (Prestoea acuminata var. montana) en las montaas de Luquillo en Puerto Rico. Se establecieron transectos a lo largo de dos ros similares en tamao y situacin, pero que diferan en la composicin de las especies de rboles y su uso histrico. Despus del Huracn Georges, las palmas fueron examinadas peridicamente para evaluar daos y recuperacin (medido como dao inicial y crecimiento posterior de las hojas), la altura de las palmas, la exposicin al sol y la produccin de infloreciensas e infruteciensas. La mayora del dao ocurri en el dosel y las palmas mas altas sufrieron el dao mas severo. La recuperacin de las palmas (observada cuatro y diez meses despus del huracn) se asocio con densidades altas de arboles, indicando, el sol no fue un limitante ecolgico. El Huracn Georges probablemente redujo la produccin de frutas y flores hasta 10 meses despus de la tormenta. Aunque el crecimiento de nuevas hojas fue rpido, disminuy la produccin frutal, lo cual afecto su disponibilidad a los consumidores terrestres y acuticos.
30045514|In the western cordillera of the Cauca valley, Colombia, there is a narrow hybrid zone between two races of Heliconius cydno, one of which is polymorphic. Three large broods show that most of the phenotypic variation observed can be explained by four loci of major effect, named Sb, Yb, L, and K. Two further loci, G and Wo, were identified that control more minor phenotypic variation. Sb, Yb, and Wo are linked and the latter is differentially expressed between the sexes. The transition between H. cydnides in the north and H. weymeri to the south occurs over approximately 15 km. Collections from a single site near the center of the hybrid zone show that gene frequencies have been stable over the 10 yr from 1991 to 2001 and that color-pattern genes are in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, with little evidence for linkage disequilibrium. This suggests that mating is random between color-pattern forms. Nonetheless, there is evidence for variation in the sex ratio, with parental phenotypes and the most melanic hybrid phenotypes showing a fairly even sex ratio compared to a strong male bias observed in the remaining hybrids. We hypothesize that this might be explained by differential selection between sexes and phenotypes, phenomena that could have important implications for hybrid zone analysis and the evolution of Mullerian mimicry. /// En la cordillera occidental del Valle del Cauca, Colombia, existe una zona estrecha de hibridacin entre dos razas de Heliconius cydno, una de las cuales es polimorfica. Tres grandes camadas muestran que la mayor variacin fenotpica observada puede ser explicada por cuatro loci de gran efecto, llamados Sb, Yb, L, y K. Adems dos loci, G y Wo, fueron identificados y controlan menor variacin fenotpica. Sb, Yb, y Wo estn ligados, y este ltimo es expresado diferencialmente entre los sexos. La transicin entre H. cyanides en el norte y H. weymeri hacia el sur ocurre aproximadamente a lo largo de 15 km. Colectas realizadas en una localidad cercana al centro de la zona de hibridacin a lo argo, muestran que las frecuencias genticas han sido estables durante diez aos desde 1991-2001 y que los genes del patrn de coloracin estn en equilibrio de Hardy-Weinberg, con poca evidencia de desequilibrio de ligamiento. Esto sugiere que el apareamiento es aleatorio entre los tipos de patrones de coloracin. Sin embargo, hay evidencia de variacin en la proporcin de los sexos, siendo los fenotipos parentales y los fenotipos hbridos mas melnicos los que muestran una proporcin de sexos bastante similar, comparado con la fuerte desviacin a favor de los machos observada en los dems hbridos. Nosotros proponemos que esto puede ser explicado por diferencias de seleccin entre sexos y fenotipos, y estos fenmenos podran tener importantes implicaciones para el anlisis de zonas de hibridacin y la evolucin del mimetismo Mlleriano.
10.2307/2388776|Laboratory experiments were conducted to establish the fecal pellet production rates for four species of tropical millipedes representing the three most common families in the savanna habitats of southern Africa. Fecal pellets were produced at mean rates of between 4.2 and 12.8 pellets per day and varied in individual mass from 8.0 to 85.0 mg with significant variation due to species, sex, and body mass. These results were combined with data on density, species composition, individual size distribution within populations, and seasonal activity to predict field fecal pellet production by millipedes in four different habitats. In natural woodlands fecal pellet production was between 32.7 (woodland) and 64.9 g m
10.2307/2388540|Epidendrum paniculatum orchids are pollinated by male, diurnal Lepidoptera that seek pyrrolizidine alkaloids, especially ithomiine butterflies. Experiments suggest that scent attracts pollinators to the orchid flowers. Visitations to orchids and movements of ithomiine butterflies suggest that these insects are capable of effecting pollination between individuals of E. paniculatum plants over long distances.
3593168| I observed 22 species of birds visiting flowering Erythrina fusca trees at Matamat, Amazonas, Colombia. The large orange flowers of E. fusca are adapted for pollination by birds and are protected from illegitimate visits by a petal that covers the nectaries and anthers until displaced by a foraging bird. Experiments with flowers bagged to exclude potential pollinators demonstrated that the flowers do not open without assistance. At Matamat, parrots are the most frequent visitors to flowering E. fusca, and two species, Dusky-headed Parakeet (Aratinga weddellii) and Cobalt-winged Parakeet (Brotogeris cyanoptera), appear to be the main pollinators. This is only the fourth report of Neotropical parrots acting as pollinating agents. At least five other parrot species fed on the nectar or flowers of E. fusca but destroyed the flowers in the process. Orange-backed Troupials (Icterus jamacaii) were the only other species observed opening E. fusca flowers nondestructively and are likely to be pollinators. Hummingbirds were common visitors to E. fusca flowers and some species were found to carry E. fusca pollen; however, hummingbirds were unable to open the flowers themselves and relied on other visitors to open the flowers for them. The number of hummingbird visits to a flowering E. fusca tree was positively correlated with the number of visits by parrots and icterids, but not with the number of mature flowers, indicating that legitimate visitors facilitate access by hummingbirds. 
30043090|Although herbivory can affect plant fitness, few studies have investigated the effects of herbivory on the fitness of plants that reproduce vegetatively via fragmentation. Plants that reproduce in this manner are common in tropical wet forest understories, where they are subject to damage from falling branches and other debris. For these species, the ability to reproduce via fragmentation may be affected by the extent of herbivory. In this study, we determined the effects of natural and artificial herbivory on plant fragments. The leaves of four tropical understory plant species were either damaged artificially or chosen based on the extent of existing damage. Effects of real and artificial herbivory ranged from strong to no effects depending on the plant species and biotic conditions. Insect-damaged fragments showed stronger effects than artificially damaged fragments. Herbivory may be an important predictor of mortality in reproductive fragments of understory plants. /// Aunque la herviboria puede afectar el vigor de las plantas, pocos estudios han investigado sus efectos en plantas que se reproducen vegetativamente por fragmentacin. En el sotobosque de la selva tropical, donde las plantas estn expuestas a ramas y otras partes de los rboles que les caen encima, es comn encontrar especies que se reproducen de esta manera. En estas especies, la herviboria puede afectar la habilidad de reproducirse por fragmentacin. En este estudio, se determinaron los efectos de herviboria tanto natural como artificial en fragmentos de plantas. Las hojas de cuatro especies de plantas del sotobosque tropical fueron daadas artificialmente o escogidas segn su nivel de herviboria. Los efectos, tanto en hojas con daos naturales como artificiales, variaron desde grandes efectos a inexistentes, dependiendo de la especie de planta y las condiciones biticas. Los fragmentos que fueron daados por insectos presentaron efectos mayores que los segmentos que fueron daados artificialmente. La herviboria puede ser un factor importante para predecir la mortalidad de fragmentos de plantas caractersticas del sotobosque.
4132906|Small mammal trapping showed that a minimum of 12 species live in and around Katavi National Park in western Tanzania. Species richness and abundance were greater outside the park than inside, extending results of an earlier study. Species richness and abundance were not significantly associated with vegetation cover or plant biomass but were negatively correlated with seed diversity, seed biomass, and possibly small carnivore abundance. Unfortunately, small mammal diets are unknown in this ecosystem and it can be argued that carnivores are unlikely to reduce species diversity, casting doubt on the importance of these variables. While the factors causing small mammals to fare poorly in this protected area are not yet understood, reduced food availability remains the best candidate.
10.2307/2388785|Five of the largest remaining patches of livestock-inaccessible rock vegetation of Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, were described and compared to rock vegetation which has experienced centuries of livestock grazing. Study rocks (maximum diameters: 20-47 m) were located at two sites differing in rock type and altitude. At the St. Christoffelberg site, study rocks were siliceous and at altitudes of 240-310 m while at the Tafelberg site the rocks were of limestone and at altitudes of 35-150 m. The main vascular species on livestock-inaccessible rocks at both sites was Tillandsia flexuosa. a bromeliad. At the St. Christoffelberg, Tillandsia was principally accompanied by the grass Paspalum secans, the orchid Brassavola nodosa and the herb Portulaca venezuelensis, while at the Tafelberg it was principally accompanied by the vine Serjania curassavica. On livestock-accessible rocks Tillandsia ground cover was reduced to insignificant levels and mature plants were virtually eliminated from the population. Grazed vegetations also showed reduced vascular cover and were principally dominated by the annual grass Aristida adscencionis (St. Christoffelberg site only), the prickly pear Opuntia wentiana and the shrubby tree Acacia tortuosa. None of these weedy species, all of which are widely distributed on the island, were of any significance in ungrazed rock vegetations. It is hypothesized that Tillandsia-dominated ground cover may have been a common feature of the rock vegetation of the island prior to the introduction of livestock.
2663771|The high diversity of amphibians in the central Amazon Rain Forest allowed us to examine the influence of tadpole antipredator defenses on assemblage structure and composition within bodies of water ( diversity) and among aquatic sites ( diversity) at a local scale. During a three-year study of tadpole assemblage composition, we found that the anuran community used a variety of bodies of water for reproduction; these ranged from streams and streamside ponds to isolated forest ponds. The distribution of several tadpole species was negatively related to fish density, while other species coexisted with high densities of fish. Tadpole size did not ensure survival against fish, and few tadpoles avoided fish by hiding in the leaf litter. Controlled predation experiments using a single tadpole species in a no-choice situation were conducted over 24- to 48-hour periods. Nearly all species of tadpoles that occurred in habitats with high fish densities were unpalatable to fish (except Centrolenella oyampiensis), indicating that unpalatability is a major adaptation allowing tadpoles and fish to coexist in this system. Unpalatability (to fish), however, was not an effective antipredator defense against odonate larvae, the other major tadpole predator in this system. The combination of predation pressure and the antipredator traits exhibited by individual species largely determined the composition of tadpole assemblages in individual bodies of water ( diversity). The heterogeneous distribution of predators among bodies water and the diversity of antipredator defenses exhibited by larval amphibians facilitated high diversity in this community ( diversity).
10.2307/2388445|We studied the interaction between thermoregulatory behavior and ecology of two species of sympatric varanids, Varanus salvator and Varanus bengalensis, in south Sri Lanka. V. salvator was active by early morning but sought shade in the afternoon; any afternoon activity was in an aquatic environment. Although the regression of V. salvator cloacal temperatures on daytime ambient temperatures is significant (P = 0.02) and indicate thermoconformity, they maintain a relatively stable body temperature behaviorally by selecting appropriate thermal microhabitats. During the night they sought stable thermal microhabitats under dense bushes, thickets, and even in water (which is warmer than the night air temperature). This presumably enabled them to be active early the following morning. V. bengalensis commenced activity later in the day and tend to elevate body temperatures (P < 0.01) by basking. They also forage in the open thus thermoregulating while feeding. By evening they retreat into burrows and other refugia where body temperatures drop below air temperatures. Thus, both species tend to thermoregulate behaviorally by selecting appropriate thermal microhabitats and exhibit temporal partitioning of activity times.
10.2307/2387954|Feces of the surgeon fish Acanthurus guttatus may be an important component of detritus in the shallow waters of the exposed windward reefs at Enewetak, Marshall Islands. The benthic algae grazed by these fish (predominately species of Microcoleus and Calothrix) was widespread on the intertidal reef flat. This algal mat had a gross productivity of 3.3 g C/m
30043245|Deforestation and habitat loss are widely expected to precipitate an extinction crisis among tropical forest species. Humans cause deforestation, and humans living in rural settings have the greatest impact on extant forest area in the tropics. Current human demographic trends, including slowing population growth and intense urbanization, give reason to hope that deforestation will slow, natural forest regeneration through secondary succession will accelerate, and the widely anticipated mass extinction of tropical forest species will be avoided. Here, we show that the proportion of potential forest cover remaining is closely correlated with human population density among countries, in both the tropics and the temperate zone. We use United Nations population projections and continent-specific relationships between both total and rural population density and forest remaining today to project future tropical forest cover. Our projections suggest that deforestation rates will decrease as population growth slows, and that a much larger area will continue to be forested than previous studies suggest. Tropical forests retracted to smaller areas during repeated Pleistocene glacial events in Africa and more recently in selected areas that supported large prehistoric human populations. Despite many caveats, these projections and observations provide hope that many tropical forest species will be able to survive the current wave of deforestation and human population growth. A strategy to preserve tropical biodiversity might include policies to improve conditions in tropical urban settings to hasten urbanization and preemptive conservation efforts in countries with large areas of extant forest and large projected rates of future human population growth. We hope that this first attempt inspires others to produce better models of future tropical forest cover and associated policy recommendations. /// La deforestacin y la prdida de hbitat pueden precipitar una crisis de la extincin de especies del bosque tropical. El mayor impacto sobre los bosques tropicales existentes es la deforestacin y otras actividades por humanos que viven en las reas rurales Las tendencias demogrficas humanas actuales sugieren que una reduccin en el crecimiento de la poblacin y un aumento en la urbanizacin podrn causar una reduccin en la deforestacin, una aceleracin de la sucesin secundaria, y evitar la esperada extincin en masa de especies del bosque tropical. Aqu, demostramos que la proporcin del potencial de la cobertura del bosque restante est correlacionada con la densidad demogrfica humana entre pases; esto es aplicable a las zonas tropicales y templadas. Usamos proyecciones de las Naciones Unidas sobre crecimiento poblacionales y las relaciones entre la densidad poblacional rural y el bosque existente para proyectar la cobertura del bosque tropical en el futuro. Nuestras proyecciones sugieren que las tasas de deforestacin disminuiran conjuntamente con una reduccin en el crecimiento poblacional, y a la vez, reas ms extensas que los sugeridos en otros estudios permanecern con cobertura forestal. Los bosques tropicales se retraeron a reas ms pequeas durante los repetidos eventos glaciales del Pleistoceno en el Africa y ms recientemente en reas selectas ocupadas por grandes poblaciones humanas prehistricas. A pesar de muchas advertencias, estas proyecciones y observaciones dan la esperanza de que muchas especies del bosque tropical podrn sobrevivir la presente tasa de deforestacin y crecimiento poblacional humano. Una estrategia para preservar la biodiversidad tropical puede incluir polticas para mejorar las condiciones ambientales en reas urbanas tropicales. Esto con el objectivo de acelerar la urbanizacin y programas de conservacin preventivos en pases con reas extensas de bosque con un alto ndice de crecimiento poblacional projectado para el futuro. Esperamos que nuestro primer esfuerzo inspire a otros investigadores a producir mejores modelos para predecir la cobertura del bosque tropical y polticas asociadas con la conservacion de estos.
10.2307/2387774|Fluxes of nutrient elements entering the forest canopy by rainfall are compared with fluxes to the forest floor by throughfall, for two tropical rain forest types growing on soils of low nutrient content in southern Venezuela. In contrast with other forests, total yearly rainfall fluxes of calcium, sulfur, and phosphorus were greater than corresponding throughfall fluxes. For other elements, rainfall fluxes were occasionally greater than throughfall fluxes. We hypothesize that these nutrients are intercepted in the canopy by algae and lichens growing on leaf surfaces, resulting in nutrient conservation in this nutrient-limited ecosystem.
20492544|To truly understand the current status of tropical diversity and to forecast future trends, we need to increase emphasis on the study of biodiversity in rural landscapes that are actively managed or modified by people. We present an integrated landscape approach to promote research in human-modified landscapes that includes the effects of landscape structure and dynamics on conservation of biodiversity, provision of ecosystem services, and sustainability of rural livelihoods. We propose research priorities encompassing three major areas: biodiversity, human-environment interactions, and restoration ecology. We highlight key areas where we lack knowledge and where additional understanding is most urgent for promoting conservation and sustaining rural livelihoods. Finally, we recommend participatory and multidisciplinary approaches in research and management. Lasting conservation efforts demand new alliances among conservation biologists, agroecologists, agronomists, farmers, indigenous peoples, rural social movements, foresters, social scientists, and land managers to collaborate in research, co-design conservation programs and policies, and manage human-modified landscapes in ways that enhance biodiversity conservation and promote sustainable livelihoods.
40863779|The exceptional biodiversity of tropical forests inspired the earliest ecologists such as H. W. Bates. Today we still strive to quantify and understand this diversity. Drawing on our own experience of Mamirau reserve in Amazonas, which is located in an area that Bates explored, we argue that the emphasis of research in tropical ecosystems should shift away from species richness as an end in itself, and focus instead on other fundamental, but more tractable, questions that will increase our ecological understanding of these systems, support conservation management, and appeal to policy makers and society in general.
41419469|Light intensity and heterogeneity are some of the main environmental factors that differ between forest and savanna habitats, and plant species from these habitats form distinct functional types. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that not only differences in morphological and physiological traits but also phenotypic plasticity in response to light are involved in adaptation to forest and savanna habitats by investigating ecotypic differentiation between populations of Plathymenia renculata (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae), a tree from the Brazilian Atlantic Forest and the Brazilian Cerrado (savanna). Seeds from four natural populations (one from each biome core area and two from ecotonal regions) were grown in a common garden with four light treatments. Fifteen morphological and physiological characteristics were evaluated until individuals reached 6 mo old. Comparisons among populations showed differences for seven traits in at least one light treatment. These differences pointed to local adaptation to different biomes. Populations showed different levels of phenotypic plasticity in response to light in seven traits. Higher plasticity was found either in the forest core population or ecotonal populations; lower values were found in the cerrado core population. Lower plasticity in the cerrado population emphasizes the stress resistant syndrome, as lower plasticity is probably advantageous in a habitat where a conservative resource use is crucial. Higher plasticity in forest individuals suggests higher ability in exploiting the light heterogeneity in this habitat. Also, higher plasticity in ecotonal populations can be important to ensure the maintenance of P. reticulata in these temporally and spatially dynamic areas.
2663920|We studied 86 species of hummingbird-pollinated flowers and their pollinators at a coastal lowland site and two highland rain forest sites in southeastern Brazil. The Jaccard index for hummingbird-pollinated floras showed greater floristic similarity between the two highland communities than between floras of high altitudes and that of near sea level. The lowland site had slightly greater richness than either of the two highland sites. Bromeliaceae was the most important family, accounting for ca 36 percent of the bird-pollinated species and comprising 33 percent of the richest flowers. The plant populations bloomed annually for the most part. Both the wet lowland and the dry highland floras showed flowering seasonality, whereas the cloud highland flora had aseasonal flowering. A hermit hummingbird was the major pollinator in the lowland community. A hermit and a non-hermit hummingbird shared most of the floral resources in the two highland communities. Hermit hummingbirds are the major pollinators of hummingbird-pollinated floras in the Atlantic rain forests of southeastern Brazil. These areas may be as rich as Central and other South American areas in hummingbird-pollinated flowers, and altogether present an older development history when compared to the North American flora.
2663858|Dioecy in the Solanaceae is rare, occurring in <1 percent of the species worldwide and known in only two species from South America. We report the occurrence of cryptic dioecy in the Neotropical genus Deprea. Studying herbarium material of the Venezuelan endemic D. paneroi revealed morphological distinctions that tentatively served to divide collections into male and female morphs. This discovery prompted investigation of population structure, crossing studies, and morphometric analyses of 95 individuals from the largest known wild population and a small sample of greenhouse-grown plants. About 60 percent of the population was reproductive, and of these, nearly equal numbers exhibited female or male characteristics. Plants that bore fruit and small sterile anthers were characterized as female; those that lacked fruit but produced pollen in large anthers were characterized as male. The morphology, receptivity, and developmental phenology of pistils were identical in both forms. Crossing studies revealed significant enlargement of the ovaries in open-pollinated female flowers and female x male hand-pollinations. The ovaries in open-pollinated male flowers and male x male hand-pollinations never enlarged. These results suggest that the only legitimate combination is female x male. Dioecy in the family and possible mechanisms for the evolution and maintenance of dioecy in D. paneroi are discussed.
2663906|Seed dispersal by Salvin's curassows (Mitu salvini) was studied in a lowland tropical forest at La Macarena on the border of the Macarena and Tinigua National Parks, the Department of Meta, Colombia. Continuous observations were made on the feeding and ranging behavior of a well-habituated pair of birds from 0600 to 1800 h for 19 days. Total observation time was 222 h. The daily distance traveled by the birds ranged from 630 to 3750 m, with a mean of 1959 m ( 776 m). The total home range was ca 34.4 ha. Although curassows were observed consuming fruits of 13 species belonging to the families Rubiaceae, Meliaceae, Moraceae, Burseraceae, Leguminosae, and Lecythidaceae, only seeds of Geophila repens (Rubiaceae) and ficus sphenophylla (Moraceae) were found in their feces. For G. repens, the mean and maximum retention times were 1 h 52 min ( 1 h 20 min) and 6 h 08 min, and the mean and maximum direct dispersal distances were 245 m ( 164 m) and 633 m. More that half the seeds were dispersed in a canopy gaps. For F. sphenophylla, the mean and maximum retention times were 3 h 15 min ( 37 min) and 7 h 08 min, and the mean and maximum direct dispersal distances were 329 m ( 46 m) and 451 m. Nearly 60 percent of the estimated seed intake of G. repens and 92-94 percent of F. sphenophylla were digested or damaged. The retention times and the dispersal distances for Streptogyna Americana, which has adhesive burrs, were also measured. The mean and maximum retention times were 1 h 55 min ( 1 h 56 min) and 9 h 11 min, and the mean and maximum direct dispersal distances were 128 m ( 68 m) and 280m. This is the first study in which direct measurements were made for retention times and dispersal distances of the epizoochory and endozoochory for birds in the field.
30043207|We studied the decomposition of Cyrilla racemiflora logs over a 13-yr period in tropical dry and wet forests in Puerto Rico. The mean mass loss, ratio of soft to hard wood, nutrient concentrations, and the diversity of wood-inhabiting organisms were greater in logs decomposing in the dry forest than in the wet forest. Termites were also more abundant in the logs collected from the tropical dry forest than the tropical wet forest. High moisture content and a low animal diversity on the logs in the wet forest seem to retard wood decay in this habitat. Wood decay rates in the tropical dry forest can be related to the high diversity of species and functional groups of wood-inhabiting organisms. /// Efectuamos un estudio de la descomposicin de troncos de Cyrilla racemiflora por un perodo de 13 aos en bosques tropicales secos y hmedos en Puerto Rico. El promedio de prdida de masa, la proporcin de madera blanda a dura, la concentracin de nutrientes y la diversidad de organismos en la madera fueron mayor en los troncos descompuestos en el bosque tropical seco que en los troncos del bosque tropical hmedo. El numero de termitas tambin fue ms abundante en los troncos colectados en el bosque tropical seco que en el bosque tropical hmedo. Un alto contenido de humedad y una baja diversidad de organismos en los troncos en el bosque tropical hmedo parecen retardar la descomposicin de madera en esta regin. La rpida descomposicin de madera en el bosque tropical seco puede estar relacionada a la alta diversidad de organismos y de grupos funcionales de los organismos que habitan en su madera.
10.2307/2388156|Published observations on adaptations for seed disperal and seedling establishment are consistent with the hypothesis that rainforest trees partition forest clearings as establishment sites for offspring. Gaps vary importantly in two ways. The size of the opening affects the microclimate of the gap and therefore the conditions for seedling establishment. For any individual tree, the frequency of occurrence of gaps of a particular size range affects the probability that its propagules will reach a gap of suitable size for germination and establishment. In most rainforests large gaps (involving the death of several trees) are probably more rare than small gaps (involving single trees or branches). Interspecific competition for establishment sites has resulted in adaptive compromises in the regeneration strategies of each species. Traits that increase the probability of establishing seedlings in gaps of a particular size range appear to lower establishment in gaps outside this size range. I suggest that the coexistence of many rainforest tree species is at least partially due to their partitioning of canopy gaps by size. Therefore the size-class frequency distribution of gaps peculiar to a given rainforest is expected to influence the types and diversity of species present. Examination of vegetation data from New and Old World rainforests reveals many patterns consistent with this hypothesis. This framework provides a mechanism for predictive and experimental studies of competitive interactions among rainforest trees.
10.2307/2388999|Priacanthus arenatus is a dominant species in the southern Gulf of Mexico. It is a typical marine species non-estuarine-dependent, and is distributed throughout the Campeche Sound area, generally in depths greater than 36 m. It is not found in areas influenced by coastal discharges. The size of first maturity is 138 mm TL. Reproduction occurs in March (dry season) near Puerto Real inlet, around the 11 m isobath. Recruitment occurs in the area of reproduction from March to June, the adults and juveniles migrate to the outer shelf. Greatest abundance is observed around 36 m depth and abundance is correlated with the recruitment period.
10.2307/2388537|In a tropical dry forest of southwestern Mexico, the flowers of the liana Combretum fruticosum (Loeft.) were visited by a diverse assemblage of birds (31 spp.), dominated by passerines but including hummingbirds. Nearctic migrants constituted a high percentage of the individuals (42%) and species (40%) visiting the plant. The flowers produced abundant, hexose-dominated dilute nectar, and varied among plants in both the total amount of nectar produced and in the temporal pattern of secretion. The morphology of inflorescences and flowers, nectar chemistry and the species of birds identified as visitors of C. fruticosum indicate that this plant is pollinated by passerine birds rather than hummingbirds.
40863791|The Seychelles has undergone major socio-economic and political changes during the past four decades. Tourism and fisheries, being the mainstay of the country's economy, have positively impacted upon and influenced the form of institution framework and policies in the management of the environment and biodiversity. The Department of Environment, the organization responsible for biodiversity conservation, has changed its core functions over the years to accommodate its obligations under international conventions and again more recently because of a major economic reform program. The creation of several authorities and agencies has resulted in new challenges but at the same time opened up new opportunities. Despite all these changes, the government, with the support of international and local stakeholders, has persevered to safeguard its biodiversity.
10.2307/2989764|Adaptive evolution in island birds is investigated with special reference to the birds of Tasmania, a continental island 26.000 square miles in area that lies 140 miles off southern Australia. The avifauna is a typical insular one being numerically impoverished (only 43 species of passerine birds compared with 89 in equivalent habitats on the adjacent mainland), and lacking certain "basic kinds" of birds (e.g., true trunk feeders are absent) The study emphasizes shifts in vertical feeding zones and in morphological attributes associated with perching and feeding (e.g., bill, tarsus, hallux). The findings are as follows: 1. A series of island species have moved into the vacant trunk feeding and underexploited arboreal, foliage-gleaning, adaptive zones; 2. these are species that, on the adjacent Australian mainland, already feed to some slight extent in these zones; 3. the shifts invariably involve a broadening of, or increased diversity in, feeding; 4. there is a broad redivision of ecological roles and adaptive niches on the island; vacant niches are eliminated, and a new state of integration and balance is achieved within the avifauna.
10.2307/2989801|The presence of ants on the leaves of young Cecropia peltata trees is correlated with a reduction in herbivore-caused leaf damage. All leaves in the crown contribute to the vertical growth of the plant in direct proportion to their surface area, and so the ants increase the competitive ability of the plants. The distribution of ants on the leaves in different parts of the crown is not dependent on leaf area, but is proportional to the present and future contributions to vertical growth made by those leaves.
30044909|Honey-making bee colonies in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park were investigated with Batwa Pygmies locating 228 nests of Apis and five stingless bees (Meliponini). The relative importance of predation, food supply, nesting site, and elevation affecting abundance were studied for meliponines in particular. Nest predation and overall nest abundance had no correlation with elevation along a 1400 m gradient, nor did flowering phenology or pollen collection. Many suitable, large trees were unoccupied by bee nests. In 174 ha of forest plots, 2 Meliponula lendliana, 13 M. nebulata, 16 M. ferruginea, 16 M. bocandei, and 20 Apis mellifera adansonii nests occurred, suggesting a habitat-wide density of 39 nests/km2. Compared to other studies, Ugandan Meliponini were uncommon (0.27 colonies/ha, tropical mean = 1.9/ha), while Apis mellifera was numerous (0.12 nests/ha, tropical mean = 0.06/ha), despite park policy allowing humans to exploit Apis. Meliponine colony mortality from predators averaged 12 percent/yr and those near ground were most affected. Tool-using humans and chimpanzees caused 82 percent of stingless bee nest predation. Selective factors affecting nest heights and habit may include auditory hunting by predators for buzzing bees, and indirect mutualists such as termites that leave potential nesting cavities. Mobility and free-nesting by honey bee colonies should enable rapid community recovery after mortality, especially in parks where human honey hunting is frequent, compared to sedentary and nest-site-bound Meliponini.
10.2307/2387769|Large samples of frogs and lizards from eight lowland forested environments distributed in Borneo, Malaya, and northeastern Thailand are used to compare abundances. Frogs and lizards were divided into riparian and non-riparian subsamples, and each of those into arboreal and terrestrial categories. Non-riparian lizards were further divided into diurnal and nocturnal groups. The two forests in Thailand lie in an area having a pronounced dry season and prolonged intervals of extremely high temperatures in contrast to the Indo-Malayan environments which lack those features. The differential effects of drought and high temperatures on portions of the environment during the day and the varying susceptibilities of the taxonomic and ecological groups probably are responsible for differences observed in relative abundance. Frogs of all categories were more numerous in Borneo and Malaya than in Thailand. Diurnal arboreal lizards were much more abundant in Borneo and Malaya, whereas terrestrial ones, nocturnal and diurnal, were more abundant in both Thai forests. Nocturnal arboreal lizards showed a mixed picture.
30043258|We linked primary dispersal by spider monkeys (Ateles geoffroyi) and howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra) to post-dispersal seed fate by studying the effects of dung type and defecation pattern on secondary seed dispersal by dung beetles. First, we described the defecation patterns for both primate species. Howler monkeys generally defecated in groups (88% of observed defecations), with each individual producing on average 31 g of dung, resulting in a large area of the forest floor (31 m2) covered by large amounts of dung (clumped spatial pattern). Spider monkeys generally (96% of observed defecations) defecated individually, each individual producing an average of 11 g of dung, resulting in a small area of the forest floor (2 m2) covered by small amounts of dung (scattered spatial pattern). Secondly, we captured dung beetles using as bait the dung of both primate species, to detect differences in the assemblages of these secondary seed dispersers attracted to the dung of both primates. More individual dung beetles, but not more species, were attracted to howler monkey dung than to spider monkey dung. Finally, we assessed experimentally (using plastic beads as seed mimics) how dung type (Ateles vs. Alouatta) and defecation pattern (scattered vs. clumped) affect secondary seed dispersal by dung beetles. We found that post-dispersal seed fate was affected by dung type, with more seeds being buried when present in howler monkey dung, than in spider monkey dung, but was not affected by defecation pattern. It is important to consider post-dispersal processes, such as secondary seed dispersal by dung beetles, when comparing species of primary dispersers. /// Asociamos la dispersin primaria de semillas por monos araa (Atetes geoffroyi) y monos aulladores (Alouatta pigra), con el destino post-dispersin de las semillas, estudiando los efectos del tipo de heces y el patrn de defecacin sobre la dispersin secundaria por escarabajos coprfagos. Primero describimos los patrones de defecacin de ambas especies de primates. Los monos aulladores generalmente defecaron en grupo (88% de las defecaciones observadas), produciendo en promedio 31g de heces por individuos, resultando as en un rea grande del suelo del bosque (31 m2) cubierta con grandes cantidades de heces (patrn espacial agregado). Los monos araa generalmente (96% de las defecaciones observadas) defecan individualmente, produciendo en promedio 11 g de heces por individuo, resultando en un rea pequea del suelo del bosque (2 m2) cubierta por heces (patrn espacial disperso). Luego, capturamos escarabajos coprfagos utilizando como carnada heces de ambas especies de primates, para determinar las diferencias en los ensambles de estos dispersores secundarios atrados a las heces de ambos primates. Ms individuos, pero no ms especies, de escarabajos coprfagos fueron capturados con heces de mono aullador, que con heces de mono araa. Finalmente, determinamos experimentalmente (usando cuentas de plstico a manera de semillas) cmo el tipo de heces (Ateles vs. Alouatta) y el patrn de defecacion (disperso vs. agregado) afectan la dispersin secundaria por escarabajos coprfagos. El destino post-dispersin de las semillas a travs de la dispersin secundaria por escarabajos coprfagos fue afectada por el tipo de heces, de tal modo que ms semillas fueron enterradas por escarabajos cuando se encontraron cubiertas por heces de mono aullador, que heces de mono araa. El patrn de defecacion no tuvo efecto sobre la dispersin secundaria de semillas. Es importante considerar los procesos post-dispersin, como la dispersin secundaria de semillas por escarabajos coprfagos, cuando se quiere comparar especies de dispersores primarios.
2389148|In the extant lemur communities of Madagascar the number of lemur species increases with increasing number of tree species. In forests with few tree species lemurs use patches with higher number of tree species than average. However, in forest plots with high number of tree species, lemurs stay in places with lower number of tree species than average. At low tree species diversity a minimum number of different tree species seems to be required within the animals' home range to assure year-round food availability. At high tree species diversity tree species essential for survival might be "diluted" by resources which are of no use for lemurs, thus increasing energetic expenses for traveling between suitable patches. According to the present analyses, structural diversity is of subordinate importance to the number of tree species as a correlate of lemur species richness. Within limits of disturbance intensity and on a small geographic scale, disturbances increase forest productivity. Lemurs reach higher species numbers and population densities in slightly disturbed areas compared with undisturbed sites. This peaked curve of the number of lemur species over disturbance, however, may not only be a consequence of "resource dilution" in undisturbed sites and higher food abundance in slightly disturbed areas, but also a consequence of selective extinction of lemur species which were unable to cope with the disturbance regime exaggerated by human interference over the last few hundred or thousand years.
4132923|I examined behavioral responses of the benthic fish Eleotris sandwicensis to painted models (dummies) of fish that Eleotris typically encounter in Hawaii. Eleotris sandwicensis were associated with coarse substrates where their mean ( SE) density was
4132958|Observations of hummingbirds feeding at flowers longer or shorter than their bills seem to contradict the view that bill lengths of hummingbirds evolved in concert with the lengths of their flowers. Recent experiments, however, indicate that a hummingbird's ability to feed at artificial flowers of different lengths depends on the widths of the flowers. We examined if the broad range of flower lengths visited by many hummingbird species can be explained by the widths of the flowers. We predicted that both short- and long-billed hummingbirds would include long, wide flower species in their diets, but that short-billed hummingbirds would not include long, narrow flower species because nectar in these species might be beyond the reach of their bills. If so, the slope of the regression for flower width versus flower length should be smaller for flower species visited by longer-billed hummingbirds relative to those visited by shorter-billed hummingbirds. Analyses of data sets for some North American and Monteverde hummingbirds and their food plants were consistent with this prediction, and bill lengths were significantly correlated with the slopes of the regressions of flower width versus length for seven hummingbird species. Comparisons of observed flower use by some Monteverde hummingbird species to flower assemblages generated at random suggest that these significant regressions were not simply a result of allometric relationships between flower lengths and widths, but in some cases reflected active choice by the birds. The two hummingbird-flower data sets also differed significantly in the scaling of corolla width relative to corolla length. In particular, the Monteverde data set contained a large number of long, narrow flower species, which we suggest is a consequence of a different floral evolutionary history and association with long-billed hummingbird species. The evolutionary effects of hummingbirds and their flowers upon one another are more complex than has generally been realized, and a consideration of corolla length jointly with other floral characters may improve our understanding of hummingbird-flower relationships.
10.2307/2387803|The consumption of mangrove leaves by herbivores before leaf fall was studied. Up to 20 percent of the leaf blade enters the food web in this manner. The influence of several environmental factors on the amount of foliage eaten before leaf fall was investigated. The quantity of leaf material eaten could not be correlated with any of the following parameters: species diversity (as species number), the distance of the plant from the upper tidal limit, plant density, season, energy value of the leaves, the presence of "protective" ants, the chloride content of leaves, or, in contrast to a previous report, pollution (high nitrogen levels). Recently leaved Xylocarpus were the only plants with no leaf damage. In all cases damage from leaf to leaf was extremely variable and obscured between-plant and, in most instances, between-species differences.
10.2307/2388279|Incoming photosynthetically active radiation was continuously monitored for almost one year in closed-canopy dipterocarp forest and in two forest gaps. Mean weekly photosynthetic photon flux densities (PPFD) in the forest and in the small and large gap sites averaged 1.9, 8.3, and 37 percent respectively of the PPFD in the open. There was no apparent seasonality of PPFD in the open, but there was pronounced seasonal variation of PPFD in the forest and gap sites. Therefore, seedlings within forest gaps may be exposed to very different light regimes over the course of the year. Mean daily PPFD was highly correlated with canopy coverage in both short-term and long-term experiments. A short-term study indicated that light penetrating through canopy openings can increase the PPFD near ground level at least 20 m inside the forest from the nearest gap. Forest gaps are not discreet areas; they are environmental continua in both space and time.
27742817|Environmental research is often conducted independently of the community in which the environment is situated, with transfer of results into policy and on-ground action occurring independently of the community's interests or aspirations. Increasingly the need for greater community involvement in the research process has been recognized. For community members, however, such engagement usually involves trade-offs. While it is often assumed that community members should participate voluntarily because they will gain from the research, any benefits from knowledge, understanding and a capacity to influence the research have to be offset against time and potential loss of unremunerated intellectual property. We argue, using case studies from tropical Australia and Africa, that a more effective means of engagement and knowledge transfer is training and remuneration of community members as coresearchers. This engagement is much more than payment for laborit is investment in local intellectual property and requires researcher humility, power-sharing and recognition that access to research funding provides no moral or intellectual authority. Further, we argue that, for effective adoption of research results, community members need to be part of negotiated agreements on the initial nature of the research to ensure it answers questions of genuine local relevance and that local researchers have the capacity to place locally conducted research into a wider context. We argue that immediate rewards for involvement not only secure engagement but, where appropriate, are likely to lead to effective implementation of research results, enhanced local capacity and greater equity in intellectual power-sharing.
4132904|This study examined the effects of (1) time elapsed after logging and (2) logging intensity on the total, juvenile, and adult densities, and on reproduction of Calathea altissima and Ischnosiphon arouma (Marantaceae), two monocot herb species in the understory of Central Amazonian forests. Logging was carried out experimentally at various intensities in eight plots (4 ha each) during 1987 and three plots in 1993. Five plots were left as experimental controls. In 1998, total and adult densities of the two species were greater in the plots logged 11 years before than in controls. For I. arouma, total and adult densities were also higher in the plots logged 5 years before; however, juvenile densities were less affected. The intensity of logging influenced adult density of both species but not total or juvenile densities. Densities of reproductive individuals of both species were higher in the logged areas and increased with logging intensity. The effects of time after logging and logging intensity on reproduction were indirect due to the greater number of adult plants in those areas. The observed effects were probably mediated by changes in canopy cover in logged areas. Greater light intensities in logging gaps, roads, and their margins may lead to increased reproduction, recruitment, growth, and survival, which in turn can lead to increased plant density. These results indicate that logging has long-term effects on understory plant populations.
10.2307/2389182|The role of figs as a resource for Malabar Giant Squirrels (Ratufa indica) during fruit shortages was investigated in two tropical forests in India. In general, figs were consumed to the greatest extent during lean fruiting periods, yet there was considerable intersquirrel variation in fig consumption during those periods. The importance of figs for a solitary, territorial, sedentary species such as the Giant Squirrel at these sites is limited only to those individuals who have access to figs within their territories or feeding ranges. The low density and spatial clumping of figs and the small number of fig species at the sites contributed to this phenomenon. The densities of figs were comparable to those found in other tropical areas. During fruit shortages figs may be an important resource only for a section of a frugivore population. Nutrient values of figs relative to other resources are also discussed.
2388933|One hectare of tropical dry forest in Guanacaste Conservation Area, Costa Rica was mapped and all trees larger than 10 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) identified. The same hectare was sampled for leaf litter and the two data sets, forest and litter, were compared. Dominant and subdominant species of the forest are represented in the leaf litter, whereas rare tree species are highly variable in their representation in the leaf litter. Relative abundance of dominant and subdominant tree species is represented well by the litter although absolute rank-order is not identical between source forest basal area and leaf litter mass. The litter adds a significant component to the source forest data owing to the presence of vines and lianas, and more rarely small trees or shrubs. This indicates that litter studies may be able to add depth to forest diversity surveys. The source forest also was used to test foliar physiognomic reconstructions of climate that have been proposed recently by paleobotanists as an alternative to taxonomic affinities methods. The observed climate of the area does not conform to the climatic values that were predicted by application of these new methods.
41058533|In much of the tropics, the gray literaturepublished by nongovernmental organizations, governments, intergovernmental organizations, consultancies, private companies, and individualshas a greater volume than the peer-reviewed scientific literature in ecology and conservation. I discuss why this is a problem in terms of quality, discovery, access, and archiving. Unpublished dissertations and theses are another vast untapped source of information in tropical biology. Internet search engines can potentially integrate access to all information sources, but only if the producers of gray literature and theses gready improve electronic access. Digital repositories can provide both this accessibility and permanent archiving.
2388940|Mutualistic relations between the bat Glossophaga longirostris and columnar cacti were studied in the Andean and region of La Tatacoa, Huila, Colombia. By means of monthly censuses between August 1993 and July 1994, the diet and reproductive pattern of this bat species was determined. This bat consumed pollen (53%) of cacti and of Helicteris baruensis (Sterculiaceae) and fruits (41%) of the columnar cactus Stenocereus griseus and, in lower quantities, of Muntingia calabura (Elaeocarpaceae) and Pilosocereus sp. (Cactaceae). Pollen appeared in feces and/or pelage of G. longirostris throughout the year, being more frequent during the dry season. Seeds appeared in the feces during the rainy season. The seasonal variations in diet were correlated with the availability of resources in the area and do not appear to reflect a dietary preference on the part of G. longirostris. This bat had two reproductive periods. The presence of lactating females coincided with the two rainy seasons and the months of highest fruit production of S. griseus. These results are not consistent with those reported for the Andean and region of Lagunillas, Merida, Venezuela. In that region. G. longirostris depends for its diet and reproduction on three columnar cactus species (S. griseus, Subpilocereus repandus and Pilosocereus tillianus). The differences found in the diet and periods of reproductive of these two populations of G. longirostris, may reflect differences in the temporal and spatial distribution of food resources. The mutualistic relation between G. longirostris and columnar cacti, specially with S. griseus appear to be tightly interdependent.
27742814|It is widely accepted that there is a considerable gap between the science of conservation biology and the design and execution of biodiversity conservation projects in the field and science is failing to inform the practice of conservation. There are many reasons why this implementation gap exists. A high proportion of papers published in scientific journals by conservation biologists are seldom read outside of the academic world and there are few incentives for academics to convert their science into practice. In turn, field practitioners rarely document their field experiences and experiments in a manner that can meaningfully inform conservation scientists. Issues related to access to scientific literature, scientific relevance in multidisciplinary environments, donor expectations and a lack of critical analysis at all levels of conservation theory and practice are factors that exacerbate the divide. The contexts in which conservation biologists and field practitioners operate are also often highly dissimilar, and each has differing professional responsibilities and expectations that compromise the ability to learn from each other's expertise. Building on recent debate in the literature, and using case studies to illustrate the issues that characterize the divide, this paper draws on the authors' experiences of project management as well as academic research. We identify five key issues related to information exchange: access to scientific literature, levels of scientific literacy, lack of interdisciplinarity, questions of relevance and lack of sharing of conservation-related experiences and suggest new ways of working that could assist in bridging the gap between conservation scientists and field practitioners.
10.2307/2388687|Wongabel, a northeastern Queensland tropical, wet, evergreen forest, contains 22 species of Scarabaeinae dung beetles. Five of these species were observed to perch commonly on leaves at night. Length of the beetle and the height of its perch were recorded for each of 561 specimens. Unlike the New World tropical dung beetle perchers, no clear evidence was found that small species perched closer to the ground than larger species. The evidence gathered, at least for the four most common perchers, supports the hypothesis that perching is one type of foraging strategy. The similarities and differences between the Australian and New World perchers are discussed.
20492481|Growth and death of fine roots represent an important carbon sink in forests. Our understanding of the patterns of fine root turnover is limited, in particular in tropical forests, despite its acknowledged importance in the global carbon cycle. We used the minirhizotron technique for studying the changes in fine root longevity and turnover along a 2000-m-elevational transect in the tropical mountain forests of South Ecuador. Fine root growth and loss rates were monitored during a 5-mo period at intervals of four weeks with each 10 minirhizotron tubes in three stands at 1050, 1890, and 3060 m asl. Average root loss rate decreased from 1.07 to 0.72 g/g/yr from 1050 to 1890 m, indicating an increase in mean root longevity with increasing elevation. However average root loss rate increased again toward the uppermost stand at 3060 m (1.30 g/g/yr). Thus, root longevity increased from lower montane to mid-montane elevation as would be expected from an effect of low temperature on root turnover, but it decreased further upslope despite colder temperatures. We suggest that adverse soil conditions may reduce root longevity at high elevations in South Ecuador, and are thus additional factors besides temperature that control root dynamics in tropical mountain forests.
30043240|In the Neotropics, Caribbean pine is subject to epidemic attack by southern pine beetle. We found significantly higher levels (>2.5%) of 4-allylanisole in the monoterpenoid fraction of the oleoresin of trees in stands with high beetle-induced mortality, and a negative association between magnitude of attack and levels of 4-allylanisole in individual trees. Results also suggest that individual trees with low 4-allylanisole levels may escape attack if they occur in stands characterized by high levels of this compound. /// En las regiones Neotrpicas, el Pinus caribaea es atacado en proporciones epidmicas por el Dendroctonus frontalis. Descubrimos altas concentraciones (>2.5%, P < 0.001) de 4-allylanisole en la resina de rboles en grupos con alta mortalidad causada por D. frontalis, y una asociacin negativa entre la magnitud del ataque y los niveles de 4-allylanisole en rboles individuales. Adems, los resultados sugieren que los rboles individuales con los niveles bajos de 4-allylanisole no pueden ser atacados si se encuentran en los grupos caracterizados por altos niveles de este compuesto.
10.2307/2387937|I studied ant coexistence in adjacent areas of upland tropical forest, grassland, and agricultural land in San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico. Data on food utilization, daily activity, nesting sites, microhabitat utilization and interspecific aggression were collected. Ants' tolerance to 45
30044957|Regeneration of forest canopy trees can be inhibited by understory thickets. We hypothesized that Isoglossa woodii, a large-leaved herbaceous plant, limits tree recruitment in subtropical coastal dune forests by providing habitat to fruit and seedling consumers. Using uncaged and caged treatments in I. woodii gaps and thickets, we found that frugivore and herbivore behavior is not influenced by I. woodii. We conclude that direct effects of I. woodii on postemergence processes in seedlings contribute to tree recruitment limitation.
10.2307/2989682|Discs cut from leaves of five tropical dicotyledons were submerged in a small Puerto Rican stream and samples harvested bi-weekly to determine the nature and rate of decomposition. Discs of Buchenavia capitata, Manilkara bidentata, and Dacryodes excelsa disintegrated in 26 weeks, whereas those of Sloanea berteriana and Cordia borinquensis disintegrated in 32 weeks. In each species disintegration was restricted to localized areas on the discs. Spores of 16 species of freshwater hyphomycetes were found in stream foam or on submerged leaves. Of these species, Campylospora chaetocladia, Triscelophorus monosporus, and Pyramidospora casuarinae were probably involved in decomposition. Statistically significant changes were noted over time in total nitrogen and caloric content of leaf discs but could not be related conclusively to changes in fungal biomass as indexed by spore production.
20492487|Many Amazon River fishes consume fruits and seeds from floodplain forests during the annual flood season, potentially serving as important seed dispersers and predators. Using a participatory approach, this study investigated how within-season variation in flood level relates to fruit consumption and seed dispersal by two important frugivorous fish, Colossoma macropomum and Piaractus brachypomus, in two Lower Amazon River fishing communities in Brazil. Diets of both fish species were comprised of 78-98 percent fruits, largely dominated by a few species. Diets included fruits of 27 woody angiosperms and four herbaceous species from 26 families, indicating the importance of forest and Montrichardia arborescens habitat during peak flood. A correspondence between peak fruit species richness and peak flood level was observed in one of two communities, which may reflect higher forest diversity and/or differences in selection of fishing habitat. Both fishes are seed dispersers and predators, the relative role of which did not vary by flood level, seed size, or fish size, but may vary with seed hardness. Interspecific differences in diet volume and intact seeds suggest P. brachypomus are more effective seed dispersers than C. macropomum. Overall, the spatial and temporal variation in fruit species composition and richness demonstrate plasticity in fruit consumption in relation to flood level and locally available fruits. While such diets are adaptive to the dynamic changes of Amazon floodplain habitats, the high consumption of forest fruits and seeds from mid- and late-successional species suggests that floodplain forest degradation could disrupt seed dispersal and threaten local and regional fisheries.
30043222|Using optical and photosynthetic assays from a canopy access crane, we examined the photosynthetic performance of tropical dry forest canopies during the dry season in Parque Metropolitano, Panama City, Panama. Photosynthetic gas exchange, chlorophyll fluorescence, and three indices derived from spectral reflectance (the normalized difference vegetation index, the simple ratio, and the photochemical reflectance index) were used as indicators of structural and physiological components of photosynthetic activity. Considerable interspecific variation was evident in structural and physiological behavior in this forest stand, which included varying degrees of foliage loss, altered leaf orientation, stomatal closure, and photosystem II downregulation. The normalized difference vegetation index and the simple ratio were closely related to canopy structure and absorbed radiation for most species, but failed to capture the widely divergent photosynthetic behavior among evergreen species exhibiting various degrees of downregulation. The photochemical reflectance index and chlorophyll fluorescence were related indicators of photosynthetic downregulation, which was not detectable with the normalized difference vegetation index or simple ratio. These results suggest that remote sensing methods that ignore downregulation cannot capture within-stand variability in actual carbon flux for this diverse forest type. Instead, these findings support a sampling approach that derives photosynthetic fluxes from a consideration of both canopy light absorption (e.g., normalized difference vegetation index) and photosynthetic light-use efficiency (e.g., photochemical reflectance index). Such sampling should improve our understanding of controls on photosynthetic carbon uptake in diverse tropical forest stands. /// Caracterizamos la conducta fotosinttica de diversas especies presentes en el dosel de un bosque seco tropical (Parque Metropolitano, Ciudad de Panam, Panam) durante la poca seca utilizando tcnicas pticas y de intercambio de gases. Se utilizaron como indicadores de los componentes estructurales y fisiolgicos de la actividad fotosinttica medidas de intercambio de gases y de fluorescencia de la clorofila as como tres ndices derivados de anlisis de reflectancia espectral: NDVI (ndice de vegetacin de diferencia normalizada), SR (razn simple) y PRI (ndice de reflectancia fotoqumica). En este bosque se evidenci una gran variacin interespecfica en la estructura del dosel (prdida de hojas y cambios en la orientacin de las hojas) as como en la conducta fisiolgica (diferentes grados de cierre estomtico y regulacin a la baja del sistema fotosintetico II). Los ndices NDVI y SR mostraron una estrecha correlacin con la estructura de la cubierta del dosel y la radiacin absorbida para la mayora de especies estudiadas, pero se mostraron poco tiles para detectar los cambios en la actividad fotosinttica en las especies perennes que presentaban diversos grados de regulacin del fotosistema a la baja. La fluorescencia de la clorofila y el ndice PRI mostraron una estrecha relacin y ambos fueron buenos indicadores de la regulacin del fotosistema a la baja en el PSII, mientras que esta conducta no fue detectada por los ndices NDVI y SR. Los resultados obtenidos indican que los mtodos de teledeteccin que ignoran la regulacin del fotosistema a la baja no consiguen detectar la variabilidad existente en el flujo de CO en este bosque tropical tan diverso.
30045457|Factors influencing the niche differentiation of epiphytes have been determined for the epiphytic bromeliads that coexist in the seasonally dry forest of Chamela, Mexico. Over 40 percent of the bromeliad epiphytes were distributed in only 5 percent of the trees. The occurrence of compound leaves in host trees was highly correlated with abundance of epiphytes, as these allow scattered light to penetrate throughout the canopy. The effect of leaf type overrides the effect of bark type, the main factor determining seedling establishment in moist forests. Eight species had the atmospheric life form, while only two species had tanks, formed by overlapping leaf bases and associated to a lower drought tolerance. Distribution in the canopy is counter to that observed in moist forests, since tank species occur in the upper canopy. Tank life forms showed most annual carbon gain during the rainy season, when the newly leafed out trees provide shade to the lower canopy. Atmospheric species had photosynthetic activity for longer into the dry period, possibly supported by dew and fog events. Leaf angles, orientation, trichome, and stomata densities are discussed in relation to water and light use among the species with contrasting ecological strategies. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043638|Aphyllophoraceous fungi are expected to reflect changes in the environmental conditions caused by forest use. To reveal the effects of forest uses on the fungal community structure, we performed a 3-month survey of aphyllophoraceous species in five forest types (undisturbed primary forest, isolated patches of primary forest, old and young fallow forest, and rubber plantations) in Sarawak, Malaysia in 2005. We used a canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to reveal the relationships between fungal community composition and the environmental variables (canopy openness, soil water potential, amount and composition of coarse woody debris, litter mass, basal area, plant species composition). A total of 155 samples from 67 species were collected during the study period. The fungal species density represented by the number of species in a transect differed significantly among forest types. The fungal species density increased significantly with increasing number of pieces of coarse woody debris (CWD), but decreased significantly with increasing the scores of second axis of principal component analysis (PCA) for plant species composition. In the CCA ordination, automatic forward selection revealed that only the number of pieces of CWD significantly affected the fungal species composition. The occurrences of Flabellophora licmophora, Coriohpsis retropicta, Microporus vernicipes, and Amauroderma subrugosum were positively correlated with the number of pieces of CWD. Our study clearly demonstrated that forest use negatively affected aphyllophoraceous fungal diversity and suggest that the quantity of CWD would be an important determinant of fungal diversity and composition.
10.2307/2388000|Amazonian manatees (Trichechus inunguis), restricted to deep water areas in the larger lakes in the central Amazon during the dry season, do not have any obvious food sources until water levels rise between 1-2 m. Evidence from Lago Amana suggests almost seven months of fasting. Manatees may eat dead vegetative matter of both autochthonous and allochthonous origin, relying on hindgut fermentation to derive nutritive value from such material. It is suggested that the extremely low metabolic rate (36% of standard) and the large quantity of blubber may represent critical adaptations in the survival of this species during prolonged dry seasons. It may be calculated that a fat manatee may survive up to 200 days before exhausting its lipid reserves.
40645584|The response of native herbivores to the introduction of a new plant to the community has important implications for plant invasion. Under the Enemy Release Hypothesis introduced species become invasive because of reduced enemy control in the new range, while under the New Association Hypothesis introduced species lack effective defenses against native enemies because they do not share an evolutionary history. I tested the response of a native South-American specialist herbivore Utetheisa ornatrix (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae) to a native (Crotalaria incana) and an introduced host (Crotalaria pallida) (Fabaceae: Papilionoideae). I compared seed predation rates between the two hosts in the field, and I tested preference and performance traits with common garden experiments. Utetheisa ornatrix caused much higher seed predation rates on the introduced host than on the native host. Females also preferred to oviposit on the introduced over the native host. Additionally, larvae feeding on the introduced host had higher fitness (higher pupal weight) than larvae feeding on the native host. I discuss how the response of this specialist herbivore to this introduced host plant contradicts the predictions of the Enemy Release Hypothesis and support the New Association Hypothesis. This study shows that the New Association Hypothesis can also be true for specialist herbivores.
30044927|Environmental fluctuations can play an important role in shaping demographic processes in plant and animal populations. On Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama, El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events followed by mild dry seasons have been shown to stimulate variation in community-wide fruit production. This variation has been postulated to lead to famine in frugivore and granivore populations, but few if any studies have assessed further implications for other members of the ecological community. This study examined the ways in which variation in fruit production associated with an El Nio event on BCI may influence demographic and evolutionary traits in a plant species that is only consumed by frugivores during periods of fruit scarcity. Specifically, I assessed the effects of herbivory by collared peccaries ( Tayassu tajacu) on demographic rates and patterns in the terrestrial bromeliad, Aechmea magdalenae. Aechmea magdalenae usually suffers little or no herbivory, and rain forest collared peccaries, which are primarily frugivorous, have not previously been reported to eat this species. Rates of survival and reproduction of 296 A. magdalenae rosettes in three transects of differing densities were recorded from 1997 through 1999. Mortality rates due to herbivory increased significantly from 1997 to 1999 and showed a close correspondence with enhanced and then decreased rates of community-wide fruit production associated with the 1997 ENSO. The densest portions of the A. magdalenae population showed lower mortality rates and higher rates of reproduction than did the less dense regions. Over the study period, A. magdalenae populations decreased by 45 percent. The implications of periodic herbivory by hungry frugivores are discussed with respect to population regulation, seedling dispersal, and evolution of A. magdalenae's dense growth habit. /// Se reconoce que las fluctuaciones climticas juegan un papel importante en los procesos demogrficos de las poblaciones de plantas y animales. En la isla Barro Colorado (BCI), Panam, los fenmenos El Nio/Oscilacin del Sur (ENOS), seguidos de perodos moderadamente secos, han producido variacin en la produccin de frutos a nivel de comunidades vegetales. Se ha propuesto que esta variacin se asocia con las pocas de hambruna de las poblaciones de frugvoros y granvoros, pero hasta donde se sabe, ningn estudio ha investigado su impacto en otros miembros de la comunidad ecolgica. Este estudio examina las formas en que la variacin en la produccin de frutos asociada con ENOS, puede influir las caractersticas evolutivas y demogrficas de una especie vegetal que slo es consumida por frugvoros durante perodos de baja produccin de frutos. Especficamente, se examinan los efectos que la hervibora por pecari de collar (Tayassu tajacu) tiene sobre las tasas y patrones demogrficos de la bromelia terrestre Aechmea magdalenae. Aechmea magdalenae usualmente padece poca hervibora, y no existen reportes de pecares de collar alimentandose de ella. Entre 1997 y 1999 se registraron las tasas de supervivencia y reproduccin de 296 rosetas de A. magdalenae en tres transectos con diferente densidad de rosetas. Las tasas de mortalidad debidas a la herbivora se incrementaron significativamente en este perodo y mostraron una estrecha correspondencia con las tasas decrecientes en la produccin de frutos de la comunidad asociadas con el ENOS de 1997. Los transectos con mayor densidad de A. magdalenae mostraron tasas de mortalidad ms bajas y tasas de reproduccin ms altas respecto a los transectos de menor densidad. A lo largo de todo el perodo del estudio, las poblaciones de A. magdalenae decrecieron un 45 porciento. Las implicaciones que ocasiona la herbivora peridica por frugvoros hambrientos se discute en relacin con la regulacin de la poblacin, dispersin de semillas, y evolucin de los hbitos de crecimiento de A. magdalenae.
10.2307/2388919|Predation on mangrove propagules was studied to assess its impact on the intertidal distribution of Rhizophora mangle, Avicennia germinans, and Laguncularia racemosa. Field experiments conducted on a mangrove island range (Twin Cays) in Belize showed that rates of predation (percent of propagules rendered nonviable in 9 days) just after peak dispersal (December) were highest for A. germinans (60  8%) and significantly lower for R. mangle (18  5%) and L. racemosa (28  9%), which were not significantly different. Rates varied seasonally, however, with highest losses of propagules at the beginning of dispersal (July). Major predators were the mangrove crabs, Gontopsis cruentata and Ucides cordatus. The high predation rate on A. germinans propagules was attributed to a relatively small size (facilitating burial in crab burrows), a higher nutritive content, and lower amounts of defensive chemicals such as tannins. Interspecific differences in predation rates, however, could not explain the relative dominance and spatial distribution of two of the three species that comprise this intertidal community. Comparison of predation rates in forest locations dominated by either R. mangle or A. germinans demonstrated that consumption of R. mangle propagules was highest in areas where it dominated the canopy and lowest where A. germinans was dominant. Predation also could not account for the infrequent occurrence of L. racemosa trees at Twin Cays, since rates of propagule consumption were not different from that of R. mangle and significantly less than that of A. germinans. High densities of L. racemosa seedlings further suggested that predators were not preventing this species' establishment here. Only the predation pattern for A. germinans was consistent with intertidal dominance of trees. The results indicate that differential predation plays a less important role in the zonation of these island mangrove forests than has been reported for other geographic regions.
10.2307/2388755|The cerrado, one of the largest vegetation formations in Brazil, has been poorly studied. We present the first comprehensive list of the non-volant mammalian fauna and analyze its zoogeographic affinities. There are 11 endemic non-volant mammal species out of a total of 100 species. The cerrado flora is rich in endemics and shows pronounced adaptations to a xeric environment in contrast to the cerrado mammalian fauna. This is probably due to the fact that gallery forests have been present in the cerrado for a long time and have served as mesic enclaves, making xeric adaptations on the part of the mammalian species unnecessary. This contrast between cerrado flora and fauna is similar to the situation in the caatinga, although seemingly for different reasons.
10.2307/2387782|The painted jay, Cyanocorax dickeyi, inhabits a tiny range in western Mexico. Disjuncted 4000 km from the closely related, and possibly conspecific, white-tailed jay, Cyanocorax mystacalis, of Ecuador and Peru, the painted jay has one of the most unusual distributions of any bird in the western hemisphere. Evidence presented here suggests that the painted jay is a pre-Columbian exotic bird, introduced into western Mexico by ancient man.
30044016|We measured beta diversity, or turnover in species composition, of ant assemblages inhabiting patches of forest and savanna (cerrado) near Alter do Cho, in the Brazilian Amazon. In addition, we assessed vertical partitioning of these assemblages by comparing the ground and lower vegetation strata within each habitat. Ants attracted to sardine baits were collected along transects in 39 savanna and 34 forest sites scattered over a 16 km x 16 km landscape. There were about twice as many species in the forest as in the savanna, and within both habitats, we collected more species on the ground than in the vegetation. Similar results were obtained when analyzing data at the level of individual transects, indicating that ant species richness is affected by both habitat and strata. About two-thirds of the species recorded in the savanna were also found in the forest. Within both habitats, a large proportion of the species found in the least species-rich stratum (vegetation) were also found in the richer one (ground). However, ordination analysis, using data from individual transects, revealed that different habitats and strata can be clearly discriminated from each other in terms of their ant species composition. Each habitat and stratum had a number of characteristic (indicator) species which, although generally not exclusive to that particular habitat and stratum, predominated there. Our findings indicate that habitat and strata specialization is an important factor governing the organization of ant communities in Amazonia. /// Ns medimos a diversidade beta, ou turnover na composio de espcies, de assemblias de formigas habitando florestas e savanas (cerrados) prximas a Alter do Cho, na Amaznia Brasileira. Alm disto, ao comparar em cada um dos hbitats o solo com a vegetao baixa, avaliamos se havia uma separao vertical da fauna. Formigas atradas a iscas de sardinha foram coletadas ao longo de parcelas em 39 reas de savana e 34 de floresta espalhadas por uma rea de 16 x 16 km. Encontramos cerca de duas vezes mais espcies na floresta do que na savana e, nos dois hbitats, mais espcies no solo do que na vegetao. Resultados similares foram obtidos ao analisar os dados ao nvel das parcelas, indicando que a riqueza de espcies de formigas  afetada tanto pelo hbitat quanto pelo tipo de estrato. Cerca de dois teros das espcies da savana tambm ocorreram na floresta. Em ambos os hbitats, uma alta proporo das espcies encontradas no estrato mais pobre em espcies (vegetao) tambm ocorreu no estrato mais rico (solo). Entretanto, a anlise de ordenao, usando dados das parcelas, revelou que diferentes hbitats e estratos so facilmente discriminados entre si em funo da composio de espcies de formigas. Cada hbitat e estrato apresentaram um nmero de espcies caractersticas (indicadoras) que, embora em geral no fossem exclusivas daquele hbitat e estrato particular, predominaram ali. Nossos resultados indicam que a especializao de hbitats e estratos  um importante fator governando a organizao de comunidades de formigas na Amaznia.
30043223|Highly seasonal rainfall creates a pulse of litterfall in the southern Yucatan peninsula region, with cascading effects on the timing of essential nutrient fluxes, microbial dynamics, and vegetation growth. I investigated whether forest age or a regional environmental gradient related to rainfall has a greater effect on patterns of litterfall in this increasingly human-dominated landscape. Litterfall was sampled in 10-13 stands in each of three locations spanning a rainfall gradient of ca 900-1400 mm/yr. Litter was collected monthly from November 1998 through January 2000 in mature forests and in secondary forests aged 2-25 yr. Despite a substantial precipitation gradient, age was the only significant predictor of annual litter mass. Two- to five-yr-old forests produced significantly less litter than 12-25-yr-old secondary forests (4.6 vs. 6.2 Mg/ha/yr), but the difference between older secondary forests and mature forests (9 percent) was not significant. Litter production increased with rainfall, but not significantly so. The pattern of litterfall was similar across locations and age classes, with a peak during late March or early April. However, litterfall seasonality was most pronounced in the old secondary and mature forests. Litterfall was more evenly distributed throughout the year in forests under 10 yr old. Seasonality of litterfall was also less pronounced at the wettest site, with less disparity between peak litterfall and off-peak months. Seasonality was not related to soil texture. Forest age and rainfall are important drivers of litterfall dynamics; however, both litter mass and degree of seasonality depended more strongly on forest age. Thus, the impact of land-use change on litter nutrient cycling is as great, if not greater, than the constraint imposed by the major natural environmental factor affecting tropical dry forests. /// Alta precipitacin estacional en la Pennsula de Yucatn causa un importante pulso de hojarasca el cual tiene efectos en el flujo de nutrientes, la dinmica microbiana y en el crecimiento de la vegetacin. En este estudio se investiga cual de los dos aspectos tiene un mayor efecto en la produccin de hojarasca: la edad del bosque o un gradiente ambiental regional relacionado con la precipitacin. La hojarasca fue muestreada en 10 a 13 parcelas en tres localidades diferentes. Estas localidades poseen una precipitacin que varia entre 900 y 1400 mm/ao. La hojarasca fue recogida mensualmente entre noviembre de 1988 y enero del 2000 en parcelas de bosque maduro y de bosque secundario con edades que oscilan entre los 2 y los 25 aos. A pesar de la existencia de un gradiente de precipitacin importante, la edad de la parcela fue el nico predictor de la masa anual de hojarasca. Bosques con edades entre dos y cinco anos producieron menos hojarascas que los bosques de 12 a 24 aos, pero la diferencia entre el bosque secundario tardo y el bosque maduro no fue significante. El patrn de cada de hojas fue similar en cada localidad y entre edades, con un pico entre el final de marzo o principios de abril. Sin embargo, la cada de hojas fue ms pronunciada en el bosque secundario tardo y los bosques maduros. La cada de hojas fue adems uniformemente distribuida a lo largo del ao en bosques de menos de 10 aos. La estacionalidad no se relaciono con la textura del suelo. Finalmente, el impacto del cambio en el uso de la tierra en la produccin de hojarasca es quizs ms importante que las limitaciones impuestas por la mayor limitacin ambiental que afecta los bosques secos tropicales.
30043088|Composition of pioneer tree species was recorded for 23 to 76 treefalls in the forests of La Selva (LS), Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Cocha Cashu Research Station (CC), and KM41 to evaluate the hypothesis that distance to secondary forests influences the composition of pioneer tree species at scales of thousands of hectares and to assess the relative importance of distance to seed sources compared to two microenvironmental factors: soil and gap size. Discriminant function analysis (DFA) was used to assess the relative importance of the landscape and environmental factors in controlling the presence in gaps of Cecropia species that are typical of secondary forests regenerating after large-scale disturbances. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used as an ordination technique based on pioneer species composition of each gap. The PCA ordination axes were regressed against soil type, gap size, forest type, and distance values of each site to explore the relationship between composition and control factors. At the four sites, the variable best correlated to the discriminant function of gaps with and without Cecropia was the distance to secondary forests, although such discriminant function was statistically significant at only one site. In three of the four sites (with the exception of BCI, where there are no typical young secondary forests), distance to secondary forests was correlated with at least one axis of the PCA (P < 0.06). Other significant correlations included soil variables (CC and KM41), gap size (KM41), and forest type (secondary vs. primary; BCI). Overall, the results provide some support for the hypothesis that at the spatial scale of this study, distance to young secondary forests (both natural and anthropogenic) influences treefall gap composition at a level comparable to endogenous and exogenous microenvironmental factors. /// Se estudi la composicin de 23 a 76 claros por cada de rboles en los bosques tropicales de La Selva (LS), Isla de Barro Colorado (BCI), Estacin Biolgica Cocha Cashu (CC), y KM41, con el fin de evaluar la hiptesis que la distancia a bosques secundarios influye en la composicin de especies pioneras en claros a escalas espaciales en el orden de miles de hectreas, y tambin para evaluar la importancia relativa de la distancia a los bosques secundarios en comparacin con dos factores microambientales: suelo y rea del claro. Se us Anlisis de Funciones Discriminantes (DFA) para evaluar la importancia relativa de los distintos factores como controladores de la presencia en claros de especies de Cecropia que son caractersticas de los bosques secundarios. Se utiliz Anlisis de Componentes Principales (PCA) como una tcnica de ordenamiento basada en la composicin de especies pioneras en los claros. Para evaluar la relacin entre los factores ambientales y la composicin de especies se realizaron regresiones entre los valores en los ejes ms importantes del PCA y los valores de cada variable. En los cuatro sitios, la variable mejor correlacionada con la funcin discriminante de presencia y ausencia de Cecropia spp. fue la distancia a los bosques secundarios, aunque en solo uno de los cuatro sitios esta funcin fue estadsticamente significativa. En tres de los cuatro sitios (con la excepcin de BCI que no tiene bosques secundarios jvenes tpicos) al menos uno de los ejes principales se correlacion con la distancia al bosque secundarios (P < 0.06). Otras correlaciones significativas incluyen suelos (CC y KM41), tamao del claro (KM41), y tipo de bosque (secundario vs. primario, BCI). En general los resultados apoyan parcialmente la hiptesis de que a la escala espacial del estudio, la distancia a bosques secundarios juega un papel composicin de especies en los claros comparable a la de factores microambientales endgenos y exgenos.
4132943|We present evidence that pollination triggers nectar reabsorption in flowers of the epiphytic orchid Mystacidium venosum. The amount of sugar in nectar of M, venosum decreased significantly by more than 50 percent within 72 hours of pollination. Hand-pollinated flowers from which nectar was previously removed set significantly smaller fruits with a lower percentage of viable seeds than hand-pollinated flowers containing nectar, suggesting that resources reclaimed by nectar resorption are allocated to fruit production.
2663981|We used a humid tropical elevation gradient to examine the relationships among climate, edaphic conditions, belowground carbon storage, and soil respiration rates. We also compared open and closed canopy sites to increase the range of microclimate conditions sampled along the gradient, and determine the effects of canopy openings on C and P storage, and C dynamics. Total soil C, the light C fraction, and all of the component fractions of the P pool were significantly related to soil moisture, and all but total soil C were also significantly related to temperature. Both labile and recalcitrant soil P fractions were negatively correlated with the light C fraction, while the dilute HCl-extractable P pool, generally thought of as intermediate in availability, was positively correlated with light C, suggesting that P may play an important role in C cycling within these systems. Total fine root biomass was greatest at 1000 m elevation and lowest at 150 m, and was strongly and positively correlated with soil moisture content. Soil respiration rates were significantly and negatively correlated with fine root biomass and the light C fraction. In forested sites, soil respiration rates were strongly and negatively correlated with total belowground C pools (soils + roots + forest floor). Belowground C pools did not follow the expected increasing trend with decreases in temperature along the gradient. Our results indicated that in humid tropical forests, the relationships among soil C and nutrient pools, soil respiration rates, and climate are complex. We suggest that frequent and prolonged anaerobic events could be important features of these environments that may explain the observed trends.
30045417|We described the plant communities on a large landslide in a human-dominated area of tropical dry forest landscape (Casita Volcano, Nicaragua) and in the adjacent forest, 3 yr after landslide occurrence. At both sites, we determined the relationships between spatial changes in environmental factors and the spatial distribution of species and plant traits. Subsequently, we tested the hypothesis that the compositional similarity between the landslide and the forest increased with a decrease in the distance from the forest edge and the width of the landslide. In the forest, the spatial distribution of species and plant traits was determined mainly by an elevational gradient that was associated with the amount of bare soil, whereas, on the landslide, there was no such gradient but species distributions were influenced mostly by the presence of residual agricultural and forest soils and human disturbance. We did not find an increase in compositional similarity between the landslide and the forest at the edge or in the narrow zones of the landslide. Compared to other landslides, the recovery process was strongly influenced by the extreme abiotic heterogeneity, climate seasonality, and human use in the area. The study of succession in tropical dry landslides located in densely populated zones should focus on understanding the response of regional ecosystems to a complex disturbance regime in which human-induced disturbances play a major role.
30043230|Entrained phenology patterns of tropical trees are expected to be sensitive to short-term fluctuations in typical rainfall and temperature. We examined 47 mo of data on the flowering, fruiting, and new leaf phenology for 797 trees from 38 species in the Ta National Park, Cte d'Ivoire. We determined the timing of the phenology cycles in relation to seasonal rainfall, temperature, and solar radiation. Regression analysis was used to examine how variations in rainfall and temperature influenced deviations in the peaks and troughs of phenology cycles. We also investigated whether populations that fruit during periods of community-wide fruit scarcity were those populations with relatively long- or short-fruiting duration. Flower, fruit, and leaf-flushing phenophases all exhibited 12-mo cycles. The broad peak in flowering began with the northward zenithal passing in April and ended with the southward zenithal passing in September. Fruiting peaks occurred in the long dry season, and leaf flushing peaked in the long dry season but continued into the wet season. Deviations from phenology cycles were largely attributable to short-term fluctuations in rainfall and/or temperature. Fruiting durations of species were related to the mean diameter at breast height. Species with long- and short-fruiting durations contributed equally to fruit abundance during periods of community-wide fruit scarcity. /// On s'attend  ce que les modles phnologiques des arbres tropicaux soient sensibles aux fluctuations  court terme aux prcipitations et temprature typiques. Nous avons examin 47 mois de donnes sur la floraison, la fructification, et la phnologie de nouvelles feuilles pour 797 arbres de 38 espces dans le Parc National de Ta, Cte d'Ivoire. Nous avons dtermin comment les cycles phnologiques ont t orients par rapport aux changement saisonniers des prcipitations, de la temprature, et du rayonnement solaire. L'analyse de rgression a t adopte pour examiner comment les variations des prcipitations et de la temprature ont influenc les dviations dans les pics et les creux des cycles phnologiques. Nous avons galement tudi si les populations qui portent des fruits pendant des priodes de pnurie de fruit  l'chelle communautaire taient des populations  dure de fructification relativement longue ou courte. Les phnophases de floraison, de fructification et de feuillaison ont toutes montr les cycles de douze mois. Le large pic dans la floraison a commenc avec le passage znithal du nord en avril et pris fin avec le passage znithal du sud en septembre. Les pics de fructification se sont produits pendant la longue saison sche, et le rougissement des feuilles a eu un pic pendant la longue saison sche mais a continu en saison des pluies. Les dviations des cycles de phnologie taient en grande partie attribuables aux fluctuations  court terme dans les prcipitations et/ou la temprature. Les dures des fructifications des espces taient lies au diamtre moyen  hauteur de poitrine. Les espce  longue et courte dure fructification ont contribu galement  l'abondance de fruit pendant des priodes de pnurie de fruit  l'chelle communautaire.
30043119|Tropical ecosystems support a diversity of species and ecological processes that are unparalleled anywhere else on Earth. Despite their tremendous social and scientific importance, tropical ecosystems are rapidly disappearing. To usher tropical ecosystems and the human communities dependent upon them through the environmental transformations of the 21st century, tropical biologists must provide critical knowledge in three areas: 1) the structure and function of tropical ecosystems; 2) the nature and magnitude of anthropogenic effects on tropical ecosystems; and 3) the socio-economic drivers of these anthropogenic effects. To develop effective strategies for conservation, restoration, and sustainable management of tropical ecosystems, scientific perspectives must be integrated with social necessities. A new set of principles built on a framework for pursuing relevant tropical biological research will facilitate interdisciplinary approaches, integrate biological knowledge with the social sciences, and link science with policy. We propose four broad recommendations for immediate action in tropical biology and conservation that are fundamental to all biological and social disciplines in the tropics: 1) assemble and disseminate information on life's diversity in the tropics; 2) enhance tropical field stations and build a worldwide network to link them with tropical field biologists at their field sites; 3) bring the field of tropical biology to the tropics by strengthening institutions in tropical countries through novel partnerships between tropical and temperate zone institutions and scientists; and 4) create concrete mechanisms to increase interactions between tropical biologists, social scientists, and policy makers.
10.2307/2387665|We examined for blood parasites 378 lizards belonging to 8 species captured in Barro Colorado Island during August, September and October, 1974. Two species were positive for malaria: Anolis limifrons (38%) and A. frenatus (42%) Three Plasmodium species were tentatively identified: Plasmodium balli Telford 1969, P. floridense Thompson and Huff 1944 and a third species previously considered P. "tropiduri" by Telford (1974). 41% of the positive lizards had mixed infections with 2 or even 3 different malaria species. Some animals showed evidence of marked anemia and the intensity of infections in 111 A. limifrons was classified as light (78%), moderate (14%) or heavy (8%). The prevalence of infection was the same as in additional sample taken 12 months later. Two A. limifrons and 1 A. frenatus also were infected with a trypanosome identified as Trypanosoma serveti Pelaez and Streber 1955.
10.2307/2388758|The foraging behavior of Anolis stratulus was studied in tabonuco rain forest near El Verde in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. Daily foraging rates were calculated at 20.5 prey items/lizard during wet season and 18.0 prey items/lizard during the dry season. An average consumption rate of 3.4 x 10$^5$ prey/ha each day was calculated which demonstrates the importance of this species in the rain forest food web. Time of day and seasonal differences in foraging activity indicate that these factors are important even in the relatively constant tropical rain forest environment.
2389217|Poison frogs in the genus Dendrobates have very small clutch sizes (2-6 eggs among species for which there are data) and typically transport their tadpoles singly to small phytotelmata, such as bromeliad tanks, leaf axils, fallen fruit capsules, and treeholes. Tadpoles of many species are predaceous, consuming larvae of insects that use the same microhabitat for breeding, such as giant damselflies and mosquitoes. Previous studies and observations on the behavior of poison frog tadpoles led us to question whether tadpoles might be cannibalistic. We studied a population of Dendrobates castaneoticus in lowland rainforest in Para, Brazil; additional data were collected on Dendrobates auratus in Nicaragua. At the study site in Brazil, we established a grid of 40 Brazil nut capsules, the microhabitat used by D. castaneoticus for tadpole deposition. Of 42 tadpoles deposited during the 55 days of the study, 20 were killed or died; 16 of these were presumably killed by conspecific tadpoles. Growth rate and time to metamorphosis was higher among tadpoles that consumed three or more tadpoles or relatively large larvae of the mosquito Trichoprosopon digitatum, a colonist of newly opened Brazil nut capsules. We propose that selection has favored the development of predatory behavior in poison frog tadpoles primarily as a mechanism to eliminate predators from the small phytotelmata in which they develop and that cannibalism is a secondary outcome of this behavior. Predatory behavior also provides tadpoles with a source of food, which is frequently limited in these microhabitats. Additional studies of the biology of tadpoles of other species of Dendrobates are needed to determine the evolution of predatory and cannibalistic behavior in the clade.
30043160|Nectar robbing by squirrels is reported for the first time in the striped squirrel (Tamiops swinhoei hainanus), which was found robbing nectar from ginger plants (Alpinia kwangsiensis) in tropical forests of south Yunnan, China. We describe the behavior of squirrels visiting inflorescences, and we compare the fruit set of inflorescences visited by squirrels with that of inflorescences not subject to nectar robbing by squirrels. Most of the styles of robbed flowers were damaged and the affected plants exhibited reduced fruit set.
30045381|The Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary, Belize was established in 1986 following Rabinowitz and Nottingham's 1986 study on jaguar diet and distribution. In 2002, we reexamined jaguar diet following two decades of mitigated human hunting of jaguar prey. We observed high overlap between historical and current jaguar diet constructs. Nine-banded armadillo remained the most frequently consumed prey item. However, collared peccary consumption increased by nearly 20 percent while dietary breadth decreased by 60 percent presumably reflecting increased prey availability following reduced human hunting pressure.
27742860|In land change science studies, a cover type is defined by land surface attributes, specifically including the types of vegetation, topography and human structures, which makes it difficult to characterize land cover as discrete classes. One of the challenges in characterizing a land-cover type is to distinguish variability within the class from actual land-cover transformation. The spread of plant invasions in tropical systems is affected by seasonal variations and disturbances such as agricultural activities and fires, making it difficult to determine the spread through thematic classification. In this paper, we estimate the changes in spatial extent and seasonal variation of bracken fern invasion in Southern Yucatn from 1989 to 2005 by using a linear mixture model (LMM), a widely used method in the classification of remotely sensed data. The results show an increase in areas affected by bracken from 40 km2 in 1989 to almost 80 km2 in 2000. Lower estimates of the invasion resulted from data acquired at the end of the dry season (MarchMay), when bracken mixes with secondary vegetation or is removed by fires. The accuracy of the maps is estimated through the use of sketch maps of farmer's parcels and field data collected from 2000 to 2001. Understanding the spatial distribution and annual variability of bracken fern cover in the region is critical to determining the relation between disturbances such as fire and forest recovery. Using LMM may enhance this understanding by giving a more accurate picture of the extent and distribution of bracken fern invasion.
3593170|This study reports extraordinarily high density estimates for the wild pig (Sus scrofa) from an aseasonal tropical forest site within the species' native range. At Pasoh Forest Reserve, a 2500 ha area of lowland dipterocarp rain forest in Peninsular Malaysia, line transects were used to estimate pig density from May to October in 1996 and 1998. In 1996, 44 sightings of S. scrofa consisting of 166 individuals were recorded along 81 km of transects. In 1998, 39 sightings documented 129 individuals along 79.9 km of transects. Estimated population density was
10.2307/2989662|Transpiration in elfin woodland on a peak at 1000 m and in montane rain forest at 550 m was found to be extremely low when compared to most other rates reported in the literature, regardless of habitat. Apparently, transpiration differences between the two habitats which we studied depended upon weather conditions. The extremely low saturation deficits of the air in these habitats, frequent cloud moisture deposition, and low insolation reaching the leaves because of frequent fog and closed canopy appear to be the major causes of the slow transpiration; inefficient xylem and effective scarcity of certain minerals may also be involved. Transpiration of sclerophyllous-leaved species characteristic of elfin forest was similar to that of membranaceous-leaved species from the montane rain forest. Sclerophylly appears to resist defoliation by strong mountain winds, rather than reduce transpiration as in some habitats. Inefficient base pumping due to slow transpiration, combined with mechanical wind pruning, is proposed as a major cause of tree height reduction in elfin forest. The proportionately greater stomatal area of elfin forest leaves as compared to their montane rain forest counterparts suggests that plants adapt to counteract this reduced transpiration.
40863777|To both celebrate and reflect upon this International Year of Biodiversity, Biotropica has invited opinion articles from a number of scientists across the globe. As lightly edited personal opinions, the commentaries reflect the diversity of passionate and often controversial views expressed across the scientific community. Thus, these commentaries should provide much food for thought, and hopefully some inspiration, on how we perceive biodiversity on our currently human-dominated planet and how we should respond to its loss.
27742836|The distributions of 17 tree species with seeds or fruits that are commonly eaten or otherwise used by humans were studied in reference to authropogenic soils in a seasonally dry lowland tropical forest in Bolivia. Two types of anthropogenic dark earths (ADEs) were identified: terra preta (TP: darkened with charcoal fragments and with abundant pottery shards) and terra mulata (TM: somewhat darkened but with little or no pottery). In 216ha, we compared the densities of trees &gt; 10 cm dbh of useful species in nine TP patches, three TM patches, and six areas with nonanthropogenic soils (N-ADE). The TP, which covers approximately 20 percent of the sample area, has higher contents of organic matter, extractable P, and extractable Ca than N-ADE soils, as well as higher pH and extractable P than TM. TM has organic matter and Ca contents similar to N-ADE soils but significantly less extractable K. In general, TP has higher nutrient content than surrounding soils, both at the surface (010cm) and deeper in the profile (4050cm). Despite these differences in soil fertility and contrary to our expectations, none of the 17 tree species were concentrated on TP perhaps because interactions between local dispersal agents and natural disturbances have masked historical patterns. Alternatively, past inhabitants of the study area may have enriched forests with useful tree species in areas where they were not practicing the intensive soil husbandry that results in ADEs.
10.2307/2388345|Live trapping of small rodents was conducted in two adjacent tracts of tropical evergreen forests, selectively felled (K14) and relatively undisturbed mature forest (K30). Small rodents representing 14 species were examined. With the exception of Hybomys univittatus Peters in K14, two species, Praomys (Hylomyscus) stella Waterhouse and Praomys jacksoni de Winton, were the most abundant species in both types of forest during 1977-1978. Most rodent species were represented in both K14 and K30, but those normally associated with forest edges and Savanna habitats such as Lophuromys flavopunctatus Thomas were more abundant in selectively felled than in mature forest. Rodent density ranged from 0.7 to 26 rodents/ha in K14 and from 0.7 to 21.3 rodents/ha in K30. Both rodent species richness and diversity were higher for plots located in selectively felled than in uncut mature forest. Furthermore, rodent species diversity was positively highly correlated with the estimated percent ground vegetation cover (which was also significantly higher in K14 than K30), whereas rodent species richness was inversely correlated with tree species richness. Seasonal fluctuations in rodent populations were similar in both types of forest but were of greater magnitude in the selectively felled forest than in the mature one.
2663923|This paper reports a new reproductive mode in anurans, observed for the green treefrog, Hyla leucopygia, a species from the Atlantic Forest of Brazil and a member of the H. albosignata group. The reproductive mode of H. leucopygia is defined as follows: aquatic eggs and embryos in subterranean constructed nests; subsequent to flooding, feeding tadpoles in ponds or streams. We suggest that the new reproductive mode is widespread among the species in the H. albosignata group. The specialized courtship behaviors of H. leucopygia, characterized by vocalizations and a stereotyped sequence of mutual touches between male and female, are described. A review of the reproductive modes of hylid frogs is provided, with 11 modes recognized for the Atlantic Forest hylids and 12 modes for hylids around the world.
30043038|Movement of air under the canopy of a forest affects the gliding of animals such as frogs, snakes, geckos, and squirrels; the dispersal of pollen, seeds, and spores; as well as convective transport of heat and carbon dioxide. Wind speed profiles were measured under the canopy of a lowland rain forest during the morning, afternoon, and night at three sites in Costa Rica to determine the aerodynamic environment in which tree frogs maneuver while gliding. During the course of a day, average and maximum wind speeds were highest in the morning and midday, and lowest at night. Wind speeds under the canopy were highest near the top of the canopy and were lowest near the canopy floor in the morning and afternoon, and exhibited little variation with respect to height at night. Turbulence intensity (a common measure of gustiness) was constant (ca 1) for all times of day, heights in the canopy, and sites, but the absolute magnitudes of wind gust speeds were higher during the day than at night. Power spectral densities revealed that most of the variation in wind speeds occurred at frequencies that could potentially affect the gliding of tree frogs. Tree frogs (and many other gliding animals), however, glide at night and thereby avoid the higher wind speeds that occur by day. Computer simulations of the dynamic motions of frogs while gliding revealed that the night levels of wind gusts have little effect on the direction of gliding of tree frogs.
10.2307/2388197|Aboveground adventitious roots emerging from the stems and branches of the montane tropical rain forest canopy tree species, Ceratopetalum virchowii, do not require epiphyte mats to stimulate their growth. The adventitious roots grow in dense clumps on fully exposed aboveground woody surfaces of this species on Mount Bellenden Ker in northeast Queensland, Australia, where mean annual rainfall exceeds 6000 mm. While the soil at the study site is nutrient-poor, the nutrient content of the rainwater draining from the stems of C. virchowii is unusually high compared to the stemflow of other neighboring canopy tree species. Ceratopetalum virchowii is particularly prone to the leaching of Ca$^{2+}$, Mg$^{2+}$, K$^+$, and Na$^+$ The aboveground adventitious roots of C. virchowii, therefore, may serve the adaptive function of nutrient recovery before its nutrient-rich stemflow reaches the ground and becomes available to other plants. I hypothesize that the growth of the aboveground adventitious roots of C. virchowii is influenced by the high nutrient content of its stemflow and branchflow drainage, and by the moist condition of its woody surfaces which remain wetted for relatively long periods after rainfalls.
2389150|Ant communities were surveyed along an elevational gradient in the Philippines extending from lowland dipterocarp forest (250 m elevation) to mossy forest (1750 m). Standardized pitfall trapping in arboreal and terrestrial microhabitats at seven sites yielded 51 species. Collecting by hand at five of the sites yielded 48 species. The two methods produced substantially different assemblages, with only 22 species (29%) taken in common. Only a fraction of the total ant community appeared to be sampled at most of the sites. Measures of species richness and relative abundance peaked at mid-elevations and declined sharply with increasing elevation. Ants were extremely rare above 1500 m elevation. Arboreal ants were trapped much less frequently than terrestrial ants at all sites. Ant species that were abundant had broader elevational distributions than those that were less common, but most species were rare and occurred at only one or two sites. The elevational patterns for ants are largely the inverse of those documented for Philippine small mammals which reach their greatest diversity and abundance at high elevations where ants are rare. This suggests that the two groups may interact competitively. Some of the patterns observed or inferred from this study may apply to tropical ant communities in general, and are presented as series of testable hypotheses as a guide and stimulus for future research.
10.2307/2387844|Animals generally are patchy in time and space. The causes of this pattern have been explored in only a few cases. We here present data on the relative amounts of migration and activity by litter arthropods during the dry season in artificially watered vs unmanipulated patches of litter on the forest floor of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Watering significantly changed the physical environment of the litter. Litter moisture content increased by 37-70 percent (absolute increase 8-16%) and soil moisture content by 16-24 percent (absolute increase 4-8%). More and smaller arthropods were found in wetter patches. This effect was weak or variable in watered patches that had unmanipulated arthropod populations and strong in patches from which we had removed arthropods at the beginning of the experiment. Ant colonies were much more likely to migrate into wetter, "empty" areas, and more individuals were collected in these plots. Overall, more species of ants and more groups of arthropods were found in watered, "empty" plots. We thus demonstrate that at least part of the variance in plot-to-plot abundance of litter arthropods is related to litter moisture content. This may have strong effects on the community structure of litter arthropods.
30045442|Invasive alien plants affect the functioning of ecosystems by altering plant-animal interactions, such as pollination, which may impede natural regeneration of native plant species. In Mauritius, we studied the reproductive traits and pollination ecology of the rare endemic cauliflorous tree Syzygium mamilhtum in a restored forest (all alien plant species removed) and an adjacent unrestored area (degraded by alien plants). Flowers of S. mamillatum were only visited by generalist bird species. Although the initial number of flower buds per tree in the restored forest tended to be higher than that of trees in the unrestored area, final fruit set and the number of seeds per fruit were lower in the restored forest. This corresponded with lower bird visitation rates in the restored area. Additionally, during budding stage, most trees were severely attacked by lepidopteran larvae, and bud loss through herbivory was higher in the restored forest. Thus, the difference in reproductive performance of S. mamillatum between the two localities was caused by contrasting herbivore attack and bird visitation behavior in restored and unrestored areas. Our findings illustrate the importance of restoration efforts in mimicking the original physical structure of habitats and interaction structure of interspecific relationships, and the difficulty of doing so given the imperfect knowledge and the reality that many native species have become locally extinct and replaced by exotic species.
41058550|For all its positive attributes, the recent expansion of ecotourism has resulted in greater influxes of people into natural areas, causing a range of impacts including behavioral disruptions among wildlife. How animals respond to conversation is poorly understood, but noise reduction may reduce the impact of ecotourists while simultaneously enhancing their experience with higher wildlife encounter rates. We tested the response of a rain forest bird community to noise by playing a recorded conversation while conducting point censuses in a terra firme forest in Tambopata, Peru. Fifty decibel conversation (approximately library speaking volume) caused declines of 35 percent in total detections and 33 percent in detected species richness. Birds reacted similarly to 60 dB (approximately the volume of an excited child): average detections declined by 39 percent and detected species richness by 37 percent. Specifically, noise-induced detection declines were manifest both in decreased vocalizations (37% decline) and decreased physical sightings (44% decline). Lowered detection frequencies indicate behavioral shifts. As vocalization is involved in territory defense, breeding behavior, and predator detection, strong noise responsiveness indicates potential harm for birds. Insectivores were the most affected bird guild, raising conservation concerns, as insectivorous birds are sensitive to habitat modification. Birds reacted strongly to noise both near an established ecotourist lodge and in an intact reserve, indicating an absence of habituation. Thus, as a method for reducing ecotourism's footprint on native fauna and improving tourist satisfaction with increased wildlife sightings, noise reduction seems promising, even for well-established ecotourist lodges.
30043199|We investigated the predispersal survivorship of seeds of six dipterocarp species {Dipterocarpus globosus, D. tempehes, Dryobahnops aromatica, D. lanceolata, Shorea beccariana, and S. pilosa) during 2001-2002, when a general flowering occurred in Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak, Malaysia. More immature seeds dropped during the first month in Dryobalanops and Shorea spp. than in Dipterocarpus spp. Insects attacked the seeds of all species during all developmental stages through to maturity, although temporal patterns varied among the dipterocarps. In contrast, arboreal vertebrates only occasionally ate seeds, and produced less damage than insects. In four species, insects damaged a significantly higher percentage of seeds than did vertebrates. Direct observations of seed survival patterns and bagging experiments using two sizes of mesh (cloth and wire) in the canopy of Dryobalanops aromatica identified insects as the principal seed predators during both the last phase, and overall. These results document the relative importance of insects as predispersal seed predators in these dipterocarp species.
2663986|Physical damage caused by litterfall is a source of seedling mortality that can be influenced by environmental disturbances, such as the isolation of forest fragments due to habitat destruction. The impact of physical damage in seedling mortality was evaluated in forest fragments and continuous forests in central Amazonia using artificial seedlings. A total of 11 reserves distributed among three sites were studied: three 1-ha, three 10-ha, two 100-ha, and three continuous forest reserves. In each reserve, ten transects each comprised of ten artificial seedlings were monitored for one year at four-week intervals. Survival curves were compared using failure time analysis, and the effect of reserve size on artificial seedling mortality after one year was analyzed with a categorical model. In the analysis of survival curves, artificial seedling survival was significantly greater in the continuous forest than in the 10-ha reserve at one site only, a result that may have occurred by chance. After one year, artificial seedlings suffered similar mortality due to litterfall among the reserves sampled. Physical damage by litterfall varied from 28 to 35 percent annually in the 1- and 10-ha forest fragments compared to 20 to 24 percent in the continuous forest. Mortality of artificial seedlings in the continuous forest was similar to other tropical sites in which the same method has been used, and may indicate that litterfall plays an important role in seedling mortality in the terra firme tropical forests of central Amazonia.
30044944|Mammal populations are increasingly hunted, yet the consequences of their disappearance from tropical forests have only recently been explored. Here, we summarize current research on the role of mammals in seed dispersal and postdispersal processes, such as seed predation and secondary dispersal, in different tropical regions. We evaluate how mammal features influence seedshadows and ultimately forest regeneration. Finally, we discuss the potential effect of changes in seedshadows caused by the elimination of many medium-and large-sized mammals. The complex role that mammals play in creating and modifying seedshadows in tropical forests cannot be easily quantified, and in this review we emphasize the variation that exists both within and among mammal taxa and across continents. To bridge this gap in information, we suggest that more studies should evaluate the relative importance of the disappearance of both seed dispersers and seed predators for particular plant species so that we may begin to understand the balance between these two influences. We also suggest that future studies identify ecological redundancy in nonhunted vertebrates within any particular community to evaluate compensatory behavior that may help ameliorate some of the negative effects of hunting of large and medium mammals.
2663880|Few data exist on seed dispersal by frugivorous birds in fragmented landscapes, originating from tropical dry forests, in contrast to more abundant data from tropical rain forests. In this study, we assessed the effect of frugivorous birds in a fragmented landscape of Veracruz, Mexico, now occupied by remnant fragments of tropical semi-deciduous forest and dry deciduous forest, grassland, and shrubby patches on sand dunes. We determined four characteristics related to seed dispersal by birds: the interacting species of plants and birds, the characteristics of these species, spatio-temporal variation in the dispersal system, and the outcome of the process. During one year, we recorded 54 frugivorous bird species and 33 ornithochorous plant species, which engaged in 176 different bird-plant species interactions. Similarity (Sorensen index) of frugivorous bird communities using different vegetation types was high (> 70%), suggesting that many bird species used all of the vegetation types. In contrast, the similarity of ornithochorous plant communities among vegetation types commonly was low (<37%), suggesting that most plant species were restricted to particular sites in this landscape. At the landscape level, as well as for tropical deciduous forest, we detected a significant positive relationship (Spearman's correlation of rank coefficient >0.65, P < 0.05) among richness per month of frugivorous birds and plant species bearing fleshy fruits. Seeds of many plant species previously detected in studies of seed rain at the site were eaten by birds during this study. Most seeds of zoochorous species, which are deposited in the dry and decidous tropical forests patches, are produced within these vegetation types (i.e., they are autochthonous species), whereas bird-dispersed seeds arriving in grassland and shrubby patches are produced outside (i.e., allochthonous) and are mostly woody species. Birds are important seed dispersers among vegetation types in this landscape but they have different effects in each one. The four characteristics studied, as well as the landscape approach of this research, allowed us to detect spatial and temporal patterns that otherwise would have remained undetected.
30043126|The Neotropical beetle Cephaloleia fenestrata is a specialist herbivore on Pleiostachya pruinosa (Marantaceae) in upland and flood zone habitat of lowland tropical wet forest in Costa Rica. Cephaloleia fenestrata spends its entire life cycle on P. pruinosa, feeding primarily in rolled young leaves as adults, feeding in the concavity of leaf petioles as larvae, and laying eggs and pupating on the leaf petioles. Egg development time is about average for Chrysomelidae, approximately ten days. Cephaloleia fenestrata larvae, like other rolled leaf hispines, have an extremely long development period (94 d) consisting of only two instars (compared to a range of three to six in other Chrysomelidae). The 30-day pupal stage is also long, but within the range of that observed in other Chrysomelidae. Adults live an average of six weeks. The generation time for C. fenestrata is thus approximately six months. Male C. fenestrata lived longer and had a higher capture probability than females. There was no difference between males and females in the movement probabilities between upland and flood zone habitat. Rolled P. pruinosa leaves are both ephemeral (available to the beetles for approximately two days) and somewhat rare (1 in ca 15 ramets has a rolled leaf). Adults must move from leaf to leaf ca 36 times during their average adult life span. Still, C. fenestrata adults demonstrate high site fidelity. /// El escarabajo neotropical Cephaloleia fenestrata es un herbvoro especialista en Pleiostachya pruinosa (Marantaceae) de las partes altas y zonas de inundacion de la selva lluviosa tropical de tierras bajas en Costa Rica. Cephaloleia fenestrata pasa todo su ciclo de vida dentro de P. pruinosa. Como adulto, se alimenta principalmente en el interior de hojas enrolladas jovenes y como larva en las concavidades de los pecolos de las hojas. Los huevos y pupas se encuentran en los pecolos. El tiempo de desarrollo dentro de los huevos es aproximadamente 10 das, cercano al tiempo promedio para la familia Chrysomelidae. Las larvas de C. fenestra, como otras de la subfamilia Hispinae, tienen un periodo de desarrollo exageradamente largo (94 das), consistiendo de solo dos estadios (comparado al rango de tres a seis estadios de otros Chrysomelidae). La etapa pupal de 30 dias de duracin tambin es larga, pero est dentro del rango observado en otros Chrysomelidae. Los adultos viven un promedio de seis semanas. Por lo tanto, el tiempo generacional de C. fenestrata es aproximadamente seis meses. Los machos de C. fenestrata vivieron ms tiempo y tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de ser capturados que las hembras. No hubo diferencias entre machos y hembras en cuanto a las probabilidades de movimiento entre las zonas altas y las zonas de inundacin. Las hojas enroscadas del P. pruinosa son efmeras (estn disponibles para los escarabajos aproximadamente durante dos das) y son un tanto escasas (aproximadamente uno de cada 15 tallos tiene una hoja enroscada). Los adultos deben moverse de hoja en hoja aproximadamente 36 veces durante su tiempo de vida promedio. Aun as, los adultos C. fenestrata demuestraron alta fidelidad de sitios.
10.2307/2388186|Double-toothed kites (Harpagus bidentatus), gray-headed tanagers (Eucometis pencillata), and tawny-winged woodcreepers (Dendrocincla anabatina) forage in association with squirrel monkey (Saimiri oerstedi) troops in Parque Nacional Corcovado, Costa Rica, throughout the year, based on field work conducted from February to September 1982 and from June 1983 to September 1984. These species and other occasional attendants fed on arthropods and small vertebrates flushed by the monkeys. Censuses indicated that kites, tanagers, and woodcreepers spent roughly twice as much time following squirrel monkeys during the wet season, when arthropod availability was lowest, than at other times of the year. Bird attendance frequency was greatest in the morning during the wet season, but time of day differences were less distinctive in other seasons. Attendance frequencies were greater when squirrel monkey troops were foraging and travelling than resting and still. Kites at this site also followed capuchin monkeys (Cebus capucinus), but appeared to prefer squirrel monkeys.
10.2307/2388457|The damage caused by predispersal seed predators (Apion sp., Rhinochenus brevicollis, and an unidentified moth) and postdispersal seed predators (Spermologus copaiferae and Tricorinus herbarius) is found mainly near Copaifera pubiflora (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) parent trees. Predispersal seed predation increases from 34 percent near the trunk to 78 percent outside the canopy and then decreases drastically towards the outer areas where seed density declines. Postdispersal seed predation decreases from 28 to 8 percent with the distance, following seed distribution. At 11 m from the trunk, there is no seed predation. Overall effect depends on seed distribution, and it is negligible towards these outer areas where the reproductive tree grows. The effect under canopy is almost constant in each tree and changes from 30 to 50 percent among trees. The intensity of attack by S. copaiferae depends on density and exposure time. In 60 days, seed predation increases from 19 to 92 percent in a density of 19 4 seeds/m$^2$, but when the average density is higher (41.8 seeds/m$^2$), seed predation only changes slightly (from 57 to 69%). Levels of predispersal seed predation were studied in two populations during an uninterrupted four-year period. Seed predation among individuals and populations of trees is variable. In the population of El Sombrero, Apion sp. is abundant. Seed predation changes from 10 to 40 percent between 1978 and 1980. In the population of Rio Orituco, the main insect predation is R. brevicollis, but levels of predispersal seed predation were similar to those in El Sombrero between 1977 and 1980. These patterns are associated with the fruit-bearing periods previously recorded.
10.2307/2388652|The mating system and levels of genetic diversity in populations of two tropical species, Acacia crassicarpa Cunn. ex Benth. and Acacia auriculiformis Cunn. ex Benth. from natural riverine forests and open savannahs in Australia and Papua New Guinea were examined using isozyme markers. Levels of genetic diversity were generally lower than in either conifers or eucalypts, and the degree of population differentiation higher. The findings suggest that these acacias may have smaller effective population sizes than have been found in many other trees. Both species were found to have high levels of outcrossing with little variation in the outcrossing rate between populations.
10.2307/2388068|The dispersal system of the neotropical tree Dunalia arborescens (Solanaceae) was examined in a montane mist forest in Jamaica. A total of 16 species of birds representing 14 genera and eight families were recorded feeding on D. arborescens fruits. The most common species feeding were the stripe-headed tanager (Spindalis zena), greater antillean bullfinch (Loxigilla violacea), and the rufous-throated solitaire (Myadestes genibarbis), accounting for 66 percent of the total visits. Intraspecific encounters dominated actions, and interspecific interactions were minimal, the latter was probably due to a superabundance of food and, to a lesser degree, to differences in foraging and feeding behavior. In general, birds arrived and left the feeding tree as individuals or as groups of several individuals of one species. No mixed species flocks were observed arriving or leaving the fruiting tree. Observations on color-marked individuals and on all species feeding on D. arborescens showed that the amount of fruit dependency varied from almost 100 percent in the stripe-headed tanager and the greater antillean bullfinch to less than 30 percent in the greater antillean elaenia (Elaenia fallax) and the jamaican oriole (Icterus leucopteryx). The birds involved exploited a variety of fruits throughout the year, but at any one time ate fruit of a few species. What determined the diet at any one time depended on the fruiting phenology, commonness of tree, large crop size, and individual preferences. The fruiting period of the different feeding trees in the study area ranged from complete overlap to no overlap; as the number of fruits of one species decreased, the number of another species increased. Staggered fruiting may enable these trees to take advantage of the same bird populations at different times and thus relieve competition for seed dispersers. The high reproductive potential of D. arborescens expressed in the abundance of fruits with many seeds, and the presence of a number of different dispersers of widely different sizes, degree of dependency on fruits and foraging behavior suggest that this tree is opportunistic in nature. It is a species found in forest edges, clearings, and other habitats that are spatially unpredictable. Premium is placed in the dispersal of seeds as widely as possible by the greatest variety of dispersers, because the tree's survival depends upon the rapidity with which it can colonize bare ground and gaps in the primary forest.
10.2307/2387842|The role of the termitaria of Cornitermes cumulans in the ecology of the Brazilian cerrado was examined. The mounds of C. cumulans were studied to determine density per hectare, rate of mound abandonment, structure, and other inhabitants, and were compared with four other sympatric mound-building termite species. Predation on Cornitermes was also examined. The average termitaria density for all five mound-building species was 323 per hectare. C. cumulans mounds averaged 55 per hectare. In comparison with the mounds of other termites, a higher proportion of those built by Cornitermes were inhabited by the mound-building species. The large size and unique bipartite structure of C. cumulans mounds make them excellent nesting locations for ant and termite inquilines. At least 17 species of termites and 10 species of ants were found nesting in different Cornitermes mounds. Only one percent of the mounds were found uninhabited by any ant or termite species. Armadillos had attacked 36 percent of the mounds; there was a strong correlation between such attacks and the absence of a Cornitermes colony. The frequency with which the large and abundant Cornitermes mounds are inhabited by inquilines and used by other animals gives these structures an important part in the ecology of the Brazilian cerrado and contributes to the role of their builders as a keystone species.
10.2307/2387949|Descriptions of structure and flowering phenology of the tropical tree species Cedrela mexicana. Cordia glabra, Erythrina poeppigiana. Tabebuia rosea, and Tabebuia ochrea ssp. neochrysantha are used to analyze and illustrate the complex relations between structure, vegetative development, and flowering in tropical trees. Because of the strong positional differentiation within tree crowns and the repetition of vegetative and reproductive growth cycles in trees, flower development and its control are more complex than in herbaceous plants. Formation of terminal inflorescences, as found in Cedrela. Cordia, and Tabebuia, regularly occurs at the end of a flush of determinate shoot growth; flower initation, like shoot growth cessation, is therefore controlled by internal, correlative factors rather than by environmental changes. Initiation of lateral inflorescences is usually preceded by growth cessation in the indeterminate, vegetative shoot, but the timing and control of flower induction in lateral buds are unknown. For many tropical trees, particularly those growing in seasonal climates, flower development is discontinuous, i.e., flower initiation and anthesis are separated by a prolonged rest period and must be controlled separately Delayed anthesis is usually triggered by rehvdration of previously water-stressed trees resulting from leaf shedding or, in drv habitats, by rainfall. Because of different degrees of seasonal water stress, leaf fall and subsequent anthesis in several species extend over three to four months. The observed periodicity of anthesis in tropical trees is thus largely determined by seasonal changes in tree water status and is unlikely to be the result of selection for optimum tree-pollinator interaction.
10.2307/2388011|Amid the vast stretches of Guinea savanna woodland in the Mole National Park of Ghana are several isolated groves of Anogeissus leiocarpus. These groves have developed on old village sites apparently abandoned in the late 19th century. To determine why and how such groves have developed, a detailed study was carried out at a single grove in the park. A comparative assessment of the vegetation of the grove and that of the surrounding savanna revealed a marked difference in the floristic composition of both the tree and the herb layer. The grove was effectively a single-species stand composed of Anogeissus trees of apparently uneven age, whereas the area abounding was an open savanna woodland of mixed species. Soil analyses revealed the grove soils to be more fertile, with higher levels of P (total and available), K, Ca, N, and organic matter. The pH was also higher. Examination of riverine sites in which Anogeissus also occurred revealed that some of them have soils similar in fertility to those of the groves. Close examination of the grove also revealed that burning during the dry season is very light or nonexistent within the grove, whereas the surrounding savanna was heavily burned. It is speculated that the higher soil fertility, due possibly to the former human occupation of the site, has played a significant role in the establishment of Anogeissus. Also, that the lightness or absence of fire was an important factor in the initial colonization. Evidence from the site and from the literature would suggest that the groves are not in a steady-state.
10.2307/2388751|In the burned miombo of northern Zambia, succession was followed on plots cleared and burned during the practice of shifting cultivation. Twelve formerly cultivated gardens were surveyed in various stages of regrowth (1, 2, 4, 6, 13, and 25 yr after burning). The early vegetation was woody, mainly caused by stumps and root stocks remaining at the site from the preexisting cover. Species diversity was lowest after four years, primarily because the distribution of individuals among species was highly uneven in the middle of the succession. Early and late stages of succession were found to be more similar than intermediate stages. An apparent dynamism of the ecological processes was observed; the turnover between different succession stages varied significantly. Three phases could be distinguished: 0-1 yr, 2-6 yr, and 6-25 yr. The canopy of woody species developed in the late stage did not include the dominant miombo species. The diminution of Brachystegia and Julbernardia spp. and the presence of species characteristic of Combretum savanna strongly question the interpretation that succession is occurring towards miombo woodland.
10.2307/2388434|A commensal relationship of Chiasmocleis ventrimaculata and Xenesthis immanis was studied over a 3-mo period at Tambopata Reserved Zone, Peru. Observations indicate that both species simultaneously utilize the same diurnal retreats and forage in overlapping areas. Feeding trials suggest that Xenesthis readily feed on some species of anurans, and observations implicate the role of chemical defenses in preventing Xenesthis predation on Chiasmocleis. The commensalism is similar to that of ecologically similar terrestrial frogs and burrowing spiders in North America.
30045402|Many animals can adjust their behavioral strategies to reduce predation risk. We investigated whether rain forest monkeys and duikers alter their antipredatory behavior in response to hunting by humans in southwestern Gabon. We compared monkey and duiker responses to human observers in an area where hunting is prohibited, to those in a nearby area where hunting pressure is moderate but spatially variable. The results of our study indicate that monkeys become more secretive when hunted, commencing alarm calls only when at a certain distance (typically > 50 m) from humans. We found no difference in monkey group size between hunted and no-hunting areas. In no-hunting areas, duikers often freeze in response to approaching observers, but in hunted areas they abandon this strategy and rapidly flee from humans. Duikers also whistle more often in areas where they are hunted frequently. Our findings have at least two important implications. First, behavioral observations of monkeys and duikers may be useful in gauging local hunting intensity in African rain forests. Second, duiker densities are likely to be overestimated in hunted areas, where they more readily flee and whistle, and underestimated in no-hunting areas, where they rely on freezing behavior to avoid detection. Because behavioral adaptations to hunting vary both among species and localities, these differences should be considered when attempting to derive population-density estimates for forest wildlife.
10.2307/2989746|Differences in vessel shape and decoration in the earliest ceramic complexes of Middle and South America permit the recognition of two generalized ceramic traditions: an earlier one featuring large rounded jars or tecomates, and a later one emphasizing flange-rim bowls and broad-line incised decoration. The earliest sites of the tecomate tradition are shell middens, suggesting primary diffusion in a nonagricultural context. Sites of the flange-rim tradition are associated with tropical forest vegetation, and its initial spread may be coupled with that of slash-and-burn agriculture. The tecomate tradition diffused between 3000 and 1500 B.C. from a source on the coast of Ecuador. The flange-rim tradition spread rapidly between 1200 and 1000 B.C., probably from a center on the Caribbean coast of Colombia.
20492556|The nutritional demands of animals vary by taxon. Across landscapes, communities of animals experience variability in the stoichiometry of carbon and nutrients within their resource base. Thus, we expect stoichiometry to contribute to the spatial variance in the demographic parameters of animal communities. Here, we measure how the composition of a litter-nesting tropical rainforest ant community is influenced by spatial variation in environmental stoichiometry relative to litter biomass, a known predictor of ant density. We found the density of ants and their nests were strongly related to litter biomass and carbon: phosphorus stoichiometry. The spatial variation in soil nutrients, which determines leaf litter stoichiometry, was an excellent predictor of nest size in the two most common genera of ants. We found a negative relationship between species' growth rate and local soil stocks of phosphorus. Overall, the density of litter-dwelling ants varied greatly across this tropical forest landscape and environmental stoichiometry can account for limits on ant density independent of the biomass of the leaf litter resource base.
10.2307/2388270|Bird populations were surveyed in Virgin Islands National Park, St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands in 1987 (two years before Hurricane Hugo hit the Virgin Islands) and in 1990 (four months after the hurricane). Abundance was estimated using the fixed-radius point count method. The average number of individual permanent residents per survey point was significantly lower after the hurricane in both moist forest and dry evergreen woodland. Most of the resident species that showed substantial population declines feed primarily on fruit or nectar, a pattern which is consistent with the results of several other recent studies of the effect of hurricanes on forest bird communities. Also, an insectivorous winter resident (Parula americana) had significantly lower densities after the hurricane. Although many areas within the park were defoliated after the hurricane, most trees remained standing and they began to produce new leaves within a few weeks. Our results suggest that even relatively mild storm damage can result in a marked reduction in the numbers of some species of birds due either to mortality or dispersal from the affected area.
4132905| Seeds from tropical fruiting trees ingested and defecated on the soil surface by primary dispersers (such as primates) are vulnerable to destruction from rodents, insects, and fungi. Burial by dung beetles as an incidental result of their feeding and nesting activities often provides these seeds with refugia from attack. To examine the effect of habitat disturbance on the dung beetle communities involved in this process, I surveyed dung beetles at three sites in the Amazon basin, in the states of Par, Amazonas, and Rondnia, Brazil. Through principal component analysis on measurements of size and behavioral characters of beetles, I determined the relative quality of beetle species as seed dispersers (dispersal defined as horizontal or vertical movement of seeds) and ranked them into seed dispersal guilds. I used correspondence analysis to examine in what habitats (primary forest or varying degrees of disturbed habitat) these guilds were abundant. Most guilds decreased with increasing habitat disturbance, but one guild made up of large nocturnal burrowers (primarily Dichotomius) became more abundant with increasing disturbance (up to the level of highest disturbance surveyed), at which point all dung beetle species became scarce. Clear-cuts had lower species richness, lower abundance, and lower biomass than forested areas. These results imply that clear-cutting is detrimental to all seed dispersal dynamics in tropical rain forests, but that some levels of disturbance allow enough disperser activity to preserve this ecosystem function. 
10.2307/2388494|During a 20-month study that spanned a severe drought and forest fire in a Bornean rain forest, a group of long-tailed macaques adapted successfully in the short term to extreme habitat damage by shifting to less preferred food items and exploiting an insect outbreak while fruits and flowers were scarce. Charred and desiccated fruits were major food sources just before the insect outbreak. The group dispersed widely to forage and increased its terrestrial travel. Riverine refuging became more erratic late in the drought and after the fire. The continued presence of sizable populations of this and other diurnal primate species, relative to those of some other frugivores with fixed home ranges and more restricted diets, suggests that dietary breadth is an important factor mediating frugivore responses to habitat degradation.
30044011|Tracking the dispersal of seeds by fruit-eating animals in tropical rain forests is crucial to further our understanding of plant-frugivore interactions and their impacts upon forest regeneration and plant population dynamics. We tested the feasibility of tracking bat-dispersed seeds in a Philippine lowland rain forest with the help of fluorescent pigment. The powder was mixed with acetone and sprayed to ripe fruits of fig trees, i.e., Ficus septica and F. variegata. During nightly monitoring using a hand-held ultraviolet lamp bat deposits (seed-containing spat outs and feces) could successfully be detected. Distances and directions of deposit sites to the focal trees were recorded and seed shadow areas were analyzed. Bats dispersed most of the seeds less than 50 m away from the parent plants resulting in seed shadow areas < 0.30 ha in size. An in situ fruit preference experiment showed that fluorescent powder is unlikely to deter bats from feeding on ripe figs. In conclusion, the technique is simple, inexpensive, noninvasive, applicable to different fields of research and allows one to follow the fate of seeds from known sources.
10.2307/2388108|Mass-flowering species of woody tropical plants frequently attract a large and diverse array of pollinating insects together with insectivorous birds. It is proposed that the attraction of such pollinator predators or "anti-pollinators" is an integral part of the mass-flowering adaptive strategy. An insect-pollinated mass-flowering plant may expend energy resources in order to attract a surplus of pollinators which then draws insectivorous birds; which in turn facilitate cross-pollination by inter-acting with and dispersing pollinators between individual plants.
10.2307/2388363|The effect of Eciton burchelli army ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) on leaf-litter arthropods was studied at Finca La Selva, Costa Rica. Analyses of leaf-litter samples indicated that both arthropod abundance and the number of taxa were reduced following the passage of foraging army ant swarms. Many of the arthropods in the path of an ant swarm escape; the escape tactics that we observed are presented. Full evaluation of the impact of army ant swarms on the arthropod community requires quantification of the rates of capture by both the army ants and the associated swarm-following birds, and of the rate of parasitization by flies that follow the ant swarms.
10.2307/2388914|A common practice by rural people in China is to harvest litter and understory from forests to meet their fuel needs. Our study was to determine the impact of this practice, occurring for over 40 yr, on the storages and flows of organic matter in a native pine forest in the Dinghushan Biosphere Reserve. This forest was established to rehabilitate severely degraded lands, and trees were not allowed to be harvested but understory plants and litter were harvested. Despite the initial condition of the site, its relatively young state, and the continued removal of understory plants and litter, there was total of 45 plant species in the study site. The total standing stock of organic matter was 135 Mg ha
30044060|While netting bats to collect streblid bat flies at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, two different natural enemies of streblids were found attacking the bat flies on two species of bats. One was identified as a parasitoid in the hymenopteran family, Braconidae, while the other was a predaceous plant bug in the hemipteran family, Miridae. This is the first description of a natural enemy of streblids being collected in situ (i.e., actively foraging through the hair of the streblid bat host). /// Durante la captura con red de murcilagos para collectar moscas de la familia Streblidae del orden Diptera en la estacin biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica, se encontr dos enemigos naturales atacando las moscas Streblidae en dos especies de murcilagos. Uno fue identificado como un parsito de la familia Braconidae del orden Hymenoptera y el otro un insecto de la familia Miridae del orden Hemiptera que es un depredador de plantas. Este es la primera descripcin de un enemigo natural de las moscas Streblidae collectado in situ (i.e., forrajeando activamente en el pelo del murcilago huesped de las moscas Streblidae).
10.2307/2387747|The unisexual flowers of Mallotus oppositifolius show a combination of entomophilous and anemophilous characteristics. They are visited by many species of short-tongued bees, but the powdery pollen is also presumably capable of wind dispersal. The female flowers offer no rewards to bees; it is therefore suggested that their resemblance to the pollen-yielding male flowers may cause bees to visit them in error.
2663899|Dalbergia miscolobium (Papilionaceae) is a tree of the Brazilian cerrado that produces ovaries with two ovules. Only one ovule usually matures, but when two mature, they are smaller than seeds of single-seeded pods. Germination percentage was lower in small seeds than in medium or large seeds. In general, small seeds gave rise to smaller seedlings (dry mass) than did medium and large seeds. The root/shoot ratio, however, was very similar for the first six months, indicating that this ratio is consistent across seedling sizes. There was no correlation between seed size and relative growth rate. Single-seeded fruit production in D. miscolobium resulted in greater seed reserves and increased fruit dispersal distance; single-seeded fruits were lighter than double-seeded ones. Together, these two features should increase the probability of successful seedling establishment of seeds from single-seeded versus double-seeded fruits.
20492553|Data from Ghana and Cte d'Ivoire, for local dung beetle assemblages of rain forest, plantations, and savanna, suggest that a subset of the savanna fauna has expanded its range across the Eastern Guinean Forest ecoregion, presumably in response to its conversion from continuous rain forest into an archipelago of forest fragments within a disturbance matrix of less shady plantation and farmland vegetation that more resembles moist savanna.
2663857|Most orchids studied thus far show long-term resource adjustments to increases in fruit production within a flowering season, but none of these offers rewards to their potential pollinators. If nectar production is energetically expensive, then resources utilized to produce fruits and seeds may be even more limited in pollinator-rewarding orchids than in non-rewarding ones. Thus, resource adjustments may be more dramatic or entirely different in nectar producing plants. In this study, we performed artificial hand-pollinations for two consecutive flowering seasons in the nectar producing orchid Comparettia falcata, and tested whether or not fruit set, seed set, and seed viability were limited by the quantity of pollinations or by resources. In addition, we compared mechanisms of short-term (fruit abortion within seasons) and long-term consequences (percent change in leaf length and change in flower number per plant between seasons, probability of shoot and inflorescence production, and mortality) between hand- pollinated and unmanipulated plants. The relationships among plant traits related to vegetative size and reproduction also were examined. Hand-pollinations showed some negative effects. Fruit set was higher in hand-pollinated plants in the first season but was similar to the controls in the second. Seed set was significantly lower and abortions were higher than in unmanipulated plants. On the other hand, some of our measurements were unaffected by the hand-pollination treatment. Unexpectedly, there were no significant differences between groups in percent change in leaf length, change in flower number per plant between seasons, or the probability of shoot and inflorescence production. Although there was a strong correlation between leaf size and the number of flowers produced within a season, associations between leaf size and traits related to current or future reproduction were not consistent. Like other epiphytic orchids, pollination limitation occurred within a single season in C. falcata, but increases in fruit production also resulted in reduced lifetime fitness as estimated by a compounded fitness index. Contrary to all other epiphytic orchids studied, long-term adjustments to increased fruit production in C. falcata through reduction in future growth or flower and inflorescence production were either minor or lacking. Our results suggest that the nature of plant strategies associated with resource constraints during sexual reproduction may be dependent on whether or not plants have evolved traits that are costly.
10.2307/2387951|Poeciliopsis monacha-latidens is an all-female species of fish which mates with males of the bisexual species P latidens. This study assesses the impact of several forces which potentially control the population size of P monacha-latidens: sperm supply, habitat adaptation, and competition. In contrast to other all-female Poeciliopsis species, P monacha-latidens populations are not primarilv limited by a shortage of sperm. Instead. P monacha-latidens appears to be poorly adapted to the fast-water habitat of its sexual host, P. latidens. In addition, P monacha-latidens loses in competition with P latidens for food in the late dry season in areas of low insect productivity
27742847|The most generalized mechanism of seed dispersal in tropical and subtropical forests is dispersal by vertebrates. The pattern of seed dispersal and germination capacity of dispersed seeds can determine the seed disperser quality because both affect the postdispersal fate of dispersed seeds. Animals' behavior is an important determinant of seed deposition pattern. One of most abundant frugivores of Neotropical forests are howler monkeys Alouatta spp., so my aim was to evaluate the potential quality of Alouatta caraya as a seed disperser, obtaining details of: (1) seed deposition pattern, (2) behavioral context of defecations, and (3) germination capacity of dispersed seeds. During 2 years the seed shadow created by howlers and the behavioral context of depositions was examined in the Paran flooded forest, and germination tests were conducted in the laboratory. Black and gold howler monkeys consumed fruits of five canopy trees, three understory trees, one shrub, and two vines. Howlers dispersed seeds in a complex pattern: 35 percent (337 scats) of scats were deposited individually, and 65 percent were deposited in big latrines associated with the main sleeping trees and in small latrines associated with secondary sleeping trees and confrontations at territory edges. From 261 dispersal distances recorded, 20 and 40 m were the mode, but 57 percent of distances were &gt; 50 m and 31 percent were &gt; 100 m. Germination speed increased significantly in ingested seeds of Banara arguta, Ocotea diospyrifolia and Eugenia punicifolia. The seed deposition pattern generated by A. caraya may produce a diversification of environmental conditions for dispersed seeds that should be considered in future evaluations.
10.2307/2387974|Six thousand and eighty-three trap nests recovered from 9158 placed in St. Catherine, Jamaica, contained 6738 cells built by 11 solitary wasps and bees (Hymenoptera; Apocrita; Aculeata). These species normally nest in hollow stems or other cavities in wood. Analyses for eight of these species showed developmental mortalities between 48 and 69 percent, set ratios near 1:1 (except two Megachile species where there were about 2.5 males per female), and fecundities between 5.6 and 13.1 eggs/female. A comparison with temperate solitary Aculeata is made.
27742861|Degraded grasslands resulting from intensive land use appear to be highly resistant to tree invasion due to interactions between land use, climate, grazing and fire. We describe long-term patterns of tropical montane forest regeneration into degraded grasslands and analyze their relationships with historical changes in rainfall, grazing and fire in Los Toldos valley (Northwest Argentina), cloud forest life zone (1600 m asl). We used dendrochronological techniques to reconstruct spatial and temporal patterns of Podocarpus parlatorei establishment (the dominant tree species in secondary forests) and grassland fires for the last 150 yr. We assessed current livestock spatial distribution along the valley through feces sampling. Inferred tree establishment patterns (i.e., considering age structure and mortality) were analyzed in relation to temporal and spatial patterns of grazing and fire derived from our own analyses and from government statistics, and to rainfall patterns derived from previous dendrochronological reconstructions. Current grazing intensity was higher close to the local township. Fire occurrence increased with periods of above-average rainfall (higher fuel productivity), and tended to increase with distance to township (less grazing). Tree establishment in grasslands was spatially associated with high grazing intensity and low fire frequency, and temporally associated with periods of high grazing intensity and below-average rainfall. Despite climatic and land-use changes leading to conditions potentially favorable for trees (i.e., more rainfall, less grazing), grasslands persist in this study area, likely due to the direct (saplings burning) and indirect (soil degradation and desiccation) effects of recurrent fires, enhanced by decreasing grazing and increasing rainfall.
30045469|We evaluated the impact of research access trails on adjacent seedling density, survival, and recruitment in a permanent tropical forest plot in Panama. Significant differences were detected up to 20 m from trails, indicating that data collected close to trails may be biased. However, observed effects were not substantial enough to affect plot-wide estimates of seedling dynamics, suggesting that research trail impacts are negligible when affected areas constitute only a small fraction of the total area sampled. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388337|Cattle grazing, defecation and urination rates, growth, and mortality were studied on pasture formed from rain forest in the Amazon terntory of Venezuela. Cattle consumed 12-16 percent of total aboveground plant productivity on two pasture sites. The nutrients in this vegetation were recycled to the soil in dung (N, P, Ca, and Mg) and in urine (N and K). Nutrients recycled in cattle excreta were more available to plants and more spatially concentrated than nutrients in litterfall. The stocking rates on two pasture sites were 0.43-0.89 animal units/ha, and cattle productivity ranged from 21 to 42 kg live wt/ha/yr. Nonharvested mortality was 20 percent per year, and there was no successful reproduction. The low growth rates, reproductive failure, and part of the mortality may result from low phosphorus concentration in the grass.
10.2307/2388359|The flowering and pollination of Myrisiica fragrans were studied on plants cultivated in southern India. The staminate flowers are borne in indeterminate inflorescences and function only for a single night. Pistillate flowers are borne solitarily and appear receptive for 2-3 days. Staminate plants may produce over 50 times as many flowers as pistillate plants. Both types of flowers are strongly fragrant. A single species of beetle, Formicomus braminus (Anthicidae, ant-mimicking flower beetles), appears to be the best candidate for an effective pollinator of nutmeg in the area of the study, although other species of small beetles may be involved. The beetles are strong fliers, are active nocturnally around staminate flowers, and carry significant pollen loads. Pollen is the only evident pollinator reward. Pistillate flowers produce no reward, and spatial constraints of the perianth and stigma appear to prevent beetles from entering the flowers. Pollen carried on the beetle's head or body would be deposited on the stigma when the insect attempts to enter the flower. This is the first report of a food-deception automimicry in a cantharophilous pollination system. The pollen/ovule ratio for M. fragrans is estimated to be 801,000/1, a very high P/O ratio for an insect-pollinated plant.
30044057|Low postdispersal mortality of palm seeds in tapir dung is hypothesized to result from the mechanical barrier provided by dung against bruchid infestation and/or from the distance to adult palms at which seeds are dispersed. We tested these hypotheses by distributing endocarps of Attalea phalerata Mart, ex Spreng, in experimental dung piles in Beni, Bolivia. Predation rates were significantly lower for seeds covered by dung than for exposed or partially covered seeds, but did not differ between seeds placed below and 50 m away from palms. Thus, dung, not short-distance dispersal, protects seeds against bruchid beetles, and may ultimately promote survival of palm seeds. /// La baja mortalidad post dispersin de las semillas de la palmera Attalea phalerata Mart, ex Spreng, encontrada en heces de tapir puede ser el resultado de la barrera mecnica que brinda la materia fecal contra la infestacin por brquidos y/o de la distancia a la que son dispersadas las semillas. Pusimos a prueba estas hiptesis distribuyendo endocarpos de A. phalerata en pilas fecales experimentales en el Beni, Bolivia. Las tasas de depredacin fueron significativamente menores en semillas completamente cubiertas por materia fecal que en semillas limpias o parcialmente recubiertas, pero no variaron entre semillas debajo y a 50 m de las palmeras madre. Por lo tanto, las heces y no la dispersin de corta distancia protegen a las semillas de brquidos, promoviendo as la sobrevivencia de semillas.
10.2307/2989727|The "corky" alleles in New World cottons have essentially the same pattern of inheritance as the A-B-O blood group alleles in man. They may be used similarly as tracers of phylogenetic relationships. There are three alleles in the corky system-ck
10.2307/2388167|Seedlings of red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) were treated twice with 25, 250, or 500  g Cd/g soil; 62.5, 125, or 250  g Pb/g soil; or 10, 100, or 500  g Hg/g soil. Survival of seedlings was affected only by 500  g Hg/g soil. There was no effect of any metal on final weight and size of hypocotyls, stems, roots, or leaves; the time at which the stem emerged from the plumule; or the time at which the first pair of leaves unfurled from the stem. Lead was not translocated by the seedlings but Cd and Hg were. It is suggested that tolerance of R. mangle seedlings to high concentrations of Cd, Pb, and Hg may be due to formation of non-toxic suifides in the root or on its surface, detoxification in tissues, an ion-exclusion mechanism in the roots, or a combination of these factors.
10.2307/2387709|The regeneration modes and heights of 82 tree species reappearing after the felling and burning of a tropical rain forest were observed 23 months after the perturbation. Of these species, 74 had coppiced, 10 had produced root suckers, and 34 had developed from seed during the post-fire period. Those trees developing mainly from seed appeared to have the highest growth rates. The results are discussed in relation to the stability of the floristics of the tree component on the site and the problem of predicting successional sequences in the tropical rain forest environment.
2663850|Genetic diversity and population genetic structure of Shorea leprosula was investigated using seven natural populations distributed throughout Peninsular Malaysia and one natural population from Borneo. The mean population and species level genetic diversity were exceptionally high (H
40891343|Many experimental studies show that a decline in species number has a negative effect on ecosystem function, however less is known about this pattern in natural communities. We examined the relative importance of environment, space, and diversity on ecosystem function, specifically tree carbon storage in four plant types (understory/canopy; trees/palms), in a tropical forest in central Panama. The objectives of this study were to detect the relationship between tree diversity and carbon storage given the environmental and spatial variation that occur in natural forests and to determine which species diversity measure is more important to tree carbon storage: richness or dominance. We used redundancy analyses to partition the effect of these sources of variation on tree carbon storage. We showed that together, environment, space, and diversity accounted for 43 percent of tree carbon storage, where diversity (19%) alone is the most important source of variation and explained more variation than space (13%) and environment (1%) together. Therefore, even in natural forests where substantial environment and spatial variation can be found, it is still possible to detect the effect of diversity on ecosystem function at scales relevant to conservation. Moreover, both richness and dominance are important to explain the variation on tree carbon storage in natural forests suggesting that these two diversity measures are complementary. Thus, tree diversity is important to predict tree carbon storage in hyperdiverse forests.
2388941|Although several authors have recognized that Madagascar has a depauperate frugivore community, little quantitative data is available on this issue. In order to start filling this gap, systematic observations were made at a Ficus tree in the eastern humid forest. Information is presented on the vertebrate species that visited the tree, estimates of total fruit production and proportion consumed by frugivores, and the chemical analysis of the fruits.
10.2307/2388984|This is the first report of a non-Stenodermatine neotropical bat using "tents." Tents in the palm Astrocaryum sciophilum used by Rhinophylla pumilio (Carolliininae) in French Guiana, are characterized by the typical "V" shape incision in the leaf blade. Additionally, the long inferior spines were cut in the roosting area. Using radiotelemetry R. pumilio and Artibeus gnomus (Stenodermatinae), another tent-user, were monitored to determine their response to the replacement of tents by intact leaves or by new artificial tents, and to the introduction of new spines to the roosting area. No actual tent-making was observed but spine-cutting was achieved by R. pumilio. Judging from nocturnal observations, tent-use is interpreted as a means of protection from adverse weather and predators during feeding periods.
10.2307/2388979|The exotic arborescent monocot species from Madagascar, Ravenala madagascariensis, was studied in suburban gardens in Darwin, Australia. Inflorescences are long-lived branched spikes produced at right angles to a spectacular fan-like array of foliage. They are composed of a variable number of green boat-like bracts which contain a dilute liquid. Each bract subtends a series of individual, stiff, upright, large flowers which appear every 2.3 days, the total number of flowers being variable (up to 29). The slightly musty sweet smelling, creamy white hermaphrodite flowers, sometimes protogynous, opened at night (82.6% of flowers observed). Anthesis lasted, on average, 1.3 days and stigmas were receptive within the 24 hours of flower opening. Initially, nectar production was copious (1400 l 12 hr
10.2307/2989758|One process for increasing regional species diversity is by the joining of congeners (S
41058535|Because most invertebrate seed predators are host-specific, they are usually expected to produce Janzen-Connell patterns. This expectation was fulfilled for Astrocaryum but not for Allagoptera, depending on the effects of bruchine and scolytine predators on the seeds of these palms. Thus, the mere existence of invertebrate predation is not sufficient for generating Janzen-Connell; what matters is seed mortality, which varies between predators and between plant species for the same predator.
30043204|In young individuals of the obligate myrmecophytic liana Vitex thyrsiflora, several species of ants and other arthropods compete for resources offered by the plant. In mature individuals, the only inhabitant is the ant species Tetraponera tessmanni, which is completely restricted to Vitex lianas as its sole host. Established colonies of this ant provide effective defense against herbivores. The association between V thyrsiflora and T. tessmanni is unusual in two respects. First, the climbing life form is rare among myrmecophytes. Secondly, it is surprising that a pseudomyrmecine should be the obligate associate of a liana. Pseudomyrmecine plant-ants often prune vegetation contacting their host plant. This behavior functions in part to protect against invasion of the host by ecologically dominant ants. In contrast, T. tessmanni does not prune and is associated with a plant whose success, and thus that of its resident ant colony, depends on contacts with many other plants. Several traits of V. thyrsiflora and T. tessmanni combine to make the colonization of host plants by potential competitors very difficult. These include behavioral and morphological filters restricting entrance into the plant and exploitation of the resources it can supply; plant anatomical organization that enables T. tessmanni workers to carry out all activities, except leaf patrolling, within a single, branched private nesting space within which all food resources offered by the plant are produced; and polygyny, permitting the colony to monopolize a large, rapidly growing and long-lived territory. /// Dans des jeunes individus de la liane Vitex thyrsiflora, myrmcophyte obligatoire, plusieurs espces de fourmis, ainsi que d'autres arthropodes, sont en comptition pour les ressources offenes par la plante. Les individus matures sont occups uniquement par la fourmi Tetraponera tessmanni, strictement infode aux Vitex lianescents comme plantes-htes. Les colonies tablies de cette fourmi protgent la plante efficacement contre les insectes phytophages. L'association entre V thyrsiflora et T. tessmanni est remarquable pour deux raisons. Premirement, les lianes sont rarement reprsentes parmi les myrmcophytes. Deuximement, il est surprenant que l'associe obligatoire de cette liane soit une Pseudomyrmcinae. Chez les fourmis de cette sous-famille, la plupart des espces infodes aux myrmcophytes liminent la vgtation qui contacte leur plante-hte. Ce comportement participe  la protection des colonies contre l'invasion de l'hte par des espces cologiquement dominantes. Contrairement  ces espces, T. tessmanni ne dtruit pas la vgtation voisine car elle est associe avec une plante dont le succs, et donc celui de la colonie rsidente de fourmis, dpend de contacts nombreux avec d'autres plantes. Plusieurs traits de V. thyrsiflora et de T. tessmanni se combinent pour rendre trs difficile la colonisation des plantes-htes par des comptiteurs potentiels. Ces traits incluent des filtres comportementaux et morphologiques restreignant l'entre dans la plante et l'exploitation de ses ressources; l'organisation anatomique permettant aux ouvrires de T. tessmanni de conduire toutes leurs activits,  l'exception de la patrouille des feuilles, dans un seul espace priv, ramifi,  l'intrieur duquel toutes les ressources alimentaires offertes par la plante sont produites ; et la polygyne, qui permet  la colonie de monopoliser un territoire de grande taille dont la croissance est continue et qui persiste durant de trs longues priodes.
30043177|Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi influence the growth, morphology, and fitness of a variety of plant species, but little is known of the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal associations of plant species in forest canopies. Plant species' associations with AM fungi are most often elucidated by examining the roots for fungal structures; however, morphological data may provide a limited resolution on a plant's mycorrhizal status. We combined a traditional staining technique with a molecular marker (the 18S ribosomal gene) to determine whether or not a variety of epiphytic bromeliads form arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal associations. Using these methods we show that the epiphytic bromeliad Vriesea werkleana forms arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal associations with members of the genus Glomus. AM fungal sequences of this plant species formed three distinct clades nested within a larger Glomus clade; two of the clades did not group with any previously sequenced lineage of Glomus. Novel clades may represent novel species. Although Vriesea werkleana is associated with multiple AM fungal species, each individual plant is colonized by a single lineage. The combination of morphological and molecular methods provides a practical approach to the characterization of the mycorrhizal status of epiphytic bromeliads, and perhaps other tropical epiphytes.
30043151|We observed ten species of psittacids, three species of columbids, and two species of cracids consuming soil from banks of the lower Tambopata River in southeastern Peru. Our study used observations and soil analyses from eight exposed riverbank sections to test the predictions of three models to determine why birds consume clay: mechanical aid to digestion (grit), adsorption of dietary toxins, and mineral supplementation. We found that preferred soils were deficient in particles large enough to aid in the mechanical breakdown of food and help digestion. Percent clay content and cation exchange capacity (CEC), both predicted to correlate with adsorption of toxins, did not differ between used and unused sites as had been found in a similar study. Instead, preferred soils were more saline and had higher concentrations of exchangeable sodium. This suggests that the choice of soils at our site was based primarily on sodium content. Birds may be using the heavy, plastic texture of soils rich in clays and high in exchangeable sodium as a proximal cue for soil selection. Our findings suggest that avian soil selection decisions depend on the range of available soil characteristics. /// Observamos diez especies de Psittasidos, trs especies de Columbidos, y dos especies de Cracidos consumiendo suelo de los bancos del bajo Ro Tambopata en el sureste del Per. Nuestro estudio utiliza observaciones de aves y anlisis de suelos de ocho secciones expuestas de los bancos de ro para probar las predicciones de tres modelos de porque las aves consumen arcilla: ayuda mecnica para la digestin (arena triturada), adsorcin de toxinas en la dieta, y suplemento mineral. Encontramos que los suelos preferidos eran deficientes en partculas lo suficientemente grandes como para ayudar en la trituracin mecnica del alimento y ayudar a la digestin. El porcentaje de contenido de arcilla y la capacidad de intercambio catinico (CIC), ambos esperados para correlacionar con la adsorcin de toxinas, no vari entre sitios usados y no usados como ha sido encontrado en un estudio similar. En cambio, los suelos preferidos fueron ms salinos y con mayor concentracin de sodio intercambiable. Esto sugiere que la seleccin de suelos en nuestro sitio de estudio est basado principalmente en el contenido de sodio. Las aves pueden estar usando las texturas densas y plsticas de los suelos ricos en arcillas con alto contenido de sodio intercambiable como una seal prxima para la seleccin del suelo. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las decisiones de seleccin de suelos por las aves depende del rango de caractersticas de suelos disponibles.
40863756|Basic knowledge of the relationships between tree growth and environmental variables is crucial for understanding forest dynamics and predicting vegetation responses to climate variations. Trees growing in tropical areas with a clear seasonality in rainfall often form annual growth rings. In the understory, however, tree growth is supposed to be mainly affected by interference for access to light and other resources. In the semi-deciduous Mayombe forest of the Democratic Republic of Congo, the evergreen species Aidia ochroleuca, Corynanthe paniculata and Xylopia wilwerthii dominate the understory. We studied their wood to determine whether they form annual growth rings in response to changing climate conditions. Distinct growth rings were proved to be annual and triggered by a common external factor for the three species. Species-specific site chronologies were thus constructed from the cross-dated individual growth-ring series. Correlation analysis with climatic variables revealed that annual radial stem growth is positively related to precipitation during the rainy season but at different months. The growth was found to associate with precipitation during the early rainy season for Aidia but at the end of the rainy season for Corynanthe and Xylopia. Our results suggest that a dendrochronological approach allows the understanding of climate-growth relationships in tropical forests, not only for canopy trees but also for evergreen understory species and thus arguably for the whole tree community. Global climate change influences climatic seasonality in tropical forest areas, which is likely to result in differential responses across species with a possible effect on forest composition over time.
10.2307/2387741|Initiation of bananaquit (Coereba flaveola) breeding is synchronized with the earliest rains of the wet season in Grenada. In the course of the five-month (March-August) breeding season, clutch sizes increase, weights of nestlings increase, nest predation rates increase, and nestling deaths due to starvation decrease. Fledging success decreases as the breeding season proceeds, reflecting the increased predation rates. Although early breeders may be food stressed, late breeders face high nest-predation probabilities. Yearling females breed later than older females and have lower fledging success. The timing of breeding is seen as a balance between increasing food availability and increasing nest predation.
10.2307/2389181|Two models are developed to illustrate how age or diameter may control the radial increases in wood specific gravity (SG), a feature common to lowland tropical trees. In the age-dependent model, trees of the same age produce new secondary xylem of the same SG regardless of their diameters, i.e., SG is dependent on age. In the radius-dependent model, trees of the same radius produce new secondary xylem of the same SG regardless of their ages. Then, predictions of the two models are tested on radial wood samples from the trunkwood of Joannesia princeps Vell., growing in a 17-year-old plantation in Espirito Santo, Brazil. For this cohort, tests of four predictions supported the age-dependent model over the radius-dependent model: final specific gravity was independent of radius (smaller trees did not have smaller final specific gravities), the slope of the radial increase in SG with tree radius was negatively dependent on tree radius (smaller trees had steeper slopes), the coefficient of variation (CV) of SG of the final wood was the same or less than the CV of SG of the initial wood, and the CV of SG of the final wood was much less than the CV of the tree radius. Thus, for plantation trees of the same age, the SG of wood produced is primarily a function of age, not radius of the tree. Forest trees show similar relationships but with the effects of age and radius confounded because tree ages are unknown.
30045422|Pumas (concolor) are an endangered species due to habitat loss and the ever-growing conflict with expanding human populations. We used genetic analysis of feces, a noninvasive study method, to determine the presence of pumas and their estimated minimum population in two protected areas in the northeast of So Paulo State, Brazil: Jata Ecological Station and Vassununga State Park. We were able to identify the species that originally deposited the feces by means of amplification of a portion of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and comparison of this fragment with reference sequences from pumas and other carnivores present in the region. We used a panel containing four microsatellite loci to individualize each of the samples collected. Among the 20 fecal samples, we identified 10 as clearly belonging to pumas and two as belonging to ocelots (Leopardus pardalis), a species sympatric with P. concolor. By plotting the feces sampling points against a satellite image, we determined the presence of at least nine puma individuals in the region, three in the Jata Ecological Station, four in the Vassununga State Park, and two in their surroundings. The identity probability was 0.0001 and the occurrence of allelic dropout was 10.6 percent. The presence of pumas, the estimate of their minimum population size, as well as their distribution, constitute an important tool for the implementation of management and conservation programs in the areas studied and their surroundings.
41241941|Tropical forests are highly threatened by human activities, even within the protected areas that have been established to conserve biodiversity. Human activities may have different degrees of impact on vegetation structure, composition and diversity. Some studies have measured direct evidence of human activities in forming disturbance gradients, while others have quantified canopy cover as a proxy for disturbance. When measurement is confined to human activities, disturbance may be underestimated in areas of poor canopy cover where forest degrading activities have ceased. Where measurements are restricted to canopy cover, disturbance may be underestimated in areas of extensive canopy cover that may have been subject to past disturbances, and overestimated for areas where canopy cover is naturally sparse. Combining indicators of past and present disturbances is therefore necessary to examine the full spectrum of human disturbances. Forest vegetation in Popa Mountain Park, Myanmar was surveyed and classified into three levels of disturbanceundisturbed, medium disturbed and highly disturbedderived from evidence of cutting and canopy cover. The forests are second or third growth after clearing for agriculture in the early 20th century. All trees with  10 cm diameter at breast height in 168 sample plots (10 m  10 m) were identified and measured. Density, basal area and diversity decreased and dominance rose when disturbance increased. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) clearly discriminated three forest stands and CCA axes were significantly correlated to soil moisture, soil nitrogen, elevation, slope, aspect, distance from park boundary and distance from villages.
30044916|The effects of patch size and floral herbivory on reproductive success of Trichogoniopsis adenantha (Asteraceae) were studied in a semideciduous forest in southeastern Brazil. Plants in large patches and capitula not attacked by endophagous insects had higher seed set. The consequences of living in large or small patches for plant reproductive success are discussed. /// Os efeitos de tamanho de moita e herbivoria floral no sucesso reprodutivo de Trichogoniopsis adenantha (Asteraceae) foram estudados em uma floresta semidecdua no sudeste do Brasil. Plantas em moitas grandes e captulos no atacados por insetos endfagos tiveram maior proporo de sementes. As conseqncias de viver em moitas grandes ou pequenas para o sucesso reprodutivo da planta so discutidas.
10.2307/2388672|Flowering and fruiting phenologies of important primate food species in three East African riverine forests of the Tana flood plain (1$^\circ$55'S, 40$^\circ$ 5'E) are highly variable over time, resulting in community-wide periods of relative resource abundance and scarcity. The phenological state of 240 individuals in 16 species within 3 forests was assessed at approximately 30 day intervals over a period of 17 months. The presence of flowers and fruits was visually assessed using a 0-5 scale that ranked the percent of an estimated maximum flower or fruit production. Unlike other tropical forests, flowering appears to be triggered primarily by dry conditions created by low river levels rather than low rainfall. Fruiting phenologies may be dictated more by rates of fruit maturation and plant life history strategies than by environmental cues. Altered river flow due to recent construction of upstream dams may affect flowering phenologies and potentially reduce fruit and seed production. Shifts in flowering and fruiting phenologies could, in turn, influence some pollinators and seed dispersers that presumably have evolved with the plant species of the Tana riverine forests.
41057990|Previous research has shown that ancient Maya 'forest gardens'tree-dominated home gardens containing a diversity of tree species used for daily household needsstill resonate in the species composition of the modern forest. Centuries of positive interspecies interactions may enhance the reproductive and survival success of garden species selected and encouraged by experienced Maya forest gardeners. We hypothesized that such interaction may result in aggregated spatial patterns between 32 pre-selected, commonly utilized forest garden species. In this paper, we developed a novel randomization (Monte Carlo) method designed to measure and test if the spatial relationships among pairs of Maya 'forest garden' trees species differ between areas that experienced high and low ancient settlement density in northwestern Belize. A total of 28 high ancient settlement density and 27 low ancient settlement density plots containing a total of 2772 and 3134 trees, respectively, were used for this study. The analysis revealed that 58 pairs of forest garden species tended to 'cluster' together significantly more often in the high settlement density areas than would be expected in a random distribution. In low settlement density plots, only 12 pairs of species exhibited a significant clustered spatial relationship. The effect was not species specific, suggesting that some synergistic relationships, mediated by third-party agents such as dispersers, may occur at the community level. The impacts of ancient human land use, echoing across centuries of dispersal, colonization, disturbance, and biotic and abiotic interactions, can have important implications for understanding the current biodiversity patterns and processes.
30043194|One of the two species from the genus Lophophora is the false peyote Lophophora diffusa, an endemic cactus species of the xerophytic shrubland at Quertaro, Mxico, considered threatened from illegal extraction due to its hallucinogenic and medicinal properties. We analyzed the spatial distribution of Z. diffusa and its association with the locally dominant shrub species with the system SADIE (Spatial Analysis by Distance IndicEs). We also studied the principal microclimatic factors (light, temperature, and humidity) beneath the canopy of the possible nurse plant species. The use of SADIE is a new approach to study the mechanisms of spatial distribution. Lophophora diffusa and the shrub species presented an aggregated distribution with patches and gaps, as indicated by the values of Ia = 4.179 for L. diffusa and Ia = 1.660 for the vegetation. Lophophora diffusa was positively associated with the arboreal vegetation, particularly with Larrea tridentata and Acacia sororia, but was negatively associated with Ceitis pallida and Myrtillocactus geometrizans. Microclimate evaluation indicated that C. pallida canopy significantly reduced radiation and temperature compared to the other species (L. tridentata, A.sororia y P. laevigata). We had expected L. diffusa to exhibit a positive spatial association with pallida; however, the reduction in light availability apparently limited seedling establishment of Z. diffusa. /// Una de las dos especies del gnero Lophophora es el falso peyote, Lophophora diffusa, cactcea endmica al matorral xerfilo de Quertaro, Mxico y considerada amenazada debido a su extraccin ilegal, pues se le atribuyen los efectos alucingenos y medicinales del peyote, L. williamsii. Utilizando el sistema de Anlisis Espacial por ndices de Distancia, SADIE (por sus siglas en ingls), analizamos la distribucin espacial de L. diffusa y determinamos si haba asociacin con alguna especie arbustiva, caracterizando adems las condiciones microambientales (luz, temperatura y humedad) bajo su dosel. El uso de SADIE constituye una nueva aproximacin al estudio de los mecanismos de distribucin espacial. Los ndices de agregacin obtenidos indican que L. diffusa, lo mismo que la vegetacin, presenta una distribucin agregada en parches y claros, siendo los valores de Ia = 4.179 para L. diffusa y Ia = 1.660 para la vegetacin. Se detect asociacin espacial de L. diffusa con la vegetacin arbustiva, particularmente la relacin fue significativa con Larrea tridentata y Acacia sororia, siendo las especies ms abundantes, en contraste se encontr una disociacin con Ceitis pallida, y Myrtillocactus geometrizans. La evaluacin de los factores microambientales indica que las condiciones bajo el dosel de L. tridentata, A. sororia y  hevigata son similares, mientras que el microambiente debajo de C. pallida es ms oscuro. Bajo estas circunstancias, se esperara que L. diffusa estuviera ms asociada a dicha especie, pero la reduccin de luz aparentemente limita el establecimiento de las plntulas de L. diffusa.
3593186|In the Ninole ridges of Hawai'i, we evaluated changes in plant species diversity and composition and the effect of alien species on the growth and recruitment of native species after disturbance by landsliding. We chose nine landslides representing three age categories (young, 4-17 yr; intermediate, 18-42 yr; and old, ca 130 yr) plus three undisturbed forest sites (325-525 yr) to sample and manipulate the vegetation; the undisturbed forest developed on tephra-derived soils underlain by basalt. The ordination of sites and species using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) showed that species establishing on landslides were different than those found in the undisturbed forest; moreover, a large fraction of the species establishing on young landslides were represented by aliens, mostly grasses and orchids. The manipulation of alien species (clipping of aboveground parts and removal of above- and belowground parts, including soil) on young landslides (<17 yr) significantly affected seedling growth of the native tree species Metrosideros polymorpha and the recruitment of native species. In addition, the manipulation of grasses and orchids favored the recruitment of a second group of alien species that were uncommon in, or absent from, our study sites. The removal of tephra-derived soils by landslides, in combination with an increased presence of alien species, may greatly alter successional trajectories in the Ninole ridges of Hawai'i.
27742822|In this study, we investigated the pattern of floristic similarity as a function of geographical distances and environmental variability in well-drained uplands (terra firme) in Colombian Amazonia. The study site comprised three National Natural Parks, Tinigua, Chiribiquete, and Amacayacu, located in different geological units that represent a soil fertility gradient linked to parental materials. Differences in species richness between sites were compared using rarefaction analysis. A clear floristic transition appeared in the eastwest direction following a soil fertility gradient along the first PCoA axis. In multiple regression analyses based on distance matrices, both geographical distances and geology explained 64 percent of the total floristic variation. Geographical distances alone accounted for 12 percent of variation in floristic similarities among plots, while geology alone accounted for 1 percent, and the joint effect of both explained 51 percent of the floristic variation. The species richness trend supports the existence of a latitudinal corridor southward of the geographical Equator in the Amazon basin, where tree diversity reaches the maximum expected values. A coupled effect of stochastic dispersal limitation and habitat specialization would certainly appear to be an appropriate explanation for tree species turnover in terra firme forests in Colombian Amazonia, strongly emphasizing that competition and neutrality must be supplementary rather than mutually exclusive processes. This result pinpoints the effect of dispersal on floral mixing as an ongoing active process for structuring tree communities in NW Amazonia, and the size of the reserves as a relevant issue to protect rare species from extinction by chance.
41058545|Dung beetles fulfill several key functions in ecosystems but their role as secondary seed dispersers is probably one of the most complex ones. Various factors, such as seed characteristics, dispersal pattern induced by the primary disperser, season, and habitat, can affect the seedbeetle interaction. Particularly litde is known about the fate of seeds primarily dispersed in small feces. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of these factors on the dung beede community (species composition, number and size of individuals) and its consequences on burial occurrence and depth of seeds primarily dispersed by two tamarin species. We captured dung beedes in a Peruvian rain forest with 299 dung-baited pitfall traps to characterize the dung beetle community. Seed burial occurrence and depth were assessed by marking in situ 551 dispersed seeds in feces placed in cages. Among these seeds, 22.5 percent were buried by dung beedes after 2 d. We observed a significant effect of the amount of dung, season, time of deposition, and habitat on the number of individuals and species of dung beedes, as well as on seed burial occurrence and depth, while the tamarin species significantly influenced only the number and the size of dung beedes. This seed dispersal loop is particularly important for forest regeneration: small to large seeds dispersed by tamarins in secondary forest can be buried by dung beedes. These seeds can thus benefit from a better protection against prdation and a more suitable microenvironment for germination, potentially enhancing seedling recruitment.
10.2307/2989684|Leaf fall, leaf production, flower and fruit production, and floral biology of Gustavia superba (Kunth) Berg were studied for a year in the tropical moist forest of central Panama. Although leaves fall throughout the year, peak fall occurs in the first month of the wet season. Leaf production on any branch is possible throughout the year, but within the population studied two pronounced peaks were observed, one in the late wet-early dry season and the other after the first rains of the wet season. Flowering began about one month after the rains ceased and continued throughout the dry season into the first month of the following wet season. Fruits reached maturity at the end of the dry season and into the early wet season. The severity of the dry season of 1974-1975 may have altered the normal flowering pattern and reduced fruit production in this species. Observations revealed that the flowers are diurnal, without odor and nectar, and are visited by bees for their pollen. A limited number of crosses suggest that this species is self-incompatible.
10.2307/2989677|Cecropia peltata is not occupied by Azteca ants on Puerto Rico and most other Caribbean islands. The plant no longer produces the trichilia that produce the glycogen-rich food bodies which are a major part of the ants' diet in their mutualism with Cecropia on the neotropical mainland. It appears that C. peltata survives without its ants on Caribbean islands because of the reduced herbivore challenge in insular habitats, and reduced interspecific competition from trees in those island habitats that are poor in vines. On the mainland, some high-elevation Cecropia have also lost the mutualistic interaction with Azteca. One lowland mainland species, C. sciadophylla, lacks a mutualistic interaction with ants, and may represent an invasion of the lowlands by a Cecropia species that earlier lost its ant interaction on an island or at mainland high elevations. The ant-free Cecropia demonstrate clearly that a complex mutualism can evolutionarily disintegrate without the loss of both partners if the proper habitats are available.
10.2307/2389086|Five years after Hurricane Hugo reduced the aboveground biomass by 50 percent in two forested watersheds in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico, regeneration and growth of survivors had increased the aboveground biomass to 86 percent of the pre-hurricane value. Over the 5 yr, the net aboveground productivity averaged 21.6 Mgha
10.2307/2989646|Eastern Brazil, particularly the region around Bahia, harbors many primitive herbaceous bambusoid grasses. In the tribe Olyreae, the genus Piresia is represented by several new species, all less advanced than those of Amazonia. The species of Diandrolyra found in Bahia show more primitive features than those which occur to the south. The tribe Parianeae, previously known only by the genus Pariana, which occurs throughout Amazonia, is represented by two new genera from eastern Brazil. At least one of these exhibits the most primitive features in the tribe. These preliminary findings suggest that the Bahian region is a refugium of at least some primitive herbaceous bambusoid grasses, and that migration proceeded from here southward along the Serra do Mar and northwestward into Amazonia.
30045368|Fire is a frequent disturbance in the tropical dry forests of Central America, yet very little is known about how native species respond to such events. We conducted an experimental burn in a tropical dry forest of western Nicaragua to evaluate plant responses to fire with respect to survivorship and recruitment. Measurements of woody vegetation of all size classes were carried out prior to the prescribed burn and three successive years post fire. We selected the 15 most abundant species <10 cm DBH to assess percent survivorship and sprouting responses post fire. Changes in seedling densities for these 15 most abundant species and the 15 least abundant species were analyzed using a repeated measure ANOVA. We also assessed changes in seedling densities for three species of international conservation concern. We found three major fire-coping strategies among common dry forests plants: resisters (low fire-induced mortality), resprouters (vigorous sprouting), and recruiters (increased seeding post-fire). While survivorship was generally high relative to tropical moist forest species, those species with lower survivorship used either seeding or sprouting as an alternative strategy for persisting in the forest community. Seed dispersal mechanisms, particularly wind dispersal, appear to be an important factor in recruitment success post-fire. Burn treatment led to a significant increase in the density of seedlings for two species of conservation concern: Guaiacum sanctum and Swietenia humilis. Results of this study suggest that common dry forest species in western Nicaragua are fire tolerant. Further study of individual species and their fire responses is merited. /// El incendio forestal causa perturbacin frecuente en los bosques secos tropicales de Centroamrica, sin embargo se conoce poco del comportamiento de las especies nativas a sta perturbacin. Nosotros llevamos a acabo una quema experimental en un bosque seco tropical de Nicaragua occidental para evaluar el comportamiento de la flora con respecto a la sobrevivencia y reclutamiento de las especies despus de la quema. Se midi todas las clases diamtricas de la vegetacin leosa antes de la quema controlada y durante 3 aos consecutivos despus de la quema. Seleccionamos las 15 especies ms abundantes en la clase diametrica < 10 dap para evaluar el porcentaje de sobrevivencia y la actividad de rebrote despus de la quema. Cambios en la densidad de plntulas para las 15 especies ms abundantes y para las 15 especies menos abundantes fueron analizadas utilizando el anlisis de varianza de medicin repetido (ANOVA). Tambin, evaluamos cambios en la densidad de plntulas para tres especies de inters a nivel internacional con respecto a su conservacin. En la flora comn del bosque seco se encontr tres estrategias principales utilizadas por las especies para contender con los incendios forestales, estas fueron: resistores (baja mortalidad por el incendio), rebrotadores (rebrotamiento vigoroso), y reclutores (reclutamiento elevado pos-incendio). Mientras la sobrevivencia de especies en el bosque seco en general fue relativamente alta a la de especies de bosque hmedo tropical, las especies con menor sobrevivencia utilizaron el reclutamiento  rebrotamiento como estrategia para persistir en la comunidad boscosa. El mecanismo de dispersin de semilla, particularmente la dispersin elica, parece ser un factor importante en el xito de reclutamiento despus de la quema. Las quemas controladas produjeron un aumento significativo en la densidad de plntulas para dos de las especies de inters para la conservacin: Guaiacum sanctum L. (Zygophyllaceae) y Swietenia humilis Zucc. (Meliaceae). Resultados de esta investigacin sugieren que las especies comunes del bosque seco de Nicaragua son tolerantes al fuego. Por lo tanto, es merecido hacer ms estudios de estas especies y su comportamiento ante la perturbacin del fuego.
10.2307/2388473|The production of leaves, inflorescences, and growth rates were measured during 1985 for 547 plants of Espeletia barclayana, a giant rosette species in the high Andes of Colombia. There were differences in leaf production between individuals of different sizes, with a maximum for plants 61-90 cm in height (27.9 leaves yr$^{-1}$) and a minimum for plants less than 30 cm (5.1 leaves yr$^{-1}$). For plants more than 61 cm in height there was a minimum in leaf production during February, coinciding with the minimum in rainfall, and also during June coinciding with a decrease in rainfall, low temperature, and a peak in fog and condensation. There was a great variation in the number of reproductive plants from one year to the next. There was also a positive relationship between total production of inflorescences at the population level and annual rainfall. Trunk growth rates ranged from 1.1 cm yr$^{-1}$ for plants less than 30 cm in height to 3.8 cm yr$^{-1}$ for plants 61-90 cm in height. The tallest plant in the population (150 cm) was about 93 yr old. The results of this study suggest that E. barclayana is subject to seasonal drought and that the variation in water supply and temperature have an effect on leaf production and probably on growth rates. Because of the very slow growth rates of E. barclayana, it will take a considerable time to recover the actual population and vegetation structure of those areas which have been turned into agricultural fields.
2388820|Growth rates for 44 species of trees in a posthurricane forest in Nicaragua were measured. The pattern is consistent with the interpretation of succession as a two stage process: an initial building phase after the hurricane followed by a thinning phase. Localities that were damaged less from the hurricane are now entering the thinning phase of postdisturbance succession, while those subjected to the most severe damage appear to remain in the building phase.
10.2307/2388615|Mist netting bats at 11 sites in the vicinity of Akumal, Mexico between 7 and 19 January 1991 produced 363 bats representing 20 species. A comparison of captures revealed significant differences in species diversity (H$_s$) between disturbed and undisturbed sites (as reflected by deforestation). Species in the subfamily Phyllostominae (family Phyllostomidae) were captured significantly more often at forested than deforested sites and thus appeared to be useful indicators of habitat disruption. The low intensity echolocation calls of phyllostomid bats make it unfeasible to monitor their distribution and abundance with bat detectors.
20492462|Ferraz et al. (2008) indicated the need for planning in biological monitoring in the Amazon, and reviewed what they considered recent progress. The problems and solutions they discuss are well known, and it is unlikely that many biologists would disagree with most of them. However, the authors do not indicate that most of these issues are already being addressed in practice in the Amazon, especially by the Programa de Pesquisas em Biodiversidade (PPBio) of the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology. The only major issue about which we do not agree with Ferraz et al. (2008) relates to the design of monitoring programs. The authors recommended tailoring experimental designs to specific threats, which will result in a multitude of idiosyncratic designs and incompatible data sets. We suggest that generic broad-scale designs will allow us to answer more questions with greater confidence, because the investment in each location provides information about regional and global questions. Although specific designs may be more effective in some cases, there are insufficient resources available to install different research infrastructure for every possible threat.
30044052|Permanent cooperative sociality is rare in spiders. Here we describe sociality in a cobweb (Theridiidae) genus with no other known social species. In five areas of eastern Ecuador, we found nests of Theridion nigroannula tum containing from a single to several thousand adults living together in a communal web. Spiders cooperated in prey capture and shared their food. Subadult to young adult sex ratios were highly female biased, suggesting a strongly subdivided population structure as in other permanent-social spiders. Unusual aspects of T. nigroannulatum's biology include the existence of adult females of two discrete sizes, an extreme boom and bust pattern of colony growth, and the presence, within larger colonies, of populations of a predatory spider (Faiditus spp., Argyrodinae) that may play the role of a colony-level parasite. The existence of females of two sizes may be the result of alternative female reproductive strategies, intracolony competition for resources, or an incipient caste system in this species. A redescription and phylogenetic analysis corroborate the placement of this species in Theridion, indicating that sociality has evolved independently in at least three theridiid genera. /// El comportamiento social permanente es muy poco usual en araas. Aqu describimos comportamiento social en un gnero de la familia Theridiidae en el que no se conocen otras especies sociales. En cinco areas del Oriente Ecuatoriano encontramos nidos de Theridion nigroannulatum que contuvieron en un nido comn desde unas pocas hasta varios miles de araas adultas. Las araas cooperaron en la captura de la presa y compartieron su alimento. La proporcin de sexos entre individuos subadultos y adultos jvenes fue altamente desviada en favor de las hembras, sugiriendo una poblacin altamente subdividida, como en otras araas de socialidad permanente. Entre los aspectos novedosos de la biologa de T. nigroannulatum se encuentran la existencia de hembras adultas de dos tamaos discretos, un patrn de crecimiento explosivo de las colonias, y la presencia en colonias grandes de una araa predadora (Faiditus spp., Argyrodinae) que parece jugar el papel de un parsito intracolonial. La existencia de hembras de dos tamaos diferentes puede ser el resultado de estrategias reproductivas alternativas, competencia intracolonial por recursos, o un sistema de castas incipiente. La redescripcin y anlisis filogentico confirman la ubicacin de esta especie en Theridion, demostrando que la socialidad ha evolucionado independientemente en por lo menos tres gneros de Theridiidae.
30043179|We investigated the genetic variation of Avicennia germinans using 172 AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) bands of 45 plants from four localities on the Colombian Pacific coast: 11 from Virud (Choc), 10 from La Plata (Valle), 12 from Tumaco (Nario), and 12 from Chontal (Nario). AFLP variation among localities (16.2%) was highly significant (AMOVA;  < 0.0001). All the analyses showed that Tumaco was the most genetically distinct locality of the four under study. The other three localities, La Plata, Virud, and Chontal, apparently form a large single subpopulation with high-to-moderate gene flow among localities. We also found the genetic diversity of A. germinans on the Colombian Pacific coast (
2389215|Although little supporting data is available, mites (Acari) are often considered to be one of the `hyperdiverse' taxa in tropical ecosystems. To test this assumption, we sampled single guilds of predatory mites (Hydracarina and Mesostigmata) in three different habitats (fresh water, rotting fungi, and forest foliage) across a range of sites in monsoonal, wet-tropical, and subtropical Australia. Most species (61%) were collected at a single site; as a result, all seven collector's curves rose steeply with little indication of reaching asymptotes. Regional faunas ranged from 87-94 percent distinct and of the 247 species identified, 114 (46%) were previously unknown in Australia and appear to be new. Even within taxonomically well-studied groups, such as the Hydracarina and Phytoseiidae, we found many new species (32% and 60%, respectively). Our results suggest that the diversity of tropical mites is very high and comparable to that of many insect taxa. We propose a simple model to explain our results, i.e. that in the tropics, high levels of complementarity between sites amplify local mite species richness. We tested this model by additional sampling, comparing within-site to between-site complementarity, and contrasting temperate with tropical foliar Mesostigmata. As predicted by the model, collecting at new sites continued to accumulate new species, complementarity was significantly greater between-sites than within-sites (72 vs. 25%), and temperate collections were more homogeneous and less diverse than tropical collections.
41058539|Analyses relating long-term records of tree growth to interannual climatic variation at La Selva, Costa Rica have revealed marked forest sensitivities to both temperature and dry-season intensity (Clark et ai 2010). The tropical-forest biome is certain to become warmer, and many areas may become drier. Testing the generality of the La Selva findings with similar analyses of field data from diverse forests across the biome will be a valuable next step. Based on our experiences during the La Selva studies, we propose that such assessments will need to address three issues. One is the number of repeat forest measurements. Short series of re-censuses can be an unreliable basis for assessing climatic sensitivities. For some key climatic factors (e.g., temperature), records consisting of fewer than 1012 re-censuses can span limited climatic ranges, producing erratic and largely nonsignificant correlations. Multiyear census intervals exacerbate these data limitations. Second, different types of forest-growth data call for different analysis approaches. Cohort and tree-ring records need to be adjusted for ontogenetic growth changes, while stand-level data require taking into account potentially confounding influences from forest compositional changes, as from succession. Third, a reliable meteorological record is critical. Poor-quality or internally inconsistent climatic records can fatally corrupt assessments of forest sensitivities. To be usable in such analyses, the meteorological record requires data quality control, gap filling, and adjustments to maintain the record's internal consistency in the face of commonly occurring methods changes (instruments, siting). We illustrate these issues using analyses of the long-term La Selva records.
10.2307/2388625|By 1983, lahar flows deposited by the 1976-1977 eruption of La Soufriere (Guadeloupe, French West Indies) supported a nearly monospecific community of the nitrogen-fixing lichen Stereocaulon virgatum. Diazotrophic, free-living Scytonema (Cyanophyta) lived as a microepiphyte on the lower phyllocladia. The initial colonization of bare rock following deposition and subsequent development of the present community were not recorded. Therefore, succession patterns, nitrogenase activity, and microclimate of disturbed areas within the established lichen community were studied to describe regeneration patterns and postulate from these the initial colonization mechanisms. Scytonema developed a gelatinous mat on bare rock that provided a suitable substrate for the development of S. virgatum propagules. Nitrogenase activity by the mat supporting 2-10 mm high pseudopodetia of S. virgatum exceeded rates by the uncolonized mat and those measured for later stages characterized by the development of a dense lichen canopy over the mat.
30043228|Sediment-rich rivers seasonally flood central Amazonian vrzea forests, leading to periodic anoxic conditions in the rhizosphere and requiring morphological and structural adaptations, such as aboveground root systems. We investigated some possible relationships between root types and environmental factors in forest plots covering 3.1 ha of vrzea in the Mamirau Sustainable Development Reserve, Brazil. Digital elevation models of the study sites were obtained; sedimentation and soil texture were investigated to check relationship between position of trees on the flood gradient, soil conditions, and aboveground root systems. Different types of aboveground roots were closely related to flooding duration and habitat dynamics. Species subjected to higher and more prolonged floods tended to produce more aboveground roots than species subjected to lower and shorter inundations. Plank-buttressing species increased with decreasing flood height and/or flood duration, and with increasing growth height and basal area. Habitats inundated for long periods were dominated by species with low growth heights and low basal areas, which formed stilt roots and aerial roots. Root system and sediment deposition showed a close relationship, plank buttressing being more common in sites subjected to lower sediment rates. In the disturbed sites close to the main river channel colonized by pioneer species, the occurrence of buttresses was lower than in less disturbed climax stages. No clear relationship was found between root systems and sediment grain sizes. /// A vrzea da Amaznia Central  inundada periodicamente por rios de gua branca ricos em sedimentos. A fase terrestre e a fase aqutica as quais a vegetao est sujeita, influenciam a fisiologia e a estrutura de espcies arbreas. pulso de inundao ocasiona um aumento da coluna de gua e da sedimentao, o que resulta em condies anxicas para a rizosfera, causando adaptaes morfolgicas e estruturais como razes areas. Este trabalho investiga as possveis relaes entre a forma destas razes e os fatores ambientais. Para o inventrio das razes foi selecionada uma rea de 3.1 ha de vrzea na Reserva de Desenvolvimento Sustentvel Mamirau. Foram feitos modelos digitais do terreno dos stios, assim como medies da sedimentao e granulometria do solo, com o objetivo de investigar relaes entre topografia, condies fsicas do solo e a formao de razes areas. Os resultados indicam, que a ocorrncia de diferentes formas de razes est relacionada com o tempo de inundao e a dinmica geomorflogica dos habitats. Em geral, espcies situadas em cotas mais baixas, sofrendo inundaes prolongadas, produzem mais freqentemente razes areas do que aquelas sujeitas a um menor perodo de inundao. Espcies que formam razes tabulares ocorrem com mais freqencia em reas onde o perodo de inundao  mais curto, por outro lado, espcies com razes adventcias e areas so mais comuns em reas com inundao prolongada. H ainda uma relao entre sedimentao e o sistema radicular, sendo que espcies com razes tabulares ocorrem com maior freqncia em stios com baixa sedimentao. Em reas colonizadas por espcies pioneiras, adaptadas a altas taxas de sedimentao e solos arenosos, prximas aos rios principais, a ocorrncia de razes tabulares  menor do que em estgios clmax, onde o habitat  mais estvel. No houve relao entre as diferentes formas de razes areas e a granulometria do solo.
10.2307/2388635|Seeds were collected from elephant dung in Bia National Park, Western Region, Ghana during a 3-mo period prior to the major wet season, and were brought to the laboratory for counting, identification, and germination trials. We report here the quantities of seeds, characteristics of fruits and seeds of the species encountered, and the results of germination trials comparing fresh seeds (from ripe fruits) and ingested seeds (from dung). Altogether 449 seeds representing 11 species were enumerated, the most important of these being Panda oleosa, Balanites wilsoniana, Strychnos aculeata, and Parinari excelsa. For three of the species tested, the germination percentage was significantly higher for ingested seeds than for fresh seeds; for two species, there was no difference.
10.2307/2388750|Guanica Forest, with seasonal rainfall averaging 860 mm annually, is among the driest of tropical or subtropical forests studied to date. It is composed of over 12,000 live tree stems per hectare, only 2.3 and 12 percent of which exceed 10 cm DBH or 5 m in height, respectively. Of all stems greater than 2.5 cm DBH, 57 percent are stump or root sprouts, attributable to forest cutting 50 years earlier. The dry winter months induce maximum deciduousness and are reflected in a 50 percent reduction in leaf area index, from approximately 4.3 to 2.1. Although less in magnitude, leaf fall was also observed in the moderately dry midsummer months. Relative to wetter forests, tree species richness and total community biomass is low. Approximately 50 percent of the total live-plant biomass of 89.9 t/ha occurs below ground, a higher proportion than for any other comparable forest measured thus far.
4132948|Results from 24 transects showed that tapirs were less abundant in areas with higher human presence. They also preferred less steep areas, especially as browsing sites. An analysis of feces showed that fibers were the largest component (40-55%) followed by leaves (10-30%) and twigs (15%). Bamboo (Chusquea spp.) was found in all samples and probably accounts for the high proportion of fibers. Twenty-seven plant species were identified to be eaten by tapirs.
10.2307/2388316|Annual mortality rates for Vochysia thyrsoidea Pohl in an unburnt Cerrado ecosystem near Brasilia, DF, Brazil, were calculated for the period 1980 to 1984. Of 472 individuals permanently marked in December 1979, ranging from 1.6 to 52.2 cm in diameter, a total of 34 individuals died during the study period. Mean mortality per year was 1.97 percent, but the annual rate varied between 0.64 and 4.30 percent. Mortality rate increased with increasing diameter class. Most individuals died standing (67%), probably from insect and fungus attack; other causes of death were windthrow (15%) and lightning (18%). The natural mortality rate of V. thyrsoidea is similar to that observed for other tree species in tropical and temperate ecosystems.
30044019|Tub (Montanoa guatemalensis, Asteraceae) is a popular tree used in windbreaks in the San Luis valley near the Monteverde cloud forests of Costa Rica. Seventy-eight woody taxa from 32 families were found in the understory of 19 tub windbreaks (five 4-yr-old, eight 12-yr-old, and six 20-yr-old). Mean size of tub increased with stand age, but tub was neither replacing itself nor spreading from the windbreaks. Density of other trees and shrubs  1 m was higher in 4-yr-old plots than in 20-yr-old plots, but density of other trees <1 m tall did not vary with windbreak age. Whereas richness of species  1 m was higher for 12- and 20-yr-old plots than for 4-yr-old plots, species richness of trees <1 m tall did not vary with windbreak stand age. Higher proportions of the woody colonists in 12- and 20-yr-old plots were animal dispersed than in 4-yr-old plots. Tub windbreaks may undergo major changes in woody species composition, with Daphnopsis americana, Inga punctata, and Trichilia havanensis likely to predominate in the future. /// Tub (Montanoa guatemalensis, Asteraceae) es un rbol utilizado como rompevientos en el valle de San Luis cerca de los bosques nublado de Monteverde en Costa Rica. Setenta y ocho taxones leonos de 32 familias fueron encontrados en el sotobosque de 19 rompevientos de tub (cinco rompevientos de 4 aos, ocho rompevientos de 12 aos y seis rompevientos de 20 aos). El tamao promedio de tub aument con la edad del grupo, pero el tub no estaba reproducindose en los rompevientos ni estaba propagndose. La densidad de las otras especias de rboles y matas  1 m fue mayor en los rompevientos de 4 aos que en los de 20 aos, pero la densidad de las especies de otros rboles no vari con la edad del rompeviento. Mientras que la riqueza de especias  1 m fue mayor en los rompevientos de 12 y 20 aos que en los de 4 aos; la riqueza de especias de los rboles < 1 m no vari con la edad del rompeviento. La proporcin de especies leosos colonizadores en las areas con rompevientos de 12 y 20 aos fue ms alta que en los de 4 aos debido a la dispersion por animales. Quizs las reas con rompevintos de tub pueden experimentar grandes cambios en la composicin de las especias leonas, y probablemente especies como Daphnopsis americana, Inga punctata y Trichilia havanensis predominen en el futuro.
2663792|The stems of the ant-plant, Endospermum labios Schodde, serve as colonization sites for the ant, Camponotus quadriceps F. Smith. They are also subject to damage by insect borers. We sampled young E. labios trees in disturbed forest to compare evidence of stem boring insect and stem miner damage in plants with and without colonies of C. quadriceps. Dissections of a subsample of plants showed that dipteran stem borers and stem miner damage were significantly more common in plants lacking C. quadriceps colonies than in plants with established colonies. Evidence from these dissections and from field counts of meristem damage caused by emerging borers suggested that coleopteran stem borers were also more abundant when ants were not present. In addition to the incidence of stem boring insects and ant colonies, we examined relative levels of leaf pubescence by measuring trichome density and leaf size for E. labios trees. We found that trichome density was significantly greater in trees with evidence of prior shoot damage (presumably from stem borer emergence at the meristem) but was not significantly related to the presence or absence of an ant colony. This prompted us to compare trichome density on leaves of nearby small trees and of different branches of the same tree, pairing a stem/branch that appeared damaged with one that appeared healthy. Trichome densities on leaves from damaged stems and branches were significantly greater than were trichome densities on healthy branches and stems. Based on these empirical data, we present several possible explanations for the patterns of association between ants, stem borers, and pubescence. Although feeding preference tests with a common folivore showed no effect of trichome densities on leaves, we suggest further study on how trichomes may affect ovipositing stem borers.
20492538|Rain forests are expected to be amongst the ecosystem types most affected by fragmentation due to their high species diversity, high endemism, complexity of interactions, and contrast with surrounding altered matrix. Due to their shorter life cycles and dependence on canopy cover, rain forest understory herbs are expected to indicate the effects of recent fragmentation more rapidly than canopy trees. This study investigated all four known species of the genus Romnalda, all of which are rare rain forest herbaceous species, to investigate the possible effects of habitat fragmentation and isolation on genetic diversity and gene flow. Allozymes were used as genetic markers and regional remnant vegetation maps were used to compare landscape fragmentation. We found that R. strobilacea populations in a highly fragmented landscape were genetically depauperate compared with those of its congeneric species that are found within continuous rain forest habitats and that allelic diversity decreased with decreasing population size but not geographic distance in R. strobilacea. Given the similarity among the species, our results indicate that all Romnalda species are potentially susceptible to loss of genetic diversity due to habitat fragmentation within relatively short timeframes. The results indicate that populations are not highly genetically differentiated and there is little evidence of genetic provenance where the species have restricted geographic ranges. Thus, species recovery programs would be better to focus on maintaining population size and genetic diversity rather than population differentiation.
2663879|The genus Dombeya is an important component of tropical forests in west Africa, Madagascar, and the Mascarene islands, but little is known about the reproductive biology of its members. In this study, we quantified gender variation and flower-size variation in three populations of the dioecious tree Dombeya ciliata, an endemic of La Reunion Island (Indian Ocean). Variation among the three populations was observed for three characters. First, the high elevation population had strict males and females, whereas in the two low elevation populations, males were inconstant, with > 50 percent of the males set a small number of fruit. Second, females showed greater seed production at high elevation. Third, flower-size dimorphism was greater at high elevation because male flowers were larger than female flowers.
10.2307/2387682|Many extratropical pierine butterflies are multivoltine and have both seasonal phenotypes and facultative diapause under photoperiodic control. Studies of univoltine-monophenic populations of two Holarctic pierine species-complexes have demonstrated the presence of latent polyphenisms. This situation has been interpreted as evidence that they are descended from multivoltine-polyphenic ancestors. Endemic pierines which are multivoltine (apparently without diapause) but monophenic occur in montane and alpine South America. These populations are commonly thought to be descended from Plioand Pleistocene invaders from the Nearctic. Stock of an equatorial montane species, Tatochila xanthodice, was collected in south-central Colombia and reared on strongly polyphenism- and diapause-inducing regimes previously used with Nearctic pierines. Neither phenotype nor development was perturbed by any of the treatments. Either T xanthodice has secondarily lost its developmental flexibility, or the conventional reconstruction of pierine history in South America requires rethinking. Comparative data on other tropical insects are inadequate for even a preliminary synthesis of phenotypic plasticity in the low latitude montane environment.
10.2307/2989820|Plant food preferences of some Drosophila species of Uganda have been examined. Results showed that fruits were favoured by a large number of species and that the larger and fleshier fruits supported more species than the smaller fruits. Flowers, fungi, and rotting parts of plants were among the ecological sites exploited by drosophilids. Problems encountered by some species of Drosophila of successfully utilizing a variety of sites, on the one hand, and of being very restricted and confined, on the other, have been discussed in relation to their general bearing on the larger issues of endemism and cosmopolitanism.
30043632|Broad patterns across wild plant species show that leaf composition and morphology vary predictably among habitats, richer habitats favoring resource-acquisition strategies and poorer habitats favoring resource-conservation strategies. Domestication is often accompanied by a shift to richer habitats, and might thus be expected to lead to a shift in leaf composition and morphology and hence in photosynthetic parameters. We compared leaf photosynthetic parameters in domesticated cassava {Manihot esculenta) and a close wild relative, using greenhouse-grown plants. In domesticated cassava, CO2 exchange rate expressed per unit mass and specific leaf area (SLA, m2/kg dry mass) were greater than in the wild relative, whereas leaf dry matter content (LDMC, dry mass/fresh mass) was lower in the domesticate. These results suggest that SLA and net photosynthetic rates may both have increased in the evolution of cassava under domestication, enabling more rapid growth in relatively resource-rich and protected agricultural habitats. Previous comparisons of photosynthetic rates in domesticated plants and wild relatives have usually considered only leaf area-based measures. Here, we discuss the interest of using mass-based rates to study the evolution of ecological strategies under domestication. Abstract in French Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30044945|Many of the mammals undergoing drastic declines in tropical forests worldwide are important seed dispersers and seed predators, and thus changes in mammal communities due to hunting will affect plant recruitment. It has been hypothesized that larger-seeded species will suffer greater reductions in seed removal and thus greater increases in predispersal seed predation than smaller-seeded species. We compared primary and secondary seed removal and predispersal seed predation of two tree species between hunted and nonhunted sites in Central Panama. Seeds of Oenocarpus mapora (Arecaceae) are l6-times greater in size than those of Cordia bicolor (Boraginaceae). We quantified primary seed removal and predispersal seed predation using seed traps, and we assessed secondary seed removal using seed removal plots. Primary removal of C. bicolor was 43 percent lower in the hunted sites, while primary removal of O. mapora was not significantly different. Secondary removal of unprotected O. mapora seeds on the ground was 59 percent lower in hunted sites, while secondary removal of C. bicolor was not significantly different. Predispersal seed predation of O. mapora by mammals was significantly lower in hunted sites, while predispersal seed predation by insects was not significantly different in either species. In combination with other studies, our results suggest that seed size is not a reliable predictor of the impacts of hunting. Mammal defaunation differentially affects stages and modes of seed dispersal and seed predation of different plant species, suggesting that these influences are complex and related to multiple plant traits.
10.2307/2387827|In evergreen tropical rain forest, growing on a nutrient-poor Oxisol (lateritic soil) near San Carlos de Rio Negro, Venezuela, the average total above-ground dry weight of lianas was 15.7 t ha
2663993|Evaporative water loss in Anolis cristatellus from the British Virgin Islands was negatively correlated with the aridity of their habitats. Phenotypic plasticity and/or differential mortality of less well-adapted individuals allowed rapid changes within populations. Here we report the results of two studies intended to differentiate between the two processes. We took advantage of the end of a major drought to study the rapidity with which populations recovered from unusually dry conditions. Population values changed rapidly from those measured in the past. There was no correlation between long-term habitat aridity and measured water-loss rate, but the multiyear correlation between aridity and skin resistance to water loss persisted. We also conducted a common garden experiment in which animals from the wettest and driest habitats were housed under intermediate conditions for one month. We detected no change in skin resistance to water loss in any of the three populations we studied; however, the mass of lizards from Sage Mountain increased significantly during the experiment, and their water loss per unit mass decreased significantly. These results support the existence of both phenotypic plasticity and genetic differences resulting from rapid selection within populations. The magnitude and relative importance of the two, however, remain to be determined.
30043186|This study examined whether the population density and home range size of red-rumped agoutis were affected by the spatial distribution of Brazil nut trees, at the Pinkaiti Research Station, in eastern Amazonia. Agouti densities in a Brazil nut grove were two-fold higher and home ranges were half the size than those outside it. This indicates that the large supply of Brazil nuts results in higher densities and smaller home ranges of agoutis in this seasonally dry Amazonian forest. /// Este estudo examinou a influncia da distribuio espacial local de castanha-do-Par na densidade populacional e a rea de vida de cutas, na Estao de Pesquisas Pinkaiti, Amaznia Oriental. Densidade populacional de cutias dentro de um Castanhal foi o dobro e as reas de vida metade daquelas observadas em rea fora do Castanhal. Isto indica que a abundncia local de castanha-do-Par resulta em diferenas tanto na densidade quanto no tamanho da rea de vida de cutias.
10.2307/2388595|Scarified and unscarified guanacaste seeds were subjected to in vitro fermentation using either rumen or caecal inoculum to test their germination response to the fermentation processes of cattle and horses. The fermentation was terminated at various times after inoculation, and the seeds planted under greenhouse conditions to evaluate viability. One day of exposure to either rumen or caecal in vitro fermentation killed 90 percent of the scarified seeds, and none survived longer than two days. No unscarified seeds germinated in the flasks. Scarification appears to be a critical process affecting the survivorship of seeds in the guts of large, mammalian herbivores. Because functional differences in the foregut between ruminants and nonruminants impose different chewing patterns and passage rates on these groups, we postulate that these factors are responsible for the lower proportion of scarified seeds in the feces of ruminants. In the large mammalian herbivores, nonruminants function as seed predators while ruminants are better disposal agents for guanacaste seeds.
30043185|Insect-fern interactions are not as well characterized as insect-angiosperm interactions. For example, the imitation of unique fern structures by insects has not been observed. On a recent trip to Puerto Rico, we collected ferns that bore small Lepidoptera imitating fern sori. Herbarium specimen searches indicate that these Lepidoptera are restricted to the Caribbean on ferns with highly visible sporangia. A possible selective pressure for the evolution of lepidopteran soral crypsis is wasp parasitism, as evidence of parasitoid wasps was found. However, it is more likely that soral crypsis evolved to avoid visually oriented predators such as birds or lizards.
2663788|Raised-field agricultural systems were exploited extensively by pre-Columbian Andean civilizations and now are used less extensively by contemporary Bolivian and Peruvian farmers as a method for farming the perennially wet soils of the intermontane pampas of the Andean high altiplano. The raised-field agricultural systems are linear or semi-linear raised planting platforms interspersed with shallow, parallel canals filled with water. The elevated planting platforms raise the critical rooting zone of crops such as potatoes, quinoa, or barley above perennially saturated soils. A hypothesized advantage of the raised-field system is that agricultural production can be increased by exploiting the ability of bacteria and Azolla fililculoides to fix nitrogen in the canals adjacent to the planting platforms. To test this hypothesis, nitrogen fixation was estimated in situ in the water column of canals, in the soils of planting platforms, in the soils of a dry hillside field, and in the sediments and water column of marshes and totora beds. Nitrogen fixation was significantly greater in the canals of the raised-field systems and in marshes compared to planting platforms and the hillside field. These data support the theory that pre-Hispanic agricultural prosperity of the Andes, as well as other regions of Central and South America, was partially supported by extensive development of raised-field agriculture and probable exploitation of nitrogen fixation.
10.2307/2388521|Herbivory in the canopies of Australian rain forest trees was measured from 1979-1988, and their associated leaf growth dynamics quantified. Levels of defoliation were compared on several spatial scales: within and among canopies of one species (Doryphora sassafras Endl.) (Monimiaceae), between species, and among sites, light, and height. Sassafras was distributed throughout all rain forest formations in New South Wales, from the upper elevation cool temperate sites to the warm temperate and lowland subtropical sites. In addition, two methods of measuring herbivory were compared. One method (long-term observations) measured losses up to four times greater than estimates obtained by the second and more conventional technique of harvesting leaves to measure missing surface areas (discrete sampling). Leaf area losses in Australian rain forests averaged between 14.6 percent and 27 percent, ranging from 3.3 percent to 41 percent with species and site. The factors contributing to this variability within Australian forests and compared to studies elsewhere are discussed.
30043057|Litterfall was collected in a 0.64 ha area for three months, using 25 litter traps. Resampling methods were used to calculate the total litterfall mass grand mean and coefficient of variation (CV) for each month using different numbers of litter traps (2-25). Based on the variation of those two statistics, it was possible to determine the minimum number of litter traps necessary to achieve accuracy (variation in grand mean) and precision (magnitude of CV).
30045419|Mammillaria gaumeri, an endemic cactus from Yucatan, is threatened due to human-mediated habitat fragmentation but knowledge regarding factors that would inform management plans is limited, including information on optimal microhabitats and growth. We studied seasonal patterns of microclimate, net CO2 uptake and growth of adult individuals during the dry, rainy and northwind (late fall to winter) seasons in separate populations located in a coastal dune and in a dry forest. To provide an assay of primary productivity, we measured the production of new axillary buds (areoles) from the apex. We found that patterns of net CO2 uptake in the three seasons were consistent with obligate crassulacean acid metabolism. The reduction in soil water potential and the increase in water vapor pressure deficit led to a reduction in 24-h net CO2 uptake from 18.0 to 1.3 mmol m2, after 30 d of drought. Dry-weight gain was maximal during the rainy season and there was no growth during the dry season, thus seasonal patterns of net CO2 uptake and growth for M. gaumeri reflected soil and atmospheric water contents. Annual dry-weight gain increased linearly with plant size and with total daily photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) up to 80 percent of ambient. Maximal growth was in exposed microhabitats receiving 60-80 percent of total ambient PPFD. We hypothesize that low-magnitude disturbances, resulting in more exposed microhabitats, might be beneficial for growth and conservation of adult individuals of this rare species.
30045433|Pollen and charcoal analysis of a 5.9-m-long sediment profile from a swamp on an alluvial terrace on the edge of La Selva biological station, Costa Rica (1026'23'' N, 8400'24'' W, 36 m asl), documents three millennia of human and natural disturbance within a lowland tropical rain forest. The record indicates that the highly diverse rain forest that presently surrounds the Cantarrana swamp regrew following forest clearing and maize agriculture that ended only a few centuries ago. The first maize pollen appears in sediments deposited ~1070 calendar-year BR Older sediments below the 'maize zone' contain macroscopic charcoal, abundant microscopic charcoal, and possible pollen indicators of forest clearance, perhaps signaling local cultivation of root crops that left no pollen in the sediments. Interpretation of local archaeology indicates that La Selva reserve may have been most heavily populated during the El Bosque and La Selva regional archaeological phases from 2250-950 yr BP. However, the distribution of maize pollen in the sediments is clear evidence that the reserve was also occupied during the later La Cabaa phase (950-400 yr BP), from which few artifacts have yet surfaced. Natural forest disturbance from treefalls and stream dynamics, and hydrological shifts associated with late-Holocene climate variability, form a backdrop to the human land-use history preserved in the Cantarrana sediment profile. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
41058546|Invasions by introduced ant species can be ecologically destructive and affect a wide range of taxa, particularly native ants. Invasive ant species often numerically dominate ant communities and outperform native ant species in effective resource acquisition. Here, we describe interactions between the invasive ant Anoplolepis gracilipes (Smith) and resident ant species in disturbed habitats in NE Borneo. We measured interference competition abilities of A. gracilipes by performing arena bioassays between two A. gracilipes colonies and seven local ant species, and measured its effective resource competition at baits within supercolonies and at supercolony boundaries. Furthermore, we compared ant species diversity and composition at baits among (A) core areas of A gracilipes supercolonies, (B) supercolony boundaries and (C) outside supercolonies. Anoplolepis gracilipes was behaviorally dominant over most ant species except Oecophylla smaragdina. Within supercolonies, A. gracilipes discovered all food baits first, and monopolized the vast majority throughout the course of the experiment. At supercolony boundaries, A. gracilipes discovered baits later than resident ant species, but subsequendy monopolized half of the baits. Furthermore, the activity and diversity of the ant community within A. gracilipes supercolonies was lower than at its boundaries and outside supercolonies, and the ant communities differed significantly between infested and noninfested areas. Our study supports the hypothesis that successful establishment of A. gracilipes in anthropogenically disturbed habitats may negatively affect resident ant communities through high levels of direct interspecific aggression and almost complete monopolization of resources within high-density supercolonies.
10.2307/2388491|A study was conducted to determine the presence and distribution of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi in association with plants from different plant communities on Santa Cruz Island in the Galapagos Islands. VAM fungi were present to varying degrees in the roots of at least some members of all vegetation zones sampled. In the xerophytic regions sampled, there were little if any mycorrhizal fungi in the roots of the dominant, indigenous tree species. VAM spore numbers and levels of infection were generally higher in the moister regions of the island. In the moist zones, aggressive invading plants such as Cinchona succirubra and Psidium guajava had high levels of VAM infection.
10.2307/2989826|Spondias radlkoferi J. Donn. Sm. of lower Central America and Panama is believed to have been derived from the more widespread S. mombin L. The fruits of S. mombin are both colorful and sweet, characteristic of the genus. S. radlkoferi, however, has fruits which remain green and are not sweet at maturity. Where the two species occur together on Barro Colorado Island, they are, nevertheless, equally abundant. Selection in S. radlkoferi appears to have favored longer periods of fruit maturation to extend the time of maturation into a period of the year marked by food scarcity. Apparently also because of the dearth of food and the resulting increase in the foraging activities by mammals there has been selection in favor of a fruit which is neither sweet nor colorful.
10.2307/2387804|A survey of data from tropical and temperate regions confirms that nectars of hummingbird and honeyeater flowers are dilute, especially relative to nectars of bee flowers. We use these data, along with theoretical considerations, to examine three recently proposed hypotheses to explain low concentration of hummingbird nectars. None of the quantitative or qualitative predictions of these three hypotheses appears to be upheld. We discuss possible weaknesses of each hypothesis and then present a general framework which may be useful in generating new hypotheses to explain the evolution of nectar concentration.
2663832|In hardwood subtropical forests of southern Florida, nonnative vines have been hypothesized to be detrimental, as many species form dense "vine blankets" that shroud the forest. To investigate the effects of nonnative vines in post-hurricane regeneration, we set up four large (two pairs of 30 x 60 m) study areas in each of three study sites. One of each pair was unmanaged and the other was managed by removal of nonnative plants, predominantly vines. Within these areas, we sampled vegetation in 5 x 5 m plots for stems 2 cm DBH (diameter at breast height) or greater and in 2 x 0.5 m plots for stems of all sizes. For five years, at annual censuses, we tagged and measured stems of vines, trees, shrubs and herbs in these plots. For each 5 x 5 m plot, we estimated percent coverage by individual vine species, using native and nonnative vines as classes. We investigated the hypotheses that: (1) plot coverage, occurrence and recruitment of nonnative vines were greater than that of native vines in unmanaged plots; (2) the management program was effective at reducing cover by nonnative vines; and (3) reduction of cover by nonnative vines improved recruitment of seedlings and saplings of native trees, shrubs, and herbs. In unmanaged plots, nonnative vines recruited more seedlings and had a significantly higher plot-cover index, but not a higher frequency of occurrence. Management significantly reduced cover by nonnative vines and had a significant overall positive effect on recruitment of seedlings and saplings of native trees, shrubs and herbs. Management also affected the seedling community (which included vines, trees, shrubs, and herbs) in some unanticipated ways, favoring early successional species for a longer period of time. The vine species with the greatest potential to "strangle" gaps were those that rapidly formed dense cover, had shade tolerant seedling recruitment, and were animal-dispersed. This suite of traits was more common in the nonnative vines than in the native vines. Our results suggest that some vines may alter the spatiotemporal pattern of recruitment sites in a forest ecosystem following a natural disturbance by creating many very shady spots very quickly.
20492555|Termites play important roles in organic matter decomposition, nutrient cycling, and soil structure in tropical rain forests. When forests are replaced by agriculture, termite species richness, abundance, and function often decline. We compared the termite assemblage of a primary forest site with that of a low plant diversity, palm-based agroforest (five plant species) and a high plant diversity, home-garden agroforest (10 plant species) using a rapid biodiversity assessment protocol. In comparing the primary forest termite species composition to previously published studies, we found soil feeders and the Apicotermitinae to be more dominant than previously reported in Amazonia. Thirty percent of the species belonged to the Apicotermitinae, and an unusually high percentage (57%) of species were soil feeders. Unexpectedly, the palm-based agroforest, despite its lower plant diversity, was closer to primary forest in termite species composition, rate of species accumulation, and proportions of species in taxonomic and functional classes than was the home-garden agroforest. This suggests that particular plant attributes may better determine the termite assemblage than plant diversity alone in these agroecosystems. Unlike other agroecosystems reported in the literature, Apicotermitinae and soil feeders were proportionally more abundant in these agroforests than in primary forest. The ability of agroforests to support populations of soil feeders has a potentially positive effect on soil fertility in these agroecosystems; insomuch as feeding guild is a proxy for function, these closed-canopy agroforests may be able to sustain the same termite-mediated functions as primary forest.
10.2307/2388394|Floral nectars of 62 species native to south and southeast Asia were sampled opportunistically, mostly in Malaysia, and analyzed for sugar composition by HPLC. The sugar compositions of these nectars have not been previously reported in the literature. The distribution of the nectars in terms of percentage sucrose tended to be one of two extremes: either high sucrose or low sucrose. Principal pollinators of only a few of these species have been hypothesized in the literature. Most of these had nectar sugar compositions consistent with the principal pollinators posited. A few did not. Sugar compositions of Old World bat-pollinated species were typically found to be much richer in sucrose than those of New World bat flowers and to vary considerably. Possible reasons for these observations are discussed.
10.2307/2388866|The advertisement calls of 18 species of Hyla occurring in Bolivia are described. Information on the calling behavior of each species is provided. A characteristic audiospectrogram and oscillogram are presented for each species as well as information about the spectral and temporal features of the calls. Numerical characteristics of the sounds are used to generate a phenogram of the mating calls. Call characteristics agree with the currently accepted phylogeny of South American species of Hyla. Some species with similar calls may breed synchronously and syntopically
10.2307/2388897|A heath community found on Pulau Sibu, an island lying off the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, was found to consist of a low scrub, generally under 2 m in height, containing 24 species of vascular plants growing on hills overlooking the sea. It grew on a very shallow and acidic (pH 4.3) soil that was low in total nitrogen concentration (0.2%). Leaves of the seven most common shrub species, Ixonanthes reticulata. Melastoma malabathricum, Rhodamnia cinerea, Rhodomyrtus tomentosa, Schima wallichii. Styphelia malayana and Tristantopsis obovata, were collected for morphological, anatomical, and chemical analysis. The community was characterized by very small leaves (a dominance of microphylls), with very low nitrogen, phosphorus and total chlorophyll concentrations, and chlorophyll a/b ratio. Lamina thickness, specific leaf area, crude fiber content and potassium concentrations were less extreme. A number of the species in the community are generally considered to be early successional, but no strong evidence could be found for any recent disturbance event that would have initiated the production of a seral community
41241934|Gradual changes in vegetation structure and composition are expected to result from continuous environmental change with increasing elevation on mountains. Hence, the occurrence of abrupt or discrete ecotones in vegetation patterns is intriguing and may suggest key controls on community assembly in montane forests. We review tropical montane forest (TMF) zonation patterns focusing on a case study from the Cordillera Central, Hispaniola where a striking discontinuity in forest composition occurs consistently at ~2000 m elevation, with cloud forest below and monodominant pine forest above. We propose that a discontinuity in climatic factors (temperature, humidity) associated with the trade-wind inversion (TWI) is the primary cause of this and other ecotones in TMFs that occur at a generally consistent elevation. Low humidity, fires and occasional frost above the TWI favor pine over cloud forest species. Fires in the high-elevation pine forest have repeatedly burned down to the ecotone boundary and extinguished in the cloud forest owing to its low flammability, reinforced by high humidity, cloud immersion and epiphytic bryophyte cover. Small-scale fire patterns along the ecotone are influenced by topography and where forest structure is impacted by hurricanes and landslides. Analogous patterns are observed worldwide in other TMFs where the TWI is important, high-elevation fires are frequent, and the flora contains frost-tolerant species (often of temperate lineage). The response of this and other TMFs to anthropogenic climate change is highly uncertain owing to potentially countervailing effects of different climatic phenomena, including warming temperatures and decreased frost; changes in the TWI, high-elevation drought or cloudiness; and increased frequency or intensity of hurricanes and El Nio-Southern Oscillation events.
10.2307/2388158|Issues related to the question of whether mangroves are steady state or successional systems are examined in light of recent studies and interpretations of mangrove ecosystem structure and function. It is argued that succession in mangrove ecosystems needs to be examined separately for different types of mangroves and in relation to the cyclic nature of the mangrove environment. The criteria suggested by E. Odum (1969) for identifying successional systems only apply to some mangrove systems in accruing coastlines. In most other mangrove successions the criteria do not apply. Mangrove species zonation does not always recapitulate succession. Succession in mangroves is cyclic and leads to a series of cyclic stages. Changes in each cyclic stage are controlled by one or several external factors. Non-mangrove ecosystems replace mangrove systems at the environmental limits of tolerance of mangrove species where they are not good competitors. Examples are given for these replacements of mangroves under conditions of low temperature, hypersalinity, excess freshwater, deep water table, deep ocean water or high wave and/or tidal energies. Mangrove successions exhibit patterns that are typical of stressed ecosystems. For example, stressors slow down, setback, and arrest succession; autosuccession is common; species diversity may increase when stresses are relaxed and then decrease through succession as stresses return to their original intensity; human stresses superimposed on the natural stresses reduce further the structural complexity of the mangrove forest by decreasing tree height and slowing growth; in their mature state, mangroves continue to exhibit P/R > 1, open cycles of matter, relatively high P/B, and low species diversity. These youthful properties are caused by the periodic setbacks of succession. In spite of these characteristics mangroves continue to reproduce and maintain themselves in most low-energy tropical coastlines and are not replaced by other systems. It is concluded that mangrove ecosystems are steady-state systems in the low-energy tropical saline environment.
2388886|Byrsonima crassifolia (L.), a Neotropical malpighiaceous tree or treelet, has flowers that produce abundant lipids instead of nectar. Several species of Centris bees collect this oil. The floral oil shows variation between trees and can be separated into two types. One type is most common (11 of 14 samples) and consists of mono- and di-glycerides, some free fatty acids, a small amount of tri-glycerides and a trace of carbohydrate. The composition of the glycerides is predominantly (53-63%) esters of unsaturated 18C-22C fatty acids with the rest made up of 14C-18C saturated fatty acids. The second type of floral oil is similar to type one except that the samples contain large amounts of an unknown lipid more polar than the standards. Oil collected from the scopae of two representative Centris species, C. adanae and C. flavofasciata, was the same as the type one oil collected from B. crassifolia floral elaiophores. The liquid provisions from the cells of several ground-nesting Centris species was also found to be identical to B. crassifolia type one floral elaiophore oil with the exception of several minor ninhydrin positive compounds which may have been derived from the pollen which makes up part of the larval food provisions.
20492551|In Mauritius, the endemic blue-tailed day-gecko Phelsuma cepediana is currently the sole pollinator and seed disperser of the critically endangered endemic plant Roussea simplex (Rousseaceae). The flowers and fruits are often visited by the invasive ant Technomyrmex albipes, which forages on the nectar and fruit pulp, and tends honeydew-producing mealybugs on the fruits. Here, we experimentally explore how the presence of this alien ant species influences geckos foraging at flowers and fruits of R. simplex by removing and excluding ants from flowers and fruits. Gecko visitation rates to ant-free control flowers and fruits, and flowers and fruits where ants had been removed and excluded, were higher than those to ant-infested flowers and fruits. The resulting seed set of ant-infested flowers was greatly reduced, compared to ant-free control flowers. Similarly, for fruits with ants, very few seeds were likely to be ingested and dispersed by the geckos. Thus, T. albipes monopolizes flowers and fruits of R. simplex, and prevents access of pollinating and seed-dispersing P. cepediana geckos by aggressive interference competition. For a critically endangered plant like R. simplex, this double-disruption of two vital mutualistic interactions is of urgent conservation concern.
10.2307/2388139|The occurrence of wing reduction in Lygaeidae is analyzed and compared with flightlessness in other insects. Flightlessness in Lygaeidae is believed to be related primarily to habitat stability and to be restricted to ground-litter living (geophile) and grass and sedge leaf-sheath living (laminaphile) species. A theory is proposed that in areas of long ("evolutionary") stability the proportion of species with a flightless morph will be greater than in areas of lesser stability. In areas of long-time stability the taxa that have been there the longest will not only show the highest proportion of species with a flightless morph but the degrees of modification will be the greatest. A classification of wing types is presented. The South African fauna is analyzed relative to the above theory, and the fauna of the Southwest Cape, an old stable area, is shown to have a much higher percentage of species with a flightless morph than do the faunas of the Transvaal high and low veld and the Natal tropical corridor. Figures of six species illustrating different types of wing modification are given.
10.2307/2387702|Individuals of Dipteryx panamensis (Fabaceae), in the Caribbean lowland wet forests of Costa Rica, bloom asynchronously with overlapping six-week flowering periods, between late May and early August during the first rainy season. Flowers last one day, opening just after sunrise and producing most of their nectar in the first two hours. Pollination is performed by at least 13 species of medium-to-large opportunistic bees which are approaching annual low population densities at this time of the year. Initial experimental evidence indicates that D panamensis is an obligate outcrosser. It is suggested that the presentation of relatively few flowers per day and the asynchronous blooming overlap encourages intertree pollinator movement, and that an extended blooming period for the species compensates for the reduced rate of pollination during a season of low pollinator density.
10.2307/2388533|An experimental edge was created in a tropical premontane wet forest in Panama to study the origin and early development of edge vegetation. A study of the soil seed bank indicated that seeds of light-demanding species were abundant before edge creation (937/m$^2$). Canopy photographs, germination bioassays, and the germination of many seeds in response to soil disturbance (95/m$^2$) confirmed that lateral light penetration into the forest edge was sufficient to promote germination of light-sensitive seeds. Light-demanding species, however, were rare along this edge and along older edges in the area, in part because soil disturbance normally did not occur during edge creation. Relative growth rates of woody plants <2 m tall over a 10-month period on the experimental edge were twice as rapid as plants in the forest interior (0.029 cm/cm/mo vs 0.014 cm/cm/mo). Changes in seedling density, recruitment, and mortality with time after edge creation were similar on forest edge and in forest interior. Edge plants were derived primarily from seedlings and saplings present before edge creation.
27742866|Drought stress in tropical dry forests is thought to result in greater asexual regeneration via vegetative sprouting (e.g., basal, root, and branch layering) than occurs in moister tropical forests. We tested this hypothesis by examining the prevalence of tree sprouting and seeding in tropical forests located along a rainfall gradient on the island of Hawai'i. Additionally, we examined the potential for novel disturbance, feral pig Sus scrofa rooting and trampling, to alter patterns in tree regeneration mode. We found greater sprouting (in terms of relative density and basal area) in dry forests than in mesic and wet forests, supporting the hypothesis. We also found that feral pig disturbance is negatively correlated with the relative density and basal area of seedlings in wet forests, but is positively correlated with the relative importance of sprouting, and the richness and diversity of sprouting species. Our results suggest rainfall regimes may be an important factor controlling broad-scale patterns in tree regeneration mode, and that exotic ungulates can significantly modify such patterns with potential consequences for the structure and dynamics of tree populations and communities.
10.2307/2389015|Many types of biological studies require the estimation of food abundance in tropical forests, and a variety of methods have been used to estimate this parameter. Here we compare the accuracy and precision of three methods for estimating the fruit abundance (biomass and number) of tropical tree species: tree diameter, crown volume, and visual estimation. Diameter at breast height (DBH) was the most consistently accurate method and exhibited low levels of interobserver variability. Generally, crown volume was neither precise nor accurate. The visual estimation method was accurate for trees with very large fruit, but exhibited high interobserver variability
10.2307/2389017|We measured the amount of viable seeds in the dung of nilgai, feral cattle, and wild boar at monthly intervals in a savanna and floodplain wetland in the Keoladeo National Park, Rajasthan, India. Based on a seedling assay, the total number of seed species germinated in the dung of nilgai, feral cattle, and wild boar was 34, 35, and 38, respectively with a mean total of 205, 456, and 258 seeds germinating m
30045424|Some studies have recently reported high diploid male frequencies in euglossine bees indicating possible population declines. We estimated the genetic variability and frequency of males that are diploid in five Colombian species of euglossine bees using allozyme markers. Expected heterozygosities ranged from 0.10 to 0.23. Diploid males were found in three species with frequencies ranging from 8 to 32 percent. Our results suggest that some species are more susceptible to environmental changes and anthropogenic pressure.
30044950|Hunting can change abundances of vertebrate seed predators and seed dispersers, causing species-specific changes in seed dispersal and seed predation and altering seedling communities. What are the consequences of these changes for the adult plant community in the next generation and beyond? Here, I derive equations showing how reduced seed dispersal reduces plant reproduction by intensifying kin competition, increasing vulnerability to natural enemies, and reducing the proportion of seeds passing through disperser guts. I parameterize these equations with available empirical data to estimate the likely effects on next-generation abundances. I then consider the indirect effects and longer-term feedbacks of changed seed or adult abundances on reproductive rates due to density-dependent interactions with natural enemies and mutualists, as well as niche differentiation with competitors, and discuss their likely qualitative effects. The factors limiting seed disperser and seed predator populations in natural and hunted forests emerge as critical for determining the long-term effects of hunting on rates of seed dispersal and seed predation. For example, where seed dispersers are held to a constant abundance by hunters, decreases in the availability of their preferred food plants are expected to lead to increased per-seed dispersal probabilities, potentially to the point of compensating for the initial disperser decline. I close by discussing the likely reversibility of hunting-induced changes in tropical forests and key questions and directions for future research. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergyicom/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388019|A method of climbing into the canopy of tall trees is described, using equipment which does not damage the tree and which can be carried by a single person.
10.2307/2388715|The diets of Indonesian and Malaysian grasshoppers are shown to contain fungal hyphae and spores. These are most abundant in the guts and feces of forest floor grasshoppers eating leaf litter. Viable spores are identified from three main fungal groups: saphrophages, plant parasites, and endophytes. This research demonstrates unequivocally that grasshoppers ingest fungi is part of their diet and that germinable propagules pass through the insects' digestive tracts. The significance of this to fungal spore dispersion in the rain forest is discussed. In a wider sense, if plant pathogens and endophytes are transferred between forest and agricultural habitats, this association may have economic importance.
10.2307/2389188|Standing dead trees (snags) are critical foraging and nesting sites for animals, notably birds, yet little is known about snag dynamics or communities of cavity nesting birds in low latitude forests. In a comparison among 10 New World forests, we observed that snags in tropical and subtropical forests (N = 5 sites) occurred at lower densities (3.5-20.5 snags/ha versus 21.2-49 3 snags/ha) and had larger average diameters (27.6-34.2 cm versus 11.2-31.2 cm) than snags in temperate and boreal forests (N = 5 sites). No latitudinal trends were evident in average density of live stems or average snag height. An analysis of avifaunal lists from these sites indicated that low latitude forests supported 2.5 times as many cavity nesting species and approximately equal numbers of primary cavity excavating species as high latitude forests. If tropical forests have fewer snags, more cavity nesters, and relatively fewer cavity excavating species than temperate forests, limitations on nest-site availability could be more severe in lower than higher latitude forests. The availability of snags for birds should thus be considered by tropical forest managers, as it is by many temperate forest managers.
10.2307/2388130|Two experiments demonstrated that driptips are related to the size of water drops running off leaves: in the first, drop size from leaves of 12 species was found dependent on development of the driptip; in the second, using an artificial leaf and commercial honey, driptip presence was found to have a large and highly significant effect on dropsize of runoff, but little effect on total rate of runoff. Results are interpreted in relation to the importance of raindrop size on soil erosion.
10.2307/2389096|We review historical, current, and projected future impacts of four classes of anthropogenic disturbance-extraction, pollution, reclamation, and changing climate-on Caribbean mangrove ecosystems (mangal). These disturbances occur, respectively, at increasing spatial and temporal scales, and require increasing recovery time. Small-scale selective extraction has little system-wide effect, but regeneration is slow even on single hectare clear-cuts due to rapid soil acidification. Petroleum is the primary pollutant of Caribbean mangal, and results in tree defoliation, stand death, and loss of associated sessile and mobile animal species. Hydrocarbons persist in mangrove sediments for decades, and are correlated with increasing seedling mutation rates. Chemical, industrial, and urban wastes are associated with increased heavy metal content of seedlings, stand die-back, reduced system-wide species richness, and higher incidence of Vibrio spp. (shellfish poisoning). Mangal has been reclaimed for urbanization, industrialization, and increasingly, for tourism. Overall, the region is losing mangrove forests at 1 percent per yr, although the rate is much faster on the Caribbean mainland (1.7% yr
40891347|We investigated the effect of local hunting on plant recruitment at the community level in the Ngotto Forest, Central African Republic. It is the first study of this kind in the afrotropics. To compare our results with previous studies conducted in the neotropics, we used the protocol proposed byNuez-Iturri and Howe. We compared animal relative abundances and seed length, density and diversity of seedlings at two sites with contrasting anthropogenic pressures: one with low hunting pressure (LH) and one with high hunting pressure (HH). Furthermore, we investigated how density and diversity of recruitment vary with seed length in the two sites. Both sites exhibit similar soil, climate and tree species composition, and have never been logged. Large mammals (frugivores and herbivores) were extirpated from HH and relative abundance of medium-sized frugivores drastically decreased in HH compared with LH. In HH, diversity of seedlings was reduced compared with LH, especially for large-seeded plant species dispersed by large game mammals. The approach used in this study shows promising perspectives to investigate the effects of human disturbances on the regeneration of tropical forests. Furthermore, in the afrotropical context of a lack of data on plant-animal ecological relationships, seed length appears to be a good predictor of the strength of the deficit of plant recruitment due to large mammal extirpation because of hunting. Thus, more efforts are needed to study the ecological roles of large-seeded plants in order to better understand the effects of their disappearance on tropical forest resilience.
2389216|Tropical Nepenthes pitcher plants provide small, isolated aquatic habitats. We examined inter-pitcher variation in the community structure of the inhabitants of Nepenthes alata Blanco in West Sumatra, focusing on the conditions of the pitchers, bacterial density in the pitcher fluid, density and biomass of metazoan inhabitants, and the frequencies of interspecific encounters. Older pitchers contained more insect carcasses. The bacterial density increased with the age of the pitchers, but decreased in withered pitchers that contained finely decomposed detritus. In live pitchers, the bacterial density, the density, mass and species richness of metazoa, and the number of trophic levels per pitcher were positively correlated with detrital mass, which was correlated with volume of pitcher fluid. The metazoan fauna from N. alata consisted of 4 predators and 12 saprophages, among the richest known for Nepenthes species. However, each individual pitcher harbored a limited numbers of species, owing to (1) the low incidence of many species, and (2) the aggregated distribution and different temporal colonization pattern of major species. Six dipteran taxa (one predator and five saprophages) accounted for the bulk of metazoan inhabitant biomass. Of 48 combinations of predator-prey encountered, only four occurred frequently (in > 30% of pitchers), which included two predators and three saprophages. Thus, individual pitchers harbored relatively simple communities despite the regional species richness, and only limited kinds of predator-prey encounters seemed to occur frequently in the regional food web. The local-scale properties of the subdivided communities presented here provide the basic information for understanding the maintenance of regional species richness and food web complexity.
10.2307/2388298|Acid mats of Sphagnum erythrocalyx Hampe. growing on the dome of the tropical volcano La Soufriere, Guadeloupe, French West Indies, support associated populations of the nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium Hapalosiphon flexuosus Borzi. The acetylene reduction technique was employed to measure nitrogenase activity. The mean rate of C$_2$H$_4$ production in situ by entire plants with the associated cyanobacterium was 19.1 nmol C$_2$H$_4\cdot gdw ^{-1}\cdot h^{-1}$ (range 0.20-101) with a nitrogenase activity for the uppermost green tips 4.5 times greater than that measured for the basal portions. The highest rates for C$_2$H$_2$ reduction were recorded for plants damaged by high winds and for those plants established within vegetation zones recovering from severe damage resulting from the 1976-1977 phreatic eruption of this volcano. The estimated rate of the annual contribution of nitrogen by nitrogen fixation is 4.02 kg $N\cdot ha^{-1} \cdot$ year$^{-1}$
10.2307/2388354|We compared spatial patterns of tree species (> 10 cm DBH) from two north-temperate (Bryn Athyn, southeastern Pennsylvama, and Smoky Mountains, Tennessee, U.S.A.), two south-temperate (Abtao and Huillinco, Chiloe, Chile), one subtropical (Berenty, Madagascar), and three tropical forests (Guanacaste, Costa Rica; St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands; and Saul, French Guiana). An index of dispersion based on distances to nearest conspecifics (DNC) was used to infer tree spatial patterns. Clumped spatial patterns were predominant in all tropical forests (75-100% of species) and in one north-temperate forest (Smoky Mountains). In the two south-temperate forests and in Bryn Athyn, Pennsylvania, random spatial patterns were more common (50-58% of species). Uniform distributions were rare in all forests. Examination of the overall distributions of DNCs revealed a marked and unexpected similarity between some tropical and north-temperate localities. South-temperate forests exhibited the highest densities of trees and the smallest average DNCs. The differences in the proportions of random vs clumped spatial patterns among forests seem to be related to different histories of disturbance in the forests compared. We postulate that forests which are subjected to frequent, catastrophic disturbances should exhibit a predominance of random spatial patterns, whereas clumping should predommate in forests where canopy gaps are the major cause of structural change.
30043033|We studied the occurrence of epiphytic ferns on the lower trunks of two kinds of hosts: tree ferns and angiosperms. The study was conducted in Costa Rica at the La Selva Biological Field Station (50 m elev.), Las Cruces Biological Field Station (1200 m), Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve (1500 m), and Cueric Biological Field Station (2600 m). At each site, 20 tree fern trunks with a root mantle were sampled for epiphytes up to a height of 3 m, and the same was done for the nearest angiosperm trunk of similar diameter at breast height (DBH). A total of 106 species of epiphytic ferns was found at all of the study sites; none occurred more frequently on angiosperm trunks, but 11 occurred more frequently on tree ferns. Seven of the 11 species were entirely restricted to tree ferns, whereas the other 4 also occurred on angiosperms. Tree ferns had a significantly higher number of epiphytic species than angiosperms, averaging (depending on the site) 3-5 species, whereas angiosperms averaged 1 or 2. Epiphytic ferns were more abundant on tree ferns than on angiosperms. No correlation existed, for tree ferns or for angiosperms, between DBH and species richness or percent cover of fern epiphytes. In conclusion, low-trunk fern epiphytes exhibited significant differences on tree fern versus angiosperm in regard to species composition, number of species per trunk, and percent cover. The differences probably were caused by the root mantles providing more favorable microhabitats for the establishment of fern prothalli and a better substrate for the attachment of fern sporophytes. /// Se estudi la ocurrencia de helchos epfitos en los troncos inferiores de dos tipos de hospederos: helechos arborescentes y angiospermas. El estudio fue llevado a cabo en Costa Rica en la Estacin Biolgica La Selva (50 m.s.n.m.), Estacin Biolgica Las Cruces (1200 m.s.n.m.), Reserva Biolgica Monteverde (1500 m.s.n.m.), y Estacin Biolgica Cueric (2600 m.s.n.m.). En cada localidad fueron muestreados 20 troncos de helechos arborescentes, hasta una altura de 3 m, realizando luego el mismo muestreo en el tronco de angiosperma ms cercano y de dimetro similar. Se encontr un total de 106 especies de pteridofitas epifticas en todos los sitios de estudio. Ninguna de las especies ocurri con ms frequencia en los troncos de angiospermas, pero 11 de ellas ocurrieron ms frequentemente en helechos arborescentes. Siete especies estuvieron restringidas completamente a helechos arborescentes, mientras que las otras cuatro ocurrieron tambin en angiospermas. Los helechos arborescentes tuvieron un nmero mayor de especies epifticas que los troncos de angiospermas, con un promedio de tres a cinco especies (dependiendo del sitio) versus un promedio de una o dos especies respectivamente. Los helechos epfitos fueron ms abundantes en helechos arborescentes que en angiospermas. No se encontr una correlacin, para helechos arborescentes ni para angiospermas, entre la riqueza de especies epfitas o su abundancia vegetativa y el dimetro a la altura del pecho. En conclusin, los helechos epfitos en las partes bajas de los troncos de helechos arborescentes versus angiospermas exhibieron diferencias en composicin de especies, nmero de especies por tronco y abundancia. Estas diferencias pueden deberse a que el manto de races de los helechos arborescentes provee microhbitats ms favorables para el establecimiento de prtalos de helechos y un mejor sustrato para la fijacin de esporofitos de los mismos.
2389168|Mycorrhizal fungi were sampled in a deciduous tropical forest on the Pacific coast of Mexico during different seasons and in natural treefall gaps and pastures. All 12 plant species sampled in the forest were arbuscular mycorrhizal. The percent root infection and spore production were closely related to the phenology of the plants. Most tree species and all herbaceous species had the highest infection in the summer rainy season, but two species, Opuntia excelsa and Jacquima pungens, had highest infection in the dry season. Unusually high rainfall during the dry season was associated with increased infection but not increased spore production. Spore density was low for all species at all sample times, except at the beginning of the July 1993 rainy season in, when we observed up to 28 spores/g soil. The percent cover of shrubs or herbs did not increase in gaps after two years, and we observed no colonizing seedlings. No plant species with cover higher than 2.7 percent occurred exclusively in gaps or forest. The percent mycorrhizal infection did not differ significantly between gaps and forest. Spore counts were as high in the gaps as in the forest in two of the three gaps but lower in the third gap. The lack of significant response of plants in these gaps after two years differed from the rapid response in tropical rainforests. It is likely related to the small size of the gaps and to light infiltration to the forest floor. Pastures were dominated by two species of exotic grasses and one species of mycorrhizal fungus, whereas forests had 15 fungal species. The slow regrowth of vegetation in gaps was not limited by mycorrhizal fungi, since they were still abundant after the treefalls, but recovery in pastures could be affected by low fungal diversity and dominance of grasses.
10.2307/2388520|Many tropical species flush entire canopies of red, white, or light green young leaves. In these species, there is a delay of the normal greening process until after leaves have fully expanded and have begun to toughen. Delayed greening involves a delay in the input of chlorophyll, rubisco, nitrogen, and energy. Photosynthetic capacity is therefore lower than in species with normal greening. At full expansion, leaves begin to toughen quickly, and rates of herbivory drop by a factor of 4. We suggest that delayed greening has evolved as a mechanism for minimizing losses to herbivores by delaying input of valuable resources until after the leaf is fully expanded and better protected by toughness. These benefits outweigh the costs of forfeited photosynthesis in the shaded understory but not in the high light treefall gaps. This cost evaluation suggests that, in the face of herbivory, it is advantageous to have delayed greening in the shade and normal development in the sun. Data from 175 of the most common tree species on Barro Colorado Island confirm that delayed greening is extremely common in shade tolerant species and rare in gap specialists.
10.2307/2388592|In the Solomon Islands Heliconia solomonensis with pendent, green, inconspicuous inflorescences is pollinated by the macroglossine bat Melonycteris woodfordi. The green and white, odorless flowers open in the evening and produce copious (over 200 $\mu$ l/night), moderately concentrated (26-27% sucrose-equivalents), sucrose-dominant (s/(g + f) = 1.150-1.567) nectar. Self-pollinations by hand reveal that H. solomonensis is probably self-incompatible. Melonycteris is a solitary forager that visits inflorescences of Heliconia in a sequential fashion. The bat lands on an inflorescence and clings with feet and wing claws to the revolute margins of the cincinnal bracts. Nectar is taken from open flowers by the bat in such a fashion that pollen is deposited on the underside of its neck and chin. This report is the first documentation of flower visitation by the genus Melonycteris, the first account of bat pollination in the Solomon Islands, and the first description of bat visitation to the flowers of Heliconia, a primarily neotropical, hummingbird-pollinated genus.
10.2307/2387841|Colony multiplication of the Sumatran stingless bee Trigona (Tetragonula) laeviceps was observed from October 1980 to May 1982. Mass flights of several dozen males or of about 1000 workers were observed several times around nests whose workers had started scouting for new nest sites. Transport of building materials to a new daughter nest continued for about 20 days, but the entrance tube was not completed until arrival of a virgin queen. Mass flight of workers and males around the daughter nest continued for about 3 hours. Most workers of the mother colony participated in this mass flight and were observed to enter the daughter nest, following the virgin queen. After an overnight stay about half of them returned to the mother nest. The proportion of workers remaining in the daughter colony was about 30 percent when the daughter colony became virtually independent of the mother colony (about one week after swarming). Males' mass flight continued around the daughter nest for 2 days after swarming. The young queen was tightly surrounded by workers and made repeated buccal contacts with them for about 5 days after swarming. Oviposition also started one week later. The mother colony could produce another daughter colony about one month later. The most remarkable results are return to the mother nest of many workers which went to the daughter nest and the negligibly small amounts of building materials and food carried into the daughter nest, compared with the stocks in the mother nest. These points were compared with other species to clarify characteristics of the reproductive strategy of T. laeviceps.
30043175|Valuable timber tree species frequently show poor regeneration after selective logging in tropical forests. Small size of logging gaps, lack of soil disturbance, and limited seed availability have each been blamed for observed regeneration failures. We investigated seed germination and seedling performance using a split-plot factorial design involving light availability and litter removal for six Central African timber tree species, hypothesizing that canopy gaps and litter removal would improve seedling establishment, and that less shade-tolerant species would show stronger responses to both factors. Contrary to our expectations, significantly more germinants established on intact litter than on exposed mineral soil 3 mo after seeding. After 18 mo, seedling survival, height and diameter growth, leaf area, and rooting depth were all much higher in gap plots than in the understory for all species, with the exception of Gilbertiodendron dewevrei, a highly shade-tolerant species whose survival was higher in the understory. Leaf production was negatively influenced by litter removal in the least shade-tolerant species, Nauclea diderrichii, with weak or positive effects in other species. G. dewevrei, while displaying a low-light threshold for growth, exhibited a surprisingly high growth response to increasing light comparable to more shade-intolerant species, a response that may help explain its local competitive dominance in the region. Due to the rapid closure of small gaps, we suggest that shade-intolerant species such as N. diderrichii, Khaya anthotheca, and Entandrophragma utile might benefit from more intensive silvicultural practices that create larger canopy gaps.
27742863|Oil and gas concessions now cover vast swaths of the western Amazon, including protected areas and indigenous territories. The Yasun-ITT Initiative, Ecuador's innovative proposal to leave nearly a billion barrels of oil locked beneath Yasun National Park, is the first major effort to reverse this trend. We provide a concise overview of the initiative, including an in-depth look at its widely lauded goals of protecting biodiversity, respecting indigenous peoples' territory, and combating climate change. We also discuss the proposal's lingering caveats, such as technical questions regarding the generation of financial resources to replace the forgone oil revenue. We conclude that the Yasun-ITT Initiative is a potentially precedent-setting advance towards avoiding damaging oil and gas development in sensitive areas.
10.2307/2388356|Many species in the genus Begonta have stomata that occur in clusters; stomatal clusters are an unusual character and have an extremely limited distribution among the higher plants. Six populations of Begonia heracleifolia Cham. et Schlecht. and nine populations of B. nelumbiifolia Cham. et Schlecht. were sampled from tropical forests in Mexico to determine the ecological response of the stomata and stomatal clusters of these species. Several stomatal characters, including mean cluster size, number of stomata/cluster, stomatal length, and number of stomata/mm$^2$, were analyzed to determine variation within and between populations; the latter three characters are responsive to elevation in B. nelumbiifolia, but only mean cluster size and number of stomata/mm$^2$ are responsive to elevation in B. heracleifolia. Ecological evidence from this study supports the hypothesis that stomatal clusters in Begonia assist in water conservation. A distributional analysis of sympatric populations of these species at a waterfall site in Chiapas indicates that the relative density of B. nelumbiifolia is greater near the pool formed by the falls, and that the relative density of B. heracleifolia is greater away from the pool. B. nelumbiifolia has a lower mean cluster size and a lower range of cluster sizes than B. heracleifolia. The hypothesis is further supported by differences in the range of cluster sizes between populations occupying different habitats and substrate types: populations growing on rocks near waterfalls have larger stomatal clusters than populations collected from soil substrates.
10.2307/2388577|Daemonorops verticillaris (Griff.) Mart. and D. macrophylla Becc. are two rattan palms of peninsular Malaysia which are characteristically associated with a resident ant colony. The ants construct a nest utilizing plant hairs alone, or hair and spines, which is capable of absorbing approximately 185 percent water by weight. Use of a $^{14}$C tracer shows that water- or nutrient-enhanced throughfall is absorbed by the nest, subsequently taken into the plant, and translocated to developing tissues. D. verticillaris and, to a lesser extent, D. macrophylla trap falling debris (leaves, twigs, and fruits) around the plant apex. Precipitation, or throughfall, percolates through this material, is directed toward the stem, and is absorbed by the ant nest material. Taken together, debris collection and water absorption constitute a unique and effective mechanism of nutrient enhancement and recycling for these particular plants.
10.2307/2389178|A general model is presented in which the dynamics of decomposition in terrestrial ecosystems are determined by a set of hierarchically organized factors which regulate microbial activity at decreasing scales of time and space in the following order: climate - clay mineralogy + nutrient status of soil - quality of decomposing resources - effect of macroorganisms (i.e., roots and invertebrates). At the lower scale of determination, biological systems of regulation based on mutualistic relationships between macro- and microorganisms ultimately determine the rates and pathways of decomposition. Four such systems are defined, i.e., the litter and surface roots system, the rhizosphere, the drilosphere and the termitosphere in which the regulating macroorganisms are respectively litter arthropods and surface roots, live subterranean roots, endogeic earthworms, and termites. In the humid tropics, this general model is often altered because climatic and edaphic constraints are in many cases not important and because high temperature and moisture conditions greatly enhance the activity of mutualistic biological systems of regulation which exert a much stronger control on litter and soil organic matter dynamics. This general hypothesis is considered in the light of available information from tropical rain forests and humid savannas. Theoretical and practical implications regarding the biodiversity issue and management practices are further discussed. It is concluded that biodiversity is probably determined, at least partly, by soil biological processes as a consequence of enhanced mutualistic interactions, which enlarge the resource base available to plants. It is also concluded that any effort to restore or rehabilitate degraded soils in the humid tropics is promised to fail unless optimum levels of root and invertebrate activities are promoted and the resulting regulation effects operate in the four abovedescribed biological systems of regulation. Research required to substantiate and adequately test the present set of concepts and hypotheses are expressed.
30043225|Tropical dry forests occupy more area and are more endangered than rainforests, yet their regeneration ecology has received less study and is consequently poorly understood. We recorded the flowering and fruiting phenology of a tropical dry forest in Jamaica over a period of 26 mo within ten 15 x15-m plots. Community-wide recruitment reached a maximum in the wet season, whereas no recruitment occurred during the dry season. We observed a unimodal peak in rainfall and fruit production, and the periodicity and intensity of seed production were significantly correlated with rainfall seasonality (the optimal time for germination). Flowering at the community and system levels lagged behind a significant increase and subsequent decrease in rainfall by 7 and 3 mo, respectively, indicating that the dominant factor controlling flowering periodicity is the passage of the major (4-mo long) rainy season and changes in soil moisture conditions. Fruiting lagged behind flowering by 2 mo and a significant increase in fruiting occurred 2 mo prior to a significant increase in rainfall. At the population level, a correspondence analysis identified a major dichotomy in the patterns of flowering and fruiting between species and indicated two broad species groups based on their time of peak fruiting and the number of times they were in fruit. These were either individuals which were usually in peak fruit 1-2 mo prior to the start of the major rainy season or those that were in fruit more or less continuously throughout the year with no peak fruiting time. This study supports the view that seasonal variation in rainfall and hence soil water availability constitutes both the proximate and the ultimate cause of flowering periodicity in tropical dry forests. /// En este estudio medimos la fenologa de la floracin y produccin de frutos de un bosque seco tropical localizado en Jamaica. Este estudio se realizo durante un perodo de 26 meses en 10 parcelas de 15 x 15 m. A nivel de comunidad, el reclutamiento alcanzo un mximo durante la poca lluviosa mientras que no reclutamiento se observo durante la poca seca. Observamos tambin un pico un-modal de precipitacin y produccin de frutos, mientras que el periodo e intensidad en la produccin de semillas fueron correlacionados con la precipitacin (el tiempo optimo para la germinacin). La floracin a los niveles de comunidad y sistema estuvo por detrs de un incremento y subsecuente reduccin en precipitacin de 7 y 3 meses respectivamente, indicando lo anterior que el factor dominante que controla la floracin es la presencia de una estacin de lluvia prolongada (4 meses de duracin) y cambios en las condiciones de humedad del suelo. La produccin de frutos estuvo por detrs de la floracin por dos meses y un incremento importante en la produccin de frutos ocurri dos meses antes de un importante incremento en precipitacin. A nivel de poblacin, un anlisis de correspondencia identifico a diferencias entre los patrones de floracin y produccin de frutos entre especies. Encontramos tambin individuos que estuvieron usualmente en el pico de produccin de frutos por uno o dos meses antes de que una estacin mayor de lluvias comenzara o que estaban en fruto ms o menos en forma continua a lo largo del ano sin un tiempo pico de produccin de frutos. Este estudio apoya la percepcin que variaciones estacinales en precipitacin y por lo tanto disponibilidad de agua en el suelo constituyen, ambas la mas cercana e importante causas de la floracin de los bosques secos tropicales.
10.2307/2389091|Population estimates from 1987 to 1995 are reported for the terrestrial anuran, Eleutherodactylus coqui, from four long-term study plots in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of northeastern Puerto Rico. The major factor influencing population size during this time was Hurricane Hugo, which deposited much of the canopy onto the forest floor in 1989. This increase in ground-level structure was in part responsible for a six-fold increase in the number of adult frogs in 1990 and a large increase in the number of juvenile frogs in 1991. Population densities since Hurricane Hugo have been influenced by succession, with continued high densities associated with thickets of Cecropia and Heliconia. Treefalls, which are similar to hurricanes on a local scale, also were shown to influence population sizes. Years with prolonged dry periods reduced numbers of juvenile frogs, but rainfall patterns alone did not explain most population variation. Population levels of invertebrate predators were related to variation in frog numbers.
10.2307/2388708|The abundance, species richness, and evenness of the Costa Rican leaf-litter herpetofauna was estimated during the late wet season of 1985 by quantitative sampling of replicate plots at ten sites encompassing an elevation range of 3 to 1670 m. Species richness was positively correlated with leaf-litter depth, and negatively correlated with elevation. Herpetofaunal density also tended to increase with litter depth and decline with elevation. A strong positive correlation existed between species richness and herpetofaunal density. Evenness was highly variable and independent of both leaf-litter depth and elevation. Analysis of a subset of the data, representing an elevational transect from Tortuguero to the Braulio Carrillo National Park Extension, yielded similar results. Tropical leaf-litter reptiles and amphibians appear to be both more diverse and more abundant at lower elevations. Sites with deep leaf litter generally sustain dense and diverse reptile and amphibian populations. Local herpetofaunas typically consist of a few very common species along with a large number of comparatively rare species.
10.2307/2388283|Using mountaineering techniques, we studied the distribution and ecology of vascular (hemi)epiphytes on standing canopy trees in three lowland rain forest types of Guyana, South America: walaba forest, greenheart forest, and mixed forest. The differences in epiphytic vegetation of the three forest types appeared to be correlated with humidity conditions as determined by the soil, and with the tree species (host preference). The crowns are much richer than the trunks in epiphytic species and individuals. The bryophyte mats and accumulated debris in the lower canopy support a different vascular epiphytic vegetation than the middle and upper canopy branches, where the predominant epiphytes are adapted to drought and for growing on twigs.
41241935|The influence of environmental gradients on the foliar nutrient economy of forests has been well documented; however, we have little understanding of what drives variability among individuals within a single forest stand, especially tropical forests. We evaluated inter- and intra-specific variation in nutrient resorption, foliar nutrient concentrations and physical leaf traits of nine canopy tree species within a 1-ha secondary tropical rain forest in northeastern Costa Rica. Both nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) resorption efficiency (RE) and proficiency of the nine tree species varied significantly among species, but not within. Both N and P RE were significantly negatively related to leaf specific strength. Green leaf N and P concentrations were strongly negatively related to leaf mass per area, and senesced leaf nutrient concentrations were significantly positively related to green leaf nutrient concentrations. This study reveals a strong influence of physical leaf traits on foliar nutrient and resorption traits of co-occurring species in a secondary wet tropical forest stand.
10.2307/2989809|A Luciola firefly lives on old coral reefs lying along the northern New Guinea shore near Madang. The entire lifecycle is evidently spent on the reefs. The mating signals of both sexes are continuous series of short flashes. The flash rate of females (circa 3.7 Hz) is faster than that of males (circa 2.7 Hz) There does not appear to be a critical relationship between the individual flashes of communicating individuals as found in many previously studied flashing species. This signal protocol may be representative of a system occurring early in firefly evolution.
30043261|Norops polylepis is a common anoline lizard that occupies both forest and pasture habitats at various elevations in southern Costa Rica. Previous studies have documented significant spatial variation in mite loads (Eutrombicuh chiggers) on N. polylepis. My objective was to investigate whether mite load has a negative impact on growth rates and body condition. Growth rates were estimated in three sites using mark-recapture with three intensive sampling periods over 12 mo. Nine hundred and forty lizards were captured and 200 individuals were recaptured across sampling periods. Mite load was significantly higher in forests than in pastures, and varied significantly among study sites. Males grew faster than females, and females and juveniles had higher body condition than males. I was unable, however, to detect any influence of mite load on growth rates or body condition. I conclude that Eutrombicuh chiggers are either largely benign for TV. polylepis or, if they do exert a negative effect on fitness, it is mediated through a trait other than growth or body condition. /// Norops polylepis es un lagarto comn en bosques y pastizales de alturas variables en Costa Rica meridional. Estudios previos han documentado una variacin espacial significativa en cargas de ectoparasitos ("coloradillas" Eutrombicuh spp.) en N. polylepis. Mi objetivo fue el de investigar si la carga de ectoparasitos tiene un impacto negativo sobre la tasas de crecimiento y la condicin fsica de N. polylepis. Las tasas de crecimiento se estimaron durante 12 meses en tres sitios, utilizando tres periodos intensivos de mareaje y recaptura. Se capturaron 940 lagartos y de stos, 200 individuos fueron recap turados durante el perodo del muestreo. La carga de ectoparasitos fue ms alta en los bosques que en los pastizales y vari entre sitios de estudio. El crecimiento de lagartos machos fue ms rpido que el de las hembras; pero las hembras y los jvenes tuvieron una mejor condicin fsica que los machos. Sin embargo, no hubo influencia de la carga de ectoparasitos sobre la tasas de crecimiento o la condicin fsica. Se concluy que las coloradillas Eutrombicuh spp. son benignas para N. polylepis. En el caso de un efecto negativo de la carga de ectoparasitos, ste puede influir en otros aspectos de la salud de los lagartos.
10.2307/2388723|Historically the Ituri forest of northeastern Zaire has been exploited only by small bands of pygmy hunter-gatherers and isolated groups of shifting cultivators. Enforced village resettlement in the 1940s and increasing immigration from the densely populated southeastern highlands has caused a considerable expansion of clearing for horticulture in some regions of the forest. As a consequence, large, coterminous zones of Musanga cecropioides-dominated secondary forest now border the roads. To assess the impact of forest clearing for subsistence farming on the diversity and abundance of terrestrial mammals, tracks and pellet groups were counted over a one year period within three five-ha uncut climax forest sites and three five-ha post-agricultural secondary forest sites. Relative diversity and abundance of terrestrial mammals were comparable to other central African rain forests. Of 19 species identified, only Okapi, yellow-backed duikers, and leopards were less abundant in post-agricultural forest. Smaller duikers seem unaffected by forest clearing for subsistence farming, even though they are an important food source for humans. Habitat loss, or hunting pressure, has reduced the abundance of larger ungulates near villages.
30043092|We examined morphological and genetic data for Chirostoma grandocule, the most abundant silverside fish from Lake Ptzcuaro, Michoacn, Mxico, as part of a larger project to clarify the genetic structure of the genus. We analyzed 19 morphometric, 8 meristic, and 11 putative enzyme-coding loci from C. grandocule samples from two different localities within the lake during three different years (Janitzio 1996, 1999, and Ichupio 1997). Because morphometric attributes were all correlated, scores derived from reciprocal averaging analysis were used to describe the variation in fish morphology. Discriminant analysis using 10 morphometric and 8 meristic variables revealed significant differences between samples (Janitzio and Ichupio, x2 = 558.4 and 531.5,  < 0.001, respectively). The utilization of morphometric features for the reclassification of organisms into the site of origin was highly effective (x = 98.2%). Allozyme data resolved seven polymorphic loci (P0.99) and levels of heterocigosis that ranged from 0.0134 to 0.0319 (x He = 0.0234). Weir and Cockerhams .F-statistics provided evidence of low but significant heterogeneity between sites and years (jackknifed 5  0.0252, SD = 0.0126); a pairwise comparison of $ values revealed that the sample from Ichupio was highly distinct compared to the samples from Janitzio (0.0400 vs. 0.0033,  < 0.05), indicating intra-lacustrine differentiation between the north and south samples. Genetic co-ancestry distances between samples ranged from 0.0154 to 0.0341. The genetic and morphometric variation detected in grandoculs samples are discussed in the light of differences in sex ratio and of the contrasted environmental and physio-geographical intra-lacustrine conditions. /// Se examinaron datos morfolgicos y genticos de Chirostoma grandocule, el charal ms abundante del Lago de Ptz-cuaro, Michoacn, Mxico, como parte de un proyecto ms grande que investiga la estructura gentica del gnero. Se analizaron 19 caracteres morfomtricos, 8 mersticos, y 11 loci enzimticos de muestras de C. grandocule de dos localidades diferentes del lago y de tres aos diferentes (Janitzio 1996, 1999, e Ichupio 1997). Debido a que todos los atributos morfomtricos se correlacionaron, los scores derivados del anlisis de correspondencia se utilizaron para describir la variacin en la morfologa de estos peces. El anlisis discriminante utilizando 10 variables morfomtricas y 8 mersticas revel diferencias significativas entre muestras (Janitzio e Ichupio, x2 = 558,4 y 531,5,  < 0.001, respectivamente). La utilizacin de caracteres morfolgicos para la re-clasificacin de organismos en su sitio de origen fue altamente efectivo (x = 98.2%). Los datos alozimticos resolvieron siete loci polimrficos (P0.99) niveles de heterocigosis que fluctuaron entre 0.0134 y 0.0319 (x He = 0.0234). Los estadsticos-/7 de Weir y Cockerham permitieron detectar una baja pero significativa heterogeneidad entre sitios y aos (jackknifed $ = 0.0252, SD = 0.0126) y una comparacin pareada de los valores de s revelan que la muestra de Ichupio es considerablemente distinta a las de Janitzio (0.0400 vs. 0.0033,  < 0.05), indicando una diferenciacin intra-lacustre entre las muestras de norte y del sur. Los valores de distancia gentica de coancestra entre muestras fueron de 0.0154 a 0.0341. La variabilidad gentica y morfomtrica detectada en las muestras de grandocule, se discute a la luz de diferencias en la proporcin de sexos, y de las contrastantes condiciones ambientales y fisiogrficas intra-lacustres.
2388829|Euterpe edulis flowers at the beginning of the wet season and fruits over an extended period during the end of the wet season and the dry season. Reproductive plants produced an average of ca 1500 fruits within a scason. Five species of birds belonging to the family Turdidae were observed to feed on and disperse the fruits. Most seeds fell directly to the ground, where there was some subsequent local dispersal by water. The dispersion of seeds was highly clumped with most seeds being found in close proximity to adult plants; the distance of dispersal could be described by a negative power curve. Germination was higher on wetter soils. The probability of seedlings advancing to the next size class within a year was inversely related to the density of seedlings, and occurred optimally at ca 4 m from adult plants. The latter observation indicates that the survival and growth of seedlings are suppressed in the immediate vicinity of conspecific adults.
30044905|I assessed the role of low vegetation (plants ca 1 yr old and 50 cm tall) as a biotic facilitator or barrier in the recruitment of different growth forms and species in primary forests, secondary forests, and old-fields (abandoned pastures) in southeastern Mexico. I removed by hand all plants (100 cm tall, including roots) and litter from 20, 0.25 m plots in each habitat. For 1 yr, I counted the number of plant species (5-50 cm tall) recruited, grouped them into different growth forms, and compared them to undisturbed control plots. Prior to manipulation, the standing density of trees and lianas was highest in primary and secondary forests. Shrubs were more abundant in secondary forests, whereas herbs, epiphytes, and hemi-epiphytes were more abundant in old-fields. Herbaceous plants appeared as important components of the community in all habitats. The removal of low vegetation increased total plant recruitment in all habitats. Considering each growth form, the absence of vegetation increased recruitment in primary forests for herbs, in secondary forests for epiphytes and hemi-epiphytes, in old-fields for trees, and for lianas in primary forests and old-fields. In vegetation removal plots, recruitment of species was greater in pastures, lower in secondary forest, and similar in primary forest with respect to control plots. Depending on habitat type, species, and growth form, the presence of low vegetation may act as a recruitment barrier or facilitator for different species, affecting plant community structure, diversity, and composition in different habitats. /// Evalu el efecto de la cubierta vegetal baja (plantas ca. 1 ao de edad y altura 50 cm), como facilitador o barrera biotica en el reclutamiento de especies de plantas en diferentes formas de crecimiento en bosques primarios, secundarios y potreros abandonados del Sureste de Mexico. Remov a mano todas las plantas (altura 100 cm, incluyendo races) y mantillo en 20 cuadrantes de 0.25 m por hbitat. Durante un ao, cont el nmero de especies redutadas (5-50 cm de altura), las agrup por formas de crecimiento, y las compar con los cuadrantes control. Previo a la manipulacin, la densidad en pie de rboles y lianas fue mayor en bosques primarios y secundarios; los arbustos en bosques secundarios; y las hierbas, epfitas y hemiepfitas en potreros. Las herbceas aparecieron como un componente importante de la comunidad en todos los hbitats. La remocin de vegetacin increment el reclutamiento total de plantas. Considerando cada forma de crecimiento, la ausencia de vegetacin increment el reclutamiento de herbceas en bosques primarios; de epfitas y hemiepfitas en bosques secundarios; de rboles en pastizales; y de lianas en bosques primarios y potreros. La ausencia de vegetacin tuvo un efecto positivo en el reclutamiento total de especies para potreros, un efecto negativo para bosques secundarios, y uno neutral para bosques primarios. Dependiendo del hbitat, especie y forma de crecimiento, la vegetacin baja puede actuar como barrera o facilitador en el reclutamiento, afectando la estructura, diversidad y composicin de la comunidad de plantas en diferentes hbitats.
30045418|The "Initial Floristic Composition" hypothesis is applied to secondary tropical rain forest succession in abandoned agricultural fields with light previous land-use and close to seed sources. This hypothesis predicts that both pioneer and shade-tolerant species colonize a site directly after abandonment, and as the canopy closes, the recruitment of pioneers sharply declines, while recruitment of shade-tolerant species continues. It also predicts higher mortality among pioneers. Consequently, recruited and dead trees are expected to differ in species composition, with highest species richness for the recruits. During 18 mo, we monitored recruitment and mortality of trees with height  1.5 m in eight plots in abandoned cornfields with initial fallow age of 1-5 yr, in SE Mexico. Shade-tolerant species established in the first years of succession, albeit in low numbers. As predicted, recruited and dead trees differed in species richness and composition, and in shade-tolerant frequency. In contrast to our expectations, over 50 percent of recruits were from pioneer species, as high stand-level mortality opened new opportunities for continued pioneer colonization. Species turnover starts very early in succession but is not always a gradual and continuous process, complicating prevailing succession models. The strong spatial and temporal variability of succession emphasizes the need to monitor these dynamics in permanent plots across a range of initial stand ages, with multiple plots in a given age class.
41241913|Amphibian embryos are at risk of microbial infection. Here we find evidence that innate immune defenses, both antimicrobial skin peptides and mutualistic microbiota, of adult glass frogs, Hyalinobatrachium colymbiphyllum, can be transmitted to embryos deposited on leaves above rain forest streams in Panama and can inhibit the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis.
41241940|Recent work on biyophyte diversity in lowland forests of northern South America has suggested the existence of a new type of cloud forest, the 'tropical lowland cloud forest' (LCF). LCF occurs in river valleys in hilly areas with high air humidity and morning fog, and is rich in epiphytes. We explored epiphyte abundance and canopy microclimate of LCF in a lowland area (200-400 m asl) near Sal, central French Guiana. We analyzed the vertical distribution of epiphytic cover and biomass on 48 trees, in LCF and in lowland rain forest (LRF) without fog. Trees in LCF had significantly more epiphytic biomass than in LRF; mean total epiphytic biomass in LCF was about 59g/m , and 35 g/m in LRF. In all height zones on the trees, total epiphyte cover in LCF exceeded that in LRF, with ca 70 percent mean cover in LCF and ca 15 percent in LRF. During both wet and dry seasons, mean diurnal relative air humidity (RH) was higher in LCF than in LRF, and persistence of high RH after sunrise significantly longer in LCF. We suggest that the prolonged availability of high air humidity in LCF and the additional input of liquid water through fog, enhance epiphyte growth in LCF by shortening the desiccation period and lengthening the period of photosynthetic activity of the plants.
30044005|We monitored survival of seedlings in 216 1-m quadrats in lowland rain forest in tropical north Queensland between December 2001 and December 2002. During this time, the region experienced severe drought associated with an El Nio Southern Oscillation event. The 2001 census recorded 124 species and 2912 individuals. In late November 2002 (2 wk prior to the second census), a low intensity fire passed through approximately half of the study site removing all evidence of seedlings from 110 plots. Only 482 (17%) individuals and 64 (52%) species recorded in 2001 survived the 12-mo period. In 96 quadrats not affected by fire, mortality was high, but considerably variable between species. Six of the 20 most abundant species in 2001 experienced mortality rates higher than the community average and two of the most abundant species showed rates lower than average. Overall, conditions experienced during 2002 caused significant changes in the rank abundances of species between censuses. Mortality due to fire was less severe and mortality more uniform across species, resulting in significant concordance between pre and postfire rankings, once the effects of drought had been considered. Our results provide the first indication of how differences in survival after a perturbation predicted to become more frequent in future global climates may alter the size and species composition of the seedling bank in Australian tropical rain forests.
30043633|Allometric models are important for quantifying biomass and carbon storage in terrestrial ecosystems. Generalized allometry exists for tropical trees, but species- and site-specific models are more accurate. We developed species-specific models to predict aboveground biomass in two of the most ubiquitous natives in Hawaiian forests and shrublands, Metrosideros polymorpha and Dodonaea viscosa. The utility of the M. polymorpha allometry for predicting biomass across a range of sites was explored by comparing size structure (diameter at breast height vs. tree height) of the trees used to develop the models against trees from four M. polymorpha-dominated forests along a precipitation gradient (1630-2380 mm). We also compared individual tree biomass estimated with the M. polymorpha model against existing generalized equations, and the D. viscosa model with an existing species-specific model. Our models were highly significant and displayed minimal bias. Metrosideros polymorpha size structures from the three highest precipitation sites fell well within the 95% confidence intervals for the harvested trees, indicating that the models are applicable at these sites. However, size structure in the area with the lowest precipitation differed from those in the higher rainfall sites, emphasizing that care should be taken in applying the models too widely. Existing generalized allometry differed from the M. polymorpha model by up to 88 percent, particularly at the extremes of the data range examined, underestimating biomass in small trees and overestimating in large trees. The existing D. viscosa model underestimated biomass across all sizes by a mean of 43 percent compared to our model. The species-specific models presented here should enable more accurate estimates of biomass and carbon sequestration in Hawaiian forests and shrublands.
10.2307/2989683|The spatial distribution of larvae of a tropical pit-making ant lion, Myrmeleon sp. (Neuroptera: Myrmeleontidae) was responsive to changes in population density in experimental plots. With increasing larval density the spatial distribution of pits became increasingly regular and approached maximum uniformity at the highest density (5 larvae per 100 cm
30044054|Estimates of annual survival are essential for addressing topics in evolutionary and conservation ecology. However, most demographic studies of land birds are based on north temperate species, and few robust estimates of survival based on mark-recapture statistics are available for continental South American birds. We used time-since-marking models to estimate apparent survival of adult birds from 7 yr of mist netting data in the Colonche Hills. This site is one of few remaining large tracts of premontane forest in southwestern Ecuador, and an area of high priority for avian conservation. Species with sufficient data for analysis included three hummingbirds (Adelomyia melanogenys, Heliodoxa jacula, Phaethornis baroni), a cotinga (Schiffornis turdinus), and a wren (Henicorhina leucophrys). Our parameter estimates had reduced precision because the number of recaptures was small. Probability of recapture was low in three species (p < 0.23), and moderate in two others (p = 0.49-0.62). Adelomyia and Phaethornis had moderate apparent survival ( = 0.36-0.48; probability that a bird neither died nor emigrated from our survey area in a given year). Adults of Adelomyia moved seasonally, and it is possible that permanent emigration from our survey area contributed to low estimates of apparent survival. The other three species had relatively high estimates of adult apparent survival ranging from  = 0.62-0.70 in Heliodoxa and Schiffornis to a high of  = 0.92 in Henicorhina. /// Estimaciones de la sobrevivencia anual son esenciales en investigaciones enfocadas en temas de evolucin y conservacin ecolgica. Sin embargo, la mayora de los estudios demogrficos de aves terrestres estn basados en especies de la parte norte de las zonas templadas y son pocos los datos disponibles para hacer buenas estimaciones de sobrevivencia basados en captura-recaptura para las aves del continente Sudamericano. Usamos estadsticos de captura-recaptura para analizar patrones de trampeo de aves mediante redes de neblina obtenidos durante 7 aos en la Cordillera de los Colonche, esta rea es una de las pocas largas extensiones del bosque premontano en el occidente de Ecuador con alta prioridad para la conservacin de la avifauna. Las especies con suficiente datos para analizar incluyeron tres especies de colibr (Adelomyia melanogenys, Heliodoxa jacula,  Phaethornis baroni), una cotinga (Schiffornis turdinus), y un troglodito (Henicorhina leucophrys). Los datos historiales de captura fueron analizados para las cinco especies, tres presentaron baja re-captura {p < 0.23), lo cual sugiere que la mayora de individuos no fueron capturados durante algn ao especfico. Dos especies presentaron bajos ( < 0.50) ndices de sobrevivencia aparente (probabilidad de que un ave no haya muerto ni emigrado en un ao determinado). Adultos de una de las especies emigraron estacionalmente, y es posible que la emigracin de adultos de nuestro sitio de estudio contribuya en los bajos ndices de sobrevivencia aparente. Las otras tres especies presentaron altos ndices de sobrevivencia aparente ( = 0.62-0.92).
2663828|For many soils of the tropics, inputs of organic materials are essential to sustain soil fertility and crop production. Research in the quality of organic inputs, a key factor controlling rates of decomposition and nutrient release, continues to guide selection and use of organic materials as nutrient sources. The relationship between decomposition patterns and the quality parameters of the fresh leaves of six agroforestry species: Sesbania sesban, Croton megalocarpus, Calliandra calothyrsus, Tithonia diversifolia, Lantana camara, and Senna spectabilis, was investigated in a litterbag study over a period of 77 days in the highlands of western Kenya. The litterbags were buried 1 cm below the soil surface and covered with soil of ca 1 cm thickness. Percent leaf mass and total N and P that remained with time strongly correlated with total P and C/P ratio (R
10.2307/2389013|Radial (pith-to-bark) wood samples from Ochroma pyramidale sampled at breast height and at subsequent five meter height intervals were analyzed to determine basic specific gravity Specific gravity increased linearly with radial distance at any given height. In multiple regressions both radial distance and height proved to be equally important independent variables in explaining variation in specific gravity However, when radial distance was measured centripetally (bark-to-pith) rather than centrifugally (pith-to-bark), the importance of height diminished drastically. These results suggest that the secondary xylem produced at any one time along the bole exhibits the same specific gravity This time-constant model is contrasted with the alternative extreme, the radius-constant model, where xylem at a given radial distance (pith-to-bark) would exhibit the same specific gravity Both models present alternative developmental patterns for tropical wet forest species which commonly exhibit increases in specific gravity with distance from the pith.
30045456|Unlike the seriate lowland rain forests in SE Asia, the tropical vegetation of Xishuangbanna (SW China) has developed in habitats with comparatively lower temperatures and precipitation. Consequently, although most of the families and genera of the flora are components of tropical ecosystems, many have reached their distribution limits in latitude. Selection pressures on sexual systems in these environments may be different from that experienced in lowland tropical regions. Here, we examine the sexual systems of 685 species of flowering plants belonging to 109 families and 356 genera based on 42 plots with a total area of 15.4 ha and compare our results with surveys of sexual systems from other tropical ecosystems. Among these species, 60.6 percent were hermaphroditic, 14.3 percent were monoecious, and 25.1 percent were dioecious. The percentage of dioecious sexual system among tree species (26.1%) was similar or higher than that of other tropical tree floras. Monoecy was significantly associated with the tree growth form and was relatively common in seasonal forest vegetation. Sexual systems involving unisexual flowers (dicliny) are particularly well represented in the tropical forests of Xishuangbanna accounting for 39.4 percent of all species surveyed. This pattern may be associated with the prevalence of relatively small inconspicuous flowers in the tropical forests of SE Asia and their correlation with diclinous sexual systems generally. Abstract in Chinese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
2663924|We used parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) to investigate the distribution patterns of South American lowland forest mammals, focusing on centers of endemism and diversity. We utilized distribution data available for species of marsupials, rodents, and primates that occur in South America. Two grids were superimposed on the distribution maps: a larger one encompassing tropical and subtropical South America, and a smaller and more precise grid covering the Atlantic Forest only. Also, the number of species per quadrat was estimated. The results support the idea that the distribution of this fauna is structured in the form of centers of endemism. In addition, there is good congruence between the areas identified here and those proposed by other authors, reinforcing the value of PAE in this kind of analysis. The hierarchical relationships among areas, however, are not clear and sometimes discordant with other biogeographic analyses.
30043271|In primary lowland rain forest in Brunei Darussalam, we studied arboreal ant communities to evaluate whether densities and spacing of spatially territorial taxa along 2.9 km of well-studied trails are consistent with existence of a continuous mosaic of dominant ants. A median intercolony distance of 24.5 m, about twice or less distances over which colonies of most included species regularly ranged, suggested a relatively continuous mosaic. Despite relying on nesting sites in preformed plant cavities, carpenter ants contributed > 70 percent of mapped colonies. Most belonged to the Camponotus (Colobopsis) cylindricus (COCY) complex, including SE Asia's 'exploding' ants. Their lack of aggression against certain Polyrhachis species was associated with interspecific territory sharing by members of the two groups, and with a dominance-discovery trade-off. Experimental approaches yielded evidence for two putative contributors to positive association. Larger-bodied Polyrhachis parasitize food-finding abilities of smaller, more populous Camponotus workers, and the two taxa cooperate in territorial defense. Highly territorial and predatory weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina) were an important component of the ant mosaic in primary forest, second only to codominant COCY and Polyrhachis taxa. Members of the genus Crematogaster were significantly associated with Oecophylla in baiting censuses and regularly monopolized near-nest baits to the exclusion of weaver ants. Litter ant abundances differed between territories of Oecophylla and less predatory COCY species, but direction of difference was inconsistent over time. The densely packed mosaic of spatially territorial, and differentially predatory, taxa in Bornean rain forest likely contributes to spatial variation in ant effects on plant and arthropod communities.
10.2307/2388301|The flowering of the dioecious seagrass Thalassodendron ciliatum (Cymodoceaceae) in Kenya is coincident with extremely low spring tides. Staminate plants release their flowers underwater immediately before the low tide begins to return. These float to the surface and there they expel the filamentous pollen. The pollen form floating snowflake-like rafts (search vehicles) that collide on the water surface with the female stigmas. Since pollination occurs on the water surface, T. ciliatum has a category 2 hydrophilous pollination system, strikingly similar to that of Amphibolis. Seeds of the developing fruit germinate precociously and seedling development is viviparous.
2663941|Hydrochory was investigated in the seeds of the Amazonian floodplain tree, Swartzia polyphylla, in which pods open on the tree to release one large seed. Seeds collected from beach drift along the Rio Negro showed a high percentage of floaters (82%). Yet most seeds sank following collection from: adult trees (89%), unflooded ground under adults (96%), and flooded ground under adults (86%). The specific gravity of the seeds was near that of water, 1.04  0.03 for sinkers and 0.98  0.02 for floaters. The ability to float was correlated directly with the volume of the air pocket between the two cotyledons, which varied from 5.6 to 20.5 percent of the total seed volume. In a long-term floatation test lasting 81 days, 45 percent of the seeds never floated, 33 percent always floated, and 22 percent first sank for one week and then floated for at least one month. Seeds that never floated eventually rotted, but not until days 63-73. Seeds that were floating at day 81, regardless of how long they had been floating, were placed on moistened filter paper for 18 days during which time 36 percent germinated, 45 percent rotted, and 19 percent did neither but remained viable. These results suggest that S. polyphylla achieves dimorphism in flotation of its seeds, some sinking and some floating, by producing seeds of continuous variation in specific gravity around a mean close to 1.00. Seeds that float can be dispersed long distances along river margins, while those that sink may be moved only marginally from the parent tree.
20492507|We tested whether local abundance of rain forest trees in the medium elevation wet forests of the southern Western Ghats (WG) was related to environmental tolerance, life form, and geographical range. We selected trees in medium elevation wet forests (750-1700 m asl) of the southern WG, using two data bases: a small plot (30  30 m) data base of 288 species of trees ( 3 cm dbh) in 33 plots totaling 2.97 ha, and a data base of 135 species of tree ( 10 cm dbh) in larger plots of 1 ha each, totaling 4.84 ha. The species density per hectare and number of records in the plot network was used in a factor analysis to give a measure of the local abundance of each species. The altitude and seasonality ranges of these species in the WG was assessed from independent data bases and used to generate an environmental tolerance score. Results indicated that as a species became locally more abundant, it occurred across a wider range of environmental gradients, but regional distribution was not related to geographical distribution. Understory species tended to be rarer with smaller range sizes and lower environmental tolerances than overstory species. Climate change is predicted to have drastic effects on restricted range species with limited environmental tolerances.
10.2307/2388105|Characteristics of dispersal and establishment for water-borne mangrove propagules, including period and pattern of floating, period of obligate dispersal, time to root firmly, longevity, and vigor, are estimated for six species in Panama (Laguncularia racemosa, Avicennia germinans, A. bicolor, Rhizophora mangle, R. barrisonii, and Pelliciera rhizophorae). Dispersal properties correlate with the spatial distribution of adults within the swamp. Genera whose adults are found on higher ground, on the landward edge of the intertidal zone, have small propagules that require a period of freedom from tidal inundation of approximately five days in order to establish firmly in the substrate. Genera whose adults are found on the seaward edge of the swamp, in deeper water, have large, heavy propagules.
10.2307/2389000|The toads belonging to the Bufo margaritifera complex (Amphibia: Anura; Bufonidae) are widely distributed in the Neotropics. A molecular analysis, using the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation, assessed the degree of divergence in a plasma protein, serum albumin, among representative Central and South American toads currently placed in this complex. This analysis revealed a surprisingly large amount of genetic diversity. Comparisons of estimates of albumin sequence evolution in representatives of the Bufo margaritifera complex from 32 localities in one central and seven South American countries indicate that this complex includes more than three lineages that are very distinct genetically but show relatively little morphological variation. The degree of albumin divergence implies that some of these lineages have been isolated for at least 30 million years. This study also suggests that the amount of genetic diversity within other Amazonian species or species groups could be substantial.
40863798|The highest avian species richness on Earth is found in the Neotropics, with the speciose antbird superfamily (Thamnophilidae, Formicariidae, Grallariidae and Conopophagidae) accounting for 15 percent of South American passerine diversity. Antbird species have divergent life histories and ecological requirements, resulting in considerable interspecific variation in responses to anthropogenic habitat modification. Here, we examine interspecific differences in antbird responses to both habitat fragmentation and perturbation in a region of the so-called ' Arc of Deforestation' of southern Brazilian Amazonia in northern Mato Grosso. We surveyed the antbird community of 31 variable-sized forest patches and found that antbird species richness was predominantly affected by patch size and isolation, although forest patch quality was also important. Life history predictors were less important overall in determining patch occupancy and minimum patch area requirements with body mass and geographic range size the most important predictors. Foraging niche was also important; mixed flock followers, bamboo specialists and army-ant followers were all more prone to local extinction in small fragments. Although most Amazonian antbird species are not currently threatened, rates of interfluvial endemism are high and future forest loss may imperil many species currently considered to be of low conservation concern. Lessons learnt in the identification of fragmentationsensitive genera and guilds may be applicable to other antbird species outside Amazonia, such as those in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. Ensuring future survival of antbirds across neotropical forest landscapes that retain only a small percentage of their original primary forest cover will rest on protecting remaining large forest patches and maintaining structural and functional connectivity between them.
30045421|We studied the ecological distribution of pteridophytes (ferns and fern allies) along eight 8-km transects covering 12.7 ha in Peruvian Amazonia. Subunits of 200 m2 of the transects have previously been classified into four different forest types, and here we document and quantify the floristic differences among these forest types. Pteridophytes have been suggested as an indicator group to classify rain forest habitats, but this requires that the ecological preferences of the species are well documented and consistent across geographic regions. Here we analyzed in detail the distribution and diversity patterns of 130 species across the four rain forest types. Relative species abundance and species diversity were similar among some of the forest types and differed among others, but the species composition differed markedly. Our results largely confirmed the earlier interpretation of the edaphic preferences of the pteridophyte species in western Amazonia. This supports the proposition that deterministic processes have an important role in influencing the floristic composition of Amazonian forests.
40863746|We examined fine-scale heterogeneity of environmental conditions in a primary rain forest in French Guiana to describe variation in microhabitats that plants may experience during establishment. We characterized both the range as well as the spatial structuring of 11 environmental factors important for seedling establishment in six hexagonal sampling grids, one each in gap and understory sites at three points representing the predominant geomorphic units in this primary forest. Each grid contained 37 sampling points separated by 31 cm-20 m. Monte-Carlo tests of semivariograms against complete spatial randomness indicated that for many variables in all six sampling grids, spatial dependence did not exceed 1 m. A principal component analysis of all sampling points revealed a lack of spatial microhabitat structure, rather than homogeneous patches associated with canopy structure or geomorphology. Our results suggest that ample fine-scale spatial heterogeneity exists to support the coexistence of plant species with differential abiotic requirements for regeneration.
2663860|The Janzen-Connell model of tropical forest tree diversity predicts that seedlings and young trees growing close to conspecific adults should experience higher levels of damage and mortality from herbivorous insects, with the adult trees acting as either an attractant or source of the herbivores. Previous research in a seasonal forest showed that this pattern of distance-dependent herbivory occurred in the early wet season during the peak of new leaf production. I hypothesized that distance-dependent herbivory may occur at this time because the new foliage in the canopy attracts high numbers of herbivores that are limited to feeding on young leaves. As a consequence, seedlings and saplings growing close to these adults are more likely to be discovered and damaged by these herbivores. In the late wet season, when there is little leaf production in the canopy, leaf damage is spread more evenly throughout the forest and distance dependence disappears. I tested three predictions based on this hypothesis: (1) the same species of insect herbivores attack young and adult trees of a given plant species; (2) herbivore densities increase on adult trees during leaf production; and (3) herbivore densities in the understory rise during the course of the wet season. Censuses were conducted on adults and saplings of two tree species, Quararibea asterolepis and Alseis blackiana. Adults and saplings of both species had largely the same suite of chewing herbivore species. On adults of Q. asterolepis, the density of chewing herbivores increased 6-10 times during leaf production, but there was no increase in herbivore density on adults of A. blackiana. Herbivore densities increased 4.5 times on A. blackiana saplings and 8.9 times on Q. asterolepis saplings during the wet season, but there were no clear trends on the adults of either species. These results suggest that the potential of adult trees as a source of herbivores on saplings depends on the value of new leaves to a tree species' herbivores, which may differ across tree species.
10.2307/2388159|A crop system analogous to a natural successional plant system in a tropical forest environment is described. Field-experiment results and comparisons between the successional crop system and crop systems described by other investigators suggest that the successional crop system has agronomic potential. This potential is related to characteristics of the crop system which reduce weed competition and the energy required to manage the crop system. There is evidence to support a hypothesis that agricultural viability of a particular crop system is directly related to the degree of similarity of that crop system to a natural plant system in the same environment.
10.2307/2387956|A fruiting Ficus sp. vine in a southern Cameroon tropical wet forest was monitored for 57.75 hours over a 9-day period in early February 1979 Avian frugivores observed eating figs included one fruit pigeon, four hornbill, and three greenbul species. Two species each of monkeys and squirrels also ate figs. Greenbuls were present at 59 percent of the censuses, fruit pigeons at 12 percent, and hornbills at 11 percent. Mean foraging group sizes for greenbuls, fruit pigeons, and hornbills were 1.7, 2.3, and 2.0, respectively. Greenbuls ate an estimated 17,332 fruits over an 8 day period, fruit pigeons 4769, hornbills 2534, and Greater White-nosed Monkeys 811.
10.2307/2989627|Half-buried heartwood stakes of 112 tropical woods and two domestic woods, southern yellow pine and Douglas fir, were evaluated in the Panamanian jungle for natural resistance to infestation by subterranean termites and to fungal decay. Thirty-nine of the 112 woods survived the 158 months of exposure; of these only six were considered to be highly resistant to all wood-destroying organisms present. The most severe fungal damage to the stakes was caused by attack at or below the groundline; aboveground fungal decay was somewhat less severe. Subterranean termites destroyed susceptible woods much more rapidly than did the fungi, however, many woods showed a higher resistance to termites than to fungi. Generally, the denser woods were more durable than the lighter woods, however, density was not an absolute requirement for resistance. Many of the most resistant woods contained extractives known to confer protection against termites or fungi. One of these, obtusaquinone, subsequently isolated from Dalbergia retusa, is effective against marine borers and marine fungi as well as against terrestrial organisms. As yet unidentified extractives undoubtedly contributed significantly to the natural resistance of other woods in this study. Silica inclusions, effective against depredation by some marine borers, did not contribute to terrestrial durability.
10.2307/2388550|Information on decomposition and nitrogen release patterns of tropical legumes is scarce despite the important role of legumes in agroforestry systems. Decomposition patterns of the leaves of three tropical legumes Inga edulis Mart., Cajanus cajan (1.) Millsp., and Erythrina sp. were determined by a litterbag study in an alley cropping experiment conducted in the Peruvian Amazon. The leaflets of the three species had similar nitrogen concentrations but different lignin and soluble polyphenolic concentrations. Inga and Cajanus decomposed at similar rates (k = 0.91 and 1.72 yr$^{-1}$, respectively) and had similar polyphenolic concentrations but differed in lignin. Erythrina had the lowest concentration of polyphenolics and decomposed the fastest (k = 3.45 yr$^{-1}$). Polyphenolics appeared to influence rates of decomposition more than percent nitrogen or percent lignin. It is proposed that the polyphenolics bind to N in the leaves forming compounds resistant to decomposition. These compounds may be precursors to stable forms of nitrogen in soil organic matter. Rates of nutrient loss followed the general trend potassium > phosphorus, nitrogen, and magnesium > calcium. It is apparent from this study that not all leguminous leaves decompose and release nitrogen quickly, despite high nitrogen concentrations in the leaves. Nitrogen release by legumes with high polyphenolic concentrations will be slower than that by legumes with low polyphenolic concentrations and has important implications to nitrogen cycling and the selection of legumes for agroforestry systems.
10.2307/2989640| In the pramo (tundra) of the Venezuelan Andes, persistent northeast winds, even though gentle, are correlated with distinctive plant growth patterns. A brittle-leaved, stiff-branched shrub (Hesperomeles) develops wind-swept forms, apparently because the wind snaps off leaves. Shrubs with flexible stems and leaves (Hypericum) are not generally injured by the wind, but flowering on the windward side of such shrubs may occur a month later than on the leeward side. Plants with flexible but extremely dense foliage, e.g., Aciachne, a cushion grass, apparently filter moisture from the fog-laden wind during the wet season; because of this process, clones of Aciachne grow in ribbons toward the prevailing wind. 
27742815|Local communities are important stakeholders in resource management and conservation efforts, particularly in the developing world. Although evidence is mixed in suggesting that these resident stakeholders are optimal forest stewards, it is highly unlikely that large tracts of tropical forests will be conserved without engaging local people who depend on them daily for their livelihoods. Stakeholders, who reside in biodiverse ecosystems like tropical forests, are the largest direct users and ultimate decision-makers of forest fate, can be important investors in conservation, harbor local ecological knowledge that complements Western science and frequently have long-term legitimate claims on lands where they reside. Research parnerships with local stakeholders can increase research relevance, enhance knowledge exchange and result in greater conservation success. Different phases of the research cycle present distinct opportunities for partnership, with flexibility in timing, approaches and strategies depending on researcher and local stakeholder needs and interests. Despite being the last step in the research process, dissemination of results can be the best starting point for researchers interested in experimenting with local stakeholder engagement. Still, tropical biologists might not choose to partner with local people because of lack of institutional rewards, insufficient training in stakeholder engagement, insecure research infrastructure in community settings, and time and funding limitations. Although not appropriate in all cases and despite significant challenges, some biological scientists and research institutions have successfully engaged local stakeholders in the research process, proving mutually beneficial for investigators and local people alike and resulting in important innovations in tropical biology and conservation.
2389160|We surveyed the material collected for fungus culturing by attine ants in the cerrado vegetation of southeast Brazil. Six genera of the so-called lower attines (Cyphomyrmex, Mycetarotes, Mycocepurus, Myrmicocrypta, Sericomyrmex and Trachymyrmex) collect a wide variety of plant material as fungal substrate. Plant diaspores of nonmyrmecochorous species comprise a large portion of the items brought to the nest, especially in the rainy season. Removal experiments using fruits of selected plant species revealed that attine ants (including the leaf-cutters Atta and Acromyrmex) not only actively clean the seeds (remove fruit pulp), but also carry them up to 12 m in the cerrado. Germination tests showed that removal of fruit pulp by attine ants increases germination rate in Ocotea pulchella (Lauraceae), Prunus sellowii (Rosaceae), Ouratea spectabilis (Ochnaceae), Rapanea umbellata (Myrsinaceae) and Psychotria stachyoides (Rubiaceae). For P. stachyoides, however, ants had no effect on germination if seeds had already passed the digestive tract of birds. Aril removal by attines also increases germination success of Copaifera langsdorffii (Leguminosae) and Virola sebifera (Myristicaceae) seeds. The results indicate that attine-fruit/seed interactions are particularly conspicuous in the cerrado, suggesting that fungus-growing ants may play a relevant role in fruit/seed biology in this vegetation type. Potential ant-derived benefits to diaspores of nonmyrmecochorous plants in the cerrado would include secondary seed dispersion and/or increased germination success by ant-handled seeds.
20492460|We reviewed 1333 papers published in "Biotropica" and the "Journal of Tropical Ecology" from 1995 to 2004. Only 62 percent of tropical countries were represented in our survey, with 62 percent of the publications based on research conducted in only ten countries. Sixty-two percent of papers had lead authors that were based at institutions outside the country where the research was conducted. Cross-national collaboration was limited, accounting for only 28 percent of papers with multiple authors. To evaluate if our choice of focal journals could have biased our results, we also reviewed 652 papers published in "Ecology", "Oecologia", "Conservation Biology", and "Biological Conservation" for five randomly selected years from the same time period. While some differences in authorship and the geographic distribution of research existed, the results from these journals generally mirrored patterns observed in the two focal ones--almost 54 percent of publications were based on research conducted in only ten countries, and most studies had lead authors from a developed country. The results of our review suggest that the geographical distribution of research in the tropics is unequal, and that some important regions remain understudied. The results also suggest a need for a greater focus on establishing collaborative relationships with scientists from tropical countries.
2663884|The Resplendent Quetzal (Pharomachrus mocinno) is an altitudinal migrant that nests in high elevation cloud forests and migrates toward lower areas during the summer rainy season. It has been suggested that its migratory movements are related to the abundance of ripe Lauraceae fruits. We studied the quetzal diet during two consecutive years, as well as changes in fruit abundance of the plant species on which the bird feeds at El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve, southeastern Mexico. The quetzal was observed feeding on 32 plant species; of these, 24 are new records in its diet. We chose 20 of these 32 species and studied their fruit phenology for two years in order to describe the relationship between fruit and quetzal abundance. Our results showed that quetzal abundance in the breeding area was correlated with the total number of fruiting species, whereas the correlation between quetzal abundance and the number of fruiting Lauraceae species was only marginal. Additionally, a correlation test showed that quetzal abundance was marginally correlated with total fruit availability (total no. of fruits per month); however, the correlation between quetzal abundance and the number of fruits in the Lauraceae was not significant. Our results suggest that the dynamics of food resources may be playing a major role in the quetzal's migratory behavior. Knowing the bird's diet may aid in characterizing the type of habitat adequate for its conservation. Our observations in this respect suggest that conservation efforts to preserve this bird species should concentrate on the protection of its habitat, including both breeding and nonbreeding (migration) locations.
10.2307/2989659|A hitherto undescribed species of Citrus (Rutaceae), indigenous to the Malayan Peninsula and the adjacent peninsular region of Thailand, is identified, named C. halimii, and characterized by data from vegetative, floral, fruit and embryo morphology, chromosome number, ecology, and phytochemical analysis of the fruits, leaves, and stem.
10.2307/2389018|A single giant-leafed fig tree (Ficus lutea) is planted on the Rhodes University campus in Grahamstown, South Africa, some 500 km outside its normal distribution range. Small numbers of fig wasps (Hymenoptera, Agaonidae) which normally pollinate two other Ficus species entered and successfully pollinated the figs of this tree. One of the wasp species reproduced successfully Monitoring of adult fig wasps arriving at the tree established that these alien species were not attracted to F lutea. However, from laboratory studies it appears that once having landed on F lutea figs, these wasps were stimulated to search for the ostiole, through which they gained entrance to the fig cavity Females of a third pollinator species were also present on the tree, but they failed to initiate ostiole searching behavior when on the figs. Hybrid seeds resulting from the entry of the alien wasps germinated successfully, but did not progress past the cotyledon stage, indicating postgermination deficiencies in the hybrids.
30045380|The role of red-footed tortoises (Geochelone carbonaria) and yellow-footed tortoises (G. denticulata) as seed dispersal agents was investigated in northwestern Brazil from 5 to 26 January 2002 by analyzing fecal samples for frequency and viability of seed species and estimating daily displacement of tortoises from recaptured and thread-trailed individuals. Fourteen of 19 fecal samples contained a total of 646 seeds represented by 11 plant species. The most abundant species was Ficus sp. (N = 400) with 100 percent of seeds viable, followed by Aechmea sp. (N = 88) with 93 percent of seeds viable, and Genipa americana (N = 59) with 91 percent of seeds viable. Mean minimum retention time of seeds was 1.6 d and mean daily displacement of tortoises based on recaptured (N = 7) and thread-trailed tortoises (N = 2) was 57 m. Thus, the diversity and proportion of viable seeds consumed by tortoises, combined with the seed retention times and daily movements, suggest they may be effective dispersal agents. These preliminary findings warrant further investigation into the ecological role of these tortoises in Neotropical ecosystems and their contribution to the maintenance of species diversity and forest structure. /// O papel do jabuti-piranga (Geochelone carbonaria) e do jabuti-tinga (G. denticulata) como agentes dispersores de sementes foi investigado no noroeste do Brasil de 5 de Janeiro a 26 de Janeiro de 2002, analisando amostras fecais pela freqncia e viabilidade das espcies de sementes e estimando o deslocamento dirio dos jabutis atravs da recaptura de individuos e tcnica de carretel. Quatorze das 19 amostras fecais continham um total de 646 sementes representadas por 11 espcies de plantas. As espcies mais abundantes foram o Ficus sp. (N = 400) com 100% de sementes viveis, seguida por Aechmea sp. (N = 88) com 93% de sementes viveis, e Genipa americana (N = 59) com 91% de sementes viveis. O tempo mnimo mdio de reteno das sementes foi de 1.6 dias e a mdia diria de deslocamento dos jabutis baseado na recaptura (N = 7) e na tcnica do carretel (N = 2) foi de 57 m. Assim, a diversidade e a proporo das sementes viveis consumidas pelos jabutis, combinada com o tempo de reteno de sementes e movimentos dirios desses animais, sugerem que eles devem ser efetivamente, agentes dispersores. Estas descobertas preliminares indicam que pesquisas futuras sobre o papel ecolgico dos jabutis em ecossistemas Neotropicais contribuem para a manuteno da diversidade de espcies e estrutura florestal.
10.2307/2388164|Heterostyly in Turnera trioniflora is associated with both self-incompatibility and within-morph incompatibility, a trait not usually associated with weedy species. This breeding system is discussed in terms of the potential of evolving locally adapted highly competitive genotypes, and the advantages for a high level of genetic heterogeneity in tropical weedy plants.
10.2307/2387970|Reiteration of the architectural models allows a tree to multiply the number of meristems capable of utilizing the environment's energy. Reiterations may be traumatic or adaptive. Some trees have neither traumatic nor adaptive reiteration; others are capable of traumatic reiteration but do not have adaptive reiteration; still others are capable of both traumatic and adaptive reiteration, the latter being a very effective means of adjusting to the environment.
10.2307/2989678|Cactoideae, the largest subfamily of Cactaceae, is distributed throughout much of the Western Hemisphere. Species exhibit a broad diversity of growth habits and occupy a wide variety of xeric habitats. A study was made of 119 species, including representatives of various taxonomic groups and habital types. These species show a wide range of structure in secondary xylem. Within each subtribe and genus, larger and more erect plants tend to have longer and wider vessel elements, whereas smaller and highly specialized plants have smaller and narrower ones. Pitting on lateral walls of vessel elements is often scalariform or transitional; however, woods of the smaller plants are characterized by having vessel elements with helical secondary thickenings and vascular tracheids with helical or annular thickenings. Libriform fibers are present in arborescent, fruticose, and epiphytic plants but often are lacking in the small and specialized plants with vascular tracheids, where succulence of extraxylary tissues provides enough mechanical strength. In most species multiseriate vascular rays are composed predominantly of square or erect cells with thin, unlignified walls. Raylessness is reported in Wilcoxia. Comparative data indicate that differences in wood anatomy in this subfamily do not correlate primarily with taxonomic groupings but rather reflect differences in size and habit of the plants. The theory of paedomorphosis (juvenilism) is invoked to describe how anatomical differences have developed within the subfamily and between Cactoideae and leaf-bearing cacti. Juvenilism may, in part, be related to aspects of water transport and storage in cacti.
3593185| On 22 September 1998, Hurricane Georges passed over the Dominican Republic causing extensive damage to a 4700 ha mangrove forest that has been the site of a detailed study of vegetation and ecosystem dynamics since 1994. We resurveyed the vegetation in permanent plots at 7 and 18 months after the hurricane to document structural damage of the forest and evaluate early recovery patterns. The intensity of damage was patchy across the landscape. Mortality (5 cm DBH) ranged from 14 to 100 percent (by density) among the 23 different plots and averaged 47.7 percent across all plots. Reductions in total basal area ranged from 9 to 100 percent, averaging 42.4 percent. Mortality increased by 9 percent between surveys at 7 and 18 months post-hurricane. Interspecific differences in susceptibility to wind damage appeared to be a primary factor contributing to spatial patterns in mortality. Laguncularia racemosa experienced much less mortality (26%) than either Rhizophora mangle (50%) or Avicennia germinans (64%), and plot-level mortality was strongly associated with differences in species composition. There were no clear relationships between canopy height and tree damage at this site. Over 80 percent of the of the surviving R. mangle trees exhibited less than 50 percent crown damage, whereas ca 60 percent of the L. racemosa survivors suffered almost complete (75-100%) crown loss. By 18 months after the hurricane, the percentage of L. racemosa trees in the 75 to 100 percent damage class was reduced to 20 percent; in contrast, the health of many R. mangle individuals appeared to be declining, as the percentage of trees in the 50 to 100 percent damage class increased from 16 to 36 percent. Understory light levels, as measured by the gap light index, increased from an average value of 3 percent in the pre-hurricane forest to 51 percent at 7 months after the hurricane and decreased slightly to 47 percent at 18 months. Few saplings (>1 m tall and <5 cm DBH) survived the hurricane; 72 percent of the tagged individuals in transect-based plots and 66 percent of saplings in pre-hurricane canopy gaps were killed. Seedling and sapling populations of all three species appear to be recovering rapidly although their densities still are lower than in the pre-hurricane forest. It is too early to predict the trajectory of forest recovery, and continued monitoring of the spatial and temporal patterns of forest development is needed to improve our understanding of the role that large-scale disturbance events play on the dynamics of mangrove forest ecosystems. 
2663840|Home range sizes and spatial overlap of four sympatric squirrel species were investigated in a lowland dipterocarp forest in Malaysia using a radio-tracking method. The population density of Callosciurus caniceps was highest and C. notatus was next highest, while C. nigrovittatus and Lariscus insignis were scarce. C. caniceps was larger than C. nigrovittatus and C. notatus while L. insignis was extremely small. For females, home range size was smaller in L. insignis than Callosciurus spp., which may support the body weight hypothesis: larger species have larger home ranges. Among the three Callosciurus species, female C. caniceps had the smallest home range. These differences were accounted for by habitat characteristics rather than by density or body weight; C. caniceps was dominant in bushy areas and used crowded small trees while C. notatus and C. nigrovittatus used large trees in the forest. In this study, home range size did not change seasonally; this differs from studies in temperate regions, possibly because food availability is much less variable among seasons in tropical rain forest. Home range overlap among heterospecific individuals was common but different species seemed to partition space by using different vertical levels of the forest. Consequently, the home range size and spatial overlap of sympatric squirrel species may be affected by habitat diversity in tropical rain forest.
30045388|A soil charcoal survey was undertaken across 60,000 ha of closed-canopy tropical forest in central Guyana to determine the occurrence, ubiquity, and age of past forest fires across a range of terra firme soil types. Samples were clustered around six centers consisting of spatially nested sample stations. Most charcoal was found between 40 and 60 cm depth with fewest samples yielding material at 0-20 cm depth. The first core yielded charcoal at most stations. Charcoal ages of a random subsample ranged from less than 200 YBP to 9500 YBP with a noticeable peak between 1000 and 1250 YBP. Results reinforce a view that most closed-canopy tropical forests in eastern Amazonia have been subject to palaeo-fire events of unknown severity with a peak in charcoal age consistently appearing between 1000 and 2000 YBP. The two samples dated to the early Holocene represent some of the oldest indicators of paleo-fire known from upland Neotropical forest soils. Ubiquitous soil charcoal in central Guyana further indicate both forest resilience to fire and the widespread propensity for regional forests to burn, particularly during anomalous periods of drought.
30045486|Quercus humboldtii is a montane forest dominant species in Colombia, which has experienced significant habitat loss. Using three microsatellite loci, we compared the genetic diversity of adults and seedlings in fragments of small and large size. Results show high genetic diversity, comparable to other temperate oak species (
41057992|In tropical forests, much of the plant diversity is due to a large number of congeneric taxa. It is unclear what ecological processes are responsible for the number and composition of co-occurring species in these forests. Here, we present strong evidence that microhabitat heterogeneity may contribute to the coexistence of many different Inga species in just 100 ha. We examined their patterns of abundance and diversity in 75 transects related to the edaphic variables: soil water content, pH and soil texture at three different microtopographical units (ridges, slopes and valleys). We used two different approaches: Inga community level analyses and individualspecies analyses. Multivariate analyses, controlled for spatial autocorrelation, demonstrated that species show a distributional gradient mainly related to soil water content and to a lesser degree pH. Individual-species analyses determined that obligate microhabitat restriction is uncommon: only 2 of 37 species analyzed were restricted to a single microhabitat. Habitat association analyses, however, identified a number of species characteristic of the ridge, slope and valley microhabitats. We conclude that the environmental setting plays an important role in the Inga community assembly but is not sufficient to explain the coexistence of 37 sympatric species at a single site.
10.2307/2387808|Seasonal components in the reproduction of three sympatric hermit crab species in the Bay of Panama are examined. All three species reveal reproductive patterns mediated by their supply of shells, which are in limited supply. Crabs with shells large enough to allow growth put effort into growth, while crabs in shells too small to permit growth allocate more time and effort to reproduction. This resource-regulated trade-off between growth and reproduction accounts for seasonal components in hermit crab reproduction. Dry-season upwelling increases the food supply to these hermit crabs and results in increased hermit crab growth rates. The increased size of dry-season crabs in the same suite of shells as the smaller rainy-season crabs triggers increased reproductive activity during the dry season.
30045470|We determined the fruit predators and seed dispersers of two species of durian (Durio, Bombacaceae), D. graveolens and D. zibethinus, which have contrasting aril color and timing of dehiscence by observing fruiting trees in Deramakot forest reserve. In our observations in the wild, both species were extensively predated by orangutans before fruits matured. Durio graveolens was dispersed by black hornbills and D. zibethinus was dispersed by long-tailed macaques.
10.2307/2388216|Confidence intervals for the estimates of leaf biomass and twig/wood biomass in a tropical rain forest were calculated using data from a complete biomass inventory. The influence of sample size and calculation method (mean tree technique or regression technique) on the accuracy and precision of the biomass estimates is discerned. A stratified random sample of 10-15 percent of all trees, selected on the basis of D2H, will yield confidence intervals (P = 0.05) of 75-125 percent and 90-110 percent for the estimate of leaf biomass or twig/wood biomass per unit area, respectively.
10.2307/2389087|We monitored the effects of both harvesting aboveground biomass and Hurricane Hugo on soil chemical and physical properties, and live and dead root biomass over 6 yr in a subtropical wet forest in Puerto Rico. Our goal was to determine how belowground processes changed at different temporal scales including the immediate period prior to revegetation (9 wk), the intermediate period of initial regrowth (9 mo), and the longer-term reorganization of the vegetation and biogeochemical cycling (6 yr). Harvesting resulted in temporary increases in the availability of exchangeable nutrients, but forest floor and soil nutrient pools had generally returned to pre-harvest values over a 9 wk period. Significant amounts of K moved through the soil over this time period, amounting to 29-46 kg/ha
10.2307/2388456|The proportionally low fruit set observed in many epiphytic tropical orchids usually has been attributed to insufficient pollination; for example, the tropical orchid Ionopsis utricularioides. a twig epiphyte, offers no floral rewards, is rarely visited, and has low fruit set. To determine what factors limit fruiting in this species, we assessed effects of resources, pollinator service, pollen parentage, and pollen quantity using greenhouse and field studies in which individual plants were followed over two flowering seasons. Plants were self-compatible, and pollination frequency substantially affected fruit set. Hand-pollination of field experimentals increased total inflorescence fruit sets from 6 to 19 percent, even though over one-third of such pollinations failed to yield fruit. For flowers pollinated on the same day, fruit failure was related to leaf length but not to position in the inflorescence, flower age, or pollen quantity (one vs two pollinia). High fruit set resulted in reduced growth and a higher probability of foregoing inflorescence production the following year. This last result suggests that resource availability may limit lifetime fruit production, even though pollination limitation occurs within a single season. We also explored some predicted consequences of resource-limited reproduction. First, we found no evidence for mate choice in the sense of selective abortion of fruits depending on selfed verses outcrossed pollen parentage. Second, our plants produced many more flowers than could mature fruit. Although fruit production on a per-flower basis decreased with inflorescence size, pollinarium removal increased with number of open flowers. This suggests that pollen donation by surplus flowers increases the fitness of those plants with larger inflorescences. However, most inflorescences are small, which suggests trade-offs between conflicting selective pressures. Third, we speculate that resource limitation of fruit production may have influenced the evolution of nectardeception pollination in many orchids.
30045416|Leaf-litter decomposition is a major component of carbon and nutrient dynamics in tropical forest ecosystems, and moisture availability is widely considered to be a major influence on decomposition rates. Here, we report the results of a study of leaf-litter decomposition of five tree species in response to dry-season irrigation in a tropical forest regrowth stand in the Brazilian Amazon; three experiments differing in the timing of installation and duration allowed for an improved resolution of irrigation effects on decomposition. We hypothesized that decomposition rates would be faster under higher moisture availability in the wet season and during dry-season irrigation periods in the treatment plots, and that decomposition rates would be faster for species with higher quality leaves, independent of treatment. The rates of decomposition (k) were up to 2.4 times higher in irrigated plots than in control plots. The highest k values were shown by Annona paludosa (0.97 to 1.26/yr) while Ocotea guianensis (0.73 to 0.85/yr) had the lowest values; intermediate rates were found for Lacistema pubescens (0.91 to 1.02/yr) and Vismia guianensis (0.91 to 1.08/yr). These four tree species differed significantly in leaf-litter quality parameters (nitrogen, phosphorus, lignin, and cellulose concentrations, as well as lignin: nitrogen and carbon initrogen ratios), but differences in decomposition rates among tree species were not strictly correlated with leaf-litter quality. Overall, our results show that dry-season moisture deficits limit decomposition in Amazonian forest regrowth.
10.2307/2389233|The floristics and nutrient relations of the vegetation on landslides 15 yr old and >50 yr old were studied in a montane rain forest. A total of 33 species were recorded on the 15-yr-old sites and 50 species on the >50-yr-old sites. The dominant woody species on all sites was Clethra occidentalis; fast-growing pioneer species characteristic of the forest edge were generally absent. Vegetation development on these sites was slow. On the 15-yr-old sites almost all individuals were <1 m in stem length, and on older landslides all individuals were <5 m in stem length. For 15-yr-old sites, harvested aboveground biomass ranged between 350 and 820 g/m
30043129|We describe the association between a new species of flower mite (tribe Melicharini) and Neotropical flower-visiting bats. Analogous to the well-known hummingbird-mite interactions, these mites appear to use bat visitors of the lowland tropical palm Calyptrogyne ghiesbreghtiana as a means of traveling to new inflorescences. Phenology data show tight coupling between the occurrence of mites on bats and flowering phonology of C. ghiesbreghtiana, suggesting that the palm is the most important host for the mites. /// Describimos la asociacin entre una nueva especie de caro de las flores (tribu Melicharini) y murcilagos Neotropicales que visitan flores. Similar a la interaccin bien conocida entre colibres y caros, aparentemente estos caros utilizan a los murcilagos que visitan las inflorescencias de la palma Calyptrogyne ghiesbreghtiana corno medio de transporte hacia nuevas inflorescencias. Datos de fenologa indican una fuerte asociacin entre los registros de los caros en los murcilagos y la fenologa floral de C. ghiesbreghtiana, sugierendo que la palma es el hospedero ms importante para los caros.
10.2307/2989792|The acuity of echolocation in Collocalia hirundinacea was studied by observing the birds' performances in an obstacle course constructed 10 m inside the mine they used as a roost. Birds flying into the mine missed 10 mm diameter rods significantly more often than rods 4 or 1.5 mm in diameter (73% vs. 67% or 55%, respectively), but avoided even the 1.5 mm diameter rods. Birds flying through the obstacle course on their way out of the mine apparently, on some occasions, used vision to detect the rods, for they generally hit fewer rods than birds flying in. The orientation clicks of C. hirundinacea and their performances in the obstacle course were very similar to previous reports for the closely related Collocalia vanikorensis. The benefits of echolocation for Collocalia and the coincident distribution of Collocalia and a depauperate molossid bat fauna are discussed. Occupation of a cave or mine by the swiftlets does not preclude use of the same site by bats.
20492545|We evaluated differences in the rates and correlates of decomposition among 32 fern and angiosperm litter types collected in Hawai'i. Leptosporangiate ferns were separated into groups based on phylogeny: 'polypod' ferns, a monophyletic clade of ferns that diversified in the Cretaceous, and all other ('non-polypod') ferns that diversified earlier. We measured initial litter chemistry (nutrients and carbon chemistry), and mass loss and nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and calcium (Ca) of litter tissue during a 1-yr incubation in a common garden. Nutrient concentrations and carbon (C) chemistry differed significantly among litter types, and litter turnover (k-values) ranged from 0.29 to 8.31. Decomposition rates were more closely correlated with nutrient concentration than is typically observed. Lignin:N was the best predictor of decomposition across all litter types combined; however, among plant groups different predictors of decomposition were important. Nitrogen and P concentrations best predicted fern decomposition, whereas C chemistry, particularly lignin concentration, was more important for angiosperm (monocot and dicot) decomposition. Among native plants, non-polypod ferns decomposed significantly more slowly than both polypod ferns and angiosperms. Contrary to our hypothesis, fern litter did not decompose more slowly than angiosperm litter overall. Nutrient dynamics in litter were affected by initial litter concentration more than phylogeny; low-nutrient litter immobilized more nutrients than high-nutrient litter. Systematic differences in rates of decomposition, and the importance of nutrients in predicting fern decomposition, imply that changes in species composition within ferns and between ferns and angiosperms could influence the functioning of ecosystems where ferns are important forest components.
10.2307/2388373|Twenty-six cross-sectional and time series studies of soil properties under natural forest and altered vegetation in the United States and ten tropical countries were examined to determine the changes associated with forest clearing. Organic C, total N, exchangeable Ca, Mg, and K, cation exchange capacity, available P, bulk density, and pH were considered. After forest clearing, only bulk density and available P tended to return to preclearing levels. Losses of organic C, total N, and cation exchange capacity were 50 percent larger in soils developed on highly weathered parent materials in the tropics than in the same soils in the United States or in soils developed on young parent materials. Differences in soil response to clearing were related to local effects of temperature, rainfall, vegetation type, and soil acidity on organic matter decomposition.
2663837|Liana cutting is a commonly suggested silvicultural practice aimed at reducing the negative impacts of lianas on timber production, but few experimental studies have been conducted to evaluate the cost and efficiency of this practice. In this study, we estimated the cost of cutting lianas in 12 plots of 0.25 ha each in a densely liana-infested forest of lowland Bolivia, and evaluated the efficiency of this silvicultural treatment in terms of the proportion of lianas missed, the density of resprouting liana stumps, and the number of liana-infested trees after two years of an experimental liana treatment. The cost of cutting lianas in this forest by locally hired laborers was 23.6 (SE = 2.48) person-hours/ha. Considering local cost of labor and the U.S.-Bolivian currency exchange rate at the time of the study, this figure translates to ca $15/ha. Liana density decreased from 2471 (SE = 104.3) to 130 (SE = 24.2) liana stems 2 cm/ha immediately after cutting, because 5.5 percent of lianas were left uncut (missed). Slender lianas were missed more often than lianas with large-diameter stems. Liana species that grow 2-3 m before they start to twine were also frequently missed. Twenty-two percent of liana stumps 2 cm sprouted after cutting. Liana stumps with larger diameters sprouted more than stumps with smaller diameters. Most liana stumps produced only two sprouts. Two years after cutting, 78 percent of trees had no living lianas in their crowns, in contrast to only 13 percent liana-free trees in the control plots. Sixty-four percent of trees still had hanging dead lianas two years after cutting, but only 23 percent of trees were reinvaded by lianas using dead liana stems as trellises. Liana cutting can efficiently reduce the number of lianas in liana-infested forests, and the effects of cutting lianas last for at least two years; however, the treatment is expensive. Thus, we recommend that it is better to view liana cutting as a preventive activity to avoid liana infestation, rather than as a corrective measure after poor management. Liana cutting can be easily conducted along with other reduced-impact logging practices.
10.2307/2389105|Values for percent endemism, the index of endemicity (Ie) and a "geographical" index (Ig) suggest that endemism of mosses is higher in Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Bolivia than in other Neotropical moss floras. Endemism in several Neotropical countries is lower than expected and this may be due to incomplete floristic records or strong floristic connections with adjacent countries. As a whole, the Neotropics have a unique moss flora characterized by 48 percent endemic species.
30043182|We examined the distribution and broad habitat associations of the herpetofauna on three offshore islands of southeast Sulawesi, Indonesia. A total of 74 amphibian and reptile taxa were recorded, comprising 13 frogs, 29 lizards, 29 snakes, 1 freshwater turtle, and 1 crocodile. Of the total taxa, 38 percent were endemic to Sulawesi, 13 were new undescribed taxa. Range extensions were also recorded for one taxon previously not known from Sulawesi. Herpetofauna of these islands is largely derived from that of mainland Sulawesi, and as for Sulawesi generally, is depauperate compared with herpetofaunal assemblages in Borneo, Java, and Thailand. Taxon richness was much higher in minimally disturbed forest and forest habitats with only moderate disturbance levels than in highly modified or disturbed habitats, such as secondary forests, plantations, and villages. Disturbed habitats were characterized by widespread, habitat generalists and human commensals. Forests were characterized by endemic and habitat-specialist taxa. Little discrimination of taxon composition or endemism was found between minimally and moderately disturbed forest habitats. These results reaffirm the need for more general biological survey and research in this region. Taxa most likely to be displaced by human impacts tend to be endemic taxa, for which there exists little or no ecological information. The similarity in the herpetofaunal community structure between habitats with minimal and moderate disturbance levels has important implications for our understanding of ecological resilience in tropical herpetofaunal communities. /// Herpetofauna di kepulauan lepas pantai Sulawesi Tenggara: Kekayaan jenis, asosiasinya dengan habitat serta hubungan antara struktur komunitasnya dan gangguan ulah manusia. Telah diteliti luas sebaran dan asosiasinya dengan habitat herpetofauna di tiga buah kepulauan lepas pantai di Sulawesi Tenggara, Indonesia. Tercatat sejumlah 74 taksa amfibia dan reptilia meliputi: 13 jenis katak, 29 jenis bengkarung, 29 jenis ular, 1 jenis kura-kura air tawar dan 1 jenis buaya. Ada jenis-jenis endemik 38 percent sedangkan l3 taksa di antaranya merupakan jenis baru yang belum dipertelakan. Ada satu jenis rekor baru yang sebaran sebelumnya tak di kenal di Sulawesi. Herpetofauna di kepulauan ini berasal dari daratan Sulawesi sedangkan jenis-jenis amfibia - reptilia di Sulawesi sendiri sangat sedikit jumlahnya bila dibandingkan dengan gabungan jumlah yang ada di Kalimantan, Jawa dan Siam. Di hutan yang mengalami sedikit gangguan dan di habitat dengan tingkat perubahan sedang terdapat lebih kaya kaya jenis dari pada di kawasan yang sudah terganggu atau habitat yang sudah banyak berubah sebagai hutan sekunder, kebun dan pedesaan. Di habitat yang telah terganggu maka ditemukan jenis-jenis yang umum dan biasa terdapat di hunian manusia. Di hutan yang masih utuh ditemukan jenis-jenis endemik dan jenis yang khas menurut habitatnya. Di antara habitat hutan yang menglami sedikit gangguan dan yang mendapat gangguan sedang tidak terdapat perbedaan nyata kompsisi jenis maupun endemisme jenis. Kesimpulan ini mengukuhkan perlunya agar lebih menaruh perhatian dilakukan survai dan penelitian alam hayati di kawasan ini. Karena ulah manusia cenderung berdampak pada jenis-jenis endemik di kawasan ini tersingkirkan tanpa atau sedikit sekali keterangan mengenai lingkungan hidupnya. Adanya kesamaan struktur komumitas herpetofauna yang ada di antara habitat yang mengalami gangguan minimal dan gangguan sedang bermakna penting sekali dalam pengertian guna upaya pemulihan lingkungan bagi komunitas herpetofauna di kawasan tropis.
10.2307/2387879|Pollination is compared in six genera of palms which exhibit two anemophilous and four different entomophilous modes of pollination. The genera considered are Thrinax. Phoenix. Nypa, Ptychosperma, Bactris, and Asterogyne. These genera belong to six of the 15 major groups of palms, and each genus presents a different character syndrome. Factors compared are: inflorescence and floral structure; vasculature; occurrence of sclerenchyma, tannins, and raphides; differential growth patterns; phenology; and vectors. Vasculature, sclerenchyma, tannins, and raphides vary in coordination with different factors in each genus, usually in relation to the function of the appropriate organ during pollination. Thus vasculature of perianth parts relates to morphology, or to phenology, or to the activities of pollinators. Sclerenchyma, tannins, and raphides appear to develop in specific areas where they are advantageous in allelochemic or other interactions. Some evidence indicates that tannins deter all feeding and that raphides present a physical barrier. A knowledge of distribution of these features seems essential in understanding the activities of insects and other ecological relationships of palms. Although palms have been considered predominantly anemophilous, the majority appear entomophilous, and structures relating to insects are present even in wind-pollinated genera. Detailed studies of pollination for many more palms are needed before primitive modes can be inferred. This study supports the widely accepted use of floral anatomy in determining relationships of plants. A wide range of vasculature and histology is demonstrated in floral organs of palms, and examples of both morphological and anatomical adaptations to pollinators are described. Both the mechanisms resulting in the adaptations and the underlying patterns may be revealed by anatomical and developmental studies.
4132944|The Amazonian stingless bee Schwarzula sp. houses and attends, in its nest, soft scale insects, Cryptostigma sp. (Coccidae), from which obtains sweet secretions (honeydew) for their feeding and additional wax to build their nests. The bees nests in tunnels burrowed by moth larvae in branches of Campsiandra angustifolia, Caesalpiniaceae.
3593183|Accurate estimates of forest cover and forest fragmentation are critical for developing countries such as Costa Rica, which holds four to five percent of the world's plant and bird species. We estimated forest cover for Costa Rica using Landsat 5 Thematic Mapper satellite scenes acquired between 1986 and 1991. In 1991, 29 percent (ca
41241926|Habitat fragmentation is a widespread phenomenon that alters pollination and plant reproductive processes. These effects have demographic and genetic implications that determine offspring fitness and the long-term viability of plant populations in fragmented systems. We evaluated fragmentation effects on early plant offspring fitness traits, individual seed mass, and percentage of seed germination in five native plant species (Acacia caven, Ceins ehrenbergiana, Croton lachnostachyus, Rivina humilis, Schinus fasciculatus) from the Chaco Serrano forest, a subtropical highly fragmented ecosystem. We found evidence of strong negative fragmentation effects on germination in the shrub C. Uchnostachyus and the perennial herb R. humilis, after 30 d of controlled tests. No fragmentation effects were found in the studied traits on the remaining three tree species. We found significant maternal effects in offspring fitness traits in all five species. We discuss the relative magnitude of maternal vs. fragmentation effects taking into account both plant species' lifespan and the time elapsed in fragmentation conditions. We emphasize the need to increase the study of early and late plant offspring fitness produced in fragmented habitats coupled with analyses of genetic parameters and the pollination process in order to evaluate the conservation value of remnant forest fragments.
4132928|Here we report massive seed predation of Pseudobombax grandiflorum (Bombacaceae) by Botogeris versicolurus (Psittacidae) in a forest fragment in Brazil. The intensity of seed predation was very high when compared to other studies in continuous forest, perhaps resulting from a scarcity of resources in such areas. This scarcity may limit the range of parrot's diet to a few plant species. It suggests that studies of Psittacidae seed predation may be important for conservation of some plants in fragments.
10.2307/2388364|The feeding pattern of the American oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) was examined in the Pearl Archipelago, on the Pacific coast of Panama. Twenty species of mobile molluscs from intertidal rock benches formed more than 97 percent of the diet, but most species were underrepresented as prey relative to their abundance in nature. At middle to high shore levels, oystercatchers avoided three abundant but small-bodied snails, and fed primarily upon larger size classes of two other, large-bodied herbivorous molluscs. Pairs of birds averaged more than 80 prey items per low tide. This predation rate significantly affected the local abundance and size structure of the two preferred species. Lower on the shore foraging was limited, and relatively few prey of any species were taken. Prey utilization by oystercatchers resulted from the behavior of prey species, their position on the shore, and active choice by birds. Local mortality of gastropods due to predators such as oystercatchers may contribute to observed, intersite variability in the distribution and abundance of intertidal organisms in Panama.
10.2307/2388861|We describe the abundance (dry weight) of angiosperms and other organic matter suspended within the inner crowns of a dominant host tree species, Ocotea tonduzii (Lauraceae) in a Neotropical lower montane forest. Epiphytic organic matter (EOM), defined as vegetation and dead organic matter, was randomly sampled from inner canopy branches of ten trees in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Total EOM (grams per square decimeter of branch surface area) showed a strong positive correlation with branch circumference and a strong negative correlation with branch angle. Approximately three times more dry mass occurred on large (86-140 centimeters circumference) branches than on small (15-50 centimeters) branches, and four times more dry mass occurred on less inclined ( 30
10.2307/2388734|In the tropical rainforest of the Tai National Park (Ivory Coast), only 20.6 percent of the 160 species of trees recorded are colonized by hemi-epiphytic figs. These figs are not randomly distributed among the host trees; some common host species are proportionately much less colonized than other less common species. The comparative statistical analysis of the structural characters of colonized and noncolonized trees suggests a model of tree structure favoring colonization by figs. Still, if these characters combined converge toward light access, which agrees with the evolution of figs toward hemi-epiphytism, part of this work and the subsequent discussion tend to show that hemi-epiphytic figs are interacting with other influencing factors, such as the presence or absence of epiphytic ferns and orchids.
10.2307/2989620|Evidence from several fields suggests that Amazonia has not remained free from the drastic type of climatic fluctuations experienced in temperate and highland portions of the western hemisphere during Pleistocene and Recent times. Zoologists and botanists have employed a model of climatic and vegetational cycles, in which the lowland tropical forest was periodically reduced to enclaves isolated by savanna or parkland, to explain the abundance of species and their distributions. Since the two most recent episodes occurred subsequent to man's arrival, their impact should be observable in the anthropological evidence. Examination of linguistic, ethnographic, and archeological data reveals patterns in harmony with the biogeographical model, opening a new avenue for interpretation of the history of human adaptation to the tropical lowlands prior to European contact.
10.2307/2389077|In the lowland tropical forest at Pakitza, Peru, bamboo (Guadua weberbaueri Pilger) internodes with lateral perforations contain a diverse aquatic fauna. We found a community of 29 species dominated by Diptera, primarily mosquitos, and an undescribed helicopter damselfly (Mecistogaster). Although most studies of bamboo concern broken or cut culms filled with rainwater, the water in the live bamboo internodes that we studied was supplied by plant secretions. This results in an aquatic habitat that persists even during the pronounced local dry season. The lateral openings typically consist of closely-spaced rows of parallel slots and are possibly formed by the activities of ovipositing female katydids (Leiobliastes laevis Beier) and secondarily enlarged by various means. Succession in this community was found to follow the steps in development of the lateral opening; with increases in the average number of species and individuals, and percent of the total fauna present, as the opening size increased. We explored patterns of community structure by descriptive statistical analyses and constructed a tentative food web diagram of this simple aquatic ecosystem. Pairwise comparisons of ranked abundances of aquatic insects failed to show correlation, but internodes that contained a predator had higher average simple diversity of mosquito species than those without, indicating a possible "Paine effect." While species counts and counts of total individuals were not significantly correlated with type of lateral perforation, counts of individuals of all taxa per internode were correlated with size of lateral perforation. Number of mosquito species was significantly correlated with volume of water held in the internodes.
10.2307/2989781|Recently published chromosomal data on certain of the large Drosophila species of Hawaii are briefly presented and discussed. In particular, chromosomal similarities between certain species from the islands of Maui and Hawaii are emphasized. As Hawaii is geologically more recent than Maui and is separated from it by an abysmal channel, it appears that Hawaii must have been populated from Maui, rather than vice versa. The chromosomal data confirm this view; it is possible to write the inversion formula for the polytene chromosomes of five interisland species founders going from Maui to Hawaii. Despite the recency of these evolutionary events, each founder case has resulted in from one to three new species on Hawaii. No instances of subspecies colonizers have been recognized between these islands. Little adaptive shift appears to occur, as indicated by comparisons of Maui and Hawaii species. It is suggested that the founder effect and its accompanying random genetic drift are particularly conducive to species formation. Adaptive evolution, in these founder cases, may be expected to proceed principally after the new species have been formed.
10.2307/2388807|Each species of fig tree (Ficus spp., Moraceae) is pollinated by its own unique species of fig wasp (Agaonidae). We examined pollination rates and functional sex-ratios among the fig trees that have colonized the recently formed volcanic island of Anak Krakatau. Four fruiting Ficus species were present. Two of these, F fistulosa and F hispida, occurred in small numbers and were receiving sufficient pollinators. In contrast, pollination rates were estimated at 81 percent for F septica (80 trees fruiting) and only 18 percent for F fulva (approximately 200 trees fruiting). Both these species had higher pollination rates on the older islands in the Krakatau group. Their functional sex ratios (the proportion of male/female trees bearing fruits) did not differ significantly from 50:50, and there were indications of preferential pollination of female figs. The shortage of pollinators (and therefore mature figs) on Anak Krakatau is likely to have consequences for the frugivorous birds and bats on the island.
2663806|Neotropical mangrove ecosystems have undergone drastic changes in terms of extension and floristic composition during Plio-Pleistocene times. It is unclear if the northern Pacific coast of Colombia has been occupied continuously by mangroves during the last 5000 years, or if their presence is a recent phenomenon. Two basic questions were asked: (1) is the establishment of mangroves recent?; and (2) what were the dominant floral taxa during the late Holocene? In the Gulf of Tribuga, northern Colombian Pacific, 22 sediment cores were drilled to a maximum depth of 2 m in a diverse suite of mangrove substrates and positions relative to the shoreline. Data were gathered from sedimentological descriptions, palynological analyses, and radiocarbon dating of these cores. During the last 4500 years, mangroves in the southern area of the Tribuga Gulf have remained floristically stable and dominated by Rhizophora. The abundant presence of Acrostichum aureum is recent, probably related to human activities. In contrast, two areas in the northern part of the Gulf show a different history. In the first area, the establishment of mangrove has been relatively recent (ca 2600 yr), probably a result of local subsidence due to tectonic faulting; this mangrove forest was and is dominated by Pelliciera rhizophorae. In the second area, mangrove pollen was not found in sediments younger than 2500 years, suggesting that the scarce presence of mangrove in the area is a result of recent colonization, and not due to logging as previously thought.
27742803|Small mammals were trapped annually in two savanna and two forest plots in cerrado habitats of Noel Kempff Mercado National Park, Santa Cruz, Bolivia, for 510 yr. Eighteen species were captured in forest and seven species in savanna. Species numbers and total number of individuals captured were tightly correlated. In forest, species and abundance varied interannually by up to fourfold in one plot and to 100-fold in the other, and showed alternating highs and lows as is typical for small mammals. The largest faunal differences were due not to site differences, but to year differences, with markedly different patterns in forests and savannas. Abundance was not correlated with rainfall overall, but showed correlation in exceptional years of rainfall and ENSO drought. In savanna, species and overall abundance declined without recovery during 3 yr after reaching minimum numbers in 2004. One species, Cavia aperea, became extinct on both plots, and subsequently, apparently on the entire savanna. Both herbivorous and insectivorous species declined together. Rainfall, fire, and flooding do not seem to account for savanna rodent declines. I propose the novel hypothesis that smoke from anthropogenic burning raises nocturnal temperatures and prevents dew formation, and that a decrease in nightly dry season dewfall has been instrumental in rodent declines. Anecdotal and climatic data are consistent with this hypothesis, but it cannot yet be tested.
10.2307/2388056|Aspects of recruitment and foraging behavior of Pogonomyrmex mayri (Myrmicinae: Formicidae) are described. Foragers leave and return to the nest in all directions, but each worker tends to forage only in one sector of the territory. When food is discovered, nestmates are recruited by a trail pheromone, but even with a persistent food source, a single file of foragers never develops. Foragers rarely cooperate to transport prey. Foraging is strictly diurnal with the amount of activity controlled by temperature, which in turn is affected by season, time of day, and nest location. Strong territorial defense by neighboring colonies and competition from other ant species often severely restrict foraging direction and distance.
2388832|The distribution, habitat association, group size, population structure, and prey availability of river dolphins (Inia geoffrensis) were studied from November 1993-June 1994 in the Cinaruco River, a tributary of the Orinoco River that forms the southern boundary of Venezuela's Santos Luzardo National Park. Dolphins were sampled from a boat using modified strip-width transects, for a total of 418 h. The study area was 1.67 km
4132926|Phenology, flowering biology, and pollination were studied for one year in four sympatric varieties of the polymorphic palm Geonoma cuneata in Ecuador. Flowering seasons of the three most common varieties were significantly staggered resulting in minimal temporal overlap. No marked differences were found with respect to flowering biology or pollination. The implication of these findings for explaining the complicated morphological variation pattern found in G cuneata and similar species complexes is discussed.
30044922|Satellite multi- and hyper-spectral sensors have evolved over the past three decades into powerful monitoring tools for ecosystem processes. Research in temperate environments, however, has tended to keep pace with new remote sensing technologies more so than in tropical environments. Here, we identify what we consider to be three priority areas for remote sensing research in Neotropical dry forests. The first priority is the use of improved sensor capabilities, which should allow for better characterization of tropical secondary forests than has been achieved. Secondary forests are of key interest due to their potential for sequestering carbon in relatively short periods of time. The second priority is the need to characterize leaf area index (LAI) and other biophysical variables by means of bidirectional reflectance function models. These biophysical parameters have importance linkages with net primary productivity and may be estimated through remote sensing. The third priority is to identify tree species using hyper-spectral imagery, which represents an entirely new area of research for tropical forests that could have powerful applications in biodiversity conservation. /// En las ltimas tres decadas, los sensores satelitales multi e hiper-espectrales han evolucionado hasta convertirse en importantes herramientas para el monitoreo de los ecosistemas. La investigacin en los ecosistemas templados y boreales ha seguido el paso de los avances en los sistemas de percepcin remota, mientras que en los sistemas tropicales existe un desface significativo. En este artculo identificamos y revisamos tres prioridades bsicas en la investigacin basada en sensores remotos de las regiones neotropicales del bosque seco. Estas prioridades estn relacionadas con el monitoreo de bosques secundarios, el desarrollo de estudios relacionados con la cuantificacin del rea foliar por medio de mtodos pticos y finalmente el desarrollo de tcnicas, que ligadas a informacin hiper-espectral, puedan ser utilizadas para la identificacin de especies de rboles en zonas tropicales. Esta ultima prioridad representa una nueva rea de investigacin en los bosques tropicales con importantes connotaciones para la conservacin de la biodiversidad biolgica.
10.2307/2389113|The Theraphosid spider Avicularia avicularia is reported to be widely distributed in Trinidad. A population in 2.2 ha of an abandoned tonka bean plantation was studied for 18 months. Juvenile spiders lived between the leaves of low growing plants. Most older immatures and adult females constructed camouflaged silk retreats at a height of between 1.5 and 3 m on tree trunks. Most inhabited trees accommodated single individuals. Dispersion was aggregated with a bias towards larger trees. The population density of long-term residents and vagrants was estimated to be between 13 and 30 ha
10.2307/2388993|Root system development of planted and sown seedlings of Swietenia macrophylla King (broad-leaf mahogany) was studied in abandoned pasture and secondary forest in former tropical dry forest in Guanacaste Conservation Area, Costa Rica. Differences between and within secondary dry forest habitats were assumed to cause differences in biomass allocation. Biomass allocation, root/shoot (R/S) ratio, root surface area/leaf area, rooting depth and the root specialization (tap root/total root system), were measured on 5, 13, 29 and 32 month-old seedlings. The youngest seedling groups harvested had been sown directly in the field, while the two oldest age groups had been grown in a nursery and transplanted to the field at three to four months of age. The field conditions were abandoned (Hyparrhenia rufa Stapf) pasture with mown and unmown grass and semi-evergreen secondary forest with normal and with reduced root competition under both thinned and unthinned forest canopy. Seedling biomass was lower in the secondary forest than in the pasture. Biomass was higher in mown than in unmown pasture. In the secondary forest, light availability rather than reduced root competition promoted biomass investment. R/S ratio did not increase by increasing light levels in the forest. A tendency of an increase in R/S ratio and root specialization was found with increasing seedling age, suggesting the importance of uptake and storage organs.
10.2307/2388768|We evaluated the ability to close wounds inflicted with a drill to the trunks of seven common tree species from Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panama. We predicted that species lacking wood antimicrobial activity would rapidly close wounds to prevent pathogen entrance, while those species with wood antimicrobial defenses need not necessarily exhibit fast wound closure. The species studied were Alseis blackiana, Gustavia superba, Miconia argentea, Poulsenia armata, Protium panamense, P tenuifolium. and Tetragastris panamensis. Callus, resins, and latex were all involved in wound closure, but mechanisms varied among species: after 3 months, the only pioneer species, Miconia, had minimal diameter closure; Alseis showed intermediate closure only by callus; and the other five species (which did not differ) had almost completely plugged their wounds by means of combined callus and resin production (Tetragastris and both species of Protium), latex (Poulsenia), or callus and woody flakes (Gustavia). Our initial prediction was supported for Gustavia and Poulsenia (i.e., rapid wound closure and no wood antimicrobial activity) but not for Tetragastris and Protium (that showed both rapid wound closure and strong wood antimicrobial activity); Miconia showed slow wound closure and no wood antimicrobial activity Only for Alseis, was wound closure rate proportional to stem diameter growth.
10.2307/2388991|Mangrove forests in Ecuador are disappearing due to pressure from a growing human population and conversion to shrimp ponds for the export market. There is a need to develop sustainable timber management techniques to preserve the remaining forests; especially important is the ability of forests to regenerate naturally after logging. In ten replicated 0.4 ha (30 x 120 m) plots clearcut 3 years prior to this study, seedling densities were high within 5 m of seed trees, in plots surrounded by trees >25 cm DBH, and in plots frequently inundated by tides. Interstitial soil salinity (23.3-26.3 ppt) and litter cover were not correlated with seedling density. Our results suggest that for natural regeneration to be sufficient for stand regeneration, logged areas should be no wider than 20 m and logging should be confined to forests with an average DBH >25 cm. In sites inundated by tides <20 times/month, seed trees should be retained at 20 m spacing.
30044933|Biannual cycles of reproduction and molt are in birds, with most species exhibiting a single annual cycle. We studied the breeding and molting phenology of the Cinnamon-bellied Flowerpiercer (Diglossa harituid), a nectar feeding passerine, in western Mexico. Monthly captures from December 1994 to May 1998 revealed clear biannual breeding and molting cycles. The two breeding seasons took place from January to April (dry season) and from July to October (rainy season). Their July to October breeding season coincided with the single breeding season exhibited by resident hummingbirds at our study site. Even though flowerpiercers and hummingbirds use the same food resources, hummingbirds only molt and breed once a year. Male flowerpiercers breed and molt flight feathers twice a year, whereas females appear to breed only once. A higher proportion of females bred in the rainy season (90%) than in the dry season (30%), and they underwent a complete molt only during the rainy season. Proportions of males in breeding condition during the dry and the rainy season were similar (86 and 92%). Some males (40%) showed an incomplete molt in the dry season, while most males (80%) underwent a complete molt in the rainy season. Differences in proportions of breeding and molting individuals between the dry and the rainy season suggest that the dry season cycle is limited by food availability. We hypothesize that D. baritula individuals use soft fruits in addition to flowers to fuel their breeding during the dry season. /// Los ciclos bianuales de reproduccin y muda son raros en las aves. La mayora de las especies presentan un ciclo anual nico. En este trabajo estudiamos la fenologa reproductiva y de muda de Diglossa baritula, un paseriforme nectarvoro, en el occidente de Mxico. Los muestreos mensuales con redes de niebla (Diciembre 1994-Mayo 1998) mostraron que esta especie presenta ciclos bianuales de reproduccin y muda. Las dos temporadas reproductivas ocurrieron en Enero-Abril (secas) y Julio-Octubre (lluvias). La temporada reproductiva de lluvias se traslap con la temporada de reproduccin nica de los colibres residentes en nuestra rea de estudio. Aunque los colibres y D. baritula utilizan los mismos recursos alimenticios, los colibres se reproducen y mudan slo una vez por ao. Los machos de D. baritula se reprodujeron y mudaron plumas de vuelo dos veces por ao, mientras que las hembras parecen hacerlo slo una vez. Se reprodujeron ms hembras en la temporada de lluvias (90%) que en la de secas (30%). Los porcentajes de machos en condicin reproductiva fueron similares para las dos temporadas (secas 86% y lluvias 92%). Algunos machos (40%) mostraron una muda incompleta en la temporada de secas, mientras que la mayora present una muda completa en la temporada de lluvias (80%). Las diferencias en las proporciones de individuos reproductivos/ mudando entre la temporada seca y la temporada de lluvias sugieren que durante la temporada de secas la disponibilidad de recursos alimenticios es limitante. Conjeturamos que D. baritula combina flores y frutos blandos para satisfacer los requisitos energticos de su reproduccin durante la poca seca.
10.2307/2387810|We present evidence that hairstreak butterflies in the Republic of Panama are dispersed by seasonal trade winds (late December-early April) from the northwest. We report that (1) 128 species (47% of the known Panamanian hairstreak fauna) have been observed being blown by trade winds having speeds of 10-25 mi./hr (15-40 km/hr), (2) more than 80 percent of these species were being blown through habitats where they normally do not occur, (3) some species normally restricted to high-elevation habitats were observed 5 km downwind from the nearest suitable habitat, and (4) significantly more than 50 percent of the specimens being blown by the trade winds were females. We discuss the consequences of dispersal of Panamanian hairstreak butterflies on their tendency to differentiate geographically and on their rate of allopatric speciation.
10.2307/2388153|The current status of the field of physiological plant ecology of tropical secondary tree species is reviewed, focusing on seed germination, net CO
40645554|Primate fruit choice among plant species has been attributed to different morphological plant and fruit characteristics. Despite a high abundance of animal-dispersed plant species in the savanna-forest mosaic of West Africa, few data are available on the interplay between morphological fruit traits and primate fruit consumers in this ecosystem. We tested whether olive baboons (Papio anubis) at Como National Park, north-eastern Ivory Coast, prefer fruit species with particular characteristics relative to the availability of these traits among the woody plant species at the study site. Specifically we were interested in the suites of traits that best predict fruit choice and seed handling by baboons. The baboons ate fruit/seeds from 74 identified plant species, representing 25 percent of the regional pool of woody plant species. They preferred trees to shrubs and lianas as fruit sources. Otherwise, baboons seemed to consume whatever fruit type, color, and size of fruit and seeds available, though they especially included larger fruit into their diet. Against expectations from the African bird-monkey fruit syndrome of brightly colored drupes and berries, baboons ate mostly species having large, dull-colored fruit. Fruit type and color best described whether baboons included a species into their diet, whereas fruit type and seed size best predicted whether baboons predated upon the seeds of their food plant species. As most plant species at the study site had medium-sized to large fruits and seeds, large frugivores like baboons might be particularly important for plant fitness and plant community dynamics in West African savanna-forest ecosystems.
10.2307/2388485|Genetic variation in 29 woody plant taxa common to Barro Colorado Island, Republic of Panama, was surveyed by starch gel electrophoresis. Leaf samples obtained from approximately 50 individuals were collected over several km of trails on the island, vacuum-dried within 6 hr of collection, and transported to Lawrence, Kansas, U.S.A. for electrophoretic analysis. The 20 enzyme systems used produced an average of 26 banding zones (range 14-41) per taxon, of which 28 percent (range 0-54%) were polymorphic. Mean heterozygosity per species (mean = 0.111, range 0.000-0.216) was similar to the mean reported for 74 other dicotyledonous species but was somewhat less than that observed for other woody plants, mostly conifers. These results indicate that the techniques described herein would allow the application of genetic analyses to several questions of interest to tropical biologists.
10.2307/2989696|The architectural spectrum of the rain-forest appears to be qualitatively the same in New Guinea as previously reported in tropical Africa or America. However, the study of Asiatic and Melanesian trees leads to a broader understanding of the architectural range in pantropical families of flowering plants, and suggests an approach to the understanding of many problems in taxonomy, phylogeny, biogeography, and forest ecology.
20492531|Call rate suppression is a common short-term solution for avoiding acoustic interference in animals. It has been widely documented between and within frog species, but the effects of non-anuran calling on frog vocalizations are less well known. Heterospecific acoustic interference on the calling of male Oophaga pumilio (formerly Dendrobates pumilio) was studied in a lowland, wet tropical forest in SE Nicaragua. Acoustic playback experiments were conducted to characterize the responses of O. pumilio males to interfering calls of cicadas, two species of crickets, and a sympatric dendrobatid frog, Phyllobates lugubris. Call rate, call bout duration, percent of time calling, dominant frequency, and latency to first-call were analyzed. Significant call rate suppression was observed during all stimulus playbacks, yet no significant differences were found in spontaneous call rates during pre- and postplayback trials. Dominant frequency significantly decreased after P. lugubris playback and first-call latency significantly decreased in response to both cicada and tree cricket playbacks. These results provide robust evidence that O. pumilio males can dynamically modify their calling pattern in unique ways, depending on the source of the heterospecific acoustic interference.
10.2307/2388767|I fertilized dwarf Rhizophora mangle trees for two yr to determine how the morphology and internal anatomy of leaves are affected by increased nutrient availability The sclerophyllous structure of R. mangle leaves decreased on P- and NPK-fertilized trees, but not on N-fertilized and control trees. Leaves from trees treated with phosphorus-containing fertilizers were 40 percent to 80 percent as thick as leaves on control trees. Differences in the hypodermis accounted for most differences in leaf thicknesses. In P- and NPK-fertilized trees, the thickness of the hypodermis in basal leaves was 225 ( 13)  m and 207 (11)  m, respectively, compared to 572 ( 13)  m in N-fertilized and 594 ( 13)  m in Control trees. Area per leaf and leaf length:width ratio did not change in response to increased nutrient availability. Nutrient deficiency rather than salinity and physiological drought appears to be the proximate cause of well-developed xeromorphic traits in leaves of dwarf red mangrove. This study provides experimental evidence of the oligotrophic-xeromorphic hypothesis that states that sclerophylly is an adaptation to P-deficient soils rather than to drought or physiological drought.
30045440|Studies on carnivores, which are generally difficult to observe directly because they are elusive and nocturnal, are carried out through indirect methods, e.g., camera trapping and radiotracking. The first method has been used to estimate population densities of species that can be differentiated as individuals using unique pelage patterns. However, the use of capture-recapture methodology has raised doubts regarding the estimation of the sampling area around the camera traps, which is obtained using maximum distances traveled by individuals photographed at two or more different locations. In this paper, the results from camera traps are compared with a radiotracking study carried out simultaneously with ocelots (Leoparduspardalis) to confirm whether maximum distances observed in camera traps coincide with ranging patterns determined from radio telemetry, and in turn whether the sampling areas estimated from camera traps are appropriate for estimating density. Mean maximum distance moved was 2880 m according to camera trap records during a 60-d survey period while, with radiotracking, the maximum distance moved was 3176 m during the same period. The difference is not significant, and the sampling areas estimated with camera traps to assess ocelot density are reliable. However, if the area covered by cameras is reduced to less than three to four times average home range for the target species, then density estimates from camera trapping are exaggerated because of the reduced observed distances and the fact that multiple individuals can overlap in relatively small areas. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388848|Two types of nectaries occur in the neotropical genus Inga (Fabaceae: Mimosoideae). Floral nectar is ingested by visitors to flowers and foliar nectar is utilized by a variety of insects. Although their flowers are similar in appearance and morphology, different Inga species exhibit different floral behaviors and have different primary pollinators. The floral nectars of the eight species analyzed are, however, similar in proportions of various sugars. Freshly secreted floral nectars are sucrose-dominant, though over time the sucrose is hydrolyzed and nectars become hexose-rich. In some species, this change corresponds to a shift in the pollinator fauna. Amino acid constituents of floral nectars differ among Inga spp., but are constant within a species. Extrafloral nectars are hexose-dominant and have substantially greater sugar concentrations than floral nectars. Extrafloral nectars of different species differ in array of amino acids present, but amino acids in floral and extrafloral nectar of a given species are similar, but not identical. Differences in composition of the two types of nectar produced by a given Inga species may result from natural selection by mutualists utilizing the nectar as well as non-evolutionary influences of the abiotic and biotic environment.
10.2307/2389089|Anthropogenic and natural disturbances plav critical roles in affecting the structure and function of Caribbean ecosystems, where hurricanes represent important disturbances superimposed on a landscape modified by human agricultural and forestry practices. Based on the differential catabolism of a suite of 128 carbon sources by soil bacterial communities, we focus on four aspects of functional diversity (total substrate activity, substrate richness, substrate evenness, substrate diversity) in the tabonuco forest of Puerto Rico, and assess the degree to which their spatial variability is a consequence of historical landuse or impacts of Hurricane Hugo. Considerable microspatial heterogeneity characterizes the functional diversity of forest soil communities, but the degree of hurricane damage to aboveground plant communities is positively related to all four indexes of functional diversity 5yr after the hurricane. No differences in functional diversity were detected with respect to historical landuse, after controlling for the effects of hurricane damage. However, this lack of significance may be an artifact because the spatial distribution of hurricane damage is not independent of historical landuse. As a consequence, contemporary studies of spatial heterogeneity that do not account for historical patterns of anthropogenic or natural disturbance may yield spurious or incorrect conclusions. Long-term studies help to rectify this problem and are especially important within the context of evaluating the impacts of increasing human demands on natural ecosystems.
10.2307/2388741|Fine root biomass was estimated for two Costa Rican broad-leaf evergreen forests with apparent differences in soil nutrient status. Live fine root biomass (<5 mm diameter) for the two sites was 187 and 125 g$\cdot$m$^{-2}$ while total fine root biomass was 662 and 369 g$\cdot$m$^{-2}$. The greater fine root biomass occurred on the site with the lowest soil phosphorus and calcium content. Reviews of the tropical literature suggest that total fine root biomass is inversely related to phosphorus and calcium availability. No apparent relationship was observed between fine root biomass and nitrogen availability in tropical forests.
10.2307/2388962|Genetic variation was surveyed in three understory plant species in tropical wet forest at Estacion Biologica La Selva, Costa Rica: Henriettea tuberculosa (Melastomaceae), Psychotria officinalis and P suerrensis (Rubiaceae). These three shrub species showed moderate to high levels of genetic variation, but Psychotria officinalis and P suerrensis had a higher proportion of polymorphic loci and greater levels of heterozygosity than did Henriettea tuberculosa. All three species have insect-pollinated flowers and bird-dispersed berries; the two Psychotria species are distylous and self-incompatible. Lower levels of genetic variation in Henriettea tuberculosa are hypothesized to be a result of lower outcrossing rates and local seed movement.
40891344|Invasive species interacting with fires pose a relatively unknown, but potentially serious, threat to the tropical forests of Hawaii. Fires may create conditions that facilitate species invasions, but the degree to which this occurs in different tropical plant communities has not been quantified. We documented the survival and establishment of plant species for 2 yr following 2003 wildfires in tropical moist and wet forest life zones in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii. Fires were ignited by lava flows and burned across a steep environmental gradient encompassing two previously burned shrub-dominated communities and three Metrosideros polymorpha forest communities. Fires in all community types were stand replacing, where > 95 percent of overstory trees were top killed. Over half (> 57%) of the trees survived via basal sprouting, but sprout growth differed among forest communities. Sprout growth (> 250,000 cm) was greatest in the forest community where postfire understory cover was lowest presumably due to thick native Dicranopteris linearis fern litter that remained postfire. In contrast, M. polymorpha sprout growth was much slower (< 100,000 cm) in the two forest communities where there was rapid understory recovery of nonnative ferns Nephrolepis multiflora and invasive grasses Paspalum conjugation. These results suggest that the rapid establishment of an invasive-dominated understory limited recovery of the overstory dominant M. polymorpha. In contrast to the three forest communities, there were few changes in vegetation composition in the shrubland communities. Nonnative species invasions coupled with repeated fires selectively eliminated fire-sensitive species thereby maintaining these communities in dominance of primarily nonnative, fire-resilient, species.
30045467|Tree cavities are a critical resource for many animals, especially as nesting sites for birds. Patterns of cavity distribution in temperate forests are well studied, yet little is known of cavities in tropical forests, despite a hypothesized decrease in cavity availability with decreasing latitude. We studied cavity density and distribution in a wet lowland tropical forest in Costa Rica and compared our results with estimates from forests around the world. Cavities at our site were common, occurred frequently in living trees, and were often formed by damage or decay rather than by woodpeckers. Most cavities had small openings, and woodpecker-created cavities were nonrandomly oriented. Contrary to prediction, cavity density appears to increase from the poles to the tropics. We suggest potential mechanisms to explain these patterns. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043238|In central Chile, nectar robbing of Puya coerulea (Bromeliaceae) flowers by the austral blackbird, Curaeus curaeus, had a direct impact on the plant via removal of floral resources and, in some cases, damage or even destruction of flowers. These robbing visits also likely had an indirect impact on plant fitness due to the decreased rate of legitimate visits by the hummingbird Patagona gigas to inflorescences with many robbed flowers. The proportion of flowers within an inflorescence visited by P. gigas was inversely proportional to the ratio of robbed flowers. /// En Chile central, el robo de nctar a flores de Puya coerulea (Bromeliaceae) por Curaeus curaeus tuvo impacto directo sobre la planta por remocin de nctar y, en algunos casos, dao o destruccin de flores. El robo tuvo impacto directo en la adecuacin biolgica de la planta debido al decremento en la tasa de visitas del polinizador Patagona gigas a inflorescencias con flores robadas: la proporcin de flores visitadas por P. gigas, dentro de una inflorescencia, fue inversamente proporcional a la proporcin de flores robadas.
10.2307/2388716|Phenology of 108 species (1094 trees) was monitored for 42 months in a tropical deciduous forest in the Pacific lowlands of Mexico. Leaf expansion was highly concentrated in June-July; the forest canopy was at least 75 percent full in only 30 percent of the study period. With few exceptions, the species were leafless for several months each year. Gradual leaf loss in most species suggested there were large inter- and intraspecific differences in length of the growing season. Peak flowering was in June-July. Flowering lasted less than two months in most cases. Closely related species typically flowered concurrently. The delay from flowering to dispersal showed no prominent mode. Peaks of seed dispersal showed no community mean, but endozoochores differed from other species in seasonality. Reproduction was annual for most populations, and sub-annual intervals were related to rainfall anomalies. The response of many species to rains in December or January indicated their phenology was driven by water availability, but other species were probably limited by photoperiod. Intensive use of stored resources was indicated by simultaneous flushing and flowering in many species.
30044918|Scarlet Macaw diet was determined during the breeding season of February-June 1998. Macaws were primarily granivorous, exhibiting a narrow diet during the dry season, with low variety of food items in adult and nestling diets. Seeds of Cnidoscolus spp. and Schizolobium parahybum, tree species characteristic of floodplain forest, were predominant in nestling diets, and may provide protein-rich food resources. River floodplains provided important nest sites and food resources for Scarlet Macaws during the breeding season. /// La dieta de la guacamaya roja {Ara macao) fue determinado durante la poca de reproduccin de febrero a junio 1998. Las guacamayas son principalmente granvoros, exhibiendo una dieta limitada durante el verano, con una baja variedad de productos comestibles en la dieta de los adultos y las crias. Las semillas de Cnidoscolus spp. and Schizolobium parahybum, especies arboreas caracteristicas del bosque de tierras inundadas, fueron predominantes en la dieta de las crias y posiblemente pueden servir como una fuente rica en protenas. Las zonas de tierras inundadas son sitios importantes para anidar y obtener recursos comestibles para la guacamaya roja durante la poca de reproduccin.
41419468|Vascular epiphytes represent a highly diverse element of tropical rain forests, but they depend strongly on the structure and taxonomic composition of their tree communities. For conservation planning, it is therefore critical to understand the effect of host tree characteristics on epiphyte species richness in natural and anthropogenically transformed vegetation. Our study compares the effect of human land-use on epiphyte diversity based on 220 study plots in a lowland rain forest and an Andean cloud forest in western Ecuador. We evaluate the relevance of host tree size and taxonomic identity for epiphyte species richness in contiguous primary forests, forest fragments, isolated remnant trees (IRTs), and secondary forests. At both study sites, epiphyte diversity was highest in primary forests, and it was lowest on IRTs and in secondary forests. Epiphyte species numbers of forest fragments were significantly reduced compared with the contiguous primary forest at the lowland study site, but not in the cloud forest area. Host tree size was a core predictor among secondary forests, but it had less significance within other habitat types. Taxonomic identity of the host trees also explained up to 61 percent of the variation in epiphyte diversity, especially for IRTs. The structural and taxonomic composition of the tree community in anthropogenically transformed habitat types proved to be fundamental to epiphyte diversity. This highlights the importance of deliberate selection of tree species for reforestation in conservation programs and the possible negative effects of selective logging in primary forests.
10.2307/2387938|I studied ants in upland tropical forest, grassland and agricultural land in San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico, to uncover factors responsible for the distribution and number of species in these communities. Observations, laboratory studies and field experiments were used. Microclimate influenced the distributions of Pheidole fallax, Solenopsis geminata and Monomorium ebeninum; forest ants had lower tolerance to high temperatures than ants from non-forested areas. In addition, Ponerinae ants did not tolerate high temperatures as well as ants in the Formicinae, Myrmicinae and Dolichoderinae. The larger number of species in non-forested areas is correlated with larger food overlaps, tighter guilds, a more variable microclimate, and higher levels of aggressiveness.
10.2307/2388643|We report the results of an experimental study of predation by vertebrates on the seeds of the palm Welfia georgii in gaps and the forest understory of La Selva. Costa Rica. Seed survival in gaps and beneath fruiting adults was very low, and significantly less than survival in the understory 10 m from an adult. Thus, the increase in survival with dispersal of seeds away from the parent is habitat-dependent. This result is consistent with other studies in neotropical lowland wet forests, but contrasts with results from other geographical regions. The difference is likely caused by the differential responses of various seed predator species to treefall gaps.
10.2307/2387754|Relationships among 10 leptodactylid genera are probed using the quantitative molecular micro-complement fixation technique to estimate degrees of relatedness and times of divergence of major lineages. The leptodactylid genera tested are old, with many dating back to the late Mesozoic Era. Speciation events studied are most likely Miocene and Oligocene in age.
30044048|There are few hypotheses to explain local understory diversity patterns. There is a consensus that climate and soil fertility affect understory density and diversity at large scales, but few studies addressed the mechanisms controlling density and diversity locally. Here, I examine patterns of abundance and diversity of three understory herb groups along gradients of soil nutrients and topography at the mesoscale (64 km) in a wet tropical forest, and possible factors causing them. Herb richness, diversity, density, and cover were measured in fifty-nine 250 x 2 m plots systematically distributed over Reserva Ducke, Manaus. Herb groups responded differently to environmental gradients. Whereas density and cover of pteridophytes increased with altitude and slope, Marantaceae density and cover decreased. Density of sedges increased with altitude, but did not vary with slope. Density and cover of Marantaceae and sedges but not pteridophytes increased with the soil cation content. Pteridophyte richness increased with slope whereas Marantaceae richness decreased, richness of both groups increased with cation content. Diversity increased with altitude for Marantaceae and decreased for pteridophytes. Some of these patterns agree with what is expected from herbs, such as the greater abundance of Marantaceae and sedges in flat and low altitude plots, where water availability is higher and probably also light, and the greater richness of Marantaceae and pteridophytes in higher nutrient plots. The unexpected results of higher abundance and richness of pteridophytes in slopes, instead of in bottomlands, suggest that biotic or litter-mediated controls may be important to set these patterns. /// Existem poucas hipteses para explicar os padres locais de diversidade do sub-bosque. Existe consenso de que clima e fertilidade do solo afetam a densidade e diversidade do sub-bosque em macro-escaia, mas poucos estudos procuraram os mecanismos que controlam a densidade e diversidade em escala local. Neste estudo, eu examino os padres de abundncia e diversidade de 3 grupos de ervas de sub-bosque ao longo de gradients de nutrientes e topografia em uma floresta tropical mida, e os possveis fatores causais. A riqueza, diversidade, cobertura e densidade das ervas foram medidas em 59 parcelas de 250 x 2 m, distribudas sobre 64 km na Reserva Ducke, Manaus. Os grupos de ervas responderam de forma diferente aos gradientes ambientais. Enquanto a densidade e cobertura das samambaias aumentaram com a altitude e a inclinao do terreno, a densidade e cobertura de Marantaceae diminuram. A densidade de capins aumentou coma altitude, mas no variou com a inclinao. A densidade e cobertura de Marantaceae e capins aumentou com o contedo de nutrientes do solo, mas no para as pteridfitas. A riqueza de samambaias aumentou com a inclinao do terreno enquanto a riqueza de Marantaceae decresceu, e a riqueza dos dois grupos aumentou com o contedo de nutrientes. A diversidade aumentou com a altitude para Marantaceae e diminuiu para as samambaias. Alguns destes padres concordam com o esperado para ervas, tais como a maior abundncia de Marantaceae e capins nas parcelas planas e baixas, onde a disponibilidade de gua e provavelmente de luz so maiores. Entretanto, os resultados inesperados de maior abundncia e riqueza de pteridfitas nos terrenos mais inclinados, ao invs de nos baixios, sugerem que controles biticos ou mediados pela liteira podem ser mais importantes para o estabelecimento destes padres.
30043208|In the coastal zone of central Veracruz, Mexico, we recorded the abundance of orchid plants growing on termite carton trails or directly on the peeling bark of Bursera fagaroides. Although only 19 percent of the surveyed trees contained termite carton trails, trees with termites hosted 92 percent of all orchid individuals. A disproportionate number of orchid seedlings occurred on termite cartons given the relative availability of carton and bark substrate. Our results show for the first time that orchids can establish on termite trails, and we discuss the potential for termite facilitation of orchid populations. /// En la zona costera de la regin central de Veracruz, Mxico, documentamos la abundancia de orqudeas sobre senderos de cartn de termitas y sobre la corteza exfoliante del rbol Bursera fagaroides Engl. (Burseraceae). Aunque solamente el 19 por ciento de los rboles investigados tenan senderos de termitas, estos albergaban el 92 por ciento de las orqudeas. Un nmero desproporcionado de plntulas de orqudea crecan sobre el cartn de las termitas a pesar de la abundancia relativa de cartn y corteza. Nuestros resultados demuestran, por primera vez, que las orqudeas pueden establecerse sobre senderos de termitas y discutimos la posible facilitacin de las termitas en la poblacin de orqudeas.
2388828|Polymorphic allozyme loci were used to estimate outcrossing rates for three tree species from a disturbed dry forest in southern Costa Rica. Estimates of the multilocus outcrossing rates of Cedrela odorata and Jacaranda copaia were 0.969 and 0.982, respectively, and suggest that these species may be self-incompatible. The subcanopy tree Stemmadenia donnell-smithii also demonstrated little self-fertilization based on an estimated outcrossing rate of 0.896. Significant heterogeneity in pollen allele frequencies among maternal trees was detected for at least two enzyme loci for each species. A test of correlated mating between progeny of S. donnell-smithii revealed that all seeds within a fruit were singly sired. In addition, the low estimates of biparental inbreeding and significant differences in pollen and ovule allele frequencies for this species suggest that gene flow into the sampled forest fragment may occur. The implications of deforestation on the mating systems of these tropical tree taxa are discussed.
2663934|Nodding capitula are a striking feature in several Asteraceae species of the Andean superparamo. In this study, the thermal environment of the nodding inflorescence in Culcitium canescens Humb. & Bonpl. was surveyed by a short-term microclimatic measurement. Temperatures of the nodding inflorescences were higher than temperatures of the surrounding air during the day, while the respective temperatures were comparable during the night. Also, compared to other parts of the plant, the nodding inflorescence provided favorable temperature conditions. An experiment showed that the radiation reflected from the substratum explained most of the variability in the inflorescence temperature. It is suggested that the nodding capitula have evolved to protect the flowers from snow and rain while at the same time ensuring sufficient temperatures for floral development.
10.2307/2989744|The growth habit of Rhizophora mangle L. in southern Florida is described in a preliminary way. A number of features contrasting with those in temperate trees are emphasized. The seeds are viviparous, and it is a seedling propagule that falls from the tree. The seedling can form adventitious buds, but the mature plant cannot. Branches are formed at intervals within the terminal bud, and on lateral shoots branching changes from monopodial to sympodial. Aerial roots are formed adventitiously and do not develop laterals unless distally anchored in the substrate or injured. Subterranean roots branch endogenously and differ markedly from aerial roots.
2663811|Due to frequent fire, low nutrient availability, and prolonged drought, tropical savanna is a stressful environment for the survival and growth of woody plant seedlings. To understand why forest species do not succeed in this environment while savanna species are able to persist, the effects of fire and woody cover on seedlings of these two functional groups were investigated in the Brazilian Cerrado. Seedlings were established in experimental plots under three densities of woody cover, in sites protected from fire and sites to be subjected to fire. There was a clear difference in the ability of savanna and forest species to survive fire. None of the three forest species were able to survive fire during the first two years of life, whereas eight of the nine savanna species were able to resprout following fire. The small seed size of the ninth savanna species, Miconia albicans, predisposed its seedlings to be sensitive to fire, because there was a strong positive correlation between seed size and survivorship. Savanna species were less dependent on woody cover than were forest species, which exhibited higher growth and survival under tree canopies than in open grassland. The low rates of establishment and survival of forest trees in savanna, combined with high sensitivity to fire, appear sufficient to prevent the expansion of forest into savanna under current fire regimes in the Cerrado.
30043301|The occurrence and distribution of hypogaeic army ants is still poorly known despite their potential importance for tropical soil ecosystems. We present the first record of one of the most cryptic of army ants, Cheliomyrmex morosus, in Panama and list a diverse array of associated arthropods. The late discovery of these ants and high diversity of their associates indicates that much remains to be discovered even in one of the most intensely studied research areas.
2663855|Seedling and sapling dynamics in a Puerto Rican rain forest were compared between forest understory and soil pits created by the uprooting of 27 trees during Hurricane Hugo. Soil N and P, organic matter, and soil moisture were lower and bulk densities were higher in the disturbed mineral soils of the pits than in undisturbed forest soils ten months after the hurricane. No differences in N and P levels were found in pit or forest soils under two trees with N-fixing symbionts (Inga laurina and Ormosia krugii) compared to soils under a tree species without N-fixing symbionts (Casearia arborea), but other soil variables (Al, Fe, K) did vary by tree species. Forest plots had greater species richness of seedlings (<10 cm tall) and saplings (10-100 cm tall) than plots in the soil pits (and greater sapling densities), but seedling densities were similar between plot types. Species richness and seedling densities did not vary among plots associated with the three tree species, but some saplings were more abundant under trees of the same species. Pit size did not affect species richness or seedling and sapling densities. Recruitment of young Cecropia schreberiana trees (>5 m tall) 45 months after the hurricane was entirely from the soil pits, with no tree recruitment from forest plots. Larger soil pits had more tree recruitment than smaller pits. Defoliation of the forest by the hurricane created a large but temporary increase in light availability. Recruitment of C. schreberiana to the canopy occurred in gaps created by the treefall pits that had lower soil nutrients but provided a longer-term increase in light availability. Treefall pits also significantly altered the recruitment and mortality of many understory species in the Puerto Rican rain forest but did not alter species richness.
41241916|Tropical dry forests (TDFs) host a large diversity of tree species but little is known of potential mechanisms that contribute to its maintenance. Given the paramount importance of water availability in such forests, tree species would be expected to show nonrandom patterns along water availability gradients, as well as differential individual species responses. In this work we explored whether that was true for 50 dominant tree species. Within a total area of 5.2 ha, divided into 26 transects each with ten 20 x 10 m plots, we registered presence-absence of these tree species with diameter at breast height > 5cm. We assessed the response of trees to four environmental variables differentially related to water availability in three steps: (1) identifying the shape of the response to individual environmental variables, (2) testing for artifacts in previous patterns due to spatial autocorrelation of presenceabsence, and (3) identifying the environmental variable or combination of variables that best explained the pattern. We then classified the species with respect to their probability of occurrence along the gradient, and explored which components of the water cycle were likely to be driving the observed patterns. We found that 14 species were generalists, 16 drought tolerant, 9 intermediate, 3 water demanding and 8 showed mixed responses. Lateral flow and access to ground water most likely underlie such patterns. Our results confirm the key role played by water availability in tree species distribution. Water-related niche differentiation seems to be crucial for maintaining the high diversity of this TDF.
30044941|We introduce a special section that addresses the bushmeat or wild meat crisis, its direct impact on game species, and its indirect impact on plants in tropical forests.
10.2307/2989628|Optimal foraging theory predicts that the energy value of a marginally acceptable item equals the overall energy available to the animal in the environment (calories per unit time). If true, then the selective behavior of the consumer may be used as a measure of this important parameter. In many arthropod predators the time spent feeding on an individual item should vary inversely with energy availability. This hypothesis is successfully tested using two species of tiger beetles (Cicindelidae). In many vertebrate predators the minimal acceptable food size should vary directly with energy availability. This hypothesis is not tested here, although some support for it exists in the literature. If valid, the simplicity of the method described allows the assessment of global patterns of energy availability for some taxa. Preliminary information on tropical-temperate gradients for birds is given.
30043170|In the Ecuadorian Andes, populations of 24 anuran species have been reported to be in the process of decline or extinction since the late 1980s. In spite of these reports, quantitative data on population trends on anuran populations in Ecuador are scarce. We compare relative abundance and species composition in surveys conducted between 1967 and 1988 (initial surveys) with surveys conducted between March 2000 and November 2003 (recent surveys) in seven anuran communities in the Andes of Ecuador. A total of 76 anuran species was registered. In 88 populations corresponding to 73 species in seven localities, 56 of them decreased and 27 increased their relative abundances. We observed significant differences in the number of species present in the initial surveys with respect to recent surveys. In six out of seven localities we registered fewer species than previously, even though capture effort was greater in recent surveys. Differences were of higher magnitude for species with aquatic larvae (34 species in initial surveys and 17 in recent surveys). Differences were not significant for species with direct development (genus Eleutherodactylus; 28 species in initial and recent surveys). We registered increases in the upper limit of the altitudinal range for six species and nine new records for six localities. /// En los Andes de Ecuador, poblaciones de 24 especies de anuros han sido reportadas en proceso de declinacin o extincin desde finales de la dcada de 1980. Sin embargo, existen muy pocos datos cuantitativos sobre las tendencias en las poblaciones de anuros en el Ecuador. Este trabajo compara la abundancia relativa y la composicin de especies de muestreos llevados a cabo entre 1967 y 1988 (muestreos iniciales) con muestreos llevados a cabo entre marzo de 2000 y noviembre de 2003 (muestreos recientes) en siete comunidades de anuros en los Andes de Ecuador. En total se registraron 76 especies de anuros. Comparamos 88 poblaciones correspondientes a 73 especies en las siete localidades, de las cuales 56 disminuyeron y 27 incrementaron su abundancia relativa. Observamos diferencias significativas al comparar el nmero de especies presentes en los muestreos iniciales respecto a muestreos recientes. En seis de las siete localidades registramos menos especies que en el pasado a pesar de que el esfuerzo de captura fue mayor en los muestreos recientes. Las diferencias fueron de mayor magnitud al considerar nicamente especies con larvas acuticas (34 especies en muestreos iniciales vs. 17 en los recientes). No observamos diferencias significativas para ranas de desarrollo directo del gnero Eleutherodactylus (28 especies en muestreos iniciales y recientes). Registramos incrementos altitudinales para seis especies y nueve nuevos registros para seis localidades.
10.2307/2387714|Seed fall in a Brazilian subtropical lower montane, moist forest was measured over a year using 120 traps that had a total collecting surface of 174 m
2663774|The Amazon Forest and the Cerrado of central Brazil share an extensive zone of integration. Each of these major ecosystems remains poorly studied; however, the composition of communities at the contact zone is even less well described. Small mammals were sampled during a ten-week period in a zone of contact between Amazonian forest and Cerrado. The vegetation in the area was a complex mixture of tropical and semi-deciduous forest, and grassland and savanna woodland formations. Mammals were marked and recaptured on 0.25- to 0.5-km transects and vouchers were collected. A total of 19 species was caught (13 rodents and 6 marsupials) in 4621 trap nights. Transitions from one vegetation type to another were abrupt with ecotones frequently < 5 m in width. The highest -diversity was 7 species in cerrado. Ten of the 19 species were restricted to one habitat and 6 were restricted to two habitats. Three generalist grassland species occurred in more than two habitats, all variations of savanna. These data support other research indicating high habitat specificity of vertebrates and plants in the Brazilian savannas. The diversity of habitats within reserves in tropical grasslands must be given consideration in the design of protected areas in order to maximize the conservation of mammalian biodiversity.
30043297|Habitat fragmentation and conversion are among the human activities that pose the greatest threat to species persistence and conservation of biodiversity. This is particularly true in the Neotropics, where bats represent important components of biodiversity from taxonomic and functional perspectives, and provide critical ecosystem services (e.g., seed dispersal and pollination). We assessed the degree to which conversion of lowland Amazonian rain forest to agriculture, and its subsequent abandonment and secondary succession, affect the abundances of populations of phyllostomid bats in the vicinity of Iquitos, Per. During 90, 720 net-m-h of sampling, we captured 3789 bats of five families; of these 3764 were phyllostomids representing 44 species, 23 genera, and three feeding guilds. We focus on the 24 most abundant species of phyllostomids. In terms of abundance, frugivores dominated assemblages in all habitat types and seasons. Eight species consistently responded to habitat conversion, two species consistently responded to season, two species responded consistently to both habitat and season, and five species responded to habitat conversion in a season-specific manner. Frugivores and nectarivores were abundant in areas that had been converted to agriculture, which suggests that these bats are resilient to extant levels of disturbance and may be important in promoting secondary succession. However, this result may be scale- or context-dependent. If habitat conversion continues and dramatically reduces the areal extent and increases fragmentation of mature forest, then a complex metacommunity dynamic may characterize the region and source populations of bats may become threatened or extirpated locally.
30044035|The relationship between forest succession and microfungal diversity has been poorly studied. Fungi provide important ecosystem services that may deteriorate in deforested or highly disturbed forests. To determine the possible effects of deforestation and forest succession on microfungi, species diversity of hypocrealean fungi (Ascomycota) was compared in forest stands in Eastern Costa Rica representing three stages of succession: 1-2, 25-27 yr old, and an old growth forest. Species diversity in a second-growth forest fragment surrounded by timber plantations and second-growth forest was also compared to that of a stand surrounded by old growth forest. The results show that the overall diversity of hypocrealean fungi was inversely proportional to the age of the forest stand, and each family showed different successional trends. Clavicipitaceae was more diverse in the old-growth forest and was positively related to the age of the forest stand. Nectriaceae was highly diverse in the 1- to 2-yr-old stand and less diverse in the old-growth stand. Saprobic and plant pathogenic fungal species were more diverse in the 1 - to 2-yr-old stand and their diversity was inversely proportional to the age of the forest stand. The diversity of insect pathogens was positively related to the age of the forest stand. The 20- to 22-yr-old forest fragment had the lowest number of species overall. Based on the data gathered in this study, hypocrealean fungal species diversity is related to the successional stage and fragmentation of tropical forest. /// La relacin entre la sucesin de bosques secundarios y la diversidad de microhongos ha sido poco estudiada. Los hongos proveen servicios importantes al ecosistema, los cuales podran deteriorarse en reas deforestadas o altamente alteradas. Para determinar los posibles efectos de deforestacin y sucesin del bosque en los microhongos, la diversidad de especies de hongos hipocreceos (Ascomycota) se evalu en varias localidades de Costa Rica que representaban tres estados de sucesin: 1-2, 25-27 aos, y un bosque primario. La diversidad de especies en un fragmento de bosque rodeado de plantaciones forestales y bosque secundario tambin se compar a un bosque de la misma edad rodeado de bosque viejo. Los resultados demuestran que la diversidad total de hongos hipocreceos es inversamente proporcional a la edad del bosque. Cuando se analiz cada familia separadamente, se encontraron tendencias diferentes. Clavicipitaceae tuvo una alta diversidad en el bosque primario y una relacin positiva a la edad del bosque. Nectriaceae tuvo una alta diversidad en rodales de 1-2 aos y una baja diversidad en el bosque primario. Las especies de hongos saprfitas y fitopatgenas tuvieron una relacin negativa con respecto a la edad del bosque. La diversidad de especies entomopatgenas tuvieron una relacin positiva a la edad del rodal. El fragmento de bosque de 20-22 aos tuvo el menor nmero de especies. Basado en los datos obtenidos en este estudio, el estado de sucesin del bosque y su fragmentacin estn relacionados a la diversidad de especies de hongos hipocreceos.
2663883|Tropical rain forests are characterized by their rich plant diversity and highly diverse insect faunas containing mainly rare species. Phytophagous and parasitoid insects utilizing such fragmented resources often must travel considerable distances to find suitable hosts. For small, weak-flying insects, entry into the fast-flowing air above the canopy can provide one way by which long-distance dispersal is achieved. Using sticky traps placed at different heights in a lowland rain forest of Borneo, we compared the diurnal and nocturnal flight heights of chalcids, a group of mainly very small parasitoids and phytophages, to determine if the air above the canopy was used for dispersal. Most families were represented throughout the range of trap heights, including those above the general canopy. A higher proportion of individuals were trapped above the canopy at night than during the day. Fig wasps were exceptional in that they were trapped almost entirely above the canopy. They included species associated with host trees that do not fruit in the canopy, suggesting that these short-lived, slow-flying insects actively fly up above the canopy and then use the wind to passively carry them the long distances needed to reach their highly localized and ephemeral hosts. Once the fig wasps detect the species-specific volatiles released by their host figs, they then may fly down into the canopy, where the lower wind speeds would allow them to fly actively upwind to their hosts.
4132964| The diurnal time budget of four herds of white-lipped peccaries (Tayassu pecan) was studied using direct observation. The study took place from July 1996 to April 1997 in Corcovado National Park, southwestern Costa Rica. We predicted that time budget would be diagnostic of peccaries' welfare regarding food abundance. We considered that a decrease in time spent resting and in social interactions would be indicative of nutritional stress. Peccaries spent 34 percent (1.7) of their daytime eating, 33 percent (1.8) moving, 28 percent (2.3) resting, 3 percent (0.25) in social interactions, and 2.6 percent (1.4) in other activities. The time spent resting decreased as the time spent moving and eating increased during the months of fruit scarcity. There were no differences among habitats in the proportion of time used for each activity. In the wet season, peccaries spent more time eating than in the dry season, probably because of the considerable time allocated to rooting. The monthly variation in time spent on social interactions and the frequency of agonistic interactions seemed to be related to breeding rather than fruit availability. While in the study area, peccaries traveled the longest distance in October, which coincided with the lowest fruit availability. In mid-November, the radio-marked herds left the study area and returned in January. Analyses of the peccaries' time budget suggest that fruit scarcity at the end of the wet season affected the peccaries' behavior and probably induced them to travel long distances in search of food. 
10.2307/2389090|Different intensities and frequencies of disturbances can alter spatial and temporal patterns of abundances for coexisting species. We observed the effects of a high-flow event generated by Hurricane Hugo (19 September 1989) and below-normal stream flow during 1994 on freshwater shrimp populations in a tropical, montane stream. To determine if these different hydrologic regimes altered distributions of populations, we compared shrimp densities during three periods: pre-Hurricane Hugo (20 mo), post-Hurricane Hugo (50 mo), and low-flow (12 mo). There were significant differences in the relationships between locations of stream pools along an elevational gradient (300 to 470 m) and the abundances of two species of shrimp (Atya lanipes and Xiphocaris elongata) during these three periods. Atypa increased in density with increasing elevation in a consistent fashion during all three periods. Densities also increased during the post-Hugo and low-flow periods relative to the pre-Hugo baseline. Xiphocaris increased in density with increasing elevation during the pre- and post-Hugo periods, but density decreased with elevation during the low-flow period. Palaemonid species of predatory shrimp, Macrobrachium carcinus and Macrobrachium crenulatum, consistently decreased in density with elevation during all three periods of observation. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated high predictability of Atya density distributions based on volume, pool depth, and coefficient of variation of pool depth during the pre-Hugo baseline observations. Xiphocaris densities were positively associated with pool width and negatively associated with the coefficient of variation of pool width in the pre-Hugo period. However, physical variables did not predict Atya or Xiphocaris densities during the post-Hugo period. During the dry period, there was a negative association between Atya densities and pool depth and width, and a positive association with the coefficient of variation of pool depth. During the dry period, Xiphocaris densities were best predicted as a function of maximum depth; there was a negative association with the coefficient of variation of pool width. Pre-Hugo Macrobrachium densities were negatively associated with the coefficient of variation of pool width, pool width-to-depth ratio, and elevation; in the post-Hugo and dry periods, Macrobrachium densities were best predicted by elevation. Mechanisms that likely cause these patterns of distribution include avoidance of predators coupled with active preference by prey species for pool habitats with low frequency of washout by storm flows, and with sufficient storage of food resources (microbially conditioned leaf detritus).
20492489|We examined bait preferences of litter ants along a successional gradient of forests in the Atlantic Forest of Brazil. The ants preferred protein-based baits in secondary forests, yet preferred carbohydrate-based baits in old-growth forests. This suggests a shift in stoichiometric balances between secondary and old-growth forest which might have an impact on the functional interactions in these ecosystems. Therefore, the ecological services offered by secondary habitats may be quite different from those offered by old-growth forests.
10.2307/2388199|Seedlings of Inga fagifolia (L.) Willd. and I. pezizifera Benth. were planted into the understory of a Costa Rican rain forest to test whether the proximity of large-leaved dwarf palms and cyclanths affects seedling growth and survival and if so, whether that effect is primarily due to above or belowground processes. In two sites, seedlings were planted either near palms (or palm-like Cyclanthaceae) or nearby in sites with no overarching vegetation under 1.5 m. Half of the seedlings in each treatment were trenched to a depth of 30 cm by cutting all roots 25 cm from the seedling. The proximity of palms or cyclanths significantly affected growth and survival of both species. However, most of this effect could be attributed to loss of stem length due to herbivore or pathogen damage rather than to differences in growth rates. There was no significant effect of trenching on seedling growth. Vegetation data from ten widely distributed sites in the forest showed that seedling density was inversely correlated with the abundance of understory palms and cyclanths. Our data suggest that understory vegetation, especially broad-leaved palms and palm-like cyclanths, acts as a filter affecting the distribution and abundance of establishing seedlings.
10.2307/2388844|I determined rates of acetylene reduction and estimated rates of nitrogen fixation in three sites that varied in soil age and nitrogen accumulation on Kilauea Volcano, Hawai`i. The major substrates in which acetylene reduction occurred were lichens of the genus Stereocaulon, liverworts, decaying leaf litter, and decaying wood. Estimated rates of nitrogen fixation were 0.3, 1.2, and 2.8 kgha
10.2307/2388517|Tropical forests are major contributors to the composition of the atmosphere, and anthropogenic changes to tropical ecosystems have driven changes in the atmosphere. Tropical biologists can make and have made significant contributions to understanding these effects, but we can also learn a great deal from the atmospheric sciences. In this paper, we show how knowledge about the functioning of tropical ecosystems can contribute to building a global source budget for a greenhouse gas (nitrous oxide), and how accumulating information from atmospheric measurements suggests that increased concentrations of a reactive gas (tropospheric ozone) represent a significant perturbation to tropical ecosystems--even in remote areas.
41241894|Madagascar's ecosystems are subject to high levels of anthropogenic disturbance and stochastic events, including cyclones. We investigated the abundance of grayheaded lemurs (Eulemur cinereiceps) and vegetation structure in the fragmented forest of Manombo from 1995 to 2007, including 10yr following Cyclone Gretelle in January 1997. We predicted that the density of this arboreal, frugivorous lemur would be similar in the pre- and post-cyclone intervals only if tree measures demonstrate trends toward recovery in the post-cyclone period. Initial impacts included severe damage to over 60 percent of trees. After 10 yr, all vegetation metrics except for stem density remained low relative to the pre-cydone period, including dbh, height, and basal area. To investigate vegetation changes separately from cyclone effects, we compared forest structure in the pre-cydone period alone. Basal area declined but dbh and stem density did not vary between 1995 and 1997; thus, anthropogenic activities or other factors did not consistently alter forest structure in this 2-yr period. Subsequent changes may be linked to cyclone response, presumably in synergy with human disturbance. Contrary to predictions, recent gray-headed lemur population densities were nearly identical to those recorded in 1995 (13.5  3.2 vs. 13.6  6.4 individuals/km, respectively). Lemur populations may have remained stable or declined initially and then recovered in the last 10yr. Life history and ecological adaptations may explain their resistance or resilience when faced with habitat change. Recent models suggest that lemurs have evolved in response to unpredictable environmental conditions. Such environmental variability may increase with projected climate change.
20492463|We surveyed postfire vegetation at five sites at high elevations (&gt; 2000 m) in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. Highlands of the Cordillera Central are dominated by a single pine species, Pinus occidentalis, but plant communities are rich with endemics and conservation and fire management efforts in these systems are ongoing. The burns were 2-7 yr in age and had consumed nearly all shrub crowns. Pines suffered high mortality (&gt; 50%, all sites combined), but shrubs resprouted at high rates (88%, N = 957) after fire. All shrub taxa produced basal resprouts; eight of 11 shrub taxa measured had resprouting rates &gt; 90 percent, while Baccharis myrsinites had the lowest (56%). Most taxa grew to prefire height quickly (within 5-7 yr), with regrowth of stem diameters lagging behind. Patterns and rates of shrub recovery resembled those documented in high elevation shrublands in Costa Rica and Brazil. Pinus occidentalis does not resprout, but larger individuals can survive fire. Survival increases dramatically when trees attain &gt; 13-cm dbh, when bark becomes thick enough to protect cambial tissue. Overall, pines are regenerating much more slowly than shrubs, but seedling establishment varied considerably between sites. Frequent fires may cause a decline in pines and an increase in shrub-or grass-dominated communities. Succession in these high elevation fire-dependent pine forests favors taxa already present in the preburn vegetation, with woody composition changing little after fire, in contrast to lower-elevation cloud forest, where postfire vegetation has been shown to bear little resemblance to mature forest even after several years.
30043236|We investigated habitat preference in the community of ungulates in the Calakmul Forest of Southern Mexico through systematically counting the tracks of six species in randomly placed transects. Tracks were associated with one of four major forest types according to Pennington and Sarukhan (1998). Forest type availability was estimated through 393 independent points on the same transects. We surveyed 90 transects in three hunted areas and one large nonhunted area, with a total of 206 km walked. A total of 1672 tracks of the six species were found. Brocket deer (Mazama americana and Mazama pandora) preferred low-dry forest in the nonhunted area and low-flooded forest in the hunted areas. Collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) was a generalist species in the nonhunted area, whereas in the hunted areas, it preferred the subperennial forest. White-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) was found only in subperennial forest in the nonhunted area and favored low-flooded forest in the hunted areas. White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) preferred low-flooded forest in the hunted areas, while it was a generalist in the nonhunted area. Tapir (Tapirus bairdit) preferred low-flooded forest in the hunted areas. The most evident habitat difference among hunted and nonhunted areas was a major use of low-flooded forest in the hunted areas for the species. Conservation of ungulate species in the Calakmul region requires protection of all major habitat types in hunted and nonhunted areas. /// Las preferencias de hbitat en una comunidad de ungulados fueron estimadas a travs de contos sistemticos de huellas de las seis especies en transectos situados al azar. Las huellas encontrados fueron relacionados con cada uno de los cuatro tipos de hbitat ms frecuentes encontrados en el bosque tropical (de acuerdo con Pennington & Sarukhan 1998) de la Regin de Calakmul en el sur de Mxico. La disponibilidad de los cuatro tipos de hbitats fueron estimadas a travs del registro de 393 puntos independientes tomados en los transectos. Noventa transectos fueron caminados en tres reas con cacera y una gran rea sin cacera con un total de 206 kilometros caminados. Se encontraron 1672 huellas de las seis especies. Los venados temazates (Mazama americana y Mazama pandora) prefirieron el bosque bajo seco en el rea sin cacera y el bosque inundable en las reas con cacera. El pecari de collar (Pecari tajacu) prefiri la selva subperennifolia en las reas con cacera y no mostr preferencias en el rea sin cacera, mientras que el pecari de labios blancos (Tayassu pecari) solo se encontr en la selva subperennifolia en el rea sin cacera y prefiri el bosque bajo inundable en las reas con cacera. En estas mismas reas el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) prefiri el bosque bajo inundable y fue un generalista en el rea sin cacera. El tapir (Tapirus bairdi) prefiri el bosque bajo inundable en las reas con cacera. La diferencia ms evidente entre reas con cacera y sin cacera fue un mayor so del bosque bajo inundable en las reas con cacera por las especies. Conservacin de los ngulatos en la region de Calakmul requiere proteccin de habitats en reas de cacera y reas sin cacera.
20492559|I estimated habitat-specific population densities for a population of Bornean white-bearded gibbons Hylobates albibarbis inhabiting seven distinct forest types at Gunung Palung National Park, West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Population densities in montane forests (0.44 individuals/km) were almost ten times lower than those in the next best habitat (upland granite forest; 4.2 individuals/km) and far lower than those in lowland forest types. Demographic data on 33 gibbon groups living across the seven forest types showed that reproduction was substantially depressed in montane forests compared to high-quality lowland habitats. A simple model suggests that montane forests are demographic sinks for gibbons at Gunung Palung. Follow-up data from observations of montane groups 5 yr after the initial observation period support this result. As high-quality lowland forests (source habitat for gibbons) are being disproportionately lost in and around Gunung Palung National Park due to illegal logging and conversion to oil palm plantations, an increasing percentage of the remaining forest in the park comprises sink habitat for gibbons. This result has disquieting implications for the long-term viability of gibbon populations at Gunung Palung. In addition, as montane forests are generally low-quality habitat for most rainforest vertebrates, and since lowland forests are being lost at alarming rates across the tropics, source-sink population dynamics similar to those I describe here may characterize populations of other tropical vertebrate species.
3593184| To study the structure and composition of old-growth forest in the Sarac-Taquera National Forest near Porto Trombetas, Brazil, we established 36 0.25 ha plots and described the vegetation. We collected charcoal from the A2 soil horizon of each plot for radiocarbon dating. Although fires have been very rare in this forest during historic times, the presence of charcoal in these soils indicates fire at some earlier period. The ages (conventional radiocarbon age adjusted to 1997) of the charcoal ranged from 177 to 1547 years. These ages, however, did not correlate significantly with any of several measures of biodiversity or stand characteristics. The relative uniformity of the current old-growth forest indicates that either the prehistoric fires were of such low intensity that they had little long-term effect on the vegetation or that the present stands have progressed to near steady state. 
2389146|Prestoea schultzeana is a monoecious, protandrous palm in the forest understory of Amazonian Ecuador. We studied its leaf production, population density, sexual expression, phenology, pollination, and the specificity of the floral visitors. On average, 1.4 leaves and 0.9 inflorescences are produced per individual per year. The number of staminate flowers per inflorescence is relatively constant compared with the number of pistillate flowers which varies greatly. Flowering occurs in staminate and pistillate phases of approximately 19 and 0-7 days duration, respectively. Flowers open in the morning, and staminate flowers abscise in the afternoon of the same day whereas pistillate flowers last for two days. Flowers are whitish-yellow with a sweet odor and produce nectar. They were visited by Coleoptera (Chrysomelidae, Curculionidae, Nitidulidae, Ptiliidae, Staphylinidae), Hemiptera, Diptera (Drosophilidac, Syrphidac, Ceratopogonidae), Lepidoptera (Nymphalidae), and Hymenoptera (Formicidae, Halictidae). All examined individuals of the syrphid fly Copestylum sp. visiting pistillate flowers carried 100-500 grains of P. schultzeana pollen. Pollen occurred on all body parts, but especially on the legs, and this makes Copestylum sp. the most important pollinator. Most floral visitors were also frequent on the flowers of co-occurring plant species; notably the palm Hyospathe elegans shared most visitor species with P. schultzeana.
27742862|Land cover transformations in the tropics are not limited to deforestation; they include other complex transitions such as agricultural and urban expansion, pasture development, and secondary vegetation regrowth. Understanding the causes and extent of these highly variable and complex transitions requires close collaboration between biological, physical, and social scientists. Here we address three critical issues in the study of land transitions: (1) What methodological and socioecological criteria should be used for characterizing land cover categories and transformations? Results from case studies presented here call for the creation of continuous land cover classes that allow for detection of disturbance and human use dynamics and consideration of socioeconomic and biophysical criteria in characterizing and monitoring land transitions. (2) What are the most promising theoretical frameworks? Successful theoretical frameworks must bridge disciplinary boundaries, and encompass multiple spatial, temporal, and political scales. (3) Are regime shifts, constraints, and resilience of land transformations in the tropics predictable? Resilience of land use systems requires a feedback loop between ecological constraints and management decisions. This loop may be broken by policies, migration, and flow of capital from global commodity markets. In addition, land transformations may lead to novel interactions between land-use and natural disturbance leading to unpredictable regime shifts in ecosystems. Planning for sustainable patterns of land use requires some understanding of these regime transformations.
10.2307/2387867|Starch gel electrophoresis has been carried out on leaf extracts of Shorea leprosula, S. ovalis, and Xerospermum intermedium, rain forest trees growing in South-west Malaysia. A high level of intra-population genetic variation is indicated by electromorphic frequencies obtained from S. leprosula and X. intermedium extracts, but not so for S. ovalis extracts which yielded remarkably uniform electromorph patterns. Evidence is presented for genetic differences between age classes.
10.2307/2388575|We investigated small-scale spatial variation in dispersal success of the ant-dispersed herb Calathea ovandensis, and the potential effect of seed predators on seed dispersal. We found no evidence that vertebrate seed predators influenced seed dispersal probabilities. Seeds placed in experimental seed depots which excluded vertebrate seed predators (but not ants) were removed at the same rate as those in depots accessible to both ants and vertebrates. Five ant species were attracted to the seeds, but only two, Pachycondyla harpax and P. apicalis, regularly moved seeds beyond the parent plant canopy. P. harpax, the most abundant ant, moved seeds about 75 cm; the rarer P. apicalis moved seeds 12 times further. Other ants recruited to seeds without effecting dispersal; in particular, Solenopsis geminata and Wasmannia auropunctata interfered with seed dispersal. Their frequency varied (0-36%) among sites, resulting in significant variation among sites in seed removal rates.
30044958|Many animals, plants, and microorganisms are harmed by ultraviolet-B radiation. In particular, several members of class amphibia are negatively affected by exposure to ultraviolet-B radiation. Exposure to ultraviolet-B radiation can cause death or various types of sublethal damage in amphibians. One mechanism to lessen the effect of harmful ultraviolet-B radiation is to limit exposure to sunlight behaviorally. Few studies have examined the behavioral sensitivity of adult amphibians to ultraviolet-B radiation. Using both field experiments and field observations, we found that two species of diurnal poison-dart frogs in Costa Rica (Dendrobates pumilio, D. auratus) consistently preferred areas in the field and within experimental testing chambers that offered low levels of ultraviolet-B radiation. In field observations, vocalizing D. pumilio were found at locations with significantly lower levels of ambient ultraviolet-B compared to random locations throughout their natural habitat. Ultraviolet-B avoidance behavior may be an important behavioral response for tropical frogs in light of recent evidence suggesting a significant increase in the levels of ambient ultraviolet-B radiation in the tropics over the past decade.
30044039|We studied some feeding behaviors of the purple-throated fruitcrow (Querulapurpurata) in two Colombian Amazonian forests, which affect the primary seed dispersal of the plants on which it feeds. Visit length, number of fruits removed and dispersed, feeding rates, and fruit-handling times were compared to those obtained for two other cotingas feeding on the same fruiting trees. Querula purpurata exhibited shorter visits (98 sec) and fruit-handling times (4 sec), and higher mean feeding rates (1.6 fruits/min) than Phoenicircus nigricollis and Cotinga cayana. In contrast, P. nigricollis dispersed the highest number of seeds of four of the five tree species studied. Although Q. purpurata and P. nigricollis exhibited feeding behaviors that increase seed dispersal, Q. purpurata may be more important in the transport of seeds between habitats, while P. nigricollis may be a major seed disperser within the primary forest. /// Estudiamos algunos comportamientos alimenticios de la cotinga Querula purpurata que inciden en la dispersin primaria de semillas de plantas de las que se alimenta, en dos bosques amaznicos colombianos. La duracin de la visita, el nmero de frutos removidos y dispersados, las tasas de alimentacin y los tiempos de manejo del fruto se compararon con los datos obtenidos para otras dos especies de cotingas (Phoenicircus nigricollis y Cotinga cayana) que se alimentan con los frutos de las mismas especies de rboles. Querula purpurata present visitas (98 s) y tiempos de manejo del fruto (4 s) ms cortos que P. nigricollis y C. cayana, mientras que la tasa promedio de alimentacin fue mayor. En contraste, P. nigricollis dispers el mayor nmero de semillas de cuatro de las cinco especies de rboles estudiados. Aunque, Q. purpurata y P. nigricollis presentaron comportamientos alimenticios que aumentan la dispersin de semillas, Q. Purpurata parece ser ms importante en el transporte de semillas entre diferentes hbitats, mientras que P. nigricollis puede ser un buen dispersor de semillas dentro del bosque primario.
2663943|We examined seed dispersal by bats and birds in four habitats of the Selva Lacandona tropical rain forest region, Chiapas, Mexico. The four habitats represented a disturbance gradient: active cornfield, ten-year-old abandoned cornfield, cacao plantation, and forest. Using seed traps examined before sunrise (0400 h) and before sunset (1800 h), we compared volant vertebrate seed dispersal, assuming that seeds found at the end of the night were dispersed by bats and those found at the end of the day were dispersed by birds. We did not find seeds from other frugivores such as monkeys or opossums. In all habitats bats dispersed more seeds than birds. In most months bats also dispersed more seeds than birds, except in December when no seeds were found in the traps. Bats also consistently dispersed more species of seeds than birds, although a 
10.2307/2389057|The abundance, time of activity, time budget, and microhabitat selection of a population of Ameiva ameiva living in the Sierra of Chiribiquete (Southeastern Colombia) were studied. The area is isolated from the surrounding forest and has reduced trophic resources and few potential predators of lizards. The population is characterized by the small size of the lizards and by low density (22.1 indv/ha). Probably the special characteristics of the habitat make possible the lengthened daily activity pattern in both juvenile and adult individuals, but this pattern is also related to relative humidity. The juveniles showed a unimodal pattern with maximum frequency of sightings at midday, while the adults preferred the morning and afternoon hours. Both age groups used open, sunny areas and spent most of their time in foraging and basking behaviors.
10.2307/2387919|The large genus Dalechampia, including over 100 species of great vegetative diversity, has a basically uniform pseudanthial inflorescence. Investigation of two sympatric species in Mexico has shown considerable divergence in pollination adaptations. In D. spathulata, male euglossine bees are attracted by and collect aromatic substances secreted by the extra-floral gland of the inflorescences. In D magnistipulata, female euglossine bees are attracted by and collect sticky resins secreted by the homologous gland. This study adds a new genus and family to the list of plant taxa exhibiting the male euglossine pollination syndrome which has been so well documented in tropical orchids. It also further elucidates a unique mode of pollinator attraction by resin production which has been reported from only one other plant genus.
10.2307/2387952|Herbivore damage to fronds of Polybotrya cervina. Thelypteris turrialbae. and Adiantum obliquum from Finca La Selva, Costa Rica, was measured, and types of damage were distinguished. Herbivores removed 9.9, 5.5, and 7 3 percent of the leaf tissue, respectively The amount removed did not differ significantly among the species, although the proportion of fronds with different types of damage was different. In this study the levels of damage to ferns are similar to those reported for tropical angiosperms, suggesting that the vegetative parts of tropical ferns and angiosperms are utilized equally by herbivores. The variety of damage types suggests that tropical ferns host a varied insect fauna. These results support the hypothesis that underutilization of ferns by herbivores is largely an artifact of inadequate sampling.
10.2307/2388590|Fringe and riverine forests of mangroves occur along the Shiira River of Inomote Island, Japan. Sonneratia alba is distributed around the river mouth as a fringe forest. A mixed forest of Rhizophora stylosa and Bruguiera gymnorrhiza, a pure forest of Bruguiera, and a mixed forest of Bruguiera and nonmangrove plants are seen between 0 and 0.4, 0.4 and 1.5, and 1.5 and 2.0 km from the river mouth, respectively. During high tide and 2 h before on the days of flood tide, the salinity of brackish water at the river mouth was almost the same as that of seawater. However, the invasion of upstream fresh water in the 2 h after high tide reduced the salinity at the river mouth to about half that of seawater. The water at 1.6 km upstream maintained low salinity, from 4 to 0.1<???>, throughout the survey period. Salinity and salt concentration changed more in the brackish water along the riverine forests than in the groundwater. During high tide, the ratio of divalent to monovalent cation in brackish water collected from above the soil of both a Rhizophora-Bruguiera mixed forest and a Bruguiera pure forest was approximately ten times that of seawater. However, this ratio in brackish water collected from fringe forests at the river mouth was similar to that of the seawater. Although generally high in the Bruguiera area, the di-to-monovalent cation ratio was lower in soil water than in surface water. The soils of Bruguiera-dominated forests contained less sand and more clay for a lower bulk density than fringe forest soils. Furthermore, the soils of Bruguiera-dominated forests had more humus, lower phosphate absorption, and a higher cation exchange capacity than those of the fringe forests. Finally, the soils of Bruguiera-dominated forests were always in a highly reduced state. These results suggest that Bruguiera plants can grow better in restricted brackish water and soil possessing certain physical and chemical properties specific to Iriomote Island.
10.2307/2388072|The relationship between nectar scheduling and availability and the patterns of a pollinating guild's foraging on two species of co-occurring morning glory was investigated in disturbed habitats of the lower montane rain forests at Monteverde, Costa Rica. Ipomoea indica and Ipomoea batatas partition pollinating resources, presumably according to tongue length, with long-tongued bees visiting I. indica. Bees visiting I. batatas show staggered visitation times with larger bees visiting in the early morning when nectar is most available and smaller bees visiting in the late morning and afternoon when nectar availability is at its minimum. The larger bee species of the early morning return in the late afternoon after nectar availability has increased from its early afternoon low. Since no aggression was observed between bee species, small bees may be prevented from foraging in the early morning by cold temperatures. The larger bees probably do not forage when there is very little nectar available. I. indica shows no such pattern. Due to the deeper effective corolla of I. indica, nectar may be inaccessible to most bees in the habitat, consequently, no pattern should be expected. However, lack of a pattern may also be the result of this plant's recent introduction to the area.
10.2307/2388915|The effects of litter and understory harvesting by local people on the nutrient cycle in a pine forest in Dinghushan Biosphere Reserve (DHSBR) of subtropical China were studied by quantifying nutrient distribution, recycling, and loss in the ecosystem. The total nutrient standing stocks were estimated to be 2066 kg ha
10.2307/2388958|In October 1988, Hurricane Joan severely damaged 500,000 ha of rain forest in southeastern Nicaragua. By and large, the forest is regenerating directly without passing through a secondary stage. However, an apparent exception to the pattern of direct regeneration was the behavior of Cecropia, a pioneer tree which experienced a dramatic pulse of recruitment in some areas. Nineteen ninety-one was the peak year of recruitment of Cecropia, but since then its pulse has decayed rapidly due to heavy mortality. The decline appears to be related to the unusually low rate of occupation by Cecropia's mutualistic Azteca ants: unoccupied trees had significantly higher mortality rates than occupied trees.
30044932|We studied growth and demography in a population of Xenosaurus newmanorum a lizard that lives in rock crevices in the tropical cloud forests of Mxico. Growth rates varied with season (faster in the wet season) and year (faster in 1995 and 1997, slower in 1996 and 1999). Males and females did not differ in growth rate. Proportion of reproductive females varied from year to year, with 1996 having the lowest proportion of reproductive females (32.5%) compared to the other years (all > 75%). The age/size structure changed slightly among years, but did not differ between the wet and dry seasons. On average, the sex ratio was female-biased; however, the proportion of males in the population was greater in the dry season than in the wet season. Our results suggest that, like other lizards, growth and demographic characteristics of this population fluctuate with the proximate environment on both a seasonal and annual timescale. /// Estudiamos los patrones de crecimiento y la demografa de una poblacin de Xenosaurus newmanorum, una especie de lagartija que vive en las grietas de las rocas de los bosques de niebla de Mxico. La tasa de crecimiento corporal vari en funcin de la poca del ao (ms rpida en la poca hmeda), y en funcin del ao (ms rpida en 1995 y 1997, y ms lenta en 1996 y 1999). No hubo diferencias significativas en las tasas de crecimiento corporal de machos y hembras. La proporcin de hembras reproductivas vari de ao a ao, 1996 fue el ao con menor proporcin de hembras reproductivas (32.5%) comparado con el resto de los aos (todos ellos > 75 %). La estructura de las clases de edad de esta poblacin fluctu levemente entre los aos, pero no hubo diferencias entre las estaciones hmedas y secas. En promedio la proporcin de sexos estuvo sesgada hacia las hembras; aunque la proporcin de machos en la poblacin fue mayor en la poca seca que en la poca hmeda. Nuestros resultados sugieren que, al igual que otras lagartijas, las caractersticas demogrficas y de crecimiento corporal de esta poblacin pueden fluctuar con base a factores prximos a escalas estacionales y anuales.
10.2307/2388435|Nitrification was measured during the rainy season in two undisturbed tropical rain forests and three slash-and-burn sites in the Amazon region of southwestern Venezuela. Nitrification was higher in the soils of the slash-and-burn sites than in the undisturbed forests. Rates of nitrate production were 14.9 mg/kg/30 days in a forest on an Oxisol, 3.5 mg/kg/30 days in a forest on Ultisol, 23.2 mg/kg/30 days in a 1.5-yr-old slash-and-burn agricultural site on an Oxisol, 12.9 mg/kg/30 days in a 0.5-yr-old slash-and-burn agricultural site on Ultisol, and 12.1 mg/kg/30 days in a 3.0-yr-old pasture on Ultisol. In the undisturbed forests, rates of nitrate production in the root mat averaged 93.5 mg/kg/30 days on Oxisols and 11.2 mg/kg/30 days on Ultisols. Nitrification rates closely followed total nitrogen mineralization rates. Ammonium availability appears to regulate nitrification in both the undisturbed forests and in the slash-and-burn sites. Rates of nitrification in the undisturbed forests in this Amazon site on poor soils were lower than in other tropical forests on more nutrient rich soils.
2663928|We analyzed the avifauna from four areas of the Rio Doce basin (the municipal districts of Nova Era [NE], Antonio Dias [AD], Caratinga [BSC], and Marlieria [RDSP]) located in eastern Minas Gerais state. Based on captures with mist nets, 75 bird species belonging to 15 families were inventoried; however, the species composition varied greatly among the study areas. Fifty species and 231 of the 466 individuals recorded during this study were captured at NE. In the AD area, 33 species and 132 individuals were captured. The other two areas, BSC and RDSP, contributed only 103 captures and 22 species. By analyzing species composition as a function of altitude of the study areas, it was verified that a variation of 500 m altitude was sufficient in determining the difference in existing bird communities. Formicariidae species, such as Drymophila squamata, Thamnophilus punctatus, and Conopophaga melanops, were captured exclusively in the BSC and RDSP areas, located below the 500 m altitude limit while their congeners (D. ochropyga, T. caerulescens, and C. lineata) were found exclusively in the highest areas (NE and AD). Significant seasonal variations in the species composition were observed (Green's test: Q = 12.79 in NE, 12.84 in AD, 12.4 in BSC, and 20.68 in RDSP; P < 0.05), and we believe that such variations could be associated with seasonal movements between the highest and lowest areas of the Rio Doce basin. As such, the impacts of fragmentation to the Atlantic Forest along this stretch of the Rio Doce basin may have affected the natural dynamics of avian movements. The destruction of > 90 percent of the original Atlantic Forest vegetation cover already may have seriously compromised the population viabilities of birds endemic to this area.
41241883|In degraded tropical pastures, active restoration strategies have the potential to facilitate forest regrowth at rates that are faster than natural recovery, enhancing litterfall, and nutrient inputs to the forest floor. We evaluated litterfall and nutrient dynamics under four treatments: plantation (entire area planted), tree islands (planting in six patches of three sizes), control (same age natural regeneration), and young secondary forest (7-9-yr-old natural regeneration). Treatments were established in plots of 50 x 50 m at six replicate sites in southern Costa Rica and the annual litterfall production was measured 5 yr after treatment establishment. Planted species included two native timber-producing hardwoods (Terminalia amazonia and Vochysia guatemalensis) interplanted with two N-fixing species (Inga edulis and Erythrina poeppigiana). Litter production was highest in secondary forests (7.3 Mg/ha/yr) and plantations (6.3), intermediate in islands (3.5), and lowest in controls (1.4). Secondary forests had higher input of all nutrients except N when compared with the plantation plots. Inga contributed 70 percent of leaffall in the plantations, demonstrating the influence that one species can have on litter quantity and quality. Although tree islands had lower litterfall rates, they were similar to plantations in inputs of Mg, K, P, Zn, and Mn. Tree islands increased litter production and nutrient inputs more quickly than natural regeneration. In addition to being less resource intensive than conventional plantations, this planting design promotes a more rapid increase in litter diversity and more spatial heterogeneity, which can accelerate the rate of nutrient cycling and facilitate forest recovery.
10.2307/2388578|The tall, annual grass Sorghum intrans is a dominant component of the understorey of the eucalypt savannas in the seasonally wet-dry tropics of north-west Australia. Its seeds provide a large potential seed-fall resource for granivores at the end of the rainy season (April) until the first storms of the next rainy season (September-November), when all remaining viable seeds germinate. I measured the proportion of viable seeds of S. intrans removed from the soil seed-bank during the dry season. In addition, experimental seed caches were exposed for 18-24 hr at four times during the dry season under various treatments to estimate the proportion of seeds removed by invertebrates, and to examine the preferences for different classes of seeds (sound, empty, scorched). Almost all of the granivory of S. intrans was due to an ant, Meranoplus sp., which was not observed to harvest seed of any other species. Meranoplus sp. acted as a seed predator, rather than a disperser. Birds and mammals were insignificant granivores of S. intrans. On average, the viable seed bank was depleted by ca 60 percent over the dry season through death and predation, and I estimate that at least half of this loss was due to granivory by Meranoplus sp. The activity of Meranoplus sp. appeared to be patchy both in space and time. The ants preferentially removed sound seeds as compared with empty seeds which looked superficially similar but which lacked a well-formed grain; there was no selection for viable seeds within the sound seed category. I infer that this level of depletion of the seed-bank is not normally detrimental to the persistence of S. intrans because of compensatory, density-dependent seed production. However, Meranoplus sp. has the potential to remove, locally, the entire viable seed-bank of S. intrans.
30043229|Most phenological studies to date have taken place in upland forest above the maximum flood level of nearby streams and rivers. In this paper, we examine the phenological patterns of tree assemblages in a large Amazonian forest landscape, including both upland (terra firme) and seasonally flooded (vrzea and igap) forest. The abundance of vegetative and reproductive phenophases was very seasonal in all forests types. Both types of flooded forest were more deciduous than terra firme, shedding most of their leaves during the inundation period. Pulses of new leaves occurred mainly during the dry season in terra firme, whereas those in the two floodplain forests were largely restricted to the end of the inundation period. Flowering was concentrated in the dry season in all forest types and was strongly correlated with the decrease in rainfall. The two floodplain forests concentrated their fruiting peaks during the inundation period, whereas trees in terra firme tended to bear fruits at the onset of the wet season. The results suggest that the phenological patterns of all forest types are largely predictable and that the regular and prolonged seasonal flood pulse is a major determinant of phenological patterns in vrzea and igap, whereas rainfall and solar irradiance appear to be important in terra firme. The three forest types provide a mosaic of food resources that has important implications for the conservation and maintenance of wide-ranging frugivore populations in Amazonian forests. /// A maioria dos estudos fenolgicos em florestas tropicais foi feito em reas acima do nvel mximo da inundao dos rios. Neste trabalho ns examinamos os padres de produo de folhas, flores e frutos numa paisagem amaznica, incluindo florestas de terra firme, vrzea, e igap. A abundncia de fenofases vegetativas e reprodutivas mostrou-se bastante sazonal tanto nas florestas de terra firme quanto as sazonalmente inundadas. As florestas inundveis eram mais deciduas do que as terra firme, deixando cair mais folhas durante o perodo de inundao. A emergncia de folhas novas ocorreu principalmente durante o perodo de seca na terra firme, enquanto que nas florestas inundveis isto foi mais restrito ao final do perodo de inundao. As floraes foram concentradas durante o perodo de seca em todos os tipos de floresta e inversamente correlacionadas  pluviosidade. Florestas de vrzea e de igap concentraram sua produo de frutos durante o perodo de inundao, ao passo que a disponibilidade de frutos na terra firme coincidiu principalmente com o incio do perodo de chuvas. Os resultados sugerem que os padres fenolgicos em todos os tipos florestais so em grande parte previsveis e que o regime de inundao sazonal  o principal determinante dos padres de fenologia na vrzea e no igap, ao passo que a precipitao e a radiao solar parecem ser importantes na terra firme. Na paisagem heterognea do baixo Rio Purs, os trs tipos de floresta fornecem um mosaico espao-temporal de recursos para a fauna local, o que gera implicaes importantes para a manuteno de populaes de vertebrados frugvoros que requerem grandes reas de vida na floresta amaznica.
41419463|Nonlinear regression is increasingly used to develop allometric equations for forest biomass estimation (i.e., as opposed to the traditional approach of log-transformation followed by linear regression). Most statistical software packages, however, assume additive errors by default, violating a key assumption of allometric theory and possibly producing spurious models. Here, we show that such models may bias stand-level biomass estimates by up to 100 percent in young forests, and we present an alternative nonlinear fitting approach that conforms with allometric theory.
10.2307/2388155|During secondary succession in tropical America, reproductive characteristics of the constituent plants change as species constitution changes in the direction of `climax' or equilibrium. Self-compatibility is more prevalent in early stages, while outcrossing is more the rule in later stages as dicliny, dioecism, and self-incompatibility beome more frequent. Observations indicate that plants of increasingly large stature and seral position are more widely spaced, and tend to have larger brightly colored flowers and larger pollinators. Associated understory plants come to have small unicolorous flowers and small pollinators as light availability decreases. Plants of early stages have primarily small, many-seeded dehiscent fruits, while plants with large, few-seeded fleshy fruits come to dominate equilibrium forests, particularly in wet forest. Canopy emergent trees, epiphytes, and lianas of mature forest are exceptional in employing wind-dispersal. Many of these changes correlate well with the thesis that pioneer plants are more highly r-selected, while plants of more mature forest tend to be K-selected.
10.2307/2989735|Following the partial clearance of farm scrub some termite species became locally extinct or scarcer, some were not affected, whilst others were adversely affected but became re-established and increased their activity. Wood-feeding termites in the moist semi-deciduous forest zone of Ghana consume about 0.2 kg m
41058544|The Janzen-Connell hypothesis proposes that density dependent seed and seedling mortality, combined with increasing seed and seedling survival away from the parent tree, together promote regular spacing of species and thus  diversity. This hypothesis has rarely been tested in tropical Africa, and rarely in montane forests anywhere. We tested this hypothesis using a combination of field experiments and observations in the most floristically diverse dry submontane forest in Nigeria. We investigated distance effects on seedling herbivory, seedling survival and seedling height growth. We found a significant decrease in herbivory with distance from conspecific adult trees for all three species of experimentally planted seedlings (Entandrophragma angolense, Deinbollia pinnata and Sterculia setigera), and also for naturally occurring seedlings of Pouteria altissima but not of Newtonia buchananii or Isolona pleurocarpa. The relative density of large seedlings/saplings of P. altissima, N. buchananii and I. pleurocarpa increased significantly at greater distance from conspecific adult trees; however, we found no significant distance effect on survival or height growth over 3 mo for all three experimentally planted species. Taken together, our results are some of the first to show that Janzen-Connell effects occur on the African continent and in particular montane tropical forest and suggest that such effects may be pantropical.
30043104|The indirect impacts of Shorea siamensis-logging on the reproductive ecology of Dipterocarpus obtusifolius, a self-incompatible butterfly-, moth-, and bird-pollinated tree, were studied in tropical dry forest in Thailand. Pollinator activity at D. obtusifolius trees and subsequent seed production were recorded in three forest areas subject to differing intensities of S. siamensis extraction. The pollinator and plant understory communities in these areas were also noted. Forest areas subject to high S. siamensis extraction intensities had very high understory flowering plant cover, dominated by the exotic invader Chromolaena odorata. Activity of butterfly pollinators at D. obtusifolius trees decreased in these disturbed areas, although their abundance remained comparable to other forest areas subject to only moderate or no extraction. For sphingid moth pollinators, there was no difference across differentially disturbed forest areas in either abundance or in the proportion bearing pollen. Pollinator activity by birds increased at highly disturbed locations but was not sufficient to offset a decline in overall pollinator activity at D. obtusifolius canopies in areas of heavy S. siamensis extraction. Thus, extraction of S. siamensis indirectly affected the pollination of D. obtusifolius, primarily by causing changes in the foraging behavior of butterfly pollinators rather than their abundance. A shift in the relative abundance of floral nectar resources from the canopy to the understory, a consequence of S. siamensis extraction and invasion by odorata, led to a parallel shift in foraging location of the principal diurnal pollinators, the butterflies, toward the understory. Despite reduced pollination at disturbed sites, behavioral changes did not translate into a D. obtusifolius seed set effect, possibly because pollination by birds (or moths) at the disturbed site compensated for reduced butterfly pollination.
20492569|In a Panamanian lower montane rain forest we: (1) analyzed the vertical and horizontal distribution of fine roots; and (2) assessed the relationship of fine root mass to thickness of the soil organic layer, soil pH, and soil-extractable nitrogen. The soil in the study area has developed on volcanic ash deposits and was classified as Hapludand. In randomly distributed samples, the median fine root mass (biomass and necromass, diam  2 mm) to a depth of 100 cm mineral soil was 544 g/m, 41 percent of which was found in the organic layer. Fine root mass was approximately twice as high in the vicinity of stems of the tree species Oreomunnea mexicana (1069 g/m) and the palm species Colpothrinax aphanopetala (1169 g/m) and was associated with thick organic layers. The median thickness of the soil organic layer in a larger random sample (N = 64) was 8 cm with a considerable variation (interquartile range: 7 cm). In these samples, the density of fine root biomass was correlated with the concentration of extractable nitrogen (r = 0.33, P = 0.011), and on an areal basis, fine root biomass in the organic layer increased with increasing thickness of the organic layer (r = 0.63, P &lt; 0.001) and decreasing
2663979|The lack of recent critiques about terminology has led to the frequent misuse or confusingly varied use of the words that are more or less specific to the field of terrestrial canopy biology. I provide definitions for ca 170 terms and subterms, with translations into four languages. Rather than limit coverage to tree crowns, I define canopy biology as the study of life within any aboveground parts of all plant communities, temperate and tropical. This broadened perspective enables ecologists to consider the entire range of challenges faced by organisms living in aboveground plant life, from just above the rhizosphere to the outer limits of plant growth into the atmosphere. Further, this redefinition may reduce the potential for anthropocentric biases in interpreting life on trees or other plants; encourage the use of alternative ecosystems for hypotheses that may be difficult to address in treetops; and promote more general conceptual thinking about life on vegetation, most notably the importance of scaling in ecology. Among the salient points in terminology: the concept of "stratification" has been criticized in part because strata have been defined many ways, but a flexible application of the word is central to its utility; the source of nutrients is pivotal in distinguishing epiphytes from parasites, rather than the more general issue of an organism's effects on its host; "hemiepiphyte," as currently used, confounds two radically different life cycle strategies, suggesting a new term, "nomadic vine," to describe the strategy typical of many aroids; there is a confusion in the literature caused by varied applications of the word "climb;" locomotor terms may have to be modified as more becomes known about forces underlying limb kinematics; and studies of leaping and falling organisms tend to overemphasize arbitrary distinctions between gliding and parachuting to the detriment of the more critical issue of capacity for "controlled descent."
10.2307/2989808|Fruit dispersal by birds has been established for Lasiacis. a neotropical panicoid grass genus. Grains remain viable after passing through the digestive system. Spikelet modifications that promote internal bird dispersal are the following: the inner epidermis of the spikelet bracts is modified for oil production; the spikelets become shiny black at maturity; the thick, tough lemma and palea of the fertile floret protect the grains; the nearly globose spikelets are berry-like in appearance. The black, berry-like spikelets attract birds which derive nourishment from the oil. Lasiacis species and the birds that feed on its spikelets occupy similar forest-edge communities. This system of coordinated adaptations seems to be unique among the grasses. Evolution of Lasiacis probably resulted largely as the result of an adaptive shift from a passive means of dispersal to internal bird dispersal of the spikelets.
30045397|Two common South American species of lynx spiders, Peucetia rubrolineata and P. flava (Oxyopidae), were surveyed on three localities in southeastern Brazil to determine plant choice. Both species were found to be associated with plants bearing glandular trichomes. A literature review and complementary data show that ten Peucetia species are associated with up to 55 plant species bearing glandular trichomes in at least 20 distinct vegetation types (phytophysiognomies) in more than 36 localities in the Neotropical, Neartic, Afrotropical, and Paleartic regions. The main plant families used by the spiders were Solanaceae, Asteraceae, and Melastomataceae. The specialization of the Peucetia species for plants bearing glandular trichomes may have evolved because insects adhered to these sticky structures may be used as prey by the spiders.
10.2307/2989824|Species flowering during the dry season (late December to early April) form three main pollinator groups, namely, butterfly, solitary bee, and hummingbird flowers. The animal vectors present match these three flower syndromes. The daily and seasonal rhythms of flower opening and pollination activity are synchronized. Butterflies and solitary bees, active chiefly in the morning, visit flowers blooming only half a day. The number of seeds per fruit and the pollen-carrying capacity of the pollen vector are correlated. Butterflies, carrying few pollen grains, chiefly pollinate flowers with one to four seeds. Solitary bees, carrying many grains, chiefly pollinate flowers with many seeds per flower. These close links between the flowers and their visitors result in a high degree of successful pollination and a high percentage fruit set. A group of species, attracting no visitors, was characterized by a very narrow 'pollination gap,' making self-pollination almost inevitable. Heavy fruiting indicated self-fertility. Heterocorollary in Cordia sebestena, a double keel in Stylosanthes hamata, and several examples of andromonoecy are recorded for the first time. The presence of the adventive honeybee, Apis mellifera, in the association appeared detrimental to the native pollinators when forage was scarce. The whole scrub association appears balanced with a distinctive pattern of floral ecology. This circumstance, in terms of pollinators, is designated a Butterfly-Solitary bee-Hummingbird association.
10.2307/2388265|We report the first data on changes in tropical stream biota resulting from a major hurricane. Beginning in January 1989, we trapped freshwater shrimp, Atya lanipes, along 1200 m of a montane stream in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Prior to Hurricane Hugo, shrimp densities were greater in the headwaters than at mid- and low elevation. In October 1989, one month after the hurricane, shrimp densities were reduced on average by 50 percent in the headwaters (apparently from washout) and increased by 80 percent at mid-elevation. From December 1989 to May 1990 overall shrimp densities increased rapidly to the highest abundances ever recorded. These densities most likely resulted from increased numbers of shrimp that migrated upstream from riverine pools; and, from increased availability of unusually abundant food resources (decomposing leaves and algae) that increased recruitment of these generalized consumers. Benthic communities in forested, headwater streams are likely to be resilient after intermediate levels of disturbance, because rapid debris-dam formation increases retention of food resources and reduces washout of invertebrate consumers. However, storms generating greater stream flow and/or less wind than Hurricane Hugo could cause extensive, longer-lasting decreases of benthic-dwelling shrimp because of greater washout of both consumers and food supplies.
30043217|We compared plant area index (PAI) and canopy openness for different successional stages in three tropical dry forest sites: Chamela, Mexico; Santa Rosa, Costa Rica; and Palo Verde, Costa Rica, in the wet and dry seasons. We also compared leaf area index (LAI) for the Costa Rican sites during the wet and dry seasons. In addition, we examined differences in canopy structure to ascertain the most influential factors on PAI/LAI. Subsequently, we explored relationships between spectral vegetation indices derived from Landsat 7 ETM+ satellite imagery and PAI/LAI to create maps of PAI/LAI for the wet season for the three sites. Specific forest structure characteristics with the greatest influence on PAI/LAI varied among the sites and were linked to climatic differences. The differences in PAI/LAI and canopy openness among the sites were explained by both the past land-use history and forest management practices. For all sites, the best-fit regression model between the spectral vegetation indices and PAI/LAI was a Lorentzian Cumulative Function. Overall, this study aimed to further research linkages between PAI/LAI and remotely sensed data while exploring unique challenges posed by this ecosystem. /// En este estudio comparamos el ndice de rea de plantas PAI, el ndice de rea foliar (LAI), y la apertura de dosel para diferentes etapas sucesionales en tres sitios del bosque seco tropical: Chamela, Mxico; Santa Rosa, Costa Rica y Palo Verde, Costa Rica en la estacin lluviosa y seca. Adems, examinamos las diferencias en la estructura de dosel para indagar los factores que ms influyen en el PAI/LAI. En forma adicional, exploramos las relaciones entre los ndices espectrales de vegetacin derivados de imgenes satelitales Landsat 7 ETM+ y el PAI/LAI para as crear mapas de PAI/LAI de la estacin lluviosa para los tres sitios. En este estudio encontramos que las caractersticas especficas de la estructura del bosque con mayor influencia en PAI/LAI varan entre sitios y las mismas estn asociadas a diferencias climticas. Las diferencias en el PAI/LAI y la apertura del dosel entre los sitios son explicadas tanto por el historial de uso del suelo y asi como las prcticas de manejo del bosque. Para todos los sitios el mejor modelo de regresin entre los ndices espectrales de vegetacin y el PAI/LAI es la funcin Cumulativa Lorentziana. En general, este estudio tiene como objetivo estudiar ms a fondo las relaciones entre el PAI/LAI y los datos colectados de manera remota, mientras se exploran otros retos particulares que plantea este ecosistema.
10.2307/2388041|In a study of the effects on animals of seed protein extracts of 15 Malesian members of the Leguminosae (including 11 rain forest tree species), most of the taxa agglutinated red blood cells, induced mitosis, and inhibited amylases. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that these proteins interact with other organisms, most probably in defense mechanisms against predation by animals. The functions of these proteins are most profitably studied in rain forest environments where their activity is so marked, and where biological interactions are particularly important.
4132935|Although most Carabidae are recognized as predacious, recent studies have shown that some tropical rain forest Carabidae use the small seeds of fallen fruit from some tree species as a key food resource (particularly figs [Moraceae] but also those from other families). Assemblages of carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) at fruit falls of the Melastomataceae tree genera, Bellucia, Loreya, and Miconia, were studied in a terra firme rain forest near Manaus (Amazonia, Brazil) from February 1992 to August 1996. Of 5483 specimens of 14 carabid species collected at 53 fruit falls, 98.2 percent of the collected beetles represented the seed-feeding genus Notiobia. Four of the 7 Notiobia species were found to reproduce at Melastomataceae fruit falls. The most abundant species, N. glabrata, was found to be a Melastomataceae seed generalist, while N. maxima seemed to prefer the seeds of Bellucia, and N. aulica and N. umbrifera the seeds of Miconia. The presence of larvae indicated reproduction of N. glabrata at fruit falls of all three tree genera and reproduction of N. maxima at those of Bellucia. Fruit falls of different species and genera of Melastomataceae appeared to occur at different times of the year and not continuously throughout the year. The seed-feeding Notiobia species, which specialize on Melastomataceae, used fruit falls of figs as migratory "stepping stones" during periods when there were no Melastomataceae fruit falls. The comparable suite of fig seed-feeding specialist species of Notiobia did not appear to do the reverse and seemed to avoid Melastomataceae fruit falls. The carabid assemblage at fig fruit falls was more diverse than the assemblage at those of Melastomataceae. Among the Melastomataceae, carabid species richness was highest at Miconia fruit falls and lowest at Loreya fruit falls. The three most common predatory species caught at Ficus fruit falls were also caught at those of Melastomataceae and appeared to reproduce at both fruit fall types. The proportion of the carabid assemblage accounted by predatory species was much lower at Melastomataceae (1.8%) than at fig fruit falls (8%).
10.2307/2388017|The chemical composition of leaves, epiphytes, epiphyllae, litter, and soil at six locations in northwestern Colombia was examined. The mean concentration of sodium, phosphorus, and strontium was significantly different for location. Mean concentrations by vegetation and soil compartments combined were different for all elements studied except manganese and zinc. However, considering vegetation compartments alone, significant differences between compartments were observed only for potassium and cesium. For soils alone, location effect was significant for all elements except sodium and potassium. Correlation analyses of vegetation showed significant relationships between sodium and strontium, copper, iron and manganese, and iron and lead. The correlation matrix for soils showed significant correlation in calcium, magnesium, sodium and strontium, cobalt and iron, and lead and manganese. These data were interpreted as showing a close correspondence between soils and geological substrates, with very little relationship between soils and vegetation.
30045376|Roads can facilitate the establishment and spread of both native and exotic species. Nevertheless, the precise mechanisms facilitating this expansion are rarely known. We tested the hypothesis that dirt roads are favorable landing and nest initiation sites for founding-queens of the leaf-cutter ant Atta laevigata. For 2 yr, we compared the number of attempts to found new nests (colonization attempts) in dirt roads and the adjacent vegetation in a reserve of cerrado (tree-dominated savanna) in southeastern Brazil. The number of colonization attempts in roads was 5 to 10 times greater than in the adjacent vegetation. Experimental transplants indicate that founding-queens are more likely to establish a nest on bare soil than on soil covered with leaf-litter, but the amount of litter covering the ground did not fully explain the preference of queens for dirt roads. Queens that landed on roads were at higher risk of predation by beetles and ants than those that landed in the adjacent vegetation. Nevertheless, greater predation in roads was not sufficient to offset the greater number of colonization attempts in this habitat. As a consequence, significantly more new colonies were established in roads than in the adjacent vegetation. Our results suggest that disturbance caused by the opening of roads could result in an increased Atta abundance in protected areas of the Brazilian Cerrado. /// Estradas podem facilitar estabelecimento e a expanso de espcies nativas e exticas. No entanto, os exatos mecanismos facilitadores desta expanso so raramente conhecidos. Ns testamos a hiptese de que estradas de terra so locais favorveis  colonizao e estabelecimento de ninhos por rainhas fundadoras da sava Atta laevigata. Por dois anos ns comparamos o nmero de tentativas de fundao de novos ninhos (tentativas de colonizao) em estradas de terra e na vegetao adjacente em uma reserva de cerrado no sudeste do Brasil. O nmero de tentativas de colonizao nas estradas foi de 5 a 10 vezes maior do que na vegetao adjacente. Transplantes experimentais indicam que as rainhas fundadoras tm maior possibilidade de estabelecer um ninho em solos limpos do que em solos cobertos por serapilheira, mas a quantidade de serapilheira cobrindo o cho no explicou completamente a preferncia das rainhas por estradas de terra. Rainhas que pousaram nas estradas estavam sob um maior risco de predao por besouros e formigas do que aquelas que pousaram na vegetao adjacente. Entretanto, a maior predao nas estradas nao foi suficiente para compensar o maior nmero de tentativas de colonizao neste habitat. Como conseqncia, um nmero significativamente maior de colonias novas foi estabelecido nas estradas do que na vegetao adjacente. Nossos resultados sugerem que as alteraes ambientais causadas pela abertura de estradas podem resultar em um aumento na abundncia de Atta em reas protegidas do Cerrado brasileiro.
2663783|Maraca Island is on the boundary of the Amazon rain forest and the Rio Branco-Rupunini savanna. The annual rainfall is ca 1800 mm, with a dry season from October-March and a wet season from April-September. A forest type dominated by Peltogyne gracilipes (Caesalpiniaceae) occurs on parts of the island and the adjacent mainland, the least species-rich (for trees > 10 cm DBH) of any recorded in Brazilian Amazonia. The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that the dominance by Peltogyne is associated with an unusual litterfall mass, nutrient concentrations, or retranslocation. Three plots (50 x 50 m) were set up in each of three forest types: (1) Peltogyne-rich forest (PRFa), dominated by Peltogyne gracilipes; (2) Peltogyne-poor forest (PPF), with a sparse occurrence of Peltogyne; and (3) forest without Peltogyne (FWPa). Litterfall was collected for 360 d at ca 15-d intervals in 11 randomly positioned traps (0.32 m
4132897|Hylocereus undatus, which is native to tropical forests experiencing moderate temperatures, would not be expected to tolerate the extremely high temperatures that can be tolerated by cacti native to deserts. Nevertheless, total daily net CO
10.2307/2387907|The breeding systems, reproductive efficacies, and densities of selected trees, shrubs, vines, and hemiparasites of a secondary deciduous mid-elevation tropical forest in Venezuela are investigated. A total of 77.17 percent of the species studied are adapted for obligate outbreeding, 54.45 percent through the possession of genetic self-incompatibility, and 22.72 percent by way of dioecy or functional dioecy. Reproductive densities (density of flowering individuals) vary from 2.0 to 165.9 individuals per species per hectare with a mean of 10.7 and median of 5.0. Hemiparasites and vines form denser populations than do trees and shrubs. The densities of tree and shrub species are similar. All species, whether obligately outbred or genetically self-compatible, set abundant seed under the ecological conditions of the community. Distance between the individuals of a population does not limit seed set under obligate outbreeding. The reproductive efficacies of dioecious species are higher than those of genetically incompatible hermaphrodites. Non-autogamous compatible hermaphrodites set a lower percentage of seed than do autogamous hermaphrodites. The proportion of outbreeding species in the secondary tropical forest is similar to that reported for a speciose tropical deciduous forest in Costa Rica; however, the species of the secondary forest exhibit higher reproductive efficacies. Factors favoring the maintenance of high proportions of obligately outbred species in species-rich tropical ecosystems are discussed.
30043641|We tested if logging enhances the recruitment of tree species by comparing young tree density in areas disturbed by logging with areas unaffected by logging 6 mo after logging in two Forest Reserves in Ghana. Analysis of 46 commercial timber species showed significantly higher postlogging recruitment in felling gaps and skid trails than in areas unaffected by logging. New seedlings substantially exceeded those lost due to logging operations. Species richness was significantly greater in areas disturbed by logging.
41241915|Floristic variation is high in the Neotropics, but little is known about the factors shaping this variation at the mesoscale. We examined floristic composition and its relationship with environmental factors across 220 1-ha permanent plots in tropical lowland Bolivia. For each plot, abundance of 100 species (93 tree and 7 palm species > 10 cm diam) was obtained. Climatic data, related to rainfall seasonality and temperature, were interpolated from all available weather stations in the region, and soil properties, related to texture and fertility, were obtained for each plot. Floristic variation was strongly associated with differences in water availability and temperature, and therefore the climatic gradient shaped floristic variation more strongly than the edaphic gradient. Detrended correspondence analysis ordination divided lowland Bolivia primarily into two major groups (Southern Chiquitano region vs. the Amazon region) and a multiple response permutation procedure distinguished five floristic regions. Overall, the tested environmental variables differed significantly among the five regions. Using indicator species analysis, we distinguished 82 strong indicator species, which had significant environmental preferences for one floristic region. These species can be used as indicators of environmental conditions or to determine which floristic region a certain forest belongs. Given the predicted decreases in rainfall and increases in temperature for tropical lowland forests, our gradient approach suggests that species composition may shift drastically with climate change.
10.2307/2388025|A lever model of jaw action indicates that the maximum bite force of white-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) should be at least 1.3 times that of collared peccary (T. tajacu) on food items of a given size. This prediction is consistent with the measured resistances of seeds and nuts that are eaten by the two species at a rain forest site in southeastern Peru. Such a difference in bite force, in association with differences in group size and digging ability, may be a basis for coexistence of the two species in Neotropical rain forests.
10.2307/2388717|Quantitative inventories of two narrowly-rectangular plots of terra firme Amazonian rainforest were conducted in the habitats of the Arawete and Asurini Indians, respectively The samples included all trees with a dbh of $\geq 10$ cm. Relative density, frequency, and dominance are presented for the 20 most important tree species on each plot; species and family importance values are also presented. The Arawete plot had 441 individuals, 142 species, and a total basal area of 22.10 m$^2$; the Asurini plot had 464 individuals, 137 species, and a basal area of 21.90 m$^2$ The data suggest that both plots are parcels of a single forest type that conforms to the criteria for Amazonian liana forest. Many of the species on the plots, such as Orbignya phalerata. Theobroma speciosum, Maximiliana maripa and Bertholletia excelsa, are disturbance indicators in the eastern Amazon. This, and the presence near both sites of Indian black earth (terra preta do indio), suggest that much of these forests may have been felled and burned for shifting cultivation at least once in the past.
40863787|Because global change is almost synonymous with climate change, research has emphasized perhaps too much the effects of climate change over other global concerns that might be equally detrimental to biodiversity and humanity. These include unsustainable land use and massive conversion and degradation of natural habitats. Perhaps by the time we understand the effects of global climate change on tropical forests, there may not be any left to admire.
2663921|Toucans are prominent components of the tropical American avifauna. Although these birds are very conspicuous, there are few ecological studies focusing on them. In this study, the diets of four sympatric toucans (Ramphastos vitellinus, R. dicolorus, Selenidera maculirostris, and Baillonius bailloni) were assessed by recording feeding bouts at two altitudes in the Atlantic Forest of southeast Brazil. Our results show that toucans are predominantly frugivorous birds (96.5% of the 289 feeding bouts were on fruits). In the lowlands (70 m elev.), only fruits (48 species, 27 families) were recorded, while in the highlands (700 m elev.), toucans were observed feeding on fruits (25 species, 22 families), flowers, leaves, and insects. Non-fruit items were recorded only in the highlands, most of them eaten by B. bailloni. Cecropia glaziovii and Euterpe edulis, two abundant plants in the highland and lowland sites, respectively, and Virola oleifera, a plant that produces lipid-rich arillate fruits, were eaten heavily by the toucans. The number of feeding bouts recorded for R. vitellinus in the lowlands was positively correlated with lipid content of the fruits eaten. The diameters of fruits eaten by toucans varied greatly (range = 0.4-25.0 mm). While the large Ramphastos species not only ate tiny fruits (e.g., Hyeronima alchorneoides) but also large ones (e.g., Virola gardneri), the toucanets ate piecemeal the large fruits that exceeded their gape width, suggesting that gape size did not limit the use of any fruit by the toucans at our study sites.
10.2307/2387768|The primitive angiosperms in the South Pacific exhibit three modes of pollination. The flowers of Drimys are pollinated by a wide variety of Diptera. One species of thrips (Thysanoptera) pollinate the flowers of Belliolum. Coleoptera play an important role in the reproductive biology of Zygogynum (plus primitive moths) and Degeneria. The flowers of all genera examined are adapted for outcrossing. Coleoptera-pollinated flowers display the most intricate floral movements. It is suggested that Diptera as well as Coleoptera may have been the pollinators of the early angiosperms.
20492503|The 2006 completion of the circum-island Compact Road on the island of Babeldaob in the Republic of Palau resulted in several deforested stream reaches with modified stream channels. To determine the impacts of deforestation and road construction, various ecosystem parameters were compared between road-impacted reaches, reforested savanna reaches, and forested reaches. Compared to adjacent forested reaches, road-impacted reaches received significantly more light (0.4  0.1 vs. 87.8  4.1% light transmittance, respectively), were significantly warmer (25.7  0.1 vs. 26.1  0.1C, respectively), and received higher nutrient and sediment loads, all of which were attributed to the removal of riparian vegetation and increased surface runoff from the road. These differences were believed to have shifted the benthic algal community in road-impacted reaches from diatoms to filamentous algae with significantly greater chl a biomass (10) and benthic algal ash free dry mass AFDM (3) compared to adjacent forested reaches. Savanna-impacted and forested reaches had similar chl a, algal AFDM, and received similar amounts of light. Nutrient and sediment concentrations varied between the two reach types. Results from this study emphasize the need for the maintenance of riparian forests especially with predicted increases in population, development, and deforestation. Future studies are needed to determine effective riparian widths and riparian forest community structure to help resource managers and land owners protect and preserve the many ecosystem services that Palauan streams and watersheds provide.
30045390|The community composition and percent cover of vascular epiphytes were examined in relation to photosynthetic photon flux density (PFD), temperature, vapor pressure, and tree characteristics in the inner-crown of two emergent tree species. Hyeronima alchorneoides and Lecythis ampla, at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. A total of 53 species were found in a total sampled branch area of 32 m2 in eight trees - four trees per species. Community composition varied both among individuals of the same tree species and between tree species. However, percent cover patterns of vascular epiphytes were significantly different between the two tree species; Hyeronima had a significantly greater percent cover of epiphytes than Lecythis. The higher percent light transmittance as well as lower humidity in Lecythis are likely causes of its lower percent cover of epiphytes.
30044910|Post-logging seedling regeneration density by big-leaf mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla), a nonpioneer light-demanding timber species, is generally reported to be low to nonexistent. To investigate factors limiting seedling density following logging within the study region, we quantified seed production rates, germinability, dispersal patterns, and seed fates on the forest floor through germination and the first seedling growing season in southeastern Amazonia, Brazil. Fruit production rates were low by three logged and one unlogged populations compared to reports from other regions. Commercial-sized trees (>60 cm diameter) were more fecund than noncommercial trees (30-60 cm diameter) at two sites, averaging 14.5 vs. 3.9 fruits/tree/year, respectively, at Marajoara, a logged site, over 8 yr. Fruit capsules contained an average of 60.3 seeds/fruit, 70 percent of which appeared viable by visual inspection. Sixty-seven to 72 percent of apparently viable seeds germinated in nursery beds 2.5 mo after the dispersal period, when wet season rains began. Dry season winds blew most seeds west-northwest of parent trees, with median dispersal distances of 28 and 9 m on west and east sides of parent trees, respectively. Nearly 100 percent of seeds fell within an area of 0.91 ha. On the forest floor beneath closed canopies, mammals, invertebrates, and fungal pathogens killed 40 percent of apparently viable seeds, while 36 percent germinated. Nine months after seedling establishment-midway through the first logging season following seed dispersal-14 percent of outplanted seeds survived as seedlings, representing 5.8 seeds/fruit. We conclude that seedlings are likely to survive in logging gaps at appreciable densities only in rare cases where previous year fruit production rates by logged trees were high (4-12.5% of commercial-sized trees/year at Marajoara) and where tree crowns were felled in west or northwest directions. /// A densidade de regenerao de plntulas de mogno (Swietenia macrophylla), uma espcie no pioneira mas demandante de luz, aps explorao madeireira  geralmente reportada como de baixa a no-existente. Para investigar fatores que podem limitar a densidade de plntulas aps explorao madeireira, quantificou-se as taxas de produo de sementes, a germinabilidade, os padres de disperso e o destino das sementes no cho florestal desde a germinao e no primeiro perodo de crescimento das plntulas no sudeste do Par, Brasil. Foram verificadas taxas baixas de produo de frutos em trs populaes exploradas e em uma populao no explorada comparado com produo de populaes em outras regies. Em Marajoara, uma rea explorada, observou-se que as rvores com tamanho comercial (com dimetros >60 cm) eram mais fecundas que aquelas com tamanho no comercial (com dimetros de 30-60 cm), produzindo uma mdia de 14.5 vs. 3.9 frutos/ano/rvore respectivamente durante oito anos de observao. Atravs de inspeo visual, verificou-se que 70 por cento das 60, 3 sementes/fruto eram aparentemente viveis. Destas, 67 a 72 por cento germinaram nos viveiros, 2.5 meses aps o perodo de disperso, quando comeou a estao de chuvas. Os ventos da estao seca levaram a maioria das sementes na direo oeste-noroeste das rvores mes, com distncias medianas de 9 e 28 metros nos lados leste e oeste respectivamente. Aproximadamente 100 por cento das sementes caram dentro de uma rea de 0.91 hectare. No cho florestal, embaixo do dossel fechado, mamais, invertebrados e patgenos fngicos mataram 40 por cento das sementes aparentemente viveis enquanto 36 por cento germinaram. Nove meses aps o estabelecimento das plntulas-no meio da primeira estao de explorao aps a disperso das sementes-14 por cento das sementes transplantadas sobreviveram como plntulas. Concluiu-se que as plntulas so mais provveis de sobreviver nas clareiras de explorao em densidades considerveis somente em casos raros onde as taxas de produo de frutos do ano anterior foram altas (4% a 12.5% de rvores/ano em Marajoara) e onde as copas das rvores foram derrubadas na direo oeste ou noroeste.
30043109|We documented the diurnal pattern of nectar volumes in flowers of seven Neotropical hummingbird-pollinated plant species that were open to flower visitors and compared these standing crop data to nectar volumes in flowers protected from visitors. Standing crop of nectar bore little relationship to nectar in bagged flowers either in terms of volume or temporal pattern of availability. There was almost no nectar in open flowers except in those collected at dawn and those of Aphelandra sinclairiana; these were apparently too abundant to be depleted by visitors. Nectar volumes in open flowers were even more variable than in bagged flowers. We argue that understanding the evolution of plant-pollinator interactions requires understanding the relationship between nectar production and standing crop, as well as the impact of high variability on decisions by foraging animals. We conducted experiments to determine the effect of nectar removal on nectar production. Nectar removal via simulated legitimate visits had no impact on total production in flowers of Pavonia, Isertia, and Palicourea. For A. sinclairiana and Pentagonia, total nectar production in visited flowers was reduced compared to unvisited flowers. Data from individuals of these last two species indicated that the population-level pattern was assembled from individuals that responded differently to nectar removal; clearly, understanding the evolution of nectar traits demands data from individuals. We argue that detecting patterns of plant responses to nectar removal requires the context of floral characteristics (e.g., longevity, ovule number, or pollinators). Nectar removal via simulated nectar-robbing visits had no impact on total nectar production in A. sinclairiana but reduced total production in Isertia. Nectar robbing did not cause plants to invest more energy in nectar than they would have the absence of robbing. Finally, we found no difference in seed set by robbed and unrobbed flowers of A. sinclairiana. Our results add to a growing body of literature suggesting that nectar robbers are not always detrimental to plant fitness. /// Documentamos los patrones diurnos de volmenes de nctar en flores que estaban disponibles para sus visitantes florales y los comparamos con los volmenes de nctar de flores protegidas de visitantes, en siete especies de plantas neotropicales polinizadas por colibres. Los volmenes de nctar disponibles (standing crop) tuvieron poca relacin con los volmenes de nctar y sus patrones de disponibilidad en flores embolsadas. Las flores abiertas casi no presentaron nectar, con la excepcin de las flores colectadas al amanecer y las flores de Aphekndra sinclariana; las cuales aparentemente eran demasiado abundantes para ser vaciadas por visitantes. Los volmenes de nectar fueron aun ms variables en las flores abiertas que en las flores embolsadas. Argumentamos que para entender la evolucin de las interacciones planta-polinizador requiere tanto entender la relacin entre produccin de nctar y volmenes de nctar disponibles, como el impacto que la alta variabilidad de produccin de nectar tiene sobre las decisiones de forrajeo de los animales. Por lo tanto, llevamos a cabo experimentos para determinar el efecto que la remocin de nctar tiene sobre sus patrones de produccin. La remocin de nctar, por medios que simulan las visitas legtimas, no tuvo impacto en la produccin total de nctar de las flores de Pavonia, Isertia, y Palicourea. En A. sinclariana y Pentagonia, la produccin total de nctar en flores visitadas fue menor que en las que no lo fueron. Datos de diferentes individuos de estas dos especies indican que el patrn a nivel poblacional esta formado por individuos que responden de manera diferente a la remocin de nctar; claramente, el entender la evolucin de las caractersticas del nctar requiere datos a nivel de individuos. Argumentamos que detectar patrones de respuesta de las plantas a la remocin de nctar requiere conocer las caractersticas florales (e.g., longevidad, nmero de vulos, polinizadores). La remocin de nctar, por medios que simular visitas de robadores de nctar, no afect la produccin de nectar de A. sinchiriana, pero redujo la produccin total en Isertia. El robo de nctar no provoc que las plantas invirtieran ms energa en nectar que la que hubieran utilizado en ausencia de robo. Finalmente, no encontramos diferencias en la produccin de semillas de flores robadas o no robadas de A. sinclairiana. Nuestros resultados se suman a los de otros trabajos que sugieren que los robadores florales no siempre tienen efectos negativos sobre la adecuacin de las plantas.
10.2307/2387735|The influence of one socioecological variable, food patch size, on grouping patterns of animals is examined. Food patch size is measured by the number of feeding spaces, S, a patch holds for a given animal species. The values of S should be determined by structural or spatial criteria if the size of the feeding aggregate (the animals feeding together within a patch) is limited by the availability of space or by interference behavior. Otherwise, S is limited by the abundance and density of food items within the patch, and may vary, depending on the relative profitability of alternative patches available to the animal, a result deduced from simple optimal foraging theory. If the feeding aggregate sizes favored by selection for efficient foraging differ from those favored by other selective pressures, aggregate sizes will be adjusted to reflect the relative strengths of these counteracting selective pressures. Data from Barro Colorado Island on the sizes of howler monkey feeding aggregates seen in different-sized Trichilia cipo fruit trees are applied to test the hypothesis that: food patch size limits the sizes of feeding aggregates. This hypothesis is supported by demonstrating a positive correlation between howler feeding aggregate size and Trichilia DBH (diameter at breast height), since DBH is shown, in turn, to predict accurately both the spatial sizes and crop sizes (numbers of ripe fruits) of Trichilia patches. Some observations support the explanation that howlers were sensitive to the densities and abundances of ripe fruits within patches and not to the spatial size of patches, per se. A X
3593159|A GIS (geographic information systems) database was constructed from aerial photographs, a vegetation map, and topographic map data of the Ngeremeduu Bay Drainage Area (NBDA), Palau, to examine relationships between upland land cover dynamics, environmental variables, and past land use. In 1992, 82.9 percent of the NBDA was forest, 16.6 percent was grassland, and 0.5 percent consisted of village areas. Between 1947 and 1992, there was a 11.2 percent reduction of grassland area primarily due to a 10.9 percent increase in forest cover. These land cover changes led to larger, more continuous stretches of forest and numerous, highly fragmented grassland patches. Significant relationships (P < 0.001) were found between the spatial distribution of forest and grassland cover and slope, elevation, soil pH, and percent soil organic matter. These patterns, however, may have resulted from past farm site selection rather than from ecological relationships. Our results indicate that areas of forest expansion were significantly (P < 0.001) associated with the location of abandoned agricultural communities. In addition, over 92 percent of areas of forest expansion occurred within 100 m of established forest. These results suggest that the proximity of established forest facilitate forest recovery following human disturbance.
40645545|Anthropogenic activities have accelerated the rate of global loss of biodiversity, making it more important than ever to understand the structure of biodiversity hotspots. One current focus is the relationship between species richness and aboveground biomass (AGB) in a variety of ecosystems. Nonetheless, species diversity, evenness, rarity, or dominance represent other critical attributes of biodiversity and may have associations with AGB that are markedly different than that of species richness. Using data from large trees in four environmentally similar sites in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico, we determined the shape and strength of relationships between each of five measures of biodiversity (i.e., species richness, Simpson's diversity, Simpson's evenness, rarity, and dominance) and AGB. We quantified these measures of biodiversity using either proportional biomass or proportional abundance as weighting factors. Three of the four sites had a unimodal relationship between species richness and AGB, with only the most mature site evincing a positive, linear relationship. The differences between the mature site and the other sites, as well as the differences between our richness-AGB relationships and those found at other forest sites, highlight the crucial role that prior land use and severe storms have on this forest community. Although the shape and strength of relationships differed greatly among measures of biodiversity and among sites, the strongest relationships within each site were always those involving richness or evenness.
30043055|Habitat fragmentation and the widespread creation of habitat edges have recently stimulated interest in assessing the effects of ecotones on biodiversity. Ecotones, natural or anthropogenic, can greatly affect faunal movement, population dynamics, species interactions, and community structure. Few data exist, however, on insect community response to forest-savanna ecotones, a natural analog to anthropogenically cleared areas adjacent to forest. In this study, the abundance, total biomass, average individual biomass, and distribution of scarabaeine dung beetles were examined at a sharp tropical evergreen forest-savanna ecotone in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. The abundance, total biomass, and average individual biomass of dung beetles varied significantly across the forest, edge, and savanna habitats. Species richness (Sobs) also varied significantly across the three habitats, but statistical estimations of true species richness (Sest) did not. Habitat specificity of the dung beetles in this study was extremely high. Of the 50 most common species collected during the study, only 2 species were collected in both the forest and savanna habitats, signaling nearly complete community turnover in just a few meters. Strong edge effects were evidenced by the decline in abundance, total biomass, and species richness at the forest-savanna boundary. /// La fragmentacin de hbitats y la creacin de grandes cantidades de reas de borde han generado inters en evaluar los efectos de los ecotonos para la biodiversidad. Los ecotonos, ya sea naturales o antropognicos, pueden afectar de manera significativa el movimiento faunstico, la dinmica de poblaciones, las interacciones interespecficas, y la estructura de las comunidades. Existen muy pocos datos, sin embargo, sobre la respuesta de las comunidaes de insectos a ecotonos de bosque-savana. Este tipo de ecotono es un anlogo natural de las reas de bosque talado de origen antropognico. En este estudio, se examinaron la abundancia, biomasa total, biomasa individual promedio, y distribucin de escarabajos coprfagos de la familia Scarabaeinae en un ecotono localizado entre bosque tropical perennifolio y savana en Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Se encontr que la abundancia, biomasa total, y biomasa individual promedio de los escarabajos coprfagos vari de manera significativa a travs del bosque, el habitat de borde y la savana. La riqueza de especies tambin vari significativamente a travs de los tres habitats, pero las estimaciones estadsticas de la verdadera riqueza de especies no fueron significativas. La especificidad de hbitat de los escarabajos examinados en este estudio fue muy alta. De las 50 especies ms comunes colectadas durante el estudio, solamente 2 fueron colectadas tanto en bosque como en savana, indicando un reemplazo casi total en la composicin de la comunidad en unos pocos metros. Los efectos de borde parecen ser fuertes, dada la disminucin en abundancia, biomasa total, y riqueza de especies en la frontera bosque-savana.
30045369|The role of Euclea divinorum in the establishment of broad-leaved thickets was investigated in Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. Thickets are declining due to frequent fires, but have not reestablished when fires have been removed. Seedlings of E. divinorum, a fire-resistant tree, were found in grassland adjacent to thickets and as thicket canopy trees and may function to facilitate thicket establishment. Seedlings of thicket species were abundant under E. divinorum canopy trees but not in the grassland, indicating that E. divinorum can facilitate forest establishment. We examined E. divinorum establishment in grassland by measuring survival and growth of seedlings with respect to fire, browsers, elephants, and competition with grass. Seedling survival was reduced by fire (50%), browsers (70%), and competition with grass (50%), but not by elephants. Seedling growth rate was negative unless both fire and browsers, or grass was removed. Establishment of thickets via E. divinorum is not occurring under the current conditions in Serengeti of frequent fires, abundant browsers, and dense grass in riparian areas. Conditions that allowed establishment may have occurred in 1890-1920s during a rinderpest epizootic, and measurements of thicket canopy trees suggest they established at that time.
41241922|Decrease in the species composition similarity of herbivore assemblages with increasing phylogenetic distance between host plants is a widespread pattern. Here we used data for caterpillars in the Brazilian Cerrado to investigate how the similarity in caterpillar species composition decreases as the taxonomic level and genetic distance (GD) of their host plants increases. In addition, we elucidate the plant taxonomic level that provides the greatest contribution to turnover in the caterpillar species composition among host taxa. Adult Lepidoptera were reared from caterpillars collected from 52 plants over 13 yr in the same area, with each host plant sampled for 1 yr. Most species were specialists, with 66 percent of genus specialists among the nonsingleton species. The similarity in caterpillar species composition across plant taxa decreased from host species to genera, and from host genera to orders. Above this level, the similarity was consistently low. The GD between plants explained 82 percent of the variation in the similarity of caterpillar species composition. The contribution of caterpillar species turnover among host orders from the same superorder and among host superorders from the same subclass explained 70 percent of the caterpillar species richness as a whole. Our results lend support to the view that most tropical caterpillars are host specialists. Our findings further indicate that the number of orders and superorders of plants provide the greatest contribution to the total caterpillar richness compared with all of the other host taxonomic levels combined.
10.2307/2388123|The cosmopolitan black rat (Rattus rattus) has been introduced to several islands of the Galapagos Archipelago, Ecuador, where it has become established in all vegetated habitats. The foraging behavior of this ecologically versatile species was studied through detailed analysis of stomach contents of rats trapped in four very different Galapagos habitats: thorn scrub, savanna, montane scrub, and montane forest. Plant foods comprised an average of 80 percent of stomach contents; however, animal food occurred in at least 81 percent of the rats in each population, and R. rattus reproduction was correlated with a high level of animal food in the diet. Although the rats fed on an extremely broad range of plant and animal foods, they were very selective feeders, discriminating among plant species and among parts of plants. Fruits and seeds were preferred foods, and in most cases the seeds were destroyed. These introduced rodents are probably having many severe effects on the Galapagos flora and fauna.
10.2307/2388380|Contophanes fissidens exhibits individual, ontogenetic, temporal and geographic variation in diet. Stomach content analysis revealed 127 prey items of at least 15 species, including reptiles, amphibians, invertebrates and eggs from reptiles and amphibians. Correlation and partial correlation analyses demonstrated positive predator-prey size relationships. An upper size limit of ingestable prey was determined by the width of the widest prey type, anurans, and all large anurans were ingested head first. Previous studies of tropical snake assemblages, hampered by small samples, often failed to consider the potential for diet variation, and may have prematurely treated most species as stenophagic.
10.2307/2388408|The evolution of inflorescence morphology is usually considered to have been shaped by natural selection to enhance the chances of pollination or control gene flow. However, herbivores can affect plant fitness by damaging seeds and reproductive parts, or by nectar robbing, which reduces the chances of pollination. Tank species of Heliconia have inflorescences characterized by enlarged bracts that hold many flowers partially submerged in a large volume of liquid. Experiments in which we removed bract liquid and bagged flowers from H. wagneriana demonstrated that these plants actively secreted bract liquid. Rates of bract liquid secretion differed between individuals, and did not correlate with three environmental factors: rainfall, number of leaves, or number of bracts. By making drain holes in inflorescences of H. wagneriana, we tested whether bract liquid served as a herbivore defense. Compared to experimentally drained inflorescences and inflorescences of a second species which does not have bract liquid (H. pogonantha), liquid in control inflorescences substantially depressed the rates of herbivory on ovaries and other reproductive structures, and reduced the incidence of nectar robbing by chewing insects. The results suggest that bract liquid and its associated maintenance structures in the inflorescences of tank Heliconia defend the reproductive structures from herbivory, and that herbivory may generally play a role in shaping the evolution of floral morphology.
10.2307/2389107|An allozyme analysis of the mating systems of Shorea congestiflora and S. trapezifolia provide for the first quantitative estimates of outcrossing in a rain forest plant of the Old World tropics. Prior to recent deforestation, both endemic species formed vast co-dominant stands with other dipterocarp trees in the southwest of Sri Lanka. Outcrossing rates were determined from seed cohorts collected from trees in the Sinharaja Biosphere Reserve. Eighty-seven percent of the seeds of S. congestiflora were the result of the maternal tree mating with other unrelated individuals. This high population outcrossing rate is typical of the limited number of rain forest trees studied in the neotropics. The range of outcrossing rates for individual trees of this species suggest that self-incompatibility systems may be variable among individuals. S. trapezifolia exhibited a mixed-mating strategy with only 54 and 62 percent of seeds resulting from outcrossing in two succeeding years. Differences between the outcrossing rates of the two species may reflect average differences in the degree of self-incompatibility. Apomixis could not be detected in either species from comparisons of progeny multilocus genotypes relative to maternal genotypes.
10.2307/2388222|The pollination biology of Drymonia serrulata was studied in central Panama. D. serrulata produces a small number of flowers daily for several months. Flowers are dichogamous with a one day male phase followed by a one day female phase. The average volume of nectat produced by a Drymonia flower over the two-day period was 264.4 $\mu l$ (SD = 98.8, N = 4), a value much higher than has been reported for other bee-pollinated flowers. D. serrulata is completely self-compatible. Fruit set for between and within plant pollinations in greenhouse grown plants was 67 percent. Autogamy is precluded by the temporal separation of anther dehiscence and stigma receptivity. Glandular trichomes inside the corolla secrete an oil which is deposited on the anthers and transferred to the thorax of visiting bees. This oil facilitates pollen adhesion. Only Trigona pallens (Apidae) actively collects this oil, but it is meffective as a pollinator. The main pollinators of Drymonia serrulata in Panama are Epicharis monozona and Epicharis rustica (Anthophoridae). Visitors that remove nectar, but are ineffective pollinators include seven Euglossa spp. and three species of matinal butterflies (Hesperiidae).
10.2307/2387670|An uncommon interspecific dense aggregation of nests constructed by the solitary bees Centris transversa, C. anthracina, Melissodes floris, Colletes sp., and Anthophora sp. occupied a steep bank in Guatemala. The nests, cells, provisions, and brood of the first four species are described and illustrated for the first time. A Centris inquiline was Coelioxys sp. (Megachilidae); Melissodes females were parasitized by phorid flies.
3593194|Parasitoid insects face considerable trade-offs in locating suitable hosts within complex environments. Apocephalus paraponerae (Diptera: Phoridae) locates its host ant Paraponera clavata (Formicidae: Ponerinae) using olfactory cues. Here, comparing two populations of A. paraponerae, I describe differences in host location cues between two sites, Barro Colorado Island (BCI) in Panama and La Selva Biological Research Station in Costa Rica. At La Selva, A. paraponerae uses the ant mandibular gland products 4-methyl-3-heptanone and 4-methyl-3-heptanol in host location, but does not do so on BCI. I propose that higher colony density of P. clavata causes A. paraponerae to use more species-specific cues on BCI. I also discuss how geographic variation in host location cues could lead to allopatric speciation.
10.2307/2388738|The course of a post-fire succession was inferred in the subalpine zone (3300-4000 m) on Mt. Wilhelm. The availability of a detailed pollen history and 20-yr-old photographs from the study area enabled the rate of the succession to be estimated. Anthropogenic fires cause the replacement of forest by grassland. In the absence of fire significant changes occur within 20 yr and secondary forest can develop on favourable sites in less than 300 yr. Succession proceeds by the diffuse invasion of the grassland rather than by a general advance of the forest margin. Succession is much slower on east-facing than on west-facing slopes.
10.2307/2989751|The effect on soil micro-arthropods of the clearing of tropical rain forest in Nigeria is presented. Six sample units were taken in May 1972 from each of two sites (A and B) before site B was cleared. Three series of samples, each consisting of 10 sample units, were taken from each of the sites at 3 months (October 1972), 8 months (March 1973), and 10 months (May 1973) after the clearing of site B. Samples taken from both sites A and B (before the clearing of site B) showed that there was little or no difference in the composition and densities of the animals recorded, although site A tended to support higher populations. While this trend was maintained in site A throughout the period of investigation, the faunal composition of B became progressively poorer, both in species composition and in density. Although different animal groups reacted differently to the changed conditions caused by the clearing, the overall results suggest that clearing reduces both the number of species and the number of individuals of certain soil faunal groups.
30045439|The goal of this study was to examine seasonal frugivory by two sympatric peccary species (Tayassu pecari and 77 tajacu) in a small (2178 ha), Atlantic Forest fragment on the inland plateau region of Sao Paulo State, Brazil. Fruit availability was determined with systematic ground surveys conducted over a 5-yr period. Examining fruit availability trends for dry and wet seasons, we found that species diversity was greater in the wet season, but the total number and dry mass of fruits were higher in the dry season. Fruit abundance in the dry season was due to one palm, 'jeriva' (Syagrus romanzoffiana), which could be considered a keystone species at Caetetus Ecological Station as it also supported a diverse array of mammals, birds, reptiles, and insects. White-lipped peccaries were the only ungulates that ate palmito fruits (Euterpe edulis) at Caetetus. They consumed ripe and unripe fruits and predated the seeds by chewing the pulp and seed. This occurred primarily during the dry season and was associated with a seasonal range shift and a preference for palmito habitat by the white-lipped peccaries. The dominance of fruits in peccary diets (80% fruit items in scat) has management implications for other plateau forest fragments. Forest fragments with diminished fruit abundance or diversity, or lacking key species such as S. romanzoffiana or E. edulis, will not support the energetic requirements of the characteristically large and highly mobile white-lipped peccary populations. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30045466|The mechanisms through which forest fragmentation threatens the survival of mammal populations remain poorly known, yet knowledge of this process would greatly aid conservation efforts. I investigated ranging behaviors of diademed sifakas (Propithecus diadema) in continuous and fragmented forest at Tsinjoarivo, eastern Madagascar, using focal animal observations to examine home range size, daily path length (DPL), and habitat use relative to forest edges over 12 mo. Sifaka groups in forest fragments had home ranges that were 25-50 percent as large as continuous forest groups, and moderately reduced DPLs. Continuous forest groups foraged more than expected near forest edges while fragment groups avoided edges. Fragments have higher population density than continuous forest; however, several lines of evidence suggest that fragment groups' food resources may be denser, but lower quality. Continuous forest groups appear to be energy-maximizers, maintaining large ranges and preferentially feeding in rare fruiting trees found only in continuous forest interiors, while fragment groups appear to be time-minimizers, using small home ranges and primarily feeding on mistletoe (a fallback food in continuous forest). Therefore, the consequences of fragmentation on long-term viability remain unknown; it is possible that the advantage of increased density is outweighed by longer-term demographic challenges, or other threats (e.g., nutrition, health, social behavior, disease). When animals stranded in forest fragments exhibit complex and potentially unpredictable responses, simple ecological proxies (e.g., incidence patterns and density) are probably inadequate in assessing population health and viability. Ecological study and monitoring is essential in judging the viability of fragmented populations. Abstract in French is available at http://www.blackwell-synergyicom/loi/btp.
2388831|Miconia calvescens DC (Melastomataceae) is a dominant invasive species in the tropical oceanic island of Tahiti (French Polynesia, South Pacific Ocean), where it was introduced as an ornamental plant. Whereas this small tree is sparse in its native range of Central America, it has spread in Tahiti into a wide variety of habitats including native wet forests. The remarkable success of this invasion is due in great part to prolific reproduction: a mature tree can bear up to 220 inflorescences with an average of 1330 flowers/inflorescence, 208 fruits/infructescence and 195 seeds/fruit. Two and a half years of phenological observations in a highly invaded site indicated that three major peaks of flowering occur/year over brief periods: flower anthesis lasted a few days and pollen grain germination suggested a short stigmatic receptivity of only a few hours; no pollinators were observed foraging on flowers during our survey; the production of fruits containing viable seeds in bagged inflorescences showed that self-fertilization can occur; pollen-ovule ratio (log P/O = 2.68) suggested facultative xenogamy; bagged isolated flowers to test for autogamy and style cutting to learn whether apomixis occured or not were not conclusive. The flowering phenology and the breeding system of M. calvescens enable this plant to build up rapidly successful populations from even a single propagule on the island of Tahiti and on other sites of introduction. The vegetation structure of Polynesian native forests compared to Neotropical rain forests probably plays an important role in determining the reproductive success of M. calvescens and could provide a complementary explanation of the biological invasion processes in tropical oceanic islands.
10.2307/2388340|The species richness at Chamela, Jalisco (average annual rainfall 748 mm, with a 4-month wet season), exceeded that of other Neotropical dry forests with more than twice its annual rainfall. Transect samples totaling 0.3 ha included 176 species and 1352 plants $\geq$2.5 cm DBH. The mean number of species per 100-m$^2$ transect was 22.7 Upland and arroyo sites were similar in species number, but the latter included greater percentages of species of vines (11% vs 21%) and trees $\geq$10 cm DBH (24% vs 31%). The only species that were both common and ubiquitous were Trichilia trifolia. Caesalpinia eriostachys, and Cordia alliodora. Upland sites were typified by species of Croton, Lonchocarpus, and Cordia, and arroyo sites were typified by Thouinidium decandrum and a variety of vines. Families with the most species were Leguminosae, Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, and Bignoniaceae. Total basal area averaged 0.24 m$^2$/100 m$^2$ in uplands but 0.52 m$^2$/100 m$^2$ in arroyos; most of the difference was due to trees $\geq$30 cm DBH. In all sites, over 50 percent of the stems were <5 cm DBH, but vines and large trees were more abundant in arroyos. Stem densities averaged about 45/100 m$^2$ in both sites.
30043071|The aims of this study were to (1) characterize the food resources exploited by fruit bats (Pteropodidae) within an old-growth Malaysian dipterocarp forest, (2) test the viability of the seeds they disperse, and (3) provide an estimate of the proportion of trees that are to some degree dependent upon bats for seed dispersal and/or pollination. Fruit species exploited by bats could be distinguished from those eaten by birds largely on the basis of color (as perceived by human beings). Bat-dispersed fruits were typically inconspicuous shades of green-yellow or dull red-brown, whereas fruits eaten by birds were generally bright orange to red. Dietary overlap between bats and nonflying mammals was relatively high. In contrast to primates and squirrels, which were major seed predators for several of the plant species under investigation, fruit bats had no negative impact on seed viability. A botanical survey in 1 ha of old-growth forest revealed that 13.7 percent of trees (15 cm girth at breast height) were at least partially dependent upon fruit bats for pollination and/or seed dispersal.
30045367|Lianas contribute to many aspects of tropical forest diversity and dynamics, and interest in liana ecology has grown substantially in recent years. Methods to census lianas and estimate biomass, however, differ among studies, possibly hindering attempts to compare liana communities. At Nouragues Research Station (French Guiana), we tested the extent to which liana abundance, basal area, and estimated biomass differed depending on stem diameter measurement location, inclusion of ramets, inclusion of lianas rooted within versus passing through the plot, and plot shape. We found that the mean per plot abundance and basal area of lianas were significantly greater when lianas were measured low on the stem, when ramets were included, and when lianas were sampled in transects (2 x 50 m) than in square plots (10 x 10m). Mean per plot liana abundance and basal area were 21 percent and 58 percent greater, when stems were measured at the largest spot on the stem compared to 130 cm from the ground, respectively. Including liana ramets increased average per plot liana abundance, basal area, and estimated biomass by 19, 17, and 16 percent, respectively. To facilitate cross-study comparisons, we developed conversion equations that equate liana abundance, diameter, and basal area based on the measurements taken at four different stem locations. We tested these equations at Lambir Hills National Park, Malaysia and found that they did not differ significantly between the two sites, suggesting that the equations may be broadly applicable. Finally, we present a new allometric equation relating diameter and biomass developed from 424 lianas from five independent data sets collected in four countries. /// Les lianes contribuent de diverse manire  la diversit et  la dynamique des forts tropicales, et l'intrt pour l'cologie des lianes s'est beaucoup accru ces dernires annes. Cependant, les mthodes pour recenser les lianes et estimer leur biomasse varient d'une tude  l'autre, et peuvent entraver les tentatives de comparaison des communauts de lianes. A la Station de Recherche des Nouragues (Guyane Franaise), nous avons valu la variation de l'abondance, de la surface terrire et de la biomasse des lianes, en fonction de la position de mesure du diamtre sur le tronc, de l'inclusion des rameaux, de l'inclusion des lianes enracines dans la parcelle plutt que passant dans la parcelle, et de la forme de la parcelle. Nous avons trouv que l'abondance et la surface terrire moyennes des lianes par parcelle taient significativement plus importantes lorsque les lianes taient mesures en bas de la tige, lorsque les rameaux taient inclus, et lorsque les lianes taient chantillonnes dans des transects (2x50m) plutt que dans des parcelles carres (10x10m). L'inclusion des rameaux dans l'chantillonnage augmentait l'abondance moyenne des lianes par parcelle de 19 pour cent, leur surface terrire de 17 pour cent et leur biomasse de 16 pour cent. Afin de faciliter les comparaisons entre tudes, nous avons dvelopp des quations de conversion qui relient l'abondance, le diamtre et la surface terrire des lianes  partir de mesures prises  quatre endroits sur la tige. Nous avons test la validit de ces quations au Parc National de Lambir Hills (Malaisie): les quations ne variaient pas de manire significative entre les deux sites, suggrant qu'elles pourraient tre largement applicables. Finalement, nous prsentons une nouvelle quation allomtrique reliant diamtre et biomasse des lianes, construite  partir de 424 lianes de cinq ensembles de donnes chantillonnes dans quatre pays.
10.2307/2388295|Hurricane Joan badly damaged the rain forest of southeastern Nicaragua in October 1988, toppling or snapping off 80 percent of the trees and completely destroying the canopy over an area of 500,000 ha. An international expedition to the area in February 1989 found an unexpected pattern of recovery, with a large majority of damaged trees resprouting. Regeneration is dominated by sprouts and seedlings of primary forest species, rather than secondary pioneers. Little or no reduction in tree species richness has occurred, although bird and bat populations seem to have decreased considerably. The "direct regeneration" observed after this large disturbance of primary forest, challenges previous views of both the pattern of secondary succession and the nature of primary rain forest.
30044031|Cicindela (Calochroa) whithilli (Hope) and Cicindela (Calochroa) flavomaculata Hope (Cicindelidae: Coleoptera) are seasonally dominant predatory insects in the cultivated, and irrigated rice paddy fields of the South Indian peninsula. While studying the feeding ecology of these tiger beetles in rice paddy agro-ecosystems in Sringeri area of the central Western Ghats, we examined their potential as biocontrols on the major rice paddy pest populations available in this region. Earthworms and tadpoles were significant prey organisms during the early cultivation period, while other traditional prey organisms like ants and spiders (mainly wolf and jumping spiders) were more common as prey organisms toward the mid-season. The results showed that the feeding fauna of tiger beetles can extend to prey items beyond arthropods, to include vertebrates. Cicindela (Calochroa) duponti Dejean is another common species that occurs abundantly in the Areca orchards and on the bunds that separate rice paddy fields from adjacent uncultivated lands. We performed laboratory tests to determine the feeding guild of these beetles, and to investigate their possible role as a predator of the rice paddy pests. Although preliminary in nature, the results suggest that both whithilli and flavomaculata are ineffective as biocontrol agents of rice paddy agro-ecosystems. They appear to have only a marginal impact on the larvae of Leptocorisa acuta, a major insect pest of paddy rice, but further experimental and observational studies are needed to firmly establish the significance of this observation.
2388890|We studied water loss in eight insular populations of the lizard Anolis cristatellus wileyae and in one population of A. ernestwilliamsi in the British Virgin Islands. We found a strong negative correlation between habitat aridity and total and cutaneous water loss rate (ranging from 1.5-10.3 mg g
30045459|We investigated the remarkable roosting behavior of Docidocercus gigliotosi, an understory pseudophylline katydid in the lowland forests of Panama. The insects used a spiny terrestrial bromeliad, Aechmea magdalenae, as a daytime shelter and were significantly more frequently found in those plants, which had been: (1) higher; (2) of better quality; (3) closer to 'night time walkways' into the canopy; and (4) showed a better central tube condition. The katydids demonstrated strong site fidelity, returning to the same plants for up to 3 wk. Such a choice may provide sufficient protection against some predators and serve as a suitable shelter for the offspring. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043051|The selective advantage of Mllerian mimicry in nature was investigated by releasing live mimetic and nonmimetic butterflies close to wild, aerial-hunting tropical kingbirds (Tyrannus melancholicus) and cliff-flycatchers (Hirundinea ferruginea) in three Amazon habitats (rain forest, a city, and "canga" vegetation). Only mimetic butterflies elicited sight-rejections by birds, but protection conferred by mimicry was restricted to sites in which both predators and mimics co-occurred, as in the case of six mimicry rings at a forest site and two at a city site. Most other Mllerian mimics released at city and canga vegetation were heavily attacked and consumed by birds. These results appear to reflect the birds' previous experiences with resident butterfly faunas and illustrate how birds' discriminatory behavior varied among habitats that differed in butterfly species and mimicry ring composition.
10.2307/2388261|One percent of Hobcaw Forest, a 3077 ha tract in South Carolina's lower coastal plain, was inventoried with fixed area plots within four months after the eye of Hurricane Hugo passed 97 km south of the forest. Results of this sampling confirmed our hypotheses that the amount and nature of hurricane wind damage differed among the tree species sampled. Approximately 73 percent of the 16,870 trees inventoried were either not damaged or had light crown damage. Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) was less damaged than loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) or pond pine (Pinus serotina). Bald cypress (Taxodium distichum) suffered light crown damage. Upland oaks were more heavily damaged than the pine species. Live oak (Quercus virginiana) was less damaged than laurel oak (Quercus laurifolia) and water oak (Quercus nigra). Those tree species commonly found in the lower coastal plain (longleaf pine, bald cypress, and live oak) suffered less damage than species with larger natural ranges.
2663775|Although there is growing recognition of the importance of small mammals in savanna ecosystems of east Africa, the ecology and behavior of these organisms are not well known. We conducted studies on the dietary preferences of one rodent, the pouched mouse (Saccostomus mearnsi), which is the dominant small mammal in a widespread habitat in central Kenya. To establish the food preferences of this species, we: (1) conducted cafeteria trials in the laboratory whereby individual mice were offered seeds and a selection of herbaceous vegetation from the habitat; (2) surveyed the habitat for piles of vegetation clipped by these mice and identified these clippings to species; and (3) estimated the abundance of plant species in the habitat to determine if the mice were clipping species in proportion to their availability. Our results indicated that S. mearnsi prefers green vegetation to seeds, at least during wet seasons, and that it has a strong preference for forbs. In cafeteria trials, S. mearnsi chose 93 percent green vegetation and only 7 percent seeds. The forb Commelina africana was highly preferred over other food items offered. In the habitat, two forbs, C. africana and Monsonia angustifolia, constituted > 40 percent of the piles of clippings, although these two species together made up < 4 percent of the available vegetation. Grasses also were clipped frequently, although in lower proportions than their availability in the habitat. The herbivorous habits of S. mearnsi establish the potential of this species to compete for resources with ungulates, which are abundant in this habitat.
40645588|The lowland tapir Tapirus terrestris is the largest herbivore in the Neo tropics and feeds on a large quantity of fruits, often ingesting the seeds and defecating them intact. Seed dispersal by the lowland tapir in the southwestern Amazon was studied by examining seeds from 135 dung samples collected between 2005 and 2007. Seeds of a total of 122 plant species were identified, representing 68 genera and 33 families. The species accumulation curve showed that more species can be expected with further sampling. Many species (45%) were only encountered once, and only 10 percent of all species were found in > 10 samples, indicating that the lowland tapir is an opportunistic forager. Seed diversity showed a clear seasonal pattern and was highly correlated with fruit availability. Seed diameter ranged from < 1 to 25 mm with 81 percent < 10 mm diam. The size distribution of seeds found in lowland tapir dung generally followed that of seeds found in the forest, but had a lower proportion of seeds in the smallest size class (< 2.5 mm) and a larger proportion found in the largest size class (20-25 mm). The diversity of seeds encountered in dung of the lowland tapir in this study was much higher than in previous studies. We conclude that the lowland tapir is a potential disperser for a large number of plant species, including many that previously have been thought to be dispersed only by large primates.
10.2307/2388470|To investigate the importance of the epiphyte community to ecosystem nutrient cycling, we assessed the standing crop, input rates, and turnover rates of litterfall derived from epiphytic material and compared them to litterfall derived from terrestrially rooted material in a neotropical cloud forest in Monteverde, Costa Rica. The standing crop of fallen epiphytic material in 1988 was 0.5 t ha$^{-1}$ and 0.3 t ha$^{-1}$ in 1990. Annual input of fallen epiphytic material was 0.5 t ha$^{-1}$, more than two times as much as has been reported for other tropical cloud forests. This is equivalent to 5-10 percent of total fine litter at the site (7.5 t ha$^{-1}$). Nutrient input from fallen epiphytic material was (kg ha$^{-1}$ yr$^{-1}$): N, 7.5 (7% of nutrient transfer via total fine litter); P, 0.5 (8%); Ca, 4.2 (4%); Mg, 0.8 (5%); and K, 0.1 (1%). Assuming a steady state condition in this old-growth forest, epiphyte-derived litter biomass had a higher annual decay rate (K$_a$ = 1.3) than did litter derived from terrestrially rooted plants (0.7). However, turnover time (1/K$_a$) of all nutrients except K in fallen epiphytic material was four to six times slower than for nutrients in terrestrially rooted material; K was tenfold faster. Over half of the fallen epiphytic material was collected in less than 2 percent of the collections, indicating the deposition of epiphytic material is highly sporadic in space and time and must be measured at the appropriate spatial scale.
41057993|Secondary habitats are increasing in importance in tropical countries due to ongoing destruction of pristine vegetation. In spite of the magnitude of current changes, our understanding of their effects on nontrees (e.g., nonvascular or vascular epiphytes) is still very patchy, particularly in lowland habitats. Here, we report a study with isolated pasture trees in southwest Panama. The > 800 studied trees, which belonged to > 100 different species, harbored almost 27,000 epiphytes of 83 species. Orchidaceae was the most species-rich family, with almost 60 percent of all species, while Bromeliaceae were most abundant. A rainfall gradient in the study region from ca 1000 to > 3000 mm explained more of the variation in species abundance and richness than host characteristics (e.g., species identity, tree size). The unexpectedly large number of epiphytes in these pastures still represents a substantial change relative to a natural setting, which is suggested by a comparison with a forest inventory under similar climatic conditions. In pastures, species richness was lower as deduced from individual-based rarefaction curves, a larger proportion of species and individuals showed crassulacean acid metabolism, and the relationship of epiphyte abundance/species richness and tree diameter was much less steep. Even the already reduced diversity, however, may be only transient in secondary habitatsthe long-term persistence of epiphyte populations in pastures is an open question and has to be addressed by repeated monitoring to fully evaluate the significance of pasture trees for the conservation of vascular epiphytes in tropical lowlands.
20492549|Studies of tropical secondary forest succession face strong limitations due to the slow pace of succession and the time-consuming task of monitoring processes. The occurrence of tree rings in secondary forest trees may help expand our knowledge on succession in these systems and may be useful for fallow dating in chronosequence studies. We examine here the potential of tree rings to study forest succession by sampling 70 species along chronosequences of dry and wet forests in southern Mexico. Based on wood anatomical features, we estimated that about 37 percent of the species presented distinct growth rings useful for ring studies. Overall, maximum number of rings matched well the interview-based fallow ages but, at some sites, trees had consistently higher numbers of rings, probably due to errors in fallow ages derived from interviews. Best fallow age estimations were obtained by examining rings in both pioneer and nonpioneer species. Reconstruction of species' establishment dates revealed that pioneer and nonpioneer species establish early during succession, and that species of both groups continue to recruit after many years. Our study clearly shows that tree ring analysis is a promising tool for studies on secondary forest succession in the tropics.
41241924|The metacommunity framework integrates species-specific responses to environmental gradients to detect emergent patterns of mesoscale organization. Abiotic characteristics (temperature, precipitation) and associated vegetation types change with elevation in a predictable fashion, providing opportunities to decouple effects of environmental gradients per se from those of biogeographical or historical origin. Moreover, expected structure is different if a metacommunity along an elevational gradient is molded by idiosyncratic responses to abiotic variables (expectation = Gleasonian structure) than if such a metacommunity is molded by strong habitat preferences or specializations (expectation = Clementsian structure). We evaluated metacommunity structure for 13 species of gastropod from 15 sites along an elevational transect in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico. Analyses were conducted separately for the primary axis and for the secondary axis of correspondence extracted via reciprocal averaging. The metacommunity exhibited quasi-Clementsian structure along the primary axis, which represented a gradient of gastropod species specialization that was unassociated with elevation. The secondary axis represented environmental variation associated with elevation. Along this axis, the metacommunity exhibited Clementsian structure, with specialists characterizing each of three suites of sites that corresponded to three distinct forest types. These forest types are associated with low (tabonuco forest), mid-(palo colorado forest), or high (elfin forest) elevations. Thus, variation among sites in species composition reflected two independent processes: the first decoupled from elevational variation and its environmental correlates, and the second highly associated with environmental variation correlated with elevation.
3593191|At the Beni Biological Station, Bolivia, we compared the fate of seeds of the palm Attalea phalerata dispersed by tapirs to a latrine with that of non-dispersed seeds. Survival of seeds that had passed through tapir guts did not differ significantly from that of unconsumed seeds, demonstrating that tapirs are legitimate seed dispersers of A. phalerata. Experimental and observational studies showed that tapir dispersal can contribute to escape from seed predation by bruchid beetles such as Pachymerus cardo. Nevertheless, the major contribution of the dispersal process may simply be the mechanical barrier to bruchid attack represented by the fecal material covering seeds. Furthermore, total absence of seedlings and adults from the tapir latrine studied suggests that seasonally flooded tapir latrines are not safe sites for A. phalerata.
2663794|Style length variation in female flowers of monoecious figs has been shown to play an important role in regulating the proportion of flowers that develop into seeds and those that become infested by the pollinator wasp. In this study, we tested the suggestion that style length variation in figs is a consequence of optimal packing of the flowers. We show that optimal packing of flowers in fig syconia will result in a highly skewed distribution of style lengths and a positive skewness of pedicel lengths. These predictions were qualitatively tested in eight species of figs and the results indicate that observed style length distributions did not conform to those expected. We argue that while the pedicel lengths are likely to be a spinoff of optimal packing of the flowers, style lengths are probably shaped by independent selective forces. The pedicel lengths also are subjected to compensatory growth so as to place the stigmas at a common height in the central cavity for effective pollination of the flowers. This was substantiated by the response (dependence) of pedicels to (on) the length of the style, neck, and other floral features. In all species the coefficient of variation of styles was very consistent (ca 30 %). This is in accordance with expectations if style lengths are shaped to regulate the proportion of flowers for wasp and seed production.
10.2307/2388596|Studies of interactions among the leaf-top herbivores of Heliconia imbricata were undertaken in Costa Rica. One study consisted of monitoring the colonization of experimental patches of habitat (cacao leaves) to see if colonists preferred uninhabited patches. A second study involved placing various numbers of Cephaloleia consanguinea larvae under experimental patches, and monitoring their departure. Evidence for interference between colonist and resident individuals of some morphotypes and among C. consanguinea larvae at high densities was obtained. Neither experiment indicated that interference contributes significantly to guild structure among these herbivores.
10.2307/2388853|The effect of hurricane disturbance on canopy invertebrate communities was studied at the Luquillo Experimental Forest in Puerto Rico. Invertebrate community structure and herbivory were compared among tree species co-occurring in intact forest (standing trees) and canopy gaps. Foliage-bearing branches were collected using a long-handled insect net fitted with a closeable plastic bag. Invertebrates were tabulated and foliage was dried, weighed, and measured for area missing. Lepidoptera, predaceous beetles, and decomposers were significantly more abundant in standing trees; whereas, some sap-sucking arthropods were more abundant in canopy gaps, indicating that these taxa responded to changes in microclimate and/or host condition resulting from disturbance. Herbivory (estimated as leaf area missing) and numbers of several taxa differed significantly among tree species, likely reflecting host preferences based on foliage nutritional quality Species diversity and the gradient of disturbance may have masked disturbance effects.
20492480|We describe patterns of tree community change along a 700-km transect through terra firme forests of western Amazonia, running from the base of the Andes in Ecuador to the Peru-Brazil border. Our primary question is whether floristic variation at large scales arises from many gradual changes or a few abrupt ones. Data from 54 1-ha tree plots along the transect support the latter model, showing two sharp discontinuities in community structure at the genus level. One is located near the Ecuador-Peru border, where the suite of species that dominates large areas of Ecuadorean forest declines abruptly in importance to the east. This discontinuity is underlain by a subterranean paleoarch and congruent with a change in soil texture. A second discontinuity is associated with the shift from clay to white sand soils near Iquitos. We hypothesize that the first discontinuity is part of an adaphic boundary that runs along the Andean piedmont and causes a transition from tree communities preferring richer, younger soils near the base of the Andes to those preferring poorer, older soils farther east. Because the floristic changes observed at this discontinuity are conserved for large distances to the east and west of it, the discontinuity is potentially key for understanding floristic variation in western Amazonia. The significant floristic turnover at the Ecuador-Peru border suggests that the only large protected area in the region--Ecuador's Yasun National Park--is not adequate protection for the very diverse tree communities that cover vast areas of northern Peru.
10.2307/2387995|Certain mistletoes (Loranthaceae) in southern India have their flowers pollinated and seeds dispersed by one vector species, namely, the flowerpecker, which is a specialised frugivorous bird which feeds almost exclusively on mistletoe fruits. This is a situation in which both flowering and fruiting events would be likely to influence each other. The study indicated that the characteristics of the flowerpecker pollinated mistletoes differed from the others in the following respects: the fruiting times overlapped with the next flowering season, the flowers were rather inconspicuous and greenish in color, and the reward was offered once. This contrasted with the mistletoe species pollinated by other birds in which the flowering and fruiting times were not closely tied; the flowers had a strong color signal, were usually red or pink, and the nectar supply was continuous. This indicated that the flowers in the flowerpecker-pollinated species had either developed characteristics which were similar to those of the fruit in order to attract the mostly frugivorous pollinator, or both flowers and fruits had developed common characteristics in order to attract a common vector. The former case could be described as `facultative mimicry,' in that the reward offered by the flower is possibly less than that offered by the fruit, thus leading it to mimic the fruit. In the latter instance the rewards offered by both might complement each other.
40645589|Spatial patterns of seed dispersal are the focus of numerous theoretical examinations of endozoochory. Here, we examine the spatial pattern of seed dispersal by whitefaced capuchin monkeys Cebus capucinus in Santa Rosa National Park, Costa Rica, and the neighborhood characteristics and distance variables most closely associated with seed survival and germination, and seedling survival and growth in various locations. Overall, distance to the nearest fruiting conspecific tree has the most positive, consistent effect on growth and survival variables, which supports a variation of the JanzenConnell seed escape hypothesis.
10.2307/2388849|The composition, density, and fruiting phenology of arborescent palms were examined in a remote terra firme forest site near the upper Urucu river, Amazonas, Brazil. A total of 248 individuals with a diameter at breast height (DBH) 10 cm, including 8 single-stemmed and 1 multistemmed species, occurred within a 5-ha area (twelve 0.25-ha plots and two 1-ha plots). Using a point-quadrant method, an additional 75 palms were tagged along 4.9 km of transects. Arborescent palms accounted for 7 percent of 4915 trees, and comprised the sixth most abundant tree family. The combined density of all palm species was substantially greater in relatively patchy areas of poorly drained to waterlogged soils within creekside forest (81 ind./ha) than on well-drained, high forest soils (36 ind./ha). Palm species appeared to segregate according to habitat topography, resulting in two relatively distinct subcommunities. Jessenia bataua, the most common species, accounted for 42 percent of the arborescent palms. Immature and mature fruits of this and other palm species were available throughout the year, and represented an important food source for frugivores during the dry season, when ripe fleshy fruits of nonpalm trees became rare or nonexistent. The reproductive phenology of arborescent palms is discussed in terms of its role in sustaining frugivores through periods of generalized ripe fruit scarcity.
2389144|We studied flowering phenology at the level of individual branches within strangler fig trees to determine (1) whether branches bloomed asynchronously within trees and (2) whether asynchrony, if observed, could be ascribed to genetically different branches of mosaic trees (i.e., trees formed by spontaneous grafting of genetically different individuals) undergoing individual flowering cycles that were out of phase with each other. Although asynchrony was fairly common, it most often reflected individual branches failing to bloom during one flowering episode, then coming back to bloom in synchrony at the next episode. We detected fewer mosaic trees than expected, and found only a very weak suggestion that mosaic trees may show less within-tree synchrony than simple trees.
10.2307/2387711|Trees and shrubs of the heath forests of Southeast Asia have leaves which appear to be structurally adapted to drought, despite the occurrence of this vegetation within the continuously wet lowland tropics. Results of investigations of the anatomy of the leaves and some mineral analyses thereon are presented and discussed. Experiments show that the rate of water loss from cut shoots, the water deficits required to induce stomatal closure in cut shoots, and the sublethal water deficits of detached leaves of heath forest species are all within the range recorded for lowland rain forest species. The significance of these results is discussed in the light of previous investigations of the climate physiognomy and ecology of heath forests.
30043135|In tropical forests, rodents exert a prominent role as post-dispersal seed predators, while other vertebrates apparently have a minor effect on seed predation. In some forest fragments in southeast Brazil, however, the density of rodents is unusually low, whereas terrestrial granivorous birds are abundant. In this study, we used seeds of a second-growth tree (Croton priscus, Euphorbiaceae) to investigate experimentally the relative importance of rodents and birds as seed predators in a forest fragment. We also estimated the density of terrestrial granivorous birds and trapped small mammals. Results indicate that, as a consequence of decreased rodent population and increased bird abundance, the latter are at least as important as the former as the main post-dispersal seed predators of C. priscus. We interpret such apparent imbalance in the interaction between priscus and their seed predators as a possible consequence of forest fragmentation. /// Em florestas tropicais, enquanto os roedores figuram entre os principis predadores ps-disperso de sementes, outros vertebrados desempenham mais raramente este papel. Em alguns fragmentos da floresta no sudeste do Brasil, no entanto, a densidade de roedores  bastante baixa, enquanto aves granvoras terrestres so abundantes. Neste estudo ns usamos sementes de uma rvore caracterstica de vegetao secundria (Croton priscus, Euphorbiaceae) para investigar experimentalmente a importncia relativa dos roedores e das aves granvoras como predadores de sementes em um destes fragmentos da floresta. Concomitantemente tambm estimamos a densidade das aves granvoras e a abundncia de pequenos mamferos. Os resultados obtidos indicaram que, como conseqencia da baixa abundncia de roedores e alta abundncia de aves granvoras, estas so ao menos to importantes quanto os roedores como predadores ps-disperso das sementes de C. priscus. Interpretamos este padro pouco usual na interao entre C. priscus e os predadores de suas sementes como uma possvel conseqncia da fragmentao da floresta.
30045502|The ability to resist hurricane damage is a property of both individuals and communities, and can have strong effects on the structure and function of many tropical forests. We examined the relative importance of tree size, species, biogeographic origin, local topography, and damage from previous storms in long-term permanent plots in a rehabilitated subtropical moist forest in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Georges in order to better predict patterns of resistance. Severe damage included uprooted trees, snapped stems, or crowns with greater than 50 percent branch loss. Hurricane induced mortality after 21 mo was 5.2 percent/yr, more than seven times higher than background mortality levels during the nonhurricane periods. Species differed greatly in their mortality and damage patterns, but there was no relationship between damage and wood density or biogeographic origin. Rather, damage for a given species was correlated with mean annual increment, with faster growing species experiencing greater damage, suggesting that growth rate may reflect a variety of life history tradeoffs. Size was also predictive of damage, with larger trees suffering more damage. Trees on ridges and in valleys received greater damage than trees on slopes. A strong relationship was noted between previous hurricane damage and present structural damage, which could not solely be explained by the patterns with size and species. We suggest that resistance of trees to hurricane damage is therefore not only correlated with individual and species characteristics but also with past disturbance history, which suggests that in interpreting the effects of hurricanes on forest structure, individual storms cannot be treated as discrete, independent events. /// La habilidad de resistir daos causados por un huracn es una propiedad comn de individuos y comunidades, y puede tener efectos marcados en la estructura y funcin de muchos bosques tropicales. Con el fin de predecir mejor los patrones de resistencia, nosotros examinamos la importancia relativa del tamao de los rboles, las especies, el origen biogeogrfico, la topografia local y el dao por tormentas pasadas en parcelas permanentes de largo plazo en un bosque rehabilitado subtropical hmedo en Puerto Rico, luego del paso del huracn Georges. Las daos severos incluyeron rboles con races socavadas, tallos rotos y/o doseles con prdida de ramas mayor del 50 por ciento. La mortalidad inducida por el huracn despus de 21 meses fue de 5.2 por ciento por ao, siete veces superior que los niveles de mortalidad ocurridos durante perodos sin huracanes. Las especies difirieron mayormente en su mortalidad y patrones de dao, pero no hubo relacin entre el dao causado y la densidad de la madera u origen biogeogrfico. Ms bien, el dao causado para una cierta especie estaba correlacionado con el incremento del promedio anual, con las especies de rpido crecimiento experimentando mayor dao, lo cual sugiere que la tasa de crecimiento puede reflejar variedad en las concesiones de historia de vida de las especies. El tamao de los rboles tambin fue indicativo del dao, con los rboles ms grandes sufriendo mayor dao. Los rboles en las cimas y en los valles recibieron mayor dao que los rboles en las pendientes. Se observ una fuerte relacin entre el dao causado por huracanes pasados y el actual dao estructural, el cual no pudo ser explicado solamente por los patrones de tamao y especies. Nosotros sugerimos que la resistencia de los rboles al dao causado por el huracn se correlaciona no slo con las caractersticas individuales y de las especies, sino tambin con el historial de daos anteriores, lo cual sugiere que en la interpretacin de los efectos de huracanes en la estructura del bosque, una tormenta individual no se puede tratar como un evento independiente y discreto.
10.2307/2388614|Comparisons among three forest stands at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica were made of biomass, abundance, richness, relative abundance, evenness and species overlap of herpetofauna collected in leaf litter plots. The forest stands were primary forest and two different cacao plantations abandoned at five and twenty-five years in the past. Abundance and biomass of herpetofauna were greater in more recently disturbed sites, but evenness, richness, and diversity were greater in less recently disturbed sites. The more recently disturbed sites also had deeper leaf litter, which may influence prey availability, and higher percent canopy open, which may lead to extremes in temperature and moisture availability, compared to undisturbed primary forest. The results imply that herpetofaunal restoration is a relatively slow process, and that the presence of primary forest is important for the maintenance of some rare species.
4132934|Insects are important participants in many ecosystem processes, but the effects of anthropogenic and natural disturbances on insect communities have been poorly studied. To describe how disturbances affect insect communities, we addressed two questions: Do insect communities return to a pre-hurricane composition? And how do insect communities change during succession? To answer these questions, we studied insect communities in a chronosequence of two abandoned pastures (5 yr and 32 yr) and a mature forest (>80 yr) that were recently disturbed by two hurricanes (Hurricane Hugo, 1989; Hurricane Georges, 1998). Although insect abundance and richness fluctuated during the study, all sites returned to pre-hurricane (Hurricane Georges) abundance and richness in less than one year. All trophic categories present before Hurricane Georges were present after the hurricane, but richness within categories fluctuated greatly. Insect richness did not increase during succession; the 5 yr site had the highest richness, the >80 yr site had an intermediate richness, and the 32 yr site the lowest. Nevertheless, the species composition of the two forested sites was different in comparison to the 5 yr site. These results suggest that trophic structure varies little in time and space, but the species composition within each trophic category is highly variable.
30043176|Vascular epiphyte communities, comprising up to 25 percent of tropical forest flora, contribute to plant diversity and thus ecosystem-level processes; however, one of the proximal determinants of those communities, microclimate, is little studied. Here we present the first comprehensive study of microclimates in the inner crowns of two emergent tree species, Hyeronima alchorneoides and Lecythis ampla, at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. We examined photon flux density, temperature, vapor pressure, and humidity in inner-crown branches during the wet and dry seasons and during the wet-season leafless phase of Lecythis. In both seasons, the percentage daily PFD in foliated Lecythis crowns (9%, wet season; 11%, dry season) was significantly higher than in Hyeronima crowns (5%, both seasons), with the leafless wet-season PFD of Lecythis reaching 23 percent of full sun. Temperature and vapor pressure varied less in Hyeronima than in Lecythis crowns during the dry season. Microenvironmental conditions for epiphytes within Hyeronima crowns were more spatially and temporally homogeneous and were more buffered from ambient conditions than within Lecythis crowns. Growing conditions within the crowns of the same trees and among different trees were measurably different and are likely to affect the structure and composition of the resident epiphyte communities. /// Las epfitas vasculares representan el 25 por ciento de la flora vascular en bosques tropicales. Sin embargo, existe poca informacin sobre el microclima en que estas plantas habitan. Comparamos flujo fotosinttico (PFD), temperatura, presin de vapor y humedad en las ramas interiores de dos especies de rboles emergentes, Hyeronima alchorneoides y Lecythis ampla, en la Estacin Biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica. En cada estacin, se encontr una diferencia significativa entre el por ciento PFD en el dosel de Lecythis (9%, estacin lluviosa; 11%, estacin seca) y el por ciento PFD registrado en Hyeronima (5.6%, los dos estaciones), con por ciento PFD de Lecythis en la poca sin hojas llegando a 23 por ciento. Las copas de Hyeronima mostraron menos variacin en temperatura y presin de vapor que las copas de Lecythis durante la poca seca. El microclima en el dosel de Hyeronima fue ms homogneo espacialmente y temporalmente y ms regulado en comparacin con el microclima en Lecythis. Las condiciones de crecer en el dosel de un rbol y entre diferentes rboles son diferentes, y probablemente afectan la estructura y composicin de las comunidades de epfitas.
2663895|A total of 217 species of typically foliicolous lichens were found at the "Botarrama" trail, a premontane rain forest in the Braulio Carrillo National Park, Costa Rica. The species composition confirmed the classification of this study site as transitional between lowland wet and montane rain forest. In terms of species richness, the foliicolous lichen flora was dominated by the families Gomphillaceae (Calenia, Echinoplaca, Gyalideopsis, and Tricharia), Trichotheliaceae (Porina and Trichothelium), and Pilocarpaceae (Byssoloma and Fellhanera). The most frequent species were Porina mirabilis (including its supposed anamorph Phyllophiale alba), Gyalectidium filicinum, Porina rufula, and Strigula platypoda. A large proportion of the species was rare. Frequency distributions based on area cover corresponded well to general community models by closely fitting a log-normal approximation. Half of the species had narrow ecological amplitudes while more than 70 percent exhibited a wide geographical distribution, thus making the study site representative of a Neotropical rain forest. The use of foliicolous lichens as indicators of altitudinal zonation is discussed.
30044906|We compared the diversity, taxonomic composition, and pollination syndromes of bromeliad assemblages and the diversity and abundance of hummingbirds along two climatically contrasting elevational gradients in Bolivia. Elevational patterns of bromeliad species richness differed noticeably between transects. Along the continuously wet Carrasco transect, species richness peaked at mid-elevations, whereas at Masicur most species were found in the hot, semiarid lowlands. Bromeliad assemblages were dominated by large epiphytic tank bromeliads at Carrasco and by small epiphytic, atmospheric tillandsias at Masicur. In contrast to the epiphytic taxa, terrestrial bromeliads showed similar distributions across both transects. At Carrasco, hummingbird-pollination was the most common pollination mode, whereas at Masicur most species were entomophilous. The proportion of ornithophilous species increased with elevation on both transects, whereas entomophily showed the opposite pattern. At Carrasco, the percentage of ornithophilous bromeliad species was significantly correlated with hummingbird abundance but not with hummingbird species richness. Bat-pollination was linked to humid, tropical conditions in accordance with the high species richness of bats in tropical lowlands. At Carrasco, mixed hummingbird/bat-pollination was found especially at mid-elevations, i.e., on the transition between preferential bat-pollination in the lowlands and preferential hummingbird-pollination in the highlands. In conclusion, both richness patterns and pollination syndromes of bromeliad assemblages varied in distinct and readily interpretable ways in relation to environmental humidity and temperature, and bromeliad pollination syndromes appear to follow the elevational gradients exhibited by their pollinators. /// Comparamos la diversidad, composicin taxonmica y sndromes de polinizacin de comunidades de bromeliceas con la diversidad y abundancia de colibres a lo largo de dos gradientes altitudinales climticamente diferentes en Bolivia. Los patrones de elevacin de riqueza de especies de bromeliceas difirieron notoriamente entre los transectos. A lo largo del transecto permanentemente hmedo de Carrasco, la riqueza de las especies alcanz su punto mximo a elevaciones intermedias, mientras que en Masicur la mayora de las especies se encontraron en tierras bajas, calientes y semiridas. Las comunidades de bromeliceas estuvieron dominadas por grandes bromeliceas epifiticas tanque en Carrasco y por pequeas tillandsias atmosfricas epifiticas en Masicur. En contraste a los taxones epifiticos, la distribucin de bromeliceas terrestres fue bastante similar en ambos transectos. En Carrasco, la polinizacin por colibres fue la manera de polinizacin ms comn, mientras que en Masicur la mayora de las especies fueron entomfilas. La proporcin de especies ornitfilas aument con la elevacin en ambos transectos, mientras que la entomfila mostr el patrn contrario. En Carrasco, el porcentaje de especies de bromeliceas ornitfilas estuvo correlacionado significativamente con la abundancia de colibres pero no con la riqueza de especies de colibres. La polinizacin por murcilagos se relacion con condiciones hmedas y tropicales, coincidiendo con la alta riqueza de especies de murcilagos en las tierras bajas tropicales. En Carrasco, polinizacin mixta de colibres/murcilagos fue encontrada principalmente a elevaciones intermedias, es decir, en la transicin entre polinizacin preferencial por murcilagos en tierras bajas y polinizacin preferencial por colibres en las montaas. En conclusin, los patrones de riqueza y sndromes de polinizacin de comunidades de bromeliceas varan de maneras distintas y fcilmente interpretables en relacin a condiciones de humedad y temperatura. Los sndromes de polinizacin de bromeliceas parecen seguir los patrones exhibidos por sus polinizadores preferenciales.
27742872|Relative abundance indices are often used to compare species abundance between sites. The indices assume that species have similar detection probabilities, or that differences between detection probabilities are known and can be corrected for. Indices often consist of encounter frequencies of footprints, burrows, markings or photo captures along trails or transect lines, but the assumption of equal detection probabilities is rarely validated. This study analyzes detection probabilities of a range of Neotropical mammals on trails in dense secondary forests, using camera-trap and track data. Photo captures of the two large cats, jaguars (Panthera onca) and pumas (Puma concolor), were correlated solely with trail variables, while photo captures of their potential prey species had no correlation or negative correlation with trail variables. The Neotropical mammals varied greatly in their tendency to follow or cross trails based on footprints surveys. This indicates that camera locations on trails will have varying detection probability for these Neotropical mammals. Even the two similar-sized jaguars and pumas, occupying relatively similar niches, differed subtly in their use of trails. Pumas followed trails more completely while jaguars were more likely to deviate from trails. The ecological significance of these findings is that jaguars seem to be more willing to use the forest matrix away from trails than do pumas. We conclude that trail-based indices, such as photographic captures or tracks along trails, are not appropriate for comparison between Neotropical species, and not even between relatively similar species like jaguars and pumas.
10.2307/2388789|A population of Atta cephalotes was surveyed in 1989 and 1991 at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Nests were mapped along trails that passed through old growth forest. Estimates of basic demographic parameters were examined in relationship to general soil categories, suggesting that colony mortality and natality is related to soil type. Results indicated that the population is increasing at a rate of 22 percent per annum. Based on initial nest size data and on demographic parameters, a complete forest soil turnover time of 200 to 300 yr was estimated. The significance of these results for plant community dynamics are discussed.
10.2307/2388367|Five species accounted for 95 percent of the stems of at least 10 cm DBH on three plots totaling 0.22 ha in the dwarf cloud forest of the Luquillo Mountains in Puerto Rico. Mean density for stems of at least 10 cm DBH was 3671 $\pm$ 516 stems/ha, and mean basal area was 49.1 $\pm$ 8.2 m$^2$/ha. The aboveground woody biomass on two small plots of 0.0036 ha, one located on a ridge and the other 100 m to the leeward, was 48 and 110 t/ha, respectively. Leaf area index on the ridge was 1.99 m$^2$/m$^2$, leaf biomass was 288 g/m$^2$, and specific leaf weight was 14.5 mg/cm$^2$ Mean annual litterfall rates averaged only 0.85 g/m$^2$/day (3.10 t/ha/yr), of which 79 percent was leaf litter, 9 percent wood litter, and 12 percent miscellaneous material. The rate at which nutrients returned to the soil (kg/ha/yr) averaged 23.9 for nitrogen, 0.7 for phosphorus, 4.3 for potassium, 16.3 for calcium, and 7.6 for magnesium. The annual increment in tree diameter was low, averaging only 0.03 $\pm$ 0.01 cm/yr. For trees at least 2.5 cm in diameter, aboveground biomass accumulated at an average rate of 45 g/m$^2$/yr. Net primary productivity was 3.84 t/ha/yr.
20492488|The standardized 'Ants of the Leaf Litter' protocol aims to facilitate the use of ground-foraging and litter-dwelling ants in biodiversity assessment and monitoring programs. It was initially developed to characterize assemblages from tropical rain forests and is based on two main techniques: Winkler extractions and pitfall traps. Here, we tested to what extent this protocol was adapted to tropical dry forests and affected by the rainfall regime. Our 10 study sites were located along an aridity gradient (average annual rainfall: 350-1300mm) in the Gran Chaco. The number of species collected per sampling effort increased with aridity for pitfalls but followed an opposite trend for Winkler samples. This trend could be explained by the low daytime foraging activity in the leaf litter during drought periods. In arid and semiarid regions the good performance of pitfalls was probably related to their 24-h operation and to the attractiveness of the water they contained. Our results stress that the Winkler method used in the Ants of the Leaf Litter protocol may not be cost-effective during periods of drought and may lead to severe underestimations of litter ant diversity in tropical dry forests.
30044915|We compared fruiting data derived simultaneously from fruit traps placed on the ground and from canopy-surveyed plots in a terra firme rain forest, Colombian Amazonia. Values derived from the canopy-surveyed plots were higher than fruit-trap estimates. Fruiting patterns obtained throughout both methods were not correlated. Our results showed that the fruit-trap method does not accurately reflect fruiting patterns occurring at the highest levels of the forest, while the canopy-surveyed plots provided both quantitative and qualitative information on canopy fruit production, and each species contribution. /// Comparamos los datos de la fructificacin obtenidos simultneamente a travs de trampas de frutos colocadas en el suelo y en parcelas monitoreadas desde el dosel de un bosque hmedo de tierra firme de la amazonia colombiana. Los valores derivados de los monitoreos desde el dosel fueron mayores que los obtenidos con las trampas de frutos. No se encontr relacin entre los patrones de fructificacin obtenidos a travs de los dos mtodos. Nuestros resultados demostraron que el mtodo de las trampas de frutos no refleja los patrones de fructificacin que ocurren en los estratos mas altos del bosque, mientras que las parcelas en el dosel proporcionaron informacin tanto cuantitativa como cualitativa, y acerca de la contribucin de cada especie en la produccin de frutos.
10.2307/2989739|Phenological patterns of flowering and fruiting are presented for species of phanerogams on Barro Colorado Island. The phenological patterns represent overall averages rather than for any single year or for any individual. Flowering and fruiting graphs were prepared by calculating the total number of species which might be in flower or fruit for any month. Species were divided according to both habit and habitat. Aquatic and suffruticose herbs were found to be aseasonal as were the arborescent plants of clearings. Clearing herbs, herbaceous vines, epiphytic herbs, as well as lianas and trees, are seasonal with a peak of activity in the dry season. Forest herbs including herbs of forest trails, light-gaps and edges, as well as shrubs, have a peak of activity in the rainy season. In contrast to the clearing herbs, these groups appear to be relatively unaffected by conditions of drought, and flowering is probably cued by the onset of the rainy season. The average length of flowering time is least for those groups which were markedly seasonal such as lianas and larger trees. Species studied were divided into 20 seasonal groups, 6 nonseasonal groups, and 1 bimodal group. A total of 295 species flower and fruit all year. The largest seasonal categories include those species which flower and fruit in the wet season (171 spp.) and those which flower and fruit in the dry season (132 spp.). More species flower and fruit in the rainy season than in the dry season, despite the fact that the overall flowering and fruiting curves peak in the dry season.
10.2307/2989738|This paper gives the first complete life table for a tree and a tropical plant (the palm Euterpe globosa, in Puerto Rico) There is rapid but declining mortality before the shoot from one in a million seeds reaches the canopy. Mean generation length (not the minimum length usually used) is 100 years. A new set of parameters measures age-specific energy flow. Young trees are most important in nutrient competition, and on 6000 m
4132963| Lesser bare-backed bats (Dobsonia minor [Pteropodidae]) are solitary and roost in foliage of understory and subcanopy trees in lowland rain forest. These 70-90 gram frugivorous bats forage in primary and secondary forest and in abandoned gardens. At the Kau Wildlife Area in Papua New Guinea, movements (N = 1041) of four males and four females fitted with radio transmitters were monitored for 1 to 18 months. Mean home range within 30-day sampling periods was 5.1 ha (N = 12). There were no significant differences in home ranges by sex or by dry-wet season. Females, however, had significantly larger mean core-use areas than males (1.43  0.61 and 0.65  0.16 ha, respectively). There was moderate overlap in home range and core-use areas among some simultaneously tracked animals. The long axes of home ranges varied from 150 to 1150 m and the mean was significantly larger in females. Individuals commuted from day roosts to multiple feeding areas, sometimes resulting in disjunct core-use areas and home ranges. Fruits of native Ficus species and the exotic shrub Piper aduncum were staple food items. Piper aduncum grew as dense clusters within early successional habitats, and individual plants ripened 5-20 fruits per night throughout the year. Ficus spp. grew in primary and secondary forest and fruited asynchronously, but individual trees produced tens to thousands of ripe fruits over 7 to 10 days. Three adult female D. minor were tracked over multiple periods spanning 2.5-18 months. Although each female continued to visit a core-use area containing P. aduncum throughout the study, turnover of other core-use areas reflected the ephemeral locations of fruiting fig trees. 
40645544|Multitrophic interactions play key roles in the origin and maintenance of species diversity, and the study of these interactions has contributed to important theoretical advances in ecology and evolutionary biology. Nevertheless, most biodiversity inventories focus on static species lists, and prominent theories of diversity still ignore trophic interactions. The lack of a simple interaction metric that is analogous to species richness is one reason why diversity of interactions is not examined as a response or predictor variable in diversity studies. Using plant-herbivore-enemy trophic chains as an example, we develop a simple metric of diversity in which richness, diversity indices (e.g., Simpson's 1/D), and rarefaction diversity are calculated with links as the basic unit rather than species. Interactions include all two-link (herbivore-plant and enemy-herbivore) and three-link (enemy-herbivore-plant) chains found in a study unit. This metric is different from other indices, such as traditional diversity measures, connectivity and interaction diversity in food-web studies, and the diversity of interaction index in behavioral studies, and it is easier to compute. Using this approach to studying diversity provides novel insight into debates about neutrality and correlations between diversity, stability, productivity, and ecosystem services.
10.2307/2387820|Four species of finches eat the seeds of Croton scouleri, a small, widespread tree in the arid zone of Santa Cruz, the Galapagos. The seeds are contained within tripartite capsules that are borne on spikes. All of the capsules on a given spike tend to ripen synchronously. The capsules are crushed by two species of finches. When this occurs at least one of the seeds is dropped by the finch. The finches that can crush the ripe seed capsules do not fly to the ground in search of the expelled seeds, but continue to take the adjacent ripe capsules. Thus the 3-seeded capsule and its arrangement on the tree seem to insure that some seeds escape predation. The two other species of finches are unable to crack the ripe capsules, but they do forage on the ground for the scattered seeds.
30043052|The effect of the fossorial land crab Gecarcinus quadratus (Gecarcinidae) on patterns of accumulation and distribution of leaf litter was studied for two years in the coastal primary forests of Costa Rica's Corcovado National Park. Within this mainland forest, G. quadratus achieve densities up to 6 crabs/m in populations extending along the Park's Pacific coastline and inland for ca 600 m. Crabs selectively forage for fallen leaf litter and relocate what they collect to burrow chambers that extend from 15 to 150 cm deep (N - 44), averaging (SE) 48.9  3.0 cm. Preference trials suggested that leaf choice by crabs may be species-specific. Excavated crab burrows revealed maximum leaf collections of 11.75 g dry mass- 2.5 times more leaf litter than collected by square-meter leaf fall traps over several seven-day sampling periods. Additionally, experimental crab exclosures (25 m) were established using a repeated measures randomized block design to test for changes in leaf litter as a function of reduced crab density. Exclosures accumulated significantly more (5.6  3.9 times) leaf litter than did control treatments during the wet, but not the dry, seasons over this two-year study. Such extensive litter relocation by land crabs may affect profiles of soil organic carbon, rooting, and seedling distributions. /// Se estudiaron los efectos de los cangrejos terrestres Gecarcinus quadratus (Gecarcinidae) en la acumulacin y distribucin de hojarasca en el bosque costero primario del Parque Nacional Corcovado, Costa Rica, durante dos aos. En este tipo de bosque, G. quadratus alcanza densidades de aproximadamente 6 cangrejos/m en poblaciones que se extienden a lo largo de la costa Pacfica, en una franja de aproximadamente 600 m al interior. Los cangrejos forrajean selectivamente las hojas cadas y las reubican en sus cuevas, que pueden extenderse desde 15 a 150 cm de profundidad (N = 44, media = 48.9  3.0 cm). Mediante experimentos de preferencia se encontr que la seleccin de hojarasca se restringe a ciertas especies. Se excavaron cuevas de cangrejos y se encontr hasta un mximo de 11.75 g (peso seco) de hojarasca. Esta cantidad fue 2.5 veces mayor que la cantidad colectada con trampas de hojarasca de un metro cuadrado, durante varios perodos de siete das. Se establecieron cinco clausuras experimentales de 25 m en un diseo de bloques al azar de mediciones repetidas para probar cambios en la acumulacin de hojarasca en funcin de la disminucin de la densidad de cangrejos. En estas clausuras se acumul significativamente ms (5.6  3.9 veces) hojarasca que en las clausuras de control en la poca lluviosa pero no en la seca, durante los dos aos de estudio. Este traslado extensivo de hojarasca que realizan los cangrejos terrestres posiblemente afecta la concentracin de carbono orgnico del suelo y la distribucin de races y plntulas.
2389028|We determined rates of decomposition and asymbiotic nitrogen fixation in the leaf litter of Cheirodendron spp. on the Hawaiian Islands. Leaf litter was collected from four sites on a long soil-age gradient (300 yr to 4.1M yr) and decomposed at two sites that differed widely in substrate age and nutrient availability. Rates of decomposition were higher in litter decomposed at the older site, where nutrient availability was greater. A substantial amount of nitrogen and phosphorus immobilization occurred in litter decomposed at the older site, with more immobilization occurring in litter with lower initial nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations, suggesting both supply and demand controls on nutrient immobilization. Potential rates of nitrogen fixation were very low in the first 25 d (0-5 nmol acetylene/gdw/h), rose to much higher rates by 70 d (20-45 nmol), and then declined by 140 d. We found no significant difference in rates of potential nitrogen fixation between sites of decomposition, but there was a strong substrate effect, with higher rates in litter with low lignin, low nitrogen, and high phosphorus. Where significant immobilization of nitrogen occurred for decomposing Cheirodendron, nitrogen fixation could have comprised no more than 10 percent of immobilized nitrogen. Overall, rates of nitrogen fixation were dependent on the source of the decomposing substrate but not on the site of decomposition, while short-term decomposition and nutrient immobilization were strongly dependent on the site of decomposition but not as much on the source of the decomposing substrate.
2663819|I examined the effects of two farm management variables, shade-tree species and crop structure, on the winter (dry season) arthropod and bird communities in a Jamaican shade coffee plantation. Birds and canopy arthropods were more abundant in areas of the plantation shaded by the tree Inga vera than by Pseudalbizia berteroana. The abundance of arthropods (potential pests) on the coffee crop, however, was unaffected by shade-tree species. Canopy arthropods, particularly psyllids (Homoptera), were especially abundant on Inga in late winter, when it was producing new leaves and nectar-rich flowers. Insectivorous and nectarivorous birds showed the strongest response to Inga; thus the concentration of birds in Inga may be a response to abundant food. Coffee-tree arthropod abundance was much lower than in the shade trees and was affected little by farm management variables, although arthropods tended to be more abundant in dense (unpruned) than open (recently pruned) areas of the plantation. Perhaps in response, leaf-gleaning insectivorous birds were more abundant in dense areas. These results underscore that although some shade coffee plantations may provide habitat for arthropod and bird communities, differences in farm management practices can significantly affect their abundances. Furthermore, this study provides evidence suggesting that bird communities in coffee respond to spatial variation in arthropod availability. I conclude that I. vera is a better shade tree than P. berteroana, but a choice in crop structures is less clear due to changing effects of prune management over time.
10.2307/2388574|In a premontane cloud forest in Costa Rica, fruit biomass of bat-visited plants showed two seasonal peaks per year. The first peak occurred during the dry/wet seasonal transition (April-May), and the second fruiting peak occurred in the late wet period (September-October). Lactation in two common fruit-eating bats, Artibeus toltecus and Sturnira ludovici, was also bimodal and coincided with seasonal peaks in fruit abundance and nutrient availability. Both bat species fed heavily on the fruits of abundant second-growth shrubs, although during the late wet season A. toltecus consumed mainly the fruits of mature forest tree species. Fruits eaten by premontane bats are high in water content, soluble carbohydates, and protein, but low in lipids. Fruits consumed by bats during lactation are extremely high in soluble carbohydrates but lower in protein on a per-gram basis than other fruits available at this interval. In Monteverde, bats did not eat insects during lactation periods as a means of increasing nutrient uptake. This suggests either that protein availability during fruiting peaks is sufficient or that lactating bats might rely on protein reserves established prior to parturition.
10.2307/2989722|White-faced monkeys, Cebus capucinus, intensively preyed on the ant Pseudomyrmex belti, that obligatorily occupies and protects swollen-thorn acacias, primarily Acacia collinsii. at the study site. The Cebus obtained ants and probably ant larvae from acacias by ripping off branches and opening thorns with their teeth. This action often resulted in extensive physical destruction of the acacia, loss of the ant colony, and subsequent death of the plant. Implications of this predation and other interactions between monkeys and myrmecophytes are discussed.
2663787|The Coastal Plain of Chiapas (southern Mexico) was formerly covered by large tracts of subhumid tropical forests but is heavily deforested at present. In this region, 15 pastures were selected to characterize species composition of isolated trees, as well as to describe species composition, growth form patterns, and patterns of dispersal units in the vegetation growing under their canopies. The 65 recorded pasture trees belonged to 20 species and 11 families, of which Fabaceae and Moraceae were the most species-rich. Coccoloba barbadensis (Polygonaceae) and Enterolobium cyclocarpum (Fabaceae) were the most abundant and frequent trees in the studied pastures. More than half (55%) of isolated tree species were fleshy-fruited. In the vegetation sampled under pasture trees, 134 species and 45 families were found. Fabaceae and Poaceae had the largest numbers of species. Herbs were the predominant growth form (46.3%), followed by shrubs (23.9%), trees (23.1%), and lianas (2.2%); 6 species could not be placed in any growth form category. Most species of this flora were fleshy-fruited (43.3%), followed by heavy, gravity-dispersed fruits (17.9%). The analysis of dispersal units by growth form category confirmed the prevalence of fleshy fruits, although their predominance was not so obvious among herb species. Almost half (49.2%) of the flora under pasture trees was typical of secondary vegetation; this pattern was true for herbs but not for most woody species, which were typical of primary vegetation. A numeric classification of the vegetation samples taken under pasture trees produced eight floristic groups, all of which were independent of the specific identity of pasture trees. No significant effect of dispersal unit type of pasture tree on the characteristics of the vegetation growing under them was found. Future attempts to re-create the original forest cover using isolated trees in pastures as regeneration foci should pay more attention to the maintenance of a large specific diversity independently of the dispersal types among these components of tropical landscapes.
2663946|The food habits of the giant otter, Pteronura brasiliensis, were determined by analyzing fecal samples collected year-round from communal latrines at Xixuau Creek (00
10.2307/2387717|A moth, Laspeyresia sp. (Olethreutidae), was responsible for approximately 80 percent of immature fruit and seed mortality in Panamanian Mabea occidentalis (Euphorbiaceae) Predation intensity (proportion of the fruit crop damaged) was not significantly related to plant fecundity within Mabea stands; however, more fecund plants matured a greater absolute number of viable fruits and seeds than did less fecund plants. Fruits initiated earliest in the season tended to escape predation completely. Relative spatial isolation within Mabea stands did not result in lower predation intensities; the moths can probably easily travel the short interplant distances observed within these populations. Between-stand, rather than within-stand, distances may be important to the dynamics of seed predation in this and other patchily distributed species.
10.2307/2989810|The species composition of a frequently burned, 1.7 ha stand of Pinus oocarpa Schiede in west-central Honduras is described. One hundred and twenty-four species of vascular plants were recorded, mostly perennial herbs, among which grasses, legumes, and composites were well represented. Variation was recorded in the frequency, density, and biomass of species growing in two sites within the stand. One site was burned during the dry season preceding the study, and the other was burned a year earlier. Forty-three percent of the genera also occurred in a previously studied pineland in Florida, and other comparisons with the Florida stand are noted.
30043078|Female Heliconius hewitsoni butterflies were found to aggregate during oviposition, producing multi-parent egg clutches. This behavior occurred when host plants were locally plentiful, indicating that females chose to oviposit gregariously. Collective clutch size correlated with host growth rate and with the number of females contributing to a clutch. Eggs did not positively bias host plant growth. Collective clutch size adjustment may represent a mechanism for facilitating larval aggregation while reducing intraspecific competition.
10.2307/2387877|Aerial roots in Rhizophora arise from stems, branches, and secondarily thickened, anchored, aerial roots, but only after injury from unanchored aerial roots. Lateral subterranean roots are abundantly developed upon penetration of a mud substrate whereupon the histology of the root undergoes marked and abrupt changes so that chlorophyll is no longer developed, trichosclereids no longer differentiate, tannin cells become few, the cortex becomes markedly lacunose, and the sequence of protoxylem differentiation changes. Root systems developed in contrasting environments like water, sand, or mud provide evidence as to the relative importance of light and air in affecting anatomical differentiation. The overall morphology of the root system is discussed in relation to its likely function in aeration of subterranean parts.
10.2307/2388720|In the neotropical sand wasp Steniolia longirostra (Say), female activity levels in the nesting area were negatively correlated to ambient temperature and positively correlated to relative air humidity. The wasps showed high activity below 35$^\circ$C and above 40 percent relative humidity. Females with a low wing load had a lower body temperature during flight compared to females with a high wing load. This may offer females with favorable body proportions benefits, as they can enjoy longer daily provisioning periods.
30044935|Species lists are sources of information for studies of both conservation and macroecology. It is, however, important to differentiate between relatively complete lists and extremely incomplete ones. The aim of this study was to evaluate how sampling effort typically used in inventories affects the number of bat species captured in areas of Atlantic Forest in southeastern Brazil. We also evaluated if the number of sampled sites, size of the sampled area, and sampling effort (net hours) affect species richness. We used previously reported data from studies in Rio de Janeiro, So Paulo, and Minas Gerais States, and our own data collected during 1989 and 2001. Nonlinear models fit well the data for Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais States and all states together, but not for So Paulo State. Genera richness showed a similar pattern to that of species richness. The model used to explain the relationship between species richness and size of the study area, number of sites, and sampling effort sampled was significant. The number of sites sampled explained a significant part of the variation observed; however, other variables contributed nothing to the model, suggesting that capturing beta diversity is the most important aspect of biodiversity surveys for bats, and that increasing net hours at a given location is much more inefficient than distributing net hours across locations. We suggest 1000 captures as the minimum necessary when sampling with mist nets to capture the majority of phyllostomid species for a given site (alpha diversity). In addition, we suggest that shifting the position of the mist nets between nights will increase the probability of capturing more species. /// As listas de espcies so fontes de informaes para estudos, tanto de conservao quanto de macroecologia. Entretanto,  importante diferenciar entre listas relativamente completas daquelas seriamente incompletas. O objetivo deste estudo foi avaliar como o esforo amostrai mnimo tipicamente usado em inventrios afeta o nmero de espcies de morcegos capturados em reas de Mata Atlntica do sudeste do Brasil. Ns tambm avaliamos se o nmero de pontos amostrados, o tamanho da rea amostrada e o esforo de captura (hora-rede) afetam a riqueza de espcies. Ns usamos dados disponveis de estudos desenvolvidos nos estados do Rio de Janeiro, So Paulo e Minas Gerais, e os nossos prprios dados coletados de 1989 a 2001. Modelos no-lineares se ajustaram para os estados do Rio de Janeiro e Minas Gerais e todos os estados juntos, mas no para o Estado de So Paulo. A riqueza de gneros mostrou o mesmo padro da riqueza de espcies. O modelo usado para explicar a relao entre riqueza de espcies e tamanho da rea de estudo, nmero de pontos amostrados e esforo amostrai foi significativo. O nmero de pontos amostrados explicou uma parte significante da variao observada. Contudo, as outras variveis no contriburam para o modelo, sugerindo que capturar a diversidade Beta  o aspecto mais importante de inventrios de biodiversidade para morcegos, e que o aumento de horas-rede numa dada localidade  muito mais ineficiente do que distribuir horas-rede entre localidades. Ns sugerimos 1000 capturas como o mnimo necessrio para amostrar, com redes de neblina, a maioria das espcies de filostomdeos de uma dada rea (diversidade Alfa). Adicionalmente, sugerimos que mudando a posio das redes entre noites aumentar a probabilidade de capturar um maior nmero de espcies.
10.2307/2388374|Five species of the genus Bacillus were the only microbes found in the larval provisions of Trigona hypogea. a bee for which dead animal tissue has replaced pollen as the sole protein source. Bacillus pumilus was the most frequent isolate followed by B. megaterium, B. subtilis, B. circulans, and B. licheniformis. These bacteria were metabolically active and produced many enzymes including proteases, amylases, and esterases. They may have a fundamental role in the metabolic conversion, fermentation, and preservation of the food of perennial colonial insects that rely on stored food in tropical environments.
30045500|Allometric equations for the estimation of tree volume and aboveground biomass in a tropical humid forest were developed based on direct measurements of 19 individuals of seven tree species in Northern Costa Rica. The volume and the biomass of the stems represented about two-thirds of the total volume and total aboveground biomass, respectively. The average stem volume varied between 4 and 11 Mg/tree and the average total aboveground biomass ranged from 4 to 10 mg/tree. The mean specific gravity of the sampled trees was 0.62  0.06 (g/cm). The average biomass expansion factor was 1.6  0.2. The best-fit equations for stem and total volume were of logarithmic form, with diameter at breast height (R = 0.66 - 0.81) as an independent variable. The best-fit equations for total aboveground biomass that were based on combinations of diameter at breast height, and total and commercial height as independent variables had R values between 0.77 and 0.87. Models recommended for estimating total aboveground biomass are based on diameter at breast height, because the simplicity of these models is advantageous. This variable is easy to measure accurately in the field and is the most common variable recorded in forest inventories. Two widely used models in literature tend to underestimate aboveground biomass in large trees. In contrast, the models developed in this study accurately estimate the total aboveground biomass in these trees. /// Ecuaciones alomtricas para la estimacin de volumen y biomasa area de rboles en un bosque hmedo tropical fueron desarrollados basados en mediciones directas de 19 individuos de siete especies de rboles al norte de Costa Rica. El volumen y la biomasa del tronco representaron cerca de dos terceras partes del volumen total del rbol y de la biomasa area total. El volumen promedio del tronco vari entre 4 y 11 Mg/rbol y el promedio de la biomasa area total vari entre 4 y 10 mg/rbol. La gravedad especfica promedio de los rboles muestreados fu de 0.62  0.06 (g/cm). El factor de expansin de biomasa promedio fu de 1.6  0.2. Las ecuaciones de mejor ajuste para el volumen de tallo y total fueron de tipo logartmico, con el dimetro a la altura de pecho (R = 0.66 a 0.81) como variable independiente. Las ecuaciones de mejor ajuste para biomasa area total, las cuales fueron basadas en combinaciones de dimetro a la altura de pecho y altura total y comercial como variables independientes, presentaron valores de R entre 0.77 y 0.87. Los modelos recomendados para estimar biomasa area total estn basados en dimetro a la altura de pecho, porque la simplicidad de estos modelos es ventajosa. Esta variable es de fcil medicin en el campo y tiene mayor precision, adems, es la ms comnmente registrada en inventarios forestales. Dos modelos ampliamente usados en la literature tienden a subestimar la biomasa area total en rboles grandes. En contraste, los modelos desarrollados en este estudio, estiman con mayor precisin la biomasa area total de estos rboles.
10.2307/2389194|This paper examines the impact of selective logging and two silvicultural treatments (enrichment strips and vine cutting) on understory birds in southern Venezuela. Birds were sampled using mist nets from 1992-93. Assemblages in each forest type were compared with reference plots in primary forest. While selective logging significantly affected understory bird assemblages, the effects were even greater when enrichment strips (linear plantations) were created following harvesting. Bird assemblages changed in proportion to the magnitude of the forestry disturbances. With increasing disturbance, nectarivores increased in abundance while the responses of frugivores were mixed. Insectivores dominated the understory avifauna and generally declined in abundance. The most diverse family of understory birds, the antbirds (Formicariidae), was typical of insectivores. Of the 22 species which occur in primary forest, a few (two spp.) became abundant following selective logging, but most (16 spp.) declined and several (four spp.) were not recorded in logged forest. Compositional changes and the frequency of extirpations were even greater following the creation of enrichment strips. Eliminating this silvicultural practice, or replacing it with a less damaging alternative, would better conserve the forest avifauna. Cutting vines, which did not greatly alter the structure of the forest understory, had little effect on understory birds.
10.2307/2388628|Studies on hawkmoth pollination in a primary forest in central Madagascar indicated that at least five of six flowering, long-spurred angraecoid species exploited the same hawkmoth, Panogena lingens. as a pollen vector. Several other long-tongued hawkmoth species were present, but no evidence was found that they participated in orchid pollination. The pollinaria of Angraecum arachnites, A. compactum, Neobathiea grandidierana, and Jumellea teretifolia were deposited on the basal portion of the proboscis. The latter three species utilized the same dorsal portion of the proboscis, whereas attachment by A. arachnites was ventral. The pollinaria of Aerangis fuscata were deposited on the frons and palps. Hawkmoths frequently carried mixed loads, but at least ethological and mechanical mechanisms seemed to restrict interspecific pollination. The P. lingens-angraecoid orchid relationship may have reached a specialized state before progenitors of other long-tongued Sphingidae colonized or evolved in central Madagascar.
10.2307/2388980|Fruit fall in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) varied with forest type but averaged 600 kg/ha/yr for the 11,000 ha forest. Within a given forest type, fruit fall varied spatially and seasonally A palm (Prestoea montana) flood plain forest averaged 560 kg/ha/yr and individual palm fruit mass changed from season to season. Lower montane wet, or tabonuco (Dacryodes excelsa), forest had a low rate of fruit fall (332 kg/ha/yr) and strong seasonal pulses in both space and time. Fruit fall was higher in secondary forests (820 kg/ha/yr) and plantations (1418 kg/ha/yr) than in mature tabonuco forests that normally occur in those sites. Fruit fall in the upper montane, or palo colorado (Cyrilla racemiflora), forest averaged 263 kg/ha/yr. Somewhere in the LEF there always appears to be a stand at peak rate of fruit production. Fruit fall data are used to reduce a previous estimate of forest carrying capacity for the endangered Puerto Rican parrot, Amazona vittata, from 51,000 to 2000-38,000 birds.
2663841|Endophytes are microorganisms that live inside plant tissues without causing symptoms of disease. They are a largely unexplored component of biodiversity, especially in the tropics. In this study, leaves from two populations of Guarea guidonia trees (Meliaceae) in the Luquillo region, Puerto Rico, were screened for diversity and composition of endophytic fungal communities. A total of 268 leaf fragments from 14 trees were surveyed. Thirty-eight morphospecies of endophytes were found. Phomopsis, Colletotrichum, Xylaria, and Rhizoctonia-like fungi were the most abundant taxa. Over 95 percent of the leaf pieces had endophytes. Communities had a few abundant species and many species with few individuals. The fungal community from the Guarea population in a forest preserve was more diverse than that from a disturbed area. Fungal communities were stratified according to height within a tree, but no differences were found between blade, petiolule, and rachis. The data suggest that the smaller and the more scattered the plant fragments sampled, the higher the probability of approaching real diversity values of endophytic fungal communities.
10.2307/2388150|Loss of soil fertility following removal of the primary forest may not be a serious threat to the integrity of some tropical ecosystems. Evidence includes the absence, or at least scarcity, of documented cases of permanent deflection in the absence of continued human disturbance and the fact that effects attributed to nutrient loss may be due to competitive interactions. Likewise, the universally recognized rehabilitation of soils during succession would seem to argue that the vegetation is more or less independent of soil nutrients over a wide range of availability.
41419470|Although many tropical savannas are highly influenced by humans, the patterns of biodiversity loss in these systems remain poorly understood. In particular, the biodiversity consequences of replacing native grasslands with exotic pastures have not been studied. Here we examine how the conversion of the native savanna grasslands affects dung beetle communities. Our study was conducted in 14 native (grassland: campo limpo), and 21 exotic (Urochloa spp. monoculture) pastures in Carrancas, Minas Gerais, Brazil. We collected 4996 dung beetle individuals from 66 species: 3139 individuals from 50 species in native pastures and 1857 individuals from 55 species in the exotic pastures. Exotic pastures had lower dung beetle richness, abundance and biomass than native pastures. Species composition between the two pasture types was significantly different and exotic pastures were dominated by few abundant species. Indicator species analysis detected 16 species indicators of native pastures and three of exotic pastures, according to relative abundance and frequency in each pasture system. Our results show that the conversion of native pastures to exotic pastures leads to a predictable loss of local species richness, increasing dominance and changes in species composition. These results highlight the importance of maintaining native pastures in the Cerrado agro-pastoral landscape.
10.2307/2387999|Field observations were made of moth-eating birds in northern Venezuela. Of the 908 moths attacked, 764 were eaten. Geometridae were least acceptable, followed by Arctiidae, Pyralidae, Sphingidae, Megalopygidae, Notodontidae and the largely palatable, Noctuidae. Moths that appear to be most clearly distasteful to some birds include Pantherodes unciaria Guenee (Geometridae), species of Agylla, Eucereon, Bertholdia, Melese and Cosmosoma (Arctiidae), Dichogama psognealis Druce (Pyralidae) and Diphthera festiva (Noctuidae). Some flycatchers seemed tolerant of the Arctiidae, a family generally considered to be unpalatable to vertebrates.
20492510|In this paper we address the effects of anthropogenic disturbance and replacement of Brazilian Coastal sandy vegetation (restingas) on dung beetles communities. We sampled dung beetles in the four main vegetative physiognomies of Guriri Island, Esprito Santo State: forest restinga, restinga Clusia, disturbed restinga (from burning events), and pastures. We placed four sets of two pitfall traps (baited with horse and human dung) in four independent areas of each vegetation type, and collected 14,534 individuals of 13 dung beetle species. Neither log of individuals nor log of species richness were good predictors of restinga disturbance. However, a significant amount of variation in dung beetle abundance and richness could be explained by bait type. Ordination of these sites using hybrid multidimensional scaling revealed a gradient of habitat disturbance from undisturbed restinga samples to pasture. Dung beetle communities along this gradient demonstrated a complete turnover in species composition, from restinga-specialists to invasive and generalists species respectively. This complete turnover signals the local extirpation of forest-adapted species in disturbed and converted areas. Only a single dung beetle species in preserved restingas is protected by Brazilian law (Dichotomius schiffleri). Given the extent of the clearing of restinga habitat, the conservation status of dung beetles associated with restinga forest gives cause for concern.
30045423|We tested the relationship between the length of pasture use and the density, richness, and composition of naturally regenerating tropical seasonal deciduous forest in pastures. We sampled regenerating trees in 25 pastures distributed in four age classes ranging from < 6 to 40 yr of use. Density and composition of regenerating trees did not change with pasture age, but richness was lower in 25- and 40-yr-old pastures. Nonetheless, a number of species seem to be able to resprout even after 40 yr of ranching.
30043262|The leaf litter of tropical wet forests is replete with itinerant ant nests. Nest movement may help ants evade the constraints of stress and disturbance and increase access to resources. I studied how nest relocation and environmental factors may explain the density, size, and growth of leaf litter ant nests. I decoupled the relationships among litter depth, food abundance, and nest availability in a 4-mo manipulation of food and leaf litter in a community of litter-nesting ants in a lowland wet forest in Costa Rica. Over 4 mo, 290 1 m2 treatment and control plots were sampled without replacement. Nest densities doubled in response to food supplementation, but did not decrease in response to litter removal or stress (from litter trampling). The supplementation of food increased the utilization of less favored nesting materials. In response to food supplementation and litter trampling, arboreal ants established nests in the litter, and growth rates of the most common ants (Pheidole spp.) increased. Colony growth was independent of colony size and growth rates of the most abundant ants. In general, I conclude that litter-nesting ant density is driven primarily by food limitation, that nest relocation behavior significantly affects access to resource and the demographic structure of this community, and that nest fission may be a method to break the growth-reproduction trade-off. /// La hojarasca de bosques hmedos tropicales est repleta de nidos itinerantes de hormiga. El movimiento de nido puede ayudar a las hormigas a evadir las limitaciones producidas por tensin y perturbacin y a la vez aumentar el acceso a recursos. lLas relaciones entre la profundidad de la hojarasca, la abundancia de alimento y la disponibilidad de nido fueron desconectadas durante 4 meses debido a la manipulacin de hojarasca y de alimento en un bosque hmedo bajo en Costa Rica. Durante 4 meses, 290 parcelas de tratamiento y control de 1 m2 fueron muestreadas sin reemplazo. Las densidades de nido doblaron en respuesta al alimento suplementario, pero no disminuyeron en respuesta a la eliminacin de la hojarasca y la tensin (causada al pisotear la hojarasca). El alimento suplementario aument la utilizacin de materiales menos favorecidos para anidar. Debido al alimento suplementario y la tension en la hojarasca, las hormigas arbreas establecieron nidos en la hojarasca y las tasas de crecimiento de las hormigas ms comunes (Pheidole spp.) aumentaron. El crecimiento de la colonia era independiente del tamao de la colonia, y de las tasas de crecimiento de las hormigas ms abundantes. En terminos generales, se concluye que la densidad de las hormigas en la hojarasca es gobernada primordialmente por la limitacin de alimento, que la conducta de transladar nido afecta significativamente el acceso a recursos y a la estructura demogrfica de esta comunidad, y que la fisin de nido puede ser un mtodo para romper el intercambio entre crecimiento y reproduccin.
41057996|This case study examines the pollen dispersal distance, pollen dispersal patterns and intra-family genetic structure for isolated trees in pastures of the bat-pollinated Neotropical tree species Hymenaea stigonocarpa using six microsatellite loci and parentage analysis. The sampling included 28 grouped trees (referred to as the population) and six isolated trees in pastureland along a highway in Mato Grosso do Sul State, Brazil. From the population, we sampled 137 seeds from 12 seed-trees, and from the isolated trees, we sampled 34 seeds from two seed-trees. The results showed that pollen was dispersed over long distances (reaching 7353 m) and therefore the spatially isolated trees were not reproductively isolated. The pollen immigration rate in the population was also high (31%). Isolated trees presented a higher selfing rate (s = 26%) than trees in the population (s= 12%), suggesting that the spatial isolation of the trees increased selfing. However, selfing was responsible for only 30 percent of the inbreeding in offspring and mating among relatives was 70 percent. In the population, excluding selfing, ca 72 percent of the pollen was dispersed over distances < 1000 m (average: 860 m). For the two isolated seed-trees, excluding selfing, the average pollen dispersal distance was 5229 m. The results demonstrate that although pollen can be dispersed over long distances for H. stigonocarpa isolated trees, a high percentage of pollen comes from the same tree (selfing) and mating was correlated. Consequently, seeds must be collected from a large number of seed-trees for conservation purposes.
10.2307/2387739|The occurrence of nectaries in ferns is reviewed, and a new report of nectaries in the Polypodium squamatum group is made. Nectars of five species of Polypodium (P. myriolepis, P. pyrrholepis, P rosei, P sanctae-rosae, and P thyssanolepis), as well as Drynaria quercifolia, D. rigidula, and Polybotrya osmundacea, were analyzed for sugars and amino acids. The majority of the nectars are sucrose-poor, and most have fairly low amino acid concentrations, though a great number of amino acids were detected. The findings are discussed in light of other nectar analyses.
30045478|I describe a new initiative, led by a coalition of developing nations, to devise a viable mechanism for using carbon trading to protect old-growth tropical forests. I highlight some of the practical and political hurdles involved in forest-carbon trading, and explain why this initiative is rapidly gaining broad-based political support. /// Describo una nueva iniciativa, encabezada por una coalicin de pases en desarrollo, para idear un mecanismo de comercio del carbn que proteja a los bosques tropicales prstinos. Destaco algunos de los obstculos prcticos y polticos involucrados en el comercio de carbn de madera, y explico por qu esta iniciativa esta rpidamente ganando apoyo poltico de amplia base.
41241893|Agricultural activities represent a global threat to biodiversity, yet little is known about the relative importance of different agricultural land uses in relation to their wildlife communities. We explored bird community structure, diversity, and composition in a landscape dominated by primary tropical dry forest, and in three agricultural systems (i.e., tree orchards, herbaceous cropfields, cattle pastures) to evaluate the way in which birds use different habitats within the landscape. Tropical dry forests had the highest species richness and community evenness, although the bird community in tree orchards was also relatively species rich and even. Cattle pastures had more bird species than cropfields but both habitats were comparatively species poor with low evenness. Our results are related to habitat structure and the spatial location of sites within the landscape matrix. Based on our observations, we recommend including native tree species within agricultural systems and surrounding areas to provide additional resources for birds. Finally, we suggest promoting natural recruitment of native trees and shrubs within cattle pastures to provide suitable habitat for species that use tropical dry forest plants.
30043073|Euglossine bees are important pollinators of lowland Neotropical forests. Compared to disturbed habitats, undisturbed ones have been previously characterized by higher abundance and diversity of euglossine bees. Most past studies have relied on chemically baiting male bees at single sites within habitats. Over a two-year period, we employed a repeated-measures design in which we sampled bees at multiple sites within three different habitat types, reflecting a mosaic of human disturbance (farm, secondary forest, and old logged forest). After 22 monthly samples, a total of 2008 male bees were captured, representing 31 species in five genera: 1156 at the farm (57.6%, 21 spp.), 505 in the secondary forest (25.1%, 27 spp.), and 347 in the old logged forest (17.2%, 21 spp.). Eighty-one percent of the bees captured belonged to the five most abundant species: Eulaema cingulata, El. chocoana, Euglossa hansoni, Eg. ignita, and Eg. imperialis. These species differed significantly in capture frequencies among habitats. Eulaema cingulata, El. chocoana, and Eg ignita were captured most frequently at the farm, while Eg. imperialis was most abundant in the secondary forest. In contrast, Eg. hansoni, the sole short-tongued species among the five, was equally abundant in the two forest habitats but occurred rarely on the farm. Additionally, habitats differed in bee composition. The high capture rates for long-proboscis species at the farm may have been due to their ability to extract nectar from flowers with long floral tubes, which probably occurred at a greater density on the farmed land than in the adjacent forests. /// Las abejas euglosinas son polinizadores importantes en bosques neotropicales de tierras bajas. Normalmente, los hbitats poco perturbados se caracterizan por presentar una mayor abundancia de abejas euglosinas que los menos intervenidos, aunque dichos resultados se basan en muestreos que usan atrayentes qumicos para machos en sitios nicos por hbitat. En este estudio realizamos muestreos basados en sitios mltiples en tres hbitats adyacentes (finca, bosque secundario, y bosque maduro) a lo largo de dos aos. Encontramos una mayor abundancia y diversidad de machos euglosinos en los hbitats con mayor perturbacin humana que en el bosque maduro. Despus de 22 muestreos mensuales capturamos un total de 2008 abejas representando 31 especies en cinco gneros: 1156 en la finca (57.6%, 21 spp), 505 en el bosque secundario (25.1%, 27 spp), y 347 en el bosque maduro (17.2%, 21 spp). El 80.8 por ciento de las abejas capturadas pertenecan a las cinco especies ms abundantes: Eulaema cingulata, El. chocoana, Euglossa hansoni, Eg. ignita, y Eg. imperialis. Para estas especies encontramos diferencias en la frecuencia de captura entre hbitats. Eulaema cingulata, El chocoana, y Eg. ignita fueron ms frecuentes en la finca, mientras que Eg. hansoni, la nica de las cinco con lengua corta, lo fue en los dos hbitats boscosos y Eg. imperialis en el bosque secundario. Adicionalmente, los hbitats difirieron en composicin de abejas. Lo resultados pueden deberse a que en la finca haba una mayor oferta de nctar con acceso restringido que en los busques adyacentes. El nctar, por estar en flores de corolas profundas, solo poda ser accedido por abejas de lenguas largas lo cual favoreca una mayor abundancia de euglosinas grandes con lenguas largas en la finca que en los bosques adyacentes.
10.2307/2388963|Changes in diet composition related to increase in fish size were studied in a rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) population inhabiting a stream of the high Venezuelan Andes. The analysis of 319 gut contents of trout in five size classes showed that immatures of Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Diptera are the main components of the diet. The contribution in number and biomass of these groups changed with fish size. Ephemeropterans are dominant in the diet of fishes in size classes under 15 cm. Ephemeropterans and Trichopterans share their importance in number and biomass in the diet of trout in size classes over 15 cm. Seasonal changes of total prey numbers and biomass in gut contents did not affect the proportional contribution of the different taxa within each size class. The infra-order taxa with most relative importance were the genera Baetodes, Baetis, and Thraulodes (Ephemeroptera); Leptonema, Arctopshyche, and Mortoniella (Trichoptera); the families Chironomidae, Blepharoceridae, and Tipulidae (Diptera) and terrestrial invertebrates. The trophic profiles of Relative Importance of preys differed significantly between size classes as a consequence of a differential use of the drift and benthos fauna, and changes in prey selection within each food source.
10.2307/2388144|This paper gives an account of observations carried out on five plant species in the rain forest of Veracruz, Mexico, and indicates that non-hovering birds such as vireos, warblers, tanagers, finches, orioles, blackbirds, and honeycreepers are important as flower visitors and should be investigated in the future as pollinators of American rain forest plants.
10.2307/2388397|Massive mortality of the fouling community associated with red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle L.) roots was observed in February 1989 throughout most of La Restinga, a hypersaline coastal lagoon located in the central part of Margarita Island, Venezuela. The presence of species in the community was monitored on 6 field trips through 21 consecutive months, revealing a trend towards the restoration of the initial (May 1988) species composition. Although the factor or factors responsible for the community changes were not identified, physical disturbances associated with the passage of hurricanes Gilbert and Joan seem to be connected with the observed massive mortality. Apparently, the same factors and those preventing larval transport and settlement, i.e., slow water currents and siltation, are responsible for the slow community recovery
10.2307/2989789|Analyses of Surinam podzolic and lateritic soils and their plant materials for nine biologically important elements showed that the mineral horizons of lateritic soils and plants grown on these soils are much richer in the total content of biologically essential elements than are the mineral horizons of podzols or their plants. Second-growth soils and vegetation showed higher levels of N, Ca, and P after burning than did unburned climax forest on both soil types and in Brazil as well. The different stages of savanna from the dense Dimorphandra forest to bare sand appear to be partly related in size and species diversity to the amount of organic litter, organic content, and total and extractable elemental content of the surface soil. Lack of organic matter in the bare sand areas may exclude plants with surface mycorrhizal roots, and hence prevent direct nutrient cycling. The savanna soils are increasingly poor in elements relative to their organic content. The amount of organic content may be related to fire frequency. Live Cecropia wood with ants had significantly more N, P, and Ca than did live Cecropia wood without ants, suggesting entichment by the ants.
10.2307/2388404|This study analyzes the population dynamics of Copaifera pubiflora (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) in the Venezuelan central savanna. The annual periodicity of shoot production, associated with xylematic rings, is an estimate of age. Shoot production occurs during the dry season. Average shoot production per apical meristern was 1.001 annually, as recorded during two uninterrupted years. Correlations between age, diameter at cotyledonal level, height and leaf number were significant. The growth rate, calculated as a linear regression of diameter versus age, showed an increment of 0.2595 cm/year for all age classes. The age structure of juveniles associated with parent trees showed a high proportion of juveniles among two and nine years old. In contrast, the age structure of juvenile plants not associated with parent trees showed a high proportion of juveniles among three and six years old. A decreasing stepped-down distribution is only found when age classes are grouped in five-years range. The variation in the proportion of the age of juvenile plants could be associated with the interannual five years flowering-fructification pattern recorded. The age structure of reproductive trees is markedly irregular and a stepped down distribution is only reached clustering by 15 year age groups. The power function analysis for all age classes in ten year age groups showed a "J" reverse form.
10.2307/2387959|Leaf thickness and fresh-weight to dry-weight ratio of leaves of Rhizophora mangle L. were higher in plants growing at sites of constant high salinity than at sites of fluctuating salinity Thick leaves had more water storage tissue than thin leaves. It is hypothesized that water storage tissue play a role in osmoregulation.
10.2307/2388606|Between 24 May and 4 June 1986, the island of Jamaica experienced up to 635 mm of rainfall producing island-wide flooding. Planktonic communities along the south coast were studied before and after the flooding. Flood waters from Kingston Harbour flowed southwest along the Hellshire coast as far as Wreck Reef, but were confined within 4 km of the shore. Water in the bays along the lower Hellshire coast remained clear and unaffected by Harbour water, although planktonic communities there showed marked changes. The Port Royal Cays area and much of the shelf was unaffected. During the flood, the normal gradient of decline in planktonic indices (biomass, abundance, and community similarity) with distance from the Harbour was disrupted. The extent of flooding was evident from dramatic reductions in salinity and increases in extinction coefficient; temperatures were lowered by only 1 to 2$^\circ$C. Flood effects were confined to the upper water column; whereas, surface salinity and phytoplankton were dramatically changed, they remained largely unaffected at 7 m depth. In surface waters, the number of phytoplankton cells increased up to 4 \times 10$^6$ per liter (5 times greater than normal) while biomass increased to 30 mg Chl. $a$/m$^3$ (10 times normal) and primary production reached 20.5 mg C/m$^3$/hr (20 times normal). These large increases in both biomass and primary production occurred primarily in the nanoplankton size fraction (2-20 $\mu$ m) which was dominated by Protoperidinum spp. Within a week however, the larger net plankton (>20 $\mu$ m) assumed dominance. These high values were short-lived as phytoplankton communities returned to normal within two weeks of the flood. Zooplankton abundances at first decreased sharply in response to flooding (e.g.. from $\sim$20,000 to 200/m$^3$), but reattained normal values within four weeks following the flood. In some areas (e.g., Harbour mouth, Great Salt Pond) there was a subsequent 10-fold increase in zooplankton abundance (up to 209,000/m$^3$) comprising mainly larval stages. Thus, return to nonflood conditions was achieved at different rates for the various physical and biological parameters.
10.2307/2388409|Male euglossine bees (Euglossa, Eulaema, Exaerete) were censused at regular intervals at chemical baits in Surinam, Trinidad, and Costa Rica. Fragrance foraging was initiated at ca 0700, peak activity occurred at ca 1100, and foraging ceased at ca 1430. Linear regression and path analysis on numbers of Euglossa at baits in Costa Rica indicated that in the morning hours these bees were affected directly and positively by air temperature, which itself was controlled by time of day and cloud cover. After 1100 hr bees responded directly to time of day (or an unmeasured correlate of it) and were not directly affected by air temperature or cloud cover. The diel pattern of bee activity may have affected the evolution of diel patterns of floral activity in plants pollinated by male euglossines. Dalechampia brownsbergensis, which is pollinated by male euglossine bees, presents floral rewards and is receptive for pollination in the morning and early afternoon when male euglossines are most active. Species most closely related to D. brownsbergensis, however, are pollinated by female euglossine bees and present floral rewards in the late afternoon. The census data and phylogenetic analysis suggest that D. brownsbergensis evolved morning presentation of the floral reward as a result of the shift to pollination by male euglossines.
20492514|A widely accepted biodiversity crisis in the tropics has been recently challenged by claims that secondary forests will gradually restore biodiversity losses. This prediction was examined for the herpetofauna in Quintana Roo, Mexico. Quantitative sampling (108 transects) of reptiles was undertaken monthly (January-September 2004) along a vegetation gradient covering induced grasslands, and regrowth and primary rain forests. A total of 35 species was found, 14 being present in and five showing dependence on mature forests. Lizards contributed &gt; 90 per cent of the individuals observed. Reptile abundance and snake species richness was highest in primary forests, even though the lower abundance and richness did not differ between regrowth forest and induced grasslands. Multivariate ordinations and ANOSIM tests displayed clear differences in assemblage structure among vegetation types, mainly caused by contrasting abundances of lizard species having distinctive arboreal or terrestrial habits. There was no evidence that snake assemblages differed between secondary forests and induced grasslands. Microhabitat availability had a key role in shaping species composition through the vegetation gradient. Our results dismiss the hypothesis that secondary forests can act as reservoirs of primary forest reptile diversity on the basis that many taxa depend largely on habitat quality and have specialized life-history traits, and that biological succession does not guarantee the recovery of assemblage complexity.
10.2307/2388106|Immature coreid bugs, probably Thasus acutangulus, form aposematic feeding aggregations on twigs of the legume tree, Pithecellobium dulce, during the dry season in Guanacaste, Costa Rica. Nymphs are bright orange, yellow, and black, and, if disturbed, individuals of the aggregation pulsate, spray jets of anal fluid into the air, and exude a defensive secretion over the abdominal terga. An aggregation pheromone, perceived by receptors on the distal segment of each antenna, enables bugs displaced from aggregations to reaggregate. Alarm behavior was never observed when an open bottle of (E)-2-hexenal was held below an aggregation; only mechanical disturbance released the aposematic display. Adults of T. acutangulus are migratory and conspicuously large, but are not aposematically colored.
10.2307/2388669|The growth of fine roots (\leq 2 mm diameter) in a tropical dry forest on recent dune sand has been monitored for 2 years during the dry season-wet season transition, using root-ingrowth bags buried for short time intervals. In both years, most root growth was concentrated in one brief period after the beginning of rains, and it is estimated that the fine root system of the forest can be fully re-deployed before the start of water percolation through the soil. In an accompanying field experiment, root-ingrowth bags were protected from rainfall and treated with distilled water or simulated throughfall solution. Root ingrowth did not occur in the absence of rainfall, indicating that endogenous cues were not involved in the initiation of root growth. Comparable proliferation was found in the presence of distilled water or nutrient solution, indicating that moisture rather than high nutrient concentrations in soil solution is the proximal cue to root proliferation at the start of the wet season. The root systems of the trees comprising this forest can respond rapidly and opportunistically to increased soil moisture, which probably represents an important component of their ability to survive at this hydrologically extreme site.
10.2307/2388770|Floral scent was collected with head-space adsorption and analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for 12 species of Neotropical Lecythidaceae in the genera Corythophora, Couratari. Couroupita, Eschweilera, Grias, Gustavia, and Lecythis. Most of the species were dominated by a single floral scent compound. Most of the compounds identified in this study have been previously reported in floral scents collected with head-space techniques from other plant families. However, several of the fatty acid derived esters of hexanol and cis-3-hexenol present in Lecythis persistens have been reported only in one or a few other plant families. No apparent correlations were found between amount and number of floral scent compounds produced on the one hand and pollinator reward, morphology, color, or size of flowers on the other hand. The fatty acid derivatives found in Grias suggest that beetles may be the pollinators whereas the floral scent compounds of all other species studied are consistent with bee pollination. The floral scents of the nectar-producing species Eschweilera coriacea and Couratari stellata contain, in contrast to the pollen-producing species, compounds that are highly attractive to male euglossine bees. This suggests that floral scent may play a role in directing male euglossine bees to those species of Lecythidaceae providing nectar as a pollinator reward. The combination of secondary and primary floral attractants interacting with pollinators probably accounts for much of the species diversity of this family in Neotropical forests.
41419464|Seed dispersal by rodents has been understudied in Africa. Based on seed-removal experiments, the presence of seeds in burrows and caches, cotyledon burial of seedlings, and images from camera traps, we provide evidence that rodents (Cricetomys kivuensis) remove and hoard large seeds of Carapa grandiflora in Nyungwe National Park, Rwanda.
10.2307/2388754|The breeding system of a cauliflorous rainforest tree Syzygium cormiflorum was examined to assess the degree of self-compatibility, the type and effectiveness of its pollinators, and the postfertilization seed loss and net seed production. The species is xenogamous, but shows a degree of self-compatibility, with successful pollination via autogamy ranging from 10 to 32 percent, via geitonogamy 16-60 percent, via intrapopulation xenogamy 58-82 percent, and via interpopulation xenogamy 80-92 percent. The difference in fertilization rates between autogamy and geitonogamy is discussed. Bats, birds, and insects were successful pollinators, with bats (and possibly large moths) being the most effective despite visiting the flowers less frequently than birds. Bats, and possibly large moths, accounted for 55.4 percent of successful pollinations, compared to 19.6 percent for birds and 25 percent for small insects. Postfertilization seed loss due to the predatory activity of a weevil was very high, up to 70 percent. The pattern of average nectar flow favors birds, but individual flowers produce nectar at varying times suitable for nocturnal or diurnal visitors or both. There is some evidence that breeding is restricted to crosses between individuals in a local population. The pollination system may be adaptive in maximizing fertilization in situations lacking the major pollinators, but the difficulty of distinguishing this from a system evolving from night to day pollination or vice versa is recognized.
10.2307/2388701|Plant zonation and distribution of two mangrove (Avicennia germinans and Rhizophora mangle) and three salt marsh species (Batis maritima, Spartina spartinae, and Pithecellobium lanceolatum) were studied along two transects with contrasting degrees of disturbance, but with corresponding landforms. In the first, undisturbed transect, soil samples were collected during the dry, low water level season and analyzed for physico-chemical characteristics. These changed continuously with relief, whereas the relation between cover and height of A. germinans and relief changed in a discrete manner. During the wet, high water level season, variation in salinity was unrelated to relief. In the second, disturbed transect, B. maritima occupies the mudflat from which A. germinans trees were removed by clear-cutting at least 16 years ago. Although a physiological response might account for the low Avicennia cover and height in the hinterland, Batis is probably excluded by Avicennia from the mudflat, the result being the observed zonation.
40863775|Little is known about how arboreal arthropods respond to forest disturbance. We assessed how rain forest fragmentation affected the vertical stratification of arboreal dung beetles in Peninsular Malaysia. An arboreal dung beetle species (Onthophagus sp.) moved closer to the forest floor in smaller fragments, suggesting a downward shift in its foraging possibly in response to fragmentation.
10.2307/2388381|I studied the foraging behavior of Scotophilus leucogaster in Zimbabwe, Africa, during January and February (normally the wet season) 1982, using mist nets, fecal analysis, light tags and radiotelemetry. Both the diet and foraging behavior of this species appear to be variable. Individuals foraged primarily over floodplains for an average of less than one hour at dusk and spent the rest of the night in small tree-cavity roosts. Adults averaged shorter feeding periods and remained closer to the roost area than did subadults. Hemipterans and coleopterans were the primary prey items although a number of other insect orders were eaten to varying degrees by different individuals. The diet varied between adults and subadults and from night to night. It was also more varied than that previously reported for this species during the wet season, a fact potentially due to abnormally dry conditions present during 1981 and 1982. Indeed, both the varied diet and single feeding bout more resemble dry season characteristics of S. leucogaster than wet season characteristics. Although the dry conditions and low insect abundance may explain the short foraging period, the risk of predation may also be an important factor.
2663938|This paper presents the results of a field experiment investigating the effects of shoot removal at the end of the dry season on tillering and aerial biomass in three perennial savanna grasses. The experiment was intended to simulate the effects of savanna fires at the end of the dry season. The experiment included three initial size classes of plants that were allowed to grow free from competitors. The results showed an immediate negative effect of shoot removal on tiller number in all three species; however, at the end of the experiment, defoliated plants had recovered and their final sizes did not differ significantly from those of control plants. We registered an overcompensating response to shoot removal on aerial biomass of Trachypogon plumosus, while the other two species (Andropogon semiberbis and Leptocoryphium lanatum) compensated completely for the removed aerial biomass. Differences in initial plant size were only significant in L. lanatum. Shoot removal resulted in a significant decrease in the fraction of flowering tillers in T. plumosus, but had no significant effects on flowering in A. semiberbis. Experimental plants of L. lanatum did not flower during the experiment. Although inmediate shoot removal effects were strongly negative, the three species were able to recover not only in the number of tillers but also in aerial biomass. Based on the differences between actual burning and experimental removal of shoots, we expect that the compensating responses to actual fire would be greater than the ones resulting from this study.
10.2307/2388085|The nest of Ropalidia gregaria, R. horni, and R. flavopicta flavobrunnea are described in detail for the first time. Ropalidia gregaria and R. horni make uncovered nests with single combs. The nest of R. gregaria is round in shape and constructed on leaves, while that of R. horni is slender with a lobe-like projection at the base and constructed on twigs. On the other hand, comb formation of the covered nest of R. flavopicta flavobrunnea varies. Some nests show vespine-like comb formation while others show complex, subspiral structure. The heads of larvae and caps of cocoons of R. gregaria and R. horni are the same brownish color as nest materials. These characters probably help to make the nest less conspicuous in its particular surroundings. The nest of R. flavopicta flavobrunnea on a thick branch looks like a part of the tree.
41241921|The regeneration of many tropical trees is threatened by forest fragmentation because it produces major physical, biological and ecological changes that limit seed germination and seedling establishment. We analyzed the regenerative potential of an old growth forest tree speciesAmpelocera hottlei (Ulmaceae)in three contrasting habitats located in the Lacandona rain forest, southeastern Mexico: continuous forest, fragments occupied by black howler monkeys (Alouatta pigra) and fragments unoccupied by howlers. We tested if germination of A. hottlei seeds among habitats was affected by understory temperature, light incidence and ingestion by A. pigra. We compared seedling survival and relative growth rate in height (RGR H ) for 20 d among habitats and between ingested and control seeds (from mature fruits). Germination was higher in continuous forest than in fragments (occupied or not), with higher germination rates for ingested seeds in fragments. Temperature and light incidence were lower in continuous forest than in fragments. Germination decreased with increasing temperature and light incidence with this relationship being significantly higher for ingested seeds. Seedling survival was higher in continuous forest than in fragments, whereas RGR H did not differ among habitats. In addition, survival and RGR H were higher in seedlings originating from ingested seeds. Overall, our results suggest that the populations of A. hottlei can be limited in fragments where changes in the understory physical environment and the extirpation of A. pigra will likely have deleterious consequences for the regeneration of A. hottlei and possibly for other tree species, ultimately affecting forest composition and structure.
10.2307/2989632|This study describes the distributional patterns of Costa Rican and Panamanian species of Bignoniaceae. These species tend to be wide-ranging but restricted to certain climatic zones. Abundance and ecological importance of Bignoniaceae are greatest in dry areas, but species diversity is generally constant in lowland dry, moist and wet forest habitats. About 20 of the 80 Costa Rican/Panamanian species occur at any suitable site. A comparison of pollination strategies with species distributions suggests unique pollination niches for the strictly sympatric species. In any given area only one (uncommonly two) species with a given pollination strategy is in flower at any one time.
10.2307/2387881|Structural parameters of mangrove forests were measured at seven geographical locations in Florida (U.S.A.), Puerto Rico, Mexico, and Costa Rica. One-tenth hectare plots were subdivided into twenty 5 x 10 m plots where all individuals greater than 2.5 cm DBH were measured and recorded. Height of the tallest tree in each plot was measured. The complexity index developed by Holdridge (1967) as an integrative measure that combines floral characteristics (number of species) (s), stand density (d), basal area (b), and height (h) was computed as follows: (s) (d) (b) (h) 10
30043084|We contrasted the structure and biomass of four lowland Neotropical forests (La Selva, Costa Rica; Barro Colorado Island, Panama; Cocha Cashu, Peru; and KM41, Brazil) to determine if commonalities exist within and among forests differing in latitude, rainfall, seasonality, and soil fertility. We examined the effect of soil fertility specifically by measuring the density and basal area of trees, lianas, and palms on two soil types differing in fertility at each site. We used allometric relationships to estimate the contribution of the various life-forms to total aboveground biomass (AGB) and compared two relationships for trees 30 cm diameter or greater. Estimated liana density and AGB were similar among sites, but the density and AGB of trees and palms, estimated using diameter alone, differed significantly. Basal area and AGB of trees 10 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) or greater differed among forests and averaged 30.2 m2/ha and 250 Mg/ha, respectively. Cocha Cashu and KM41 had higher tree basal area and AGB than La Selva or Barro Colorado Island. Across forests, lianas and small trees (110 cm DBH) each contributed between 4 and 5 percent of the total AGB and small palms contributed ca 1 percent. Many forest inventories ignore lianas, as well as trees and palms less than 10 cm DBH, and therefore underestimate AGB by ca 10 percent. Soil type had little influence on the forest structure within sites, except at Cocha Cashu where total AGB was much higher and liana density much lower on the more fertile old floodplain Entisols than the terra firme Oxisols. Although total stem density, basal area, and some biomass components differed significantly among forests, they seemed less variable than other quantitative measures (e.g., species richness). /// Contrastamos la estructura y la biomasa de cuatro bosques de bajura Neo tropicales (La Selva, Costa Rica; Isla Barro Colorado, Panam; Cocha Cashu, Per; y KM41, Brasil) para determinar si existen patrones comunes entre bosques que difieren en la latitud, en la lluvia total, en la estacionalidad, y en la fertilidad de suelo. Examinamos el efecto de la fertilidad de suelo en cada sitio especficamente midiendo el rea basal y densidad de rboles, lianas, y palmas en dos tipos de suelo que difieren en fertilidad. Usamos ecuaciones alomtricas para estimar la contribucin relativa de las varias formas de vida a la biomasa area (AGB) y comparamos dos ecuaciones para estimar biomasa con base en rboles  30 cm dimetro. La densidad y AGB estimada de lianas fueron similares entre sitios, pero la densidad y AGB de rboles y palmas estimada en base solamente a dimetros fueron significativamente distintas. El rea basal y la AGB de rboles  10 cm dimetro a la altura de pecho (DAP) difirieron entre bosques y promediaron 30.2 m2/ ha y 250 Mg/ha. En Cocha Cashu y KM41 observamos mayor rea basal y AGB para rboles que en La Selva o la Isla Barro Colorado. En general lianas y rboles pequeos (1-10 cm DAP) contribuyeron entre 4-5 porciento del AGB total cada uno y palmas pequeas contribuyeron alrededor de 1 porciento. Muchos inventarios del bosque ignoran tanto las lianas como los rboles y palmas < 10 cm DAP y por lo tanto subestiman AGB en alrededor de un 10 porciento. El tipo del suelo mostr una influencia pequea en la estructura del bosque dentro de sitios, menos en Cocha Cashu donde AGB total fue mucho ms alto y densidad de lianas y palmas fue ms bajo en los Entisols de mayor fertilidad que los Ultisols de menor fertilidad. Aunque la densidad de tallos, rea basal, y algunos componentes de la biomasa difirieron significativamente entre bosques, estos parecieron menos variables que otras medidas cuantitativas (por ejemplo, riqueza de especies).
30043278|Data are provided on the carrying capacity and potential production for sustainable human use of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) in a protected tropical dry forest at Chamela on the Pacific coast of Mexico. In this paper, the carrying capacity was defined as the equilibrium density plus the number of animals removed by predators. The equilibrium point was estimated from the density dependent relationship between the finite population growth rate and the current density according to a logistic model. Annual density was estimated using the line transect method. Carrying capacity estimates were 16.5 to 17.2 deer/km2 and 9.3-9.5 peccaries/km2, representing a combined biomass of 841-874 kg/km2. A potential production for human use of 2.1 deer/km2 and 4.4 peccaries/km was estimated employing the model of Robinson and Redford (1991). The data suggest that, in the protected tropical dry forest of Chamela, the density and biomass of wild ungulates can maintain a similar or greater density and biomass than other Neotropical forests. To obtain an accurate estimation of the maximum sustainable yield (MSY), it is necessary to consider predation. From a management point of view, it is important to consider that carrying capacity varies as a function of the rainfall pattern.
10.2307/2388460|In lowland forests of Panama, Cochlospermum vitifolium and Cassia reticulata are nectarless, buzz-pollinated trees that require insect visitation to set seed; Cassia is self-compatible. Large anthophorid bees (Centris and Xylocopa spp.) were the primary pollinators of both species. Single visits almost always resulted in pollen deposition, and losses to pollen thieves were minimal. Bees did not deposit heterospecific pollen, despite obligate nectar foraging at other species. Bee species differed in the amount of pollen deposited and removed per visit; at Cassia flowers Centris longimana deposited more pollen per amount removed than did Centris inermis. These differences in pollination effectiveness may be relatively unimportant in terms of plant reproductive success, however. Seed production did not appear to be limited by pollinator service, and Cassia often received surplus pollen during single visits.
10.2307/2388241|A group of Presbytis rubicunda (red leaf) monkeys was observed for 13 months in the lowland dipterocarp forest at Sepilok, Sabah, northern Borneo. The main items in the animals' annual diet were young leaves, seeds, whole fruits, and flowers. Large, dry seeds made up over 85 percent of the diet in 2 months, but young leaves, fruits, and flowers were generally eaten when large seeds were unavailable. Soil eating was observed on nine occasions. The soil was always collected by breaking lumps off termitaria and never from the forest floor. Analytical comparison of termite-mound and forest-floor soils showed that both had similar clay contents, but the termitaria soil was of higher pH and had higher levels of the main cationic nutrients and lower levels of labile aluminium. The geophagy was observed at times when different items predominated in the diet. It was noted when the dietary items were highly digestible and contained few tannins, indicating that geophagy need not be primarily for tannin absorption, although it might have helped to absorb toxins. The main benefits are more likely to be the alleviation of digestive disorders, such as forestomach acidosis, and the supplementation of mineral nutrient uptake in a generally oligotrophic environment. There is no reason why geophagy should have a single function; it may serve different functions at different times.
40645548|In rain forest, the large numbers of species of fleshy-fruited plants and frugivorous animals result in a large number of potential fruit-frugivore interactions, which are challenging to survey in the field. Yet, knowledge of these relationships is needed to predict consequences of changes in the frugivore assemblage for seed dispersal. In the absence of comprehensive dietary information, it may be possible to delineate between frugivores that disperse different plants using 'functional traits,' or morphological and behavioral attributes of frugivores that interact with differences in salient characteristics of plant species. Here we use data on the consumption of 244 Australian rain forest plant species by 38 bird species to test for associations between patterns of frugivory and birds': (1) degree of frugivory, (2) gape width, and (3) seed treatment (seed crushing or seed dispersing). Degree of frugivory and gape width explain 74 percent of the variation in the sizes of fruits consumed by frugivorous birds. Among birds that consume a substantial dietary proportion of fruit, birds with wider gapes consume larger fruits. In contrast, this relationship was not shown by birds for which fruit is only a minor dietary component. Degree of frugivory and gape width, together with seed treatment, also strongly predict the overall taxonomic composition and diversity of plants consumed by bird species. Functional classifications of frugivore species may prove useful in developing a predictive understanding of fruit-frugivore interactions in other rain forest regions where detailed dietary information is not available for most frugivores.
10.2307/2387843|Drosophila martensis Wasserman and Wilson is shown to be a cactiphilic fly, emerging from five species of cacti: Ritterocereus griseus, Subpilocereus repandus, Acanthocereus tetragonus, Opuntia elatior, and O. ficus-indica. Thus, it can be considered a polyphagic species. The known distribution of D. martensis includes localities as distant as 900 km on an east-west axis in Venezuela, and gene flow seems to occur freely between the sampled populations. It is suggested that D. martensis is an opportunistic invader fly, and that population interfertility and polyphagy are concomitant phenomena for the species.
2388938|During a six year period (1990-1995) fruiting frequency among marked trees and seed production and predispersal predation by beetle larvae of Isoberlinia angolensis and Julbernardia globiflora of the Leguminosae family and Caesalpinoideae subfamily were studied and was not related to annual rainfall. On average I. angolensis trees fruited once every two years while J. globiflora trees fruited once every two and one-half years. Number of fruits per tree was correlated with tree size for both species. In a peak year fruit biomass represented two to four percent of total above ground biomass but for J. globiflora about 5.5 and 4.5 percent of nitrogen and potassium, respectively, were in fruits compared to 0.6 and 1.8 percent for I. angolensis. The lower fruiting frequency in J. globiflora was probably related to the depletion of N reserves during a fruiting year which required a longer replenishment period than in I. angolensis. Predispersal seed predation was low for J. globiflora (10%) and very high in I. angolensis (65-85%) and for the latter species predation rate increased from August to November 1991 and significant variations were observed among years and pod types. Seed predation rate was lowest in a peak fruiting year and the observation provides support for the satiation hypothesis. The results of the study also suggest that I. angolensis and J. globiflora may have different regeneration strategies although reproductive allocation in both species was within the range reported for other iteroparous plants.
41241942|This study assessed the hypothesis that plant life history traits determine the incidence of fungal biotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens in pioneer vs. shade-tolerant tropical plant species. Considering that pioneer species mainly invest in induced defenses, we expected a negative relationship between the incidence of biotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens; in contrast, as shade-tolerant species invest heavily in constitutive defenses, we expected to find no correlation between the incidence of biotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens. These ideas were evaluated by assessing standing levels of fungal damage in a set of pioneer and shade-tolerant species from the Lacandona tropical rain forest (Mexico). The results showed that among pioneer plant species, leaves with biotrophic lesions were between 34 and 44 percent more abundant than those with necrotic lesions. In contrast, among shade-tolerant species, the proportions of leaves with necrotic lesions were 17-23 percent higher than those of leaves with injuries caused by biotrophic pathogens. Our study suggests that tropical tree species might present different defense strategies depending on the life-style of the pathogens that attack them, and the life history strategy of the attacked host plant species. Thus, the host constitutive and induced defenses, as well as the mechanisms used by different types of pathogens to circumvent those defenses maybe responsible for the patterns of attack observed in perennial tropical plants.
10.2307/2989686|The upper altitudinal limits of moth-pollinated plants are correlated with temperatures that restrict the activity of their crepuscular pollinators. The activity of hawkmoths decreases with temperature below 15
30045493|Reproduction of Amazon River Dolphins, Inia geoffrensis, is generally reported to be highly seasonal; however, this conclusion is based on studies from only one area of Inia distribution from throughout the Amazon and Orinoco river basins. Our observations of live dolphins from the Orinoco, Amazon, and Mamor river basins (in Venezuela, Peru and Bolivia, respectively) indicate that reproduction in Inia often occurs year-round, with seasonal peaks varying according to geographic location. Inia neonates in Peru and Bolivia were seen in all seasons, and were observed most often in falling water (season was defined by relative water level). Conversely, neonates in Venezuela were seen at the end of low water and in rising water, yet were never observed during falling water. Inia mating behavior in Peru was observed in all seasons, while mating was observed only during falling and low water in Bolivia. Our review of the literature from throughout the range of Inia indicates variation in reproductive seasonality, with year-round reproduction in some areas. Seasonality of peaks in births varied according to study area, and may be more closely associated with local environmental and prey conditions than with taxonomic relatedness, relative seasonal differences in water levels, or broad geographic distribution. /// La reproduccin del delfn de ri Amazonico, Inia geoffrensis, es reportada como altamente estacional; si embargo, esta conclusin slo se basa en estudios de un rea en toda la distribucin de Inia en las cuencas del Amazonas y del Orinoco. Presentamos los resultados de observaciones de delfines en las cuencas de los ros Orinoco, Amazonas y Mamor (en Venezuela, Per y Bolivia), los cuales indican que la reproduccin de Inia es todo el ao, con picos estacionales variando de acuerdo a la localidad geogrfica. Los neonatos en Per y Bolivia fueron observados durante todas las estaciones, pero ms a menudo en el descenso de agua (la estacin fue definida por el relativo nivel del agua). La reproduccin en Venezuela fue ms estacional, los neonatos fueron observados al final de aguas bajas y en aguas creciendo, pero ninguna vez durante el descenso de agua. El apareamiento de Inia en Per fue observado en todas las estaciones, mientras que en Bolivia el apareamiento fue observado solamente durante aguas en descenso y bajas. La revisin bibliogrfica de todo el rango de Inia indica que hay una variacin en la estacionalidad reproductiva, y que en algunas reas la reproduccin ocurre todo el ao. Los picos estacionales de nacimientos variaron de acuerdo a las reas de estudio y pueden estar asociados con condiciones ambientales y de disponibilidad de presa ms que una relacin taxonmica, la relativa diferencia estacional en los niveles de agua, o la amplia distribucin geogrfica.
30045395|Fallen branches, logs, and exposed roots (fallen branches hereafter) commonly form part of the trunk trail system of leaf-cutting ants that inhabit the tropical rain forest. We studied the role of fallen branches on resource discovering and on leaf transport rates in Atta cephalotes. Fallen branches were common components of the A. cephahtes trail system; they were present in all the nests, and in the majority of the trunk trails examined (13/16). A field experiment revealed that, at the beginning of their foraging activity, ants discovered food sources located at the end of fallen branches earlier than those located on the leaf litter. Additionally, laden ants walked faster along a fallen branch than along soil tracks of the trunk trails. This increment in speed was higher in slow-walking ants (e.g., with larger loads) than in fast-walking ants (e.g., with smaller loads). These results suggest that the presence of fallen branches may direct the searching effort of leaf-cutters and increase the foraging speed of laden ants when these structures are part of the trunk trail system. The advantages of using fallen branches as part of a trail system, and their potential consequences in the spatial foraging pattern of leaf-cutting ants, are discussed.
10.2307/2388572|During two seasons insects that visited flowers of Aristolochia pilosa were studied in Las Cumbres, Republic of Panama. The vast majority of visitors were Diptera, notably Milichiidae (942 individuals, 18 species in 7 genera) and Chloropidae (97 individuals, 7 species in 5 genera). Occasional visitors, probably nonpollinators, included several other kinds of Diptera, a few wasps, an ant, a few Homoptera, and a spider. No significant differences in relative abundance of the visiting insect species were observed between two very different forms of A. pilosa growing side by side. The fimbriae on the flag of the flowers are important for long-distance attraction of flies, but the conspicuous purple markings seem to be irrelevant. At shorter range attraction to the floral tube overrides that of the flag, and the flies struggle their way down the tube among a dense mat of trichomes. All Milichiidae and Chloropidae captured were females. It is not clear what, if any, benefit accrues to the flies from being incarcerated repeatedly in Aristolochia flowers, but if they obtain some nutrient or other substance, it may be needed for the development of the ovaries.
2388887|The foraging activity of the leaf-cutting ant Atta laevigata in an early successional area near Manaus, Brazil, was monitored over a period of 18 mo. Four Cecropia species were growing in that area and all were associated with the ant Azteca alfari. Unoccupied trees (those in which there was no ant response to mechanical disturbance of the stem) were attacked by leaf-cutting ants more often than were trees occupied by A. alfari colonies. Cecropia ulei was the most frequently attacked species. However, leaves of C. ulei were the least preferred ones during assays in which detached leaves of the four Cecropia species were placed alongside the foraging trails of leaf-cutting ant colonies. C. ulei had the largest number of unoccupied trees compared to the other species. In addition, A. alfari colonies associated with C. ulei were smaller than those associated with C. distachya. These data suggest that A. alfari was influencing the selection of Cecropia species by A. laevigata, which harvested more from species that were less defended by the ants (with a higher proportion of unoccupied trees or trees hosting smaller ant colonies), although these were less preferred.
30043114|Workers of Paraponera clavata, a common Neotropical ant, collect both nectar and insect prey. Previous reports show that nectar accounts for up to 90 percent of the ants' food loads, while calculations suggest that nectar contributes only 10 percent of colonies' energy supply. We assessed the trophic source of carbon and nitrogen in adult workers using stable isotope analysis. Carbon in adult workers was largely derived from plant sources. Worker nitrogen isotopic ratios varied significantly among colonies and were enriched compared to prey. Prey nitrogen isotope ratios suggest considerable intercolonial variation in diet, with some colonies collecting prey from lower trophic levels than other colonies. The importance of nectar as a source of metabolic carbon in adult worker biomass, coupled with the high frequency of nectar collection, supports the conclusion that omnivory is a key to supporting this species' biomass in Neotropical wet forests.
10.2307/2388611|The fate of the large (mean 12.6 g) seeds of Gustavia superba, an understory tree, was analyzed on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Eight hundred thread-marked seeds were placed on the ground at two contrasting 1-ha forest sites (Gustavia-rich vs Gustavia-poor) during two periods (June and July) of the fruiting season of G. superba. These months correspond to maximum food availability on BCI. On average, 85.5 percent of the seeds were removed with 28 days, 47.5 percent and 3.8 percent of them being found scatterhoarded (buried) by agouti (Dasyprocta puntuata) and gnawed by rodents, respectively, within 10 m of their origins. The effect of site and the interaction of site with month significantly affected seed removal rates, but not scatterhoarding rates. Proportions of seeds removed were greater where G. superba trees were rare. Because freshly fallen seeds were not infested by bruchid weevils, unburied and germinating seeds provide an abundant short-term food supply for terrestrial mammals. Burying seeds allowed agoutis to later consume cotyledons of germinating seeds from mid-August throughout October, when food is scarce on BCI. Overall seed dispersal effectiveness (% seed dispersal multiplied by % seedling survival) contrasts dramatically between forest sites, being 10.1 percent and 0.75 percent at Gustavia-rich and Gustavia-poor areas, respectively. This result suggests that predator-disperser satiation occurred, maybe due to greater G. superba seed availability and other alternative food supply, allowing greater G. superba seedling survival at the Gustavia-rich area.
2389121|The interrelationships between the distribution of woody species and environmental variables were investigated in an area of deciduous dry forest in Santa Vitoria, central Brazil. This is the first study of a vanishing type of dry forest which grows on base-rich soils originating from the basalt bedrocks of southern Goias and western Minas Gerais. A survey of topography, soil properties, canopy gaps and woody plants (5 cm diameter at the base of the stem) was conducted in 50-15 x 15 m quadrats. The soils were classified into the following soil series: Hapludolls  Haplustolls  Ustropepts  Rhodustalfs. This series corresponded to a gradient of increasing elevation and effective soil depth and decreasing slope gradient, soil organic matter and total exchangeable bases. A canonical correspondence analysis and a detrended correspondence analysis indicated that plant species abundance distribution was significantly correlated with both the relative area of canopy gaps in the quadrats and the soil-topography gradient. Presumably, the critical factors involved in these two gradients are, respectively, light and ground water regimes. The influence of canopy gaps (i.e., light) was surprising and has not been documented previously for tropical deciduous dry forests.
10.2307/2388459|This study, conducted in the Luangwa Valley, Zambia, examines the ecological influence of elephants on a population of Sclerocarya caffra and certain demographic features of this same population. Patterns of fruiting and seed germination are described, with an experimental design for the latter to test elephants' role as a seed dispersal agent. Size class distributions and spatial patterns of trees are also investigated. Results suggest that seed germination and seedling survivorship are enhanced from fruit ingestion by elephants. Frequency of size classes in the population indicate that younger trees are relatively scarce and that mortality of seedlings and saplings may be sufficiently high to prevent recruitment. The presence of seedlings in an area where the composition of mammalian browsers differs from the study area suggests a species other than elephant may be contributing to the low numbers of small trees. Dispersion pattern of trees was strongly aggregated and correlated with well-drained deep soils. Interpretations of these results focus on the ecological relationship of S. caffra with elephants and the management requirements of S. caffra in Luangwa Valley.
10.2307/2388342|A first assessment has been made of arboreal ants collected during 1982 and 1983 in four types of forest at the Tambopata Reserved Zone, Peru. The sample, comprising over 100,000 workers in 1707 separate species series, was found to contain 40 genera and an estimated 135 species, the most diverse local arboreal ant fauna ever recorded. A large portion of the diversity was caused by the occurrence of many species in close proximity. For example, a single tree yielded 26 genera and 43 species, approximately equal to the entire ant fauna of all habitats in the British Isles. In pairwise comparisons across the four forest types, 57-63 percent of the species in the smaller fauna were also found in the larger fauna. Consistent with this pattern, 47 percent of the species were found in two or more forest types. The Tambopata arboreal fauna is further characterized by the numerical dominance of three or four species occupying ant gardens, and by a greater diversity and abundance of dolichoderine ants than hitherto recorded in other Neotropical habitats.
4132902|In tropical areas worldwide, more than 1000 terrestrial species of invertebrates are used as food. For populations of Amazonian areas, different species of insects and other invertebrates serve as nourishing food sources. Here, we document the composition and nutritional quality of some invertebrates consumed in Venezuelan Amazonia, including termites (Isoptera) and earthworms (Glossoscolecidae) eaten by the Ye'Kuana (Makiritare) and caterpillars (Lepidoptera) and grubs (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) consumed by the Yanomamo. Consumption of 100 g of any of these invertebrates contributed 1.2-9.4 percent of the daily fat requirement and 26-144 percent of the protein daily requirement for an adult male. The sample of caterpillars regularly eaten by these peoples was rich in beta carotene (provitamin A), and a 100 g ingestion guaranteed 323 percent of the recommended daily intake of vitamin A. The greatest amount of alpha tocopherol was provided by the consumption of the smoked earthworms (36.7%). Earthworms and termites contained high levels of sterols, mainly cholesterol. The consumption of these animals by tropical human populations represents not only an important traditional habit but also, considering their nutritional composition, a substantial contribution to the human diet.
10.2307/2388594|In a mid-elevational rainforest in New Guinea, size and structure of fruits influenced feeding visits by various species of frugivorous birds: large (diam. > 12 mm) structurally unprotected fruits were taken mostly by fruit-pigeons and bowerbirds, structurally-protected fruits were taken mostly by birds of paradise, and small, structurally-unprotected fruits were taken by nearly all species. Fruit-pigeons as compared with birds of paradise have short, thin bills; small feet; and fewer behaviors for reaching and handling fruits. Birds of paradise use complex food-handling techniques for removing fruits in capsules and other protective structures that are similar to techniques used to capture insects hidden in bark and dried foliage. Absence of large structurally-unprotected fruits in the diets of birds of paradise is not explained entirely as an effect of fruit size. Specialization for frugivory in the entirely frugivorous fruit-pigeons has resulted in exploitation of specific fruit types (large and small structurally-unprotected fruits) rather than all fruit types. Most fruiting plants were visited by a subset of frugivores, as influenced by fruit size and structure. Attracting specific feeding assemblages might be regarded as an adaptation of the plant for enhancing particular patterns of seed dispersal. However, other selective pressures also operate on the evolution of fruit size and structure.
10.2307/2388235|Zooplankton abundance was studied in the Caura River, which drains 47,500 km$^2$ of undisturbed tropical moist forest within Venezuela. During 2 yr of sampling, 72 species were recorded, of which 10 accounted for more than 90 percent of the individuals. Copepods were represented almost exclusively by cyclopoid nauplii. Most of the cladocerans were from planktonic genera; Bosminopsis was the most abundant. The rotifer fauna was dominated by the planktonic genera Filinia, Keratella, Conochilus, and Polyarthra; Lecane, a littoral genus, was also common, especially at low water. The mean density of Crustacea was 2.4 organisms per liter (maximum, 10/liter) and the mean for Rotifera was 5.4 per liter (maximum, 35/liter). The annual export of zooplankton biomass from the watershed was 39,270 kg C. The annual pattern of zooplankton abundance in the Caura River is closely related to hydrologic events. As the river rises early in the wet season and inundates the floodplain, zooplankton densities increase sharply. At peak discharge, densities fall to very low levels. Near the end of the wet season as the river recedes, floodplain lakes drain into the river and zooplankton abundance reaches the annual maximum. Abundance declines when the connection between river and floodplain disappears. There are also small pulses of abundance at minimum flow; these consist chiefly of organisms washed in from channel refuges in response to short-term fluctuations in river level. Reproduction is generally insignificant in the river. Virtually all organisms in the river are swept in from refuges in the channel or the floodplain of the Caura and its lower tributaries. Zooplankton density in the river is regulated by the flow regime and not by biological mechanisms.
10.2307/2388378|The Dendrobatidae are a predominantly South American group with a minor center of diversity in southern Central America. A study of albumin evolution was initiated in order to help elucidate phylogenetic lineages within the family and to estimate their time of arrival in Central America. Using antisera to serum albumin from Phyllobates terribilis and Dendrobates auratus, the albumins of all five species of Phyllobates, 12 species of Dendrobates, and two species of Colostethus were compared by the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation. The results accord with the previous recognition of Phyllobates as a monophyletic group defined by the presence of batrachotoxins, unique skin alkaloids used by the Choco tribes of western Colombia as a potent dart poison. Speciation events leading to the living species of true dart-poison frogs (Phyllobates) appear to have occurred within the last five million years; two species in Costa Rica and western Panama were derived from a primitively striped ancestor that probably invaded Central America after uplift of the Isthmus of Panama about three million years ago. The species of Dendrobates (s. l.) thus far studied are genetically much more variable than Phyllobates, which is consistent with accumulating evidence that Dendrobates is a polyphyletic assemblage. Several major lineages of dendrobatids seem to date back to the start of the Cenozoic, about 60 million years ago.
4132957|The reproductive biology of Pterocarpus macrocarpus Kurz (pradu) was studied in 37-year-old plantation trees in Thailand to determine the causes of seed and fruit loss. Trees flowered at the end of March or early in April at the end of the hot dry season and start of the rainy season. Flowering occurred over about a one-month period. Fruits developed over the next six months during the rainy season and matured at the start of the cool dry season in October and November. Phenology was similar in the four trees that were studied in detail. Racemes averaged 30 flowers each and each raceme was receptive for several days, although each flower was only receptive for one day. After pollination, floral parts were shed over several days and fruits began to develop. Pradu is entomopholous but its insect pollinators were not identified. The stigma is covered by hairs and a secretion is produced. A high proportion of flowers were pollinated. Then, there was a rapid loss of flowers and young fruits. These observations and earlier genetic studies indicate the probability of a high level of self-incompatibility in this predominantly outbreeding species. Pradu may have a very late-acting self-incompatibility mechanism found in many other hardwoods. The zygote remains quiescent for six weeks as the endosperm develops. During this time most of the ovules and fruits abort, suggesting resource allocation preferentially to cross-pollinated ovules. Pradu has a high reproductive potential but a low preemergence reproductive success (0.8), which is common for many hardwood species. The major cause of the low reproductive success was fruit loss during early development. Fruit production may be enhanced by increased cross-pollination among unrelated parent trees. This may be accomplished in seed orchards and seed production areas by the introduction of additional insect pollinators that travel greater distances between trees and by the relatively close spacing of unrelated parent trees.
10.2307/2388278|Extensive tracts of tropical rain forest were burnt in Borneo during the El Nino drought of 1983. Severe droughts have occurred previously but without causing such extensive fires. This extensive burning is a result of forests becoming more fire-prone after disturbance by logging. Rates of tree mortality after drought and fire ranged from 38 to 94 percent in logged forests and from 19 to 71 percent in unlogged forests, while for saplings rates of mortality exceeded 80 percent in both forest types. Secondary succession after logging was truncated by fire with the result that the post-fire condition of a forest logged six years before fire was similar to that of a forest logged two years before fire. The impact of fire differs from other natural or man-made gap forming processes in that most pre-existing seedlings and saplings are killed by fire. This left the regrowth in burnt forest depauperate in species diversity and in regeneration of upper-canopy species. Logged and burnt forests suffered severe canopy loss and the ground cover was dominated by grasses (e.g., Imperata cylindrica) or woody creepers (e.g., Eupatorium odoratum). In burnt primary forest, however, canopy loss was less severe and there was a low density of grasses. The prospects for recovery of forest structure appear to be good in burnt primary forest although species composition may be permanently altered. In forests logged prior to the fire, however, prospects for recovery of forest structure are not good, especially if further burning occurs. The recovery of these forests depends heavily on the ability of the secondary tree species to shade out the vigorous grasses, the continued presence of which may herald the conversion of the forest to unproductive grassland as has occurred widely elsewhere in the tropics after over-intensive shifting cultivation.
30045425|Driver ants (i.e., epigaeic species in the army ant genus Dorylus, subgenus Anommd) are among the most extreme polyphagous predators, but termites appear to be conspicuously absent from their prey spectrum and attacks by driver ants on termite nests have not yet been described. Here, we report a Dorylus (Anommd) rubellus attack on a colony of the fungus-growing termite Macrotermes subhyalinus that was observed during the dry season in a savannah habitat in Nigeria's Gashaka National Park. It was estimated that several hundred thousand termites (probably more than 2.4 kg dry mass) were retrieved. The apparent rarity of driver ant predation on Macrotermes nests may be explained by different habitat requirements, by the fact that these ants mostly forage aboveground, by efficient termite defense behavior and nest architecture that make entry into the nest difficult, and finally by driver ant worker morphology, which differs remarkably from that of subterranean Dorylus species that regularly invade and destroy termite colonies.
10.2307/2389059|Stem density, basal area, the vertical distribution (0-25 cm) of roots (<2 mm and <5 mm) and its biomass were studied in a 10-year-old, a 20-year-old and a mature forest at La Planada cloud forest. There was an increase in canopy height (5-6 m to 20-22 m) and basal area (8.3 to 21.1 m
10.2307/2388645|Pseudoseeds (buttons and beads of a specific gravity within the range of real seeds) were retained in the digestive tract of captive emus very commonly for 1-2 d, but a considerable number were held for over 1 wk (and up to several wk). These retention times are similar to those of several other large, fruit-eating vertebrates that often disperse the seeds of the fruits eaten. Retention time did not vary consistently with pseudoseed dimensions but did differ greatly among birds and trials. Many of the ingested pseudoseeds were deposited at nightly camp sites. Long retention times and patchy deposition patterns have several possible but undocumented consequences for seed shadows.
10.2307/2387858|New discoveries of fossil pollen of Pelliceria in Tertiary deposits of the Caribbean extend both the stratigraphic and geographic range of the genus in the Antilles and Central America. The new records include specimens from the Eocene of Jamaica, Eocene of Panama, and Oligo-Miocene of Panama. Factors suggested for explaining the range restriction of Pelliceria, from once widespread throughout the Caribbean, to presently from Pacific Costa Rica to northwestern Columbia, include sea-level fluctuations, climatic trends toward cooler conditions, and competition from extensive communities of Rhizophora which first developed in the Caribbean region during the Oligocene.
10.2307/2388287|Prey capture by a social spider, Philoponella sp. (Uloboridae), was studied in a wet lowland forest in southern Cameroon. This species is atypical of uloborids in that the large web was not composed of individual orb webs. In contrast to other social uloborids, this species captured insects cooperatively, including insects much larger than those captured by solitary species. However, the hypothesized positive relationship between the size of an insect and the number of spiders involved in its capture was not supported; even large insects were captured by only one to several juvenile spiders. The size of an insect and number of spiders feeding on it were positively correlated. There may be age- or size-related behavioral differences in prey capture with small juveniles throwing silk from above and lateral to the prey, and adults or large juveniles throwing silk and repairing holes beneath the prey. Juvenile spiders appeared to avoid mantids landing in the web, and observations indicated that mantids are dangerous insects to approach.
41058549|Heliconia uxpanapensis (Heliconiaceae) is an outcrossing endemic herb that grows within continuous and fragmented areas of the tropical rain forest of southeast Veracruz (Mxico). The genetic diversity, population differentiation, and genetic structure of seven populations of the studied species were assessed using inter-simple sequence repeat) markers. Population differentiation was moderately high (F ST range: 0.18-0.22) and indirect estimates of gene flow were rather low (Nm = 0.65 0.83). Analysis of molecular variance indicated that the populations explained 22.2 percent of the variation, while individuals within the populations accounted for 77.8 percent. The similar and high level of genetic diversity found within populations of the continuous and fragmented forest suggests that H. uxpanapensis has not suffered yet the expected negative effect of fragmentation. Genetic structure analyses indicated the presence of fewer genetic clusters (K= 4) than populations (N= 7). Three of the four fragmented forest populations were assigned each to one of the dusters found within the continuous forest, suggesting the absence of a negative fragmentation effect on the amount and distribution of genetic variation. Given the significant genetic structure combined with high genetic diversity and low levels of gene flow, theoretical simulations indicated that H. uxpanapensis might be highly susceptible to changes in the mating system, which promotes inbreeding within fragmented populations. Thus, future conservation efforts in this species should be directed to ensure that levels of gene flow among populations are sufficient to prevent an increment in the magnitude of inbreeding within fragments.
10.2307/2388507|From 1972 to 1982, 2030 forest birds of 33 species were banded in a study area on the Nyika Plateau, Malawi/Zambia, in south-central Africa. The movements and survival of these birds, particularly the starred robin Pogonocichla stellata, were monitored during three breeding seasons, 1979-1982. Overall, average movement recorded was 165 m (range 0-3125 m, N = 613). Five species of passerines moved from the largest forest into the smallest patches (about 2.5 km). However, most territorial adults were strictly sedentary, especially during the breeding season, when less than one-third of the movements recorded exceeded the diameter of a territory (N = 320). Some adults held the same territories for up to 10 years, with 39 percent known to be present for at least two consecutive seasons and 19 percent over three years or more (N = 1127). Most species maintained long-term pair bonds, but all female Pogonocichla left the study area in the nonbreeding season and returned regularly to the same territory each year (annual rates of 67-78%, N = 59). Intensive investigation of territories in forests around the main banding area showed that only 1.5 percent (N = 246) of the adult Pogonocichla sampled were banded individuals which had dispersed. Average annual mortality among territorial adults was between 13.2 and 22.2 percent for the four best-studied species (three robins and one monarchine flycatcher). Their expectancy of further life (4.0-7.1 years) agrees with the maximum longevities recorded: four passerine species had individuals which attained 9.7-10.8 years of age (the maximum possible in this study).
2663980|Despite having one of the world's highest deforestation rates, the tropical forest of Rondonia state in the southwest Amazon is virtually unknown in terms of nutrient dynamics. To fill this knowledge gap, the distribution of nutrients in a humid tropical forest located in the Ecological Reserve of Samuel, Rondonia state, was addressed. A total of 474 trees with diameter at breast height (DBH) >10 cm were mapped at the Ecological Reserve of Samuel, a 20,000-ha area bordering the Samuel Hydroelectric Reservoir, which is located 50 km south of Porto Velho, Rondonia state, Amazon region, Brazil. These individuals belonged to ca 220 species distributed in 41 families. From this total, leaves of 354 trees were collected for chemical compositional analysis; boles of 96 trees and fine branches of 75 trees also were collected. Soil samples were gathered for fertility analysis at two soil depth intervals: 0-50 and 50-100 cm. In general, soils were acidic and very poor in terms of elemental contents. For plants, the highest concentrations of P, K, and Mg were found in leaves and fine branches, and the highest concentration of Ca was in the litter. The lowest nutrient concentration was observed in boles. The nutrient concentrations of leaves collected at Samuel were similar to that found in other terra firme forests of the Amazon region and other tropical forests growing on poor soils. Comparisons of nutrient concentrations among families, genera, and species revealed that only N concentrations were distinct among botanical taxa; the variability found in concentrations of other nutrients were larger and did not reveal any significant differences. Like aboveground biomass, the total nutrient stocks of trees was concentrated in a few large individuals. This fact reveals important implications about the impacts caused by selective logging. Although few trees are cut per hectare in this activity, the effects on the ecosystem structure, due to the loss of nutrients, may be underestimated.
10.2307/2388783|Soils and porewater of the rhizosphere of mangrove trees, Rhizophora mangle L. and Avicennia schaueriana Stapf & Leech., of the salt marsh grass Spartina alterniflora Loisel, and of unvegetated mud flats, were analyzed for pH, salinity, platinum electrode redox potential, organic matter content, sulfide concentrations, and the total and exchangeable concentrations of trace metals (Fe, Zn, Cu, Pb and Cd). The study was conducted in a fringe mangrove forest in Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The rhizospheres differed in their biogeochemistry Mud flats and Rhizophora soils were very reducing, with highest concentrations of sulfide. Avicennia soils showed the highest variability of the variables measured, with the rhizosphere changing from oxic to anoxic conditions. Spartina soils, on the other hand, were generally oxic, with very low sulfide concentration. The distribution of trace metals in these soils varied with the major physical and chemical characteristics. Mud flat soils presented the highest total trace metal concentrations followed by mangrove soils and Spartina soils. However, exchangeable trace metals were similar among the different soils with the exception of Avicennia soils, which due to their characteristic instability of redox conditions, presented much higher exchangeable trace metals concentrations.
30045436|The tropical monodominant tree Dicymbe corymbosa reiterates via epicormic shoots and roots, resulting in multistemmed trees with complex pseudotrunks and root mounds. In 2 ha of primary forest on the Guiana Shield, we quantified the reiterative structure and aboveground soil development of 307 D. corymbosa individuals  10 cm dbh and investigated the potential adaptive significance of reiteration in terms of genet persistence and root exploitation of aboveground soil accumulations. We also investigated the incidence of the heart rot fungus Phellinus robustus in D. corymbosa and examined its relationship to the reiteration process. Large trees contained more and larger reiterations, greater trunk, root mound, and organic soil volumes, and a higher incidence of Phellinus than smaller trees. Roots and ectomycorrhizas were abundant in aboveground soils on the trees, occurred at higher densities than those of the surrounding forest floor, and may be important in recycling mineral nutrients. Stem turnover and reiteration were associated with Phellinus heart rot and appeared to be cumulative over time, resulting in persistent, structurally complex trees of indeterminate lifespan. Dicymbe corymbosa provides a rare example of a tree species that exploits both persistence and recruitment niches, as it successfully recruits through mast fruiting.
2663994|Between 9 and 22 January 1999, radio-tracking revealed that nine Sturnira lilium (seven females, one lactating, and two males) used hollow trees (N = 5), vine tangles (N = 2), or the bases of palm fronds (N = 1) as day roosts near Lamanai in Belize over 43 roost days. The bats roosted in hollows of four tree species, and the roost entrances ranged from 2.0 to 7.9 m above the ground. Radio-tagged individuals returned to the same roosts day after day, with the exception of a subadult female that used at least three day roosts over the course of the study. In their day roosts, S. lilium were inconspicuous, difficult to flush, and easily overlooked. Radio-tagged bats usually roosted alone and emerged significantly later than bats without radio tags.
30043178|Induction of plant defenses and their spatial variability are key subjects in the field of ecology and evolution of defensive traits in plants. Nevertheless, induction has been more commonly studied under controlled environments, ignoring other factors that might influence this process in natural settings. The main goal of this study was to determine if artificial defoliation induces trichome production in three natural populations of the tropical shrub Cnidoscolus aconitifolius. First, we performed trichome counts for each population before imposing artificial defoliation to assess differences in trichome loads between populations. Trichome densities (trichomes/cm) were quantified for leaf blades, petioles, and flower stalks. To determine if defoliation induced trichome production, three defoliation treatments (0% leaves defoliated or controls, 50% of total leaves defoliated, and 100% defoliation) were applied once at the beginning of the reproductive season. Trichome counts were performed on each structure every ~20 d during a 3-mo period after the application of treatments. Trichome counts showed significant differences in trichome densities between populations for all three structures. In turn, artificial defoliation increased trichome density. Significant differences among treatments were found for trichome densities on leaf blades and petioles. In both these structures, the 100 percent defoliation treatment differed significantly from control plants, presenting higher trichome densities. In addition, the treatment  population interaction was not significant for leaf blades and petioles, indicating that induction is a generalized response in this species, at least at the study sites. These results indicate that trichomes in C. aconitifolius are inducible due to defoliation. /// La inducibilidad de defensas en plantas y su variabilidad espacial, son temas clave en el campo de la ecologa y evolucin de las respuestas defensivas en plantas. No obstante, el mecanismo inductivo ha sido estudiado principalmente en ambientes controlados, ignorando algunos factores que pudieran influenciar este proceso en sistemas naturales. El principal objetivo del presente estudio fue determinar si los tricomas son un rasgo inducible por defoliacin artificial en tres poblaciones naturales de Cnidoscolus aconitifolius. Se calcularon las densidades de tricomas (tricomas/cm ) en laminas foliares, pecolos y pednculos para determinar posibles diferencias en abundancia de tricomas entre poblaciones. Los tratamientos de defoliacin (0% o controles, 50% y 100% de hojas defoliadas) se aplicaron una sola vez al inicio de la temporada reproductiva. Se realiz un seguimiento de las densidades de tricomas cada ~20 das durante tres meses. Hubieron diferencias significativas entre poblaciones en las densidades de tricomas de las tres estructuras. Se observaron diferencias significativas entre los tratamientos para lminas foliares y pecolos. Para ambas estructuras, el tratamiento de 100% difiri significativamente del control, presentando las densidades mas altas de tricomas. La interaccin poblacin  tratamiento no result significativa para laminas foliares y peciolos, indicando que todas las poblaciones bajo estudio respondieron de la misma manera a la defoliacin. Los resultados indican que los tricomas en aconitifolius son inducibles por defoliacin.
2389129|We compared bird diversity and frequency in selection logged and unlogged forest to determine the effects of recent selection logging on avian biodiversity in a subtropical, moist evergreen forest. We used a combination of mist netting and fixed-radius point counts to assess bird communities in February and March 1993 in northwestern Belize. Vegetation structure and composition was similar in logged and unlogged forest. The 66 most common species occurred with statistically similar frequency in logged and unlogged forest although 13 species were two times more frequent in intact forest. Numbers of total bird species were similar between logging gaps and the logged forest matrix, and between the logged forest matrix and unlogged forests. A comparison of numbers of species in 26 guilds based on migration strategy, diet, foraging substrate, and height strata also showed them to be similar regardless of logging history. Our results differed from previous studies that reported lower bird species richness and abundance of individual species in logged tropical forests than in unlogged forest. The differences might be explained by the lower logging intensity and/or greater levels of natural disturbance in our study area compared to previous studies.
30043120|Litter quality parameters such as nitrogen and lignin content correlate with decomposition rates at coarse scales, but fine-scale mechanisms driving litter decomposition have proven more difficult to generalize. One potentially important driver of decomposition is the activity of extracellular enzymes that catalyze the degradation of complex compounds present in litter. To address the importance of this mechanism, we collected 15 Hawaiian plant litter types and decomposed them in fertilized and control plots for up to two years. We measured litter nutrient content and carbon chemistry prior to decomposition, as well as extracellular enzyme activities, mass loss, and litter nutrient content over time. We found that water-soluble carbon content, cellobiohydrolase activities, and polyphenol oxidase activities were significantly correlated with mass loss. Enzyme activities and decomposition rate constants both varied significantly by litter type, and fertilization increased mass loss rates in five litter types. Some litter types that decayed faster under fertilization also showed time-dependent increases in carbon-degrading enzyme activities, but others decayed faster independent of enzyme changes. These results suggest that extracellular enzyme activities partially determine litter decomposition rates, but high soluble carbon content may circumvent the requirement for enzyme-catalyzed decomposition.
10.2307/2388576|Nests of Ropalidia (Icarielia) nigrescens and R. (I.) extrema from the Philippines are described for the first time. Nests of both species consist of two combs enclosed in a carton envelope, which is entirely single-sheeted and is not expanded from the initial sheet. On the other hand, the two species differ in comb arrangement. In R. nigrescens the second comb arises subspirally from the first comb, and the ventral surface of the first comb and the dorsal surface of the second comb are interconnected by petioles. In R. extrema the first comb is constructed on the substrate (leaf), whereas the second comb is attached to the inner surface of the envelope, facing the first. The evolutionary radiation in nest architecture within the subgenus Icarielia is reconstructed based on analysis of six traits in nest architecture. The grounds for determining which state of each trait is primitive and which is derived are discussed. Nests of Icarielia are compared with those of Neotropical swarm-founding polistines. A major behavioral constraint on radiation in nest architecture within the subgenus seems to be larval peritrophic sac extraction, which apparently occurs universally in Ropalidia as well as in the other three strictly Old World genera of Polistinae. That no Icarielia species has evolved sessile combs or a phragmocyttarous nest, both of which occur widely among Neotropical wasp genera, appears to be because the backs of cells must remain accessible so they can be opened for removal of the peritrophic sac.
10.2307/2989656|Capture-recapture studies of a Heliconius ethilla colony occupying a ridge in northern Trinidad were carried out over a 27-month period. Individuals had limited home ranges based primarily on the distribution of pollen sources which were visited in the course of daily activity. These ranges fell into two virtually discrete sets, dividing the colony into two populations which rarely exchanged individuals. The size of the two populations, and thus of the colony, remained remarkably stable over the entire course of the study, which covered about 27 generations. This constancy appears to result from a combination of high preadult mortality, long adult life, and limited adult resources which in turn limit total egg production.
10.2307/2387865|A survey is presented of the plant families and genera recorded in the diet of frugivorous birds in the four main tropical forest regions (tropical America, Africa, southeast Asia, Australasia), a distinction being drawn between fruits eaten by specialized frugivores and those eaten by unspecialized, opportunist frugivores. The characteristics of fruits eaten by the two classes of frugivores are discussed, and available data on their size, composition, and nutritive content are tabulated. Fruits eaten by specialized frugivores are generally large, and have relatively large seeds and high nutritive quality. Of the plant families which have coevolved with frugivorous birds to produce fruits of this kind, three (Lauraceae, Burseraceae, and Palmae) are of outstanding importance. By comparison with the American tropics and Australasia, the forest flora of Africa is poor in plants of these families, and the number of specialized frugivores is also small. The possibility that there was formerly a richer assemblage of specialized frugivores in Africa, now extinct, is briefly discussed.
2663791|Tetramerista glabra has a remarkable combination of life history traits. It is a dense-wooded, large, common canopy tree in primary peat swamp rain forest. Its seedlings, although shade tolerant, can grow rapidly in high light conditions, but frequently lack structural stability. Most juvenile stems (94% in the understory and 38% in canopy gaps) collapse under their own weight or from branchfalls. Fallen stems then ramify into vegetative sprouts, which in turn may collapse, perpetuating a vegetative juvenile cycle. Most recruitment is from sprouts rather than from seed. Structural analysis of stem dimensions shows that stems 2-8 cm DBH (diameter at breast height) are close to the theoretical buckling limit, especially for those dependent on neighboring vegetation to maintain vertical form. Trees > 4 cm DBH persisting as upright stems develop stilt root support and become structurally independent at ca 8 cm DBH. Eventually, as stems thicken, stilt roots anastamose and trees adopt the cylindrical growth form of mature canopy trees (up to 150 cm DBH). Thus, the vegetative life history strategy of the species is to: (i) regenerate a large "ramet bank" from the majority of juveniles that fail structurally while suppressed in the understory, and (ii) to maximize height growth at the expense of diameter growth in high light conditions. The growth pattern and plastic form of T. glabra shows how a shade tolerant species may adapt to utilize the ephemeral light resource in canopy gaps. The growth strategy of this species allows it to circumvent the normal trade-off between shade tolerance and rapid growth in canopy gaps.
10.2307/2387917|Litter fall was measured at approximately fortnightly intervals during a three-year peroid in adjacent stands of thinned and unthinned Pinus caribaea L. of the same age. Mean litter fall was 5988  (SE) 647 and 5767  (SE) 308 kg/ha. yr in the thinned and unthinned stands, respectively. These values are similar to estimates of leaf litter fall obtained in mixed deciduous native forests in the same locality, but lower than values recorded for the wetter, humid, tropical forests. The mean annual returns of nutrients from the litter of both stands are similar and amount to an average of 26.2, 0.6, 14.0, 34.5 and 10.8 kg/ha for nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, respectively. Compared to broad-leaved species, the return of nitrogen and phosphorus is very low. It is suggested that these elements may be limiting growth of the trees in the plantation. Measurements of pine-litter changes over a three-year period indicate that the litter builds up under Pinus caribaea L. as in the case of pine litter in higher latitudes. The time for the mineralization of one-year litter fall was estimated at 3.6 years as against the short period of 2 to 7 months in which litter of angiospermous species decompose in the area.
10.2307/2663961|The three most common tree fern species in a Mexican montane cloud forest fragment (Alsophila firma, Lophosoria quadripinnata and Sphaeropteris horrida) were selected for laboratory and transplant experiments. The objectives were: (1) to determine the percentage of spore germination and gametophytes producing sporophytes, and (2) to compare early establishment of sporophytes at the edge and in the interior of the forest. Percent spore germination varied between 16 and 86 percent, and the number of gametophytes that produced sporophytes was high (>50%). Survival and growth of sporophytes differed between species and habitats. Survival was greater at the edge than in the forest interior for Lophosoria, but it was similar for Alsophila and Sphaeropteris. Number and length of fronds were higher at the forest edge for individuals of Alsophila and Lophosoria, but not for Sphaeropteris. RGR was higher at the forest edge than in the forest interior for sporophytes of the three species. This study suggests that the forest edge is an appropriate habitat for establishment of Alsophila and Lophosoria, but Sphaeropteris is apparently a forest interior species.
4132941|Home range size, habitat utilization, and activity patterns of five adult Baird's tapirs (Tapirus bairdii) were studied via radiotelemetry from June 1995 to May 1996 in Corcovado National Park, Costa Rica. Estimates of 4153 animal locations were made. Home range sizes (95% minimum convex polygon) for the entire study period (wet season and dry season) averaged 125.0 ha (SD = 72.7), 94.9 ha (SD = 47.6), and 96.8 ha (SD = 51.2), respectively. Monthly home range sizes averaged 55.5 ha (SD = 32.1) and did not vary between seasons. Across the entire study, secondary forest, the most commonly used habitat type (61.3%) was utilized more than expected as predicted by availability (49.6%), while the second most used habitat, primary forest, was used (25.0%) less than expected (36.2%). The same general habitat selection pattern was observed in the dry season. Wet season habitat utilization values showed tapirs using both primary and secondary forest habitats in proportion to their availability. Diurnal and nocturnal activity levels were estimated at 20.2 and 80.4 percent, respectively. More diurnal and less nocturnal activity was observed during the wet season compared to the dry season.
40645550|The pollination ecology and breeding system of the Hamamelidaceae tree species Rhodoleia championii were studied in an evergreen broad-leaved forest in Nankunshan National Forest in Guangdong Province in China. Rhodoleia championii produces lipid-rich pollen grains and dilute nectar (averaging 0.7 mL/d and 9% sugar), with nectar production peaking before 0800 h; the species is self-incompatible and does not set seed asexually. Seven species of nectar-foraging birds visited the inflorescences, with the most common visitors being Japanese white-eyes (Zosterops japonicus, Zosteropidae) and fork-tailed sunbirds (Aethopyga christinae, Nectariniidae). Bumblebees and honeybees played limited roles as pollinators. As documented by fossils from Europe, the Rhodoleia stem lineage dates back at least to the Paleocene. Bird pollination, however, is unlikely to have evolved before the Oligocene when sunbirds arrived in Europe, and pollination by Z. japonicus cannot be much older than 250,000 million years ago, when Z. japonicus diverged from its closest relative.
2389126|In the unique faunal assemblage of the Malagasy rain forest, lemurs appear to play particularly important roles as seed-dispersing frugivores. A three-month study of feeding ecology and seed dispersal by four species of lemurs in Madagascar's eastern rain forest found that three species, Eulemur rubriventer, Eulemur fulvus, and Varecia variegata were seed dispersers, and the fourth, Propithecus diadema, was a seed predator. In germination trials, seeds passed by lemurs sprouted significantly faster and in greater numbers than those not passed by lemurs. Analysis of fruit morphologies of 69 local plant taxa producing fleshy fruits during the study period found that these fruits fell into two well-defined color categories that correlated significantly with fruit size. Seventy seven percent of fleshy fruits greater than 10 mm in diameter were colored green, brown, tan, purplish, or black, while all fruits less than 10 mm in diameter were colored red, yellow, orange, pink, blue, or white. Three introduced exotic plant species provided exceptions to this pattern, producing fruits which were larger than 10 mm and pink or orange. Fruits chosen by the primates in this study were usually larger than 10 mm in diameter and were in nearly all cases colored green, brown, tan, purplish, red, or some combination of these colors. Morphological traits shared by fruits of multiple plant taxa in the diets of seed-dispersing lemurs suggest possible coevolved relationships between Malagasy rain forest plants and lemurs.
10.2307/2388375|Seeds from over 365 species of eight plant families have been excised, and dry weights determined, from fruit previously collected from Costa Rica, Panama, and Peru, and deposited in the U.S. National Museum of Natural History. This study was undertaken to determine whether data from tropical plants were consistent with temperate zone work showing correlations of seed size with life form and certain aspects of the physical environment. In order to control for intraspecific variation, a seed weight class system (Baker 1972) was used. As seen in temperate zone studies, tropical species show significant differences in seed weight means among trees, shrubs, and herbs (largest to smallest). Tropical epiphytes, however, show a bimodal pattern; though seeds from some plant families (e.g., Orchidaceae) are tiny, many epiphyte seeds (primarily from Melastomataceae, Gesneriaceae and Bromeliaceae) were equivalent to, or larger than, those of shrubs. Seeds from tropical herbaceous vines were comparable in weight to those of herbs, while seeds of woody lianas (all from Bignoneaceae) were comparable to trees in weight. Seed weights analyzed by elevation and life zone showed no conclusive patterns.
30043171|We surveyed the population status of the Neotropical toad genus Atelopus, and document recent catastrophic declines that are more severe than previously reported for any amphibian genus. Of 113 species that have been described or are candidates for description, data indicate that in 42 species, population sizes have been reduced by at least half and only ten species have stable populations. The status of the remaining taxa is unknown. At least 30 species have been missing from all known localities for at least 8 yr and are feared extinct. Most of these species were last seen between 1984 and 1996. All species restricted to elevations of above 1000 m have declined and 75 percent have disappeared, while 58 percent of lowland species have declined and 38 percent have disappeared. Habitat loss was not related to declines once we controlled for the effects of elevation. In fact, 22 species that occur in protected areas have disappeared. The fungal disease Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis has been documented from nine species that have declined, and may explain declines in higher elevation species that occur in undisturbed habitats. Climate change may also play a role, but other potential factors such as environmental contamination, trade, and introduced species are unlikely to have affected more than a handful of species. Widespread declines and extinctions in Atelopus may reflect population changes in other Neotropical amphibians that are more difficult to survey, and the loss of this trophic group may have cascading effects on other species in tropical ecosystems. /// Examinamos el estado poblacional de las ranas neotropicales del gnero Atelopus y documentamos disminuciones catastrficas recientes, las ms drsticas sealadas para cualquier gnero de anfibios. De las 113 especies que han sido descritas o son candidatas para ser descritas, los datos poblacionales indican que en 42 especies, las poblaciones han sido reducidas por lo menos a la mitad y solamente diez especies tienen poblaciones estables. El estado de los taxa restantes es desconocido. Por lo menos 30 especies no han sido vistas en al menos ocho aos de todas las localidades conocidas, y se teme que se hayan extinguido La mayora de estas especies desaparecieron entre 1984 y 1996. Todas las especies conrangos altitudinales de 1000 m o superiores han sufrido disminuciones poblacionales, el 75 por ciento de estas ha desaparecido del todo. El 58 por ciento de las especies de bajura han sufrido disminuciones, mientras que el 38 por ciento ha desaparecido del todo. La prdida de hbitat, no fue relacionada con las disminuciones una vez que se control el efecto de altura en los anlisis. De hecho, unas 22 especies que tienen poblaciones dentro de reas protegidas han desaparecido. El hongo qutrido Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis estuvo presente en nueve especies que han experimentado disminuciones y puede explicar desapariciones en especies que ocupan hbitats no perturbados a mayores elevaciones. El cambio climtico puede jugar un papel, pero es improbable que otros factores como la contaminacin ambiental, el comercio ilegal, as como las especies introducidas, tengan un efecto en ms que unas pocas especies. Las disminuciones a gran escala y las extinciones en Atelopus pueden reflejar disminuciones en otros anfibios neotropicales que son ms difciles de estudiar, y la prdida de este grupo trfico puede traer efectos en cascada para otras especies de ecosistemas tropicales.
10.2307/2389195|We assessed effects of selective logging of rain forest upon a diverse assemblage of folivorous (leaf-eating) marsupials in tropical Queensland, Australia. Spotlighting censuses of mammal populations were conducted for 1-yr periods before logging (1986/87) and 3 yr after logging (1993/94), on a 150-ha site in which an average of 8-10 trees/ha (50-55 m
30043635|What causes flowers to diverge? While a plant's primary pollinator should strongly influence floral phenotype, selective pressures may also be exerted by other flower visitors or competition with other plants for pollination. Species of the primarily bat-pollinated genus Burmeistera (Campanulaceae) frequently cooccur, with up to four species in a given site, and broadly overlap in flowering phenology, typically flowering throughout the year. The genus displays extensive interspecific variation in floral morphology in the degree that the reproductive parts (anthers and stigma) are exserted outside of the corolla, and species can be roughly classified as either long or short-exserted. I tested two hypotheses regarding the functional significance of such variation: (1) exsertion lengths correspond to pollination by bat species of different sizes; and (2) variation serves to partition pollinators bodies spatially and thus reduces interspecific pollen transfer. I captured bats in Ecuador to evaluate the identity and location of the Burmeistera pollen they were carrying. Results show that exsertion does not correspond to specialization on different pollinators; different bat species carried pollen of both flower types just as frequently. In support of the second hypothesis, pollen from flowers of different exsertion lengths was found to occur on different regions of bats' heads. This may serve to reduce competition for pollination among coexisting Burmeistera. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043159|Species distributions of several insect groups in unlogged and adjacent logged forest were analyzed from several published data sets. The slope of the geometric series model and dominance indices proved to be unsuitable indicators of rain forest disturbance. /// De un conjunto de datos publicados, se analiz la distribucin de varias especies de grupos de insectos en un bosque sin deforestar y adjacente a un bosque deforestado. La pendiente del modelo de serie geomtrico y los ndices de dominacin probaron ser indicadores no adecuados de perturbaciones del bosque lluvioso.
10.2307/2387895|As many as six females of the Neotropical wasp, Microstigmus comes, cooperate to gather and silk a single ball of material derived from the underside of fronds of the host palm, Chryosophila guagara. They mold this into a bag, then lower it on a silked petiole which is finally given a characteristic spiral. Construction averaged 36.8 hours of working time performed over four days. Orphaned wasps initiated new nests on their original host plant 75 percent of the time. Heavy rain and winds destroyed 28.6 percent of newly established units.
10.2307/2388377|A migration of the diurnal moth Urania fulgens showed unusual timing. Unlike almost all other recorded migrations, this one took place in the dry season and consisted entirely of females with large batches of mature eggs. Our data suggest that the migrant/non-migrant ratio may differ among migrations, and migrations may take place for different reasons, some of which may relate to seasonally modulated availability of larval food plants.
30043279|Change in lichen diversity is often used as a bioindicator to estimate effects of atmospheric pollution, but natural variation in lichen cover and species richness can be very high. We examined the top-down effects of spore-consuming ants and the bottom-up effects of nutrient and light availability on lichen diversity associated with the leaf surface of the rain forest understory plant, Piper cenocladum. Plots containing P. cenocladum were randomly assigned to treatments in factorial experiments that included high and low light levels, nutrient enrichment, and presence and absence of the ant mutualist, Pheidole bicornis. At the conclusion of the experiments, plants were harvested and size of leaves, secondary metabolite content (amides), epiphyll cover, and the species richness of the lichens (which comprised 85% of the epiphyll community) were quantified. Epiphyll cover (mosses, liverworts, and lichens) was greater on plants that had ant-mutualists and balanced resources. Lichen species richness was greater for plants with balanced resources, particularly for those with high light availability. Relationships between toxins and lichen cover and richness were weak and unclear. In this system, natural sources of variation were reliable determinants of lichen diversity and both biotic and abiotic influences were important.
30043039|There is much interest in ways to exploit tropical timber without greatly changing forest processes and diversity. To achieve this, it is necessary to know the maximum logging intensity that can be used and how long the forest takes to recover from logging. Because little is known about the effects of selective logging on non-timber plant species, we examined the effects of logging intensity and time after logging on the diversity and abundance of flowering and fruiting understory plants in a Central Amazonian forest near Manaus, Brazil. Logging was carried out experimentally at varying intensities in eight 4 ha plots in 1987 and three plots in 1993. Logging intensity ranged between 14 and 45 m3/ha of extracted timber. Three plots were left as controls. Each month, from October 1996 to September 1998, we recorded the number of individuals and species of herbs, shrubs, small trees, and small palms that were flowering and fruiting in six transects per plot. We found 107 species flowering and 111 species fruiting. The abundance of flowering plants was affected by time after logging, but not by the intensity of logging. The abundance of fruiting plants was not related either to time after logging or logging intensity. Richness of flowering and fruiting plants was related to time after logging, but not to the intensity of logging. The results indicate that selective logging, at the intensities and scale analyzed, does not cause reductions in flower and fruit production by the understory community. Both quantity and quality of resources for animals are maintained and possibly even increased in logged areas, shortly after logging takes place. As the levels of reproduction in plots logged 11 years before remained close to those in controls, maintenance of the understory community does not seem to be problematical. /// H muito interesse em se conseguir formas de explorar madeira nas florestas tropicais sem alterar drasticamente seus processos e diversidade. Para isto,  preciso saber qual a intensidade de corte mxima que pode ser aplicada e qual o tempo necessrio para a recuperao da floresta. Como pouco se sabe sobre os efeitos do corte seletivo de madeira sobre as espcies no-madeireiras, este estudo examinou os efeitos da intensidade de corte do e do tempo ps-corte sobre a diversidade e abundncia das plantas de sub-bosque florindo ou frutificando em uma floresta da Amaznia Central, prxima  Manaus, Brasil. O corte seletivo foi realizado experimentalmente em diferentes intensidades em oito parcelas de 4 ha em 1987 e em trs parcelas em 1993. A intensidade de corte variou entre 14 e 45 m3/ha de madeira extrada. Trs parcelas foram deixadas como controles. A cada ms, de outubro de 1996 a setembro de 1998, amostrou-se o nmero de espcies e indivduos de ervas, arbustos, arvoretas e pequenas palmeiras florindo ou frutificando em seis transectos em cada parcela. Foram encontradas 107 espcies florindo e ll1 espcies frutificando. A abundncia de plantas florindo esteve relacionada  idade da rea explorada, mas no  intensidade de corte. A abundncia de plantas frutificando no esteve relacionada com a idade da rea explorada nem com a intensidade de corte. A riqueza de plantas florindo e frutificando esteve relacionada  idade da rea explorada, mas no  intensidade de corte. Os resultados indicam que o corte seletivo, nas intensidades e escala analisadas, no causa reduo na produo de flores e frutos pelo sub-bosque. Tanto a quantidade como a qualidade dos recursos para a fauna so mantidas e at podem chegar a aumentar pouco tempo aps a explorao. Como os nveis de reproduo nas parcelas exploradas 11 anos atrs so prximos aos encontrados nos controles, a sobrevivncia da comunidade do sub-bosque nas reas de corte seletivo no parece ser problemtica.
10.2307/2388534|Entire root systems of 2-3 m tall plants in tropical moist forest near Barro Colorado Island, Panama were excavated and measured. We studied 3-4 plants, each, of the canopy and subcanopy species Trichilia tuberculata (Meliaceae), Prioria copaifera (Caesalpinoideae), Hirtella triandra (Chrysobalanaceae), and Tetragastris panamensis (Burseraceae); the immature treelet Faramea occidentalis (Rubiaceae); and the mature shrubs Piper cordulatum (Piperaceae), Psychotria horizontalis (Rubiaceae), and Hybanthus prunifolius (Violaceae). Root and crown architecture of intermediate specimens was illustrated. Shrubs had shallower root systems with a higher proportion of total surface area at 0-20 cm depth than tree saplings. Shrubs also had greater root surface area, both absolutely and relative to leaf area. An analysis of Coster's data for 6-month old plants of 44 species grown in a Javanese garden confirmed that shrubs tend to have relatively shallower root systems than tree species. We examine several explanations of differing root architecture for these life forms based on adult requirements for water, support, and nutrients. We speculate that reproduction creates greater nutrient demands in shrubs than in saplings. By analogy with community patterns on very poor soils, a well developed, superficial root system increases nutrient absorption from the relatively richer upper stratum. The tradeoff appears to be reduced resistance to water stress in shrubs compared with tree species.
10.2307/2989638|Nidification by the docile wasp, Mischocyttarus immarginatus, is highly selective for the immediate surroundings of Polybia occidentalis nests during the dry season in Costa Rica.
4132919|All broadleaf woody plants of pinelands and hammocks (upland areas) in the northern parts of Everglades National Park were defoliated by the strong winds of Hurricane Andrew in August 1992. Most plants re-leafed within two months of the storm, at which time we tagged newly produced leaves of eight species (five species in two hardwood hammocks and four in two pineland sites; one species was studied in both habitats), and monitored individual leaf area lost or damaged monthly for three months. We marked a second cohort of new leaves on the same individuals four months later and monitored these for three months. Herbivory rates in leaves of the first cohort were lower than observed in pre-hurricane studies on two of the species, and lower in the first cohort than in the second cohort in six of the eight species studied, indicating that most insect herbivores were virtually absent for the first few months after the storm. Additionally, most species produced significantly larger leaves in the first cohort than the second cohort, and leaves of the second cohort were not significantly different in size from pre-hurricane leaves in one species for which pre-hurricane data were available. The large disturbance of the hurricane defoliated and reduced the above-ground biomass of the plants, but apparently also eliminated most herbivores and competition for light, facilitating the recovery of the plants.
10.2307/2389053|The phenology of 568 trees of 49 species producing fleshy fruits was studied in a montane forest in Rwanda between January 1991 and January 1993. Fruiting peaked during the major wet season in March-May, but remained high during the major dry season in July-August. A period of reduced fruiting occurred in the beginning of each calendar year during the minor dry period. Leaf flushing peaked during the major dry season in July-August, whereas flowering peaked in the beginning of each calendar year. These observations were inconsistent with the general pattern predicted by an "insolation-limitation hypothesis" that community-wide flowering and leaf flushing in tropical forests should be closely related in time and that both phenophases reach their peaks during the period of the most intense insolation. When species were grouped by seed size, the large-seeded group displayed a greater temporal variation in fruit abundance (greater fruiting seasonality) than the small-seeded group. When species were examined individually, however, seed size was not related to either fruiting duration or within-species fruiting synchrony, two attributes determining the degree of fruiting seasonality of a species. Fruiting patterns manifested by a group thus could not be explained by attributes from species constituting the group. Different degrees of fruiting seasonality displayed by different seed-sized groups may be due to different degrees of within-group interspecific fruiting synchrony.
10.2307/2388642|Differences in chemical and nutritional traits among leaves of different ages and from plants in different habitats are expected to influence patterns of herbivore foraging and damage. Variability in the extent and patterns of insect herbivory on leaves of the understory tree Pentagonia donnell-smithii (Rubiaceae) was quantified with respect to leaf age and habitat type (sites) in lowland tropical wet forest in Costa Rica. Rates of herbivory were higher for young leaves than for mature leaves. The common leaf beetle, Phanaeta sp. (prob. ruficollis, Chrysomelidae) preferred young leaves to mature leaves, but another herbivore (the seed bug, Nicuesa speciosa) preferred mature leaves in a choice test. Total rates of herbivory over a 10-day period were higher in a secondary forest site than in successional plots 1-5 yr old. Laboratory choice tests suggested that Phanaeta sp. responded differentially to leaves from trees in three forest sites. Their apparent preference for leaves from younger, more open sites was not explained by either leaf toughness or leaf water content.
10.2307/2989741| Oritrophium limnophilum (Sch.Bip.) Cuatr. (Compositae), a rosette plant species of the pramo (alpine) region of the Venezuelan Andes, has strongly helioptropic flower stalks. Flower heads facing the sun are warmer than heads held away from the sun, and, except at high sun angles, attract more insect pollinators. Because the pramo is frequently cloudy, and because Oritrophium pollinators are generally inactive in cloudy weather, optimization of pollination rates during sunny periods may increase fitness. 
10.2307/2388525|Tropical rain forests exhibit high levels of species richness, complex food webs, strong interactions between organisms, and relatively high frequencies of mutualistic interactions. All these characteristics are thought to generate instability in food webs. We hypothesize that natural communities are stabilized by two classes of coevolved food web interactions (animal host-parasite and herbivore-plant defense). When model food webs including these interactions are compared to equivalent webs lacking these features, they have higher proportions of feasible webs, higher frequencies of stability; and, larger proportions of stable webs with realistic predator-prey ratios and realistic return times to equilibria. Parasites and plant defenses are able to stabilize food webs involving omnivores. Food webs with mutualists can be stable if the mutualist has parasites. Parasite host specificity and herbivore specialization enhance community stability. Results of simulations are assessed in relation to the poverty of data on parasitism in tropical environments, and management of natural or regenerated conservation areas in the tropics.
10.2307/2388422|Two species of butterfly, Hamadryas feronia and H. amphinome, closely resemble each other in behavior, morphology, and upperside wing pattern, but differ in underside wing pattern: that of the former is mostly white, whereas that of the latter is mostly orangered. H. feronia is palatable; a caged male rufous-tailed jacamar (Galbula ruficauda) always attacked and ate it in feeding trials. In contrast, H. amphinome is unpalatable, and although it was sometimes attacked by the bird, it was always rejected after tasting (it was never eaten by the bird). However, the jacamar's response to these two butterfly species changed when their underside wing pattern was modified. Most individuals of H. feronia, whose white underside wing area was painted orange, were ignored or taste-rejected by the jacamar. Thus, he responded to them as if they were H. amphinome. To investigate further the effect of color on prey selection in the jacamar, similar trials were performed with seven species of butterflies known to be palatable to the jacamar. Each butterfly was painted one of seven colors using felt-tipped marker pens. In addition to changing the color of the butterflies, the paint rendered them distasteful. After ingesting painted butterflies, the bird vomited, and tended to reject similarly painted individuals afterwards. Butterflies painted with black, orange, and red-colors generally associated with local unpalatable butterflies-were rejected more frequently than were those painted with green, blue, yellow, and brown-colors generally associated with local palatable butterflies. Individuals of naturally bright or light-colored butterfly species, on which the painted colors were better expressed, were rejected more consistently by the jacamar than were those of dull or dark-colored species. A maximum-likelihood model fitting the effects of species and color adequately describes the jacamar's response in these tests. The results show that this insectivorous bird, which frequently preys on butterflies, can associate the color of butterflies with their palatability.
10.2307/2387740|Weekly sweeps for arthropods were taken and compared for an entire year (1977) on Grenada, West Indies, where there is a marked wet and dry season. The average wet-season abundance of arthropods was 2.3 times greater, and the wet-season biomass (grams) was 3.1 times greater, than that for the dry season. A significant correlation between biomass and abundance existed for the entire year. There was no change in arthropod size between wet and dry season. Intra-seasonal variations in arthropod abundance occurred, and were significantly correlated with seven-day accumulated rainfall following a three-week interval. Abundance of seven of 10 taxa showed the same three-week response to rain-fall. Coleoptera were identified to species, so that species diversity, species overlap, and feeding guilds for the entire year could be compared to Central American Coleoptera. The results indicate the Coleoptera fauna on Grenada are more generalized compared to the tropical mainland, and composed of the same species whose abundance fluctuates seasonally throughout the year.
10.2307/2388870|Melastoma affine D. Don. (Melastomataceae) is a pioneer species of rain forest and wet-sclerophyll habitats in the Australasian region. The breeding system and pollen vectors of Melastoma affine in the Mt. Spec region, North Queensland, were investigated over two seasons. Melastoma affine is self-compatible but does not produce fruit via autogamy or apomixis, i.e., pollen vectors are required for fruit set. The colonizing success of this species is thus dependent on the presence of a pollinator population. Eight bee species were commonly recorded at the nectar-less flowers of M. affine; although only Lestis bombylans, Nomia sp., Amegilla anomola, and Xylocopa near gressitti consistently contacted the stigma during foraging. When sunny weather prevails natural fruit set in M. affine reaches 90 percent, reflecting high visitation and subsequent pollination by such pollinators. The dimorphic stamens of M. affine both contain viable pollen which has to be extracted from an apical pore. Two modes of pollen extraction were common: buzz pollen collection, where pollen is vibrated from anthers; and, anther destruction, where pollen is removed from holes made by bees. Pollen collectors that buzz anthers spend less time at flowers than bees that extract pollen by other means. Furthermore, bees that gather pollen via destructive means rarely touch melastome stigmas.
10.2307/2989776|An analysis of lygaeid bugs feeding upon the seeds of figs is presented based on observations in South Africa and the West Indies. The known lygaeid fig fauna comprises approximately 46 species contained in 31 genera and four subfamilies. The majority of species are in the subfamily Rhyparochrominae (nine tribes), although most arboreal species belong to the subfamily Heterogastrinae. This fig fauna is grouped into four components: 1. arboreal seed predators, 2. obligatory terrestrial seed predators, 3. frequent facultative terrestrial seed predators, and 4. accidental terrestrial seed predators. A discussion is included of wing polymorphism relative to Ficus habitats and of the possible effect of lygaeid seed predation upon the reproductive potential and spatial relationships of individual trees.
30043100|Plant distributions are changing at unprecedented rates, primarily due to habitat clearance and the spread of alien invasive species. Landscape pattern and local density can affect plant sexual processes, particularly those mediated by biotic vectors, by acting on the composition and behavior of pollinators and seed dispersers. Ecologists are now grappling with the likely effects of these altered processes on future forest composition as existing plant reproductive mutualisms break down or adjust to new spatial circumstances. Here, we introduce five papers that address pollinator responses and pollination outcomes in a variety of human-dominated landscapes and emphasize the need to better understand the dynamic nature of plant-pollinator interactions.
10.2307/2388900|Plant species composition and standing crop in relation to soil and water characteristics were studied to determine which environmental variables are responsible for structure and distribution of marshes in northern Belize. Sampling sites were located in the floodplains of the Rio Hondo and New River and within karstic depressions in the interfluves of the two rivers. Relationships among environmental variables and the occurrence of the individual marsh types, in particular those dominated by Cladium jamaicense. Eleocharis cellulosa. and Typha domingensis were investigated using canonical correspondence analysis. Discriminant analysis was used to select a reduced set of variables for predicting the distribution of dominant species. Eleocharis cellulosa marshes dominated areas with soil and water of high conductivity due to high content of gypsum and calcium carbonate. Nutrient concentrations, namely nitrogen and phosphorus, were very low Conditions were rather similar in sawgrass marshes (Cladium jamaicense), except for higher water depth and lower conductivity Marshes dominated by Typha domingensis occupied areas with higher content of nitrogen and phosphorus. Discriminant functions developed for these three marsh communities can be used to help interpret paleoecological data and infer ancient Maya impacts upon marsh development.
2389122|Seasonal changes in tropical forests are difficult to measure from the ground, especially in areas of high species diversity and low phenological synchrony. Satellite images, which integrate individual tree canopies and cover a large spatial extent, facilitate tests for stand-level canopy phenology. Variability in near-infrared radiance (TM bands 4 and 5) of several distinct vegetation types was used to detect seasonal changes in a series of three Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) images from the wet season to the dry season in Maraba, Brazil (eastern Amazon basin). Despite different atmospheric and instrumental conditions among the images, spectral changes were distinguishable. A phenological process (leaf aging, leaf drop, water stress) was determined from the spectral changes for each vegetation type. Changes in the spectral properties suggest that during the dry season, upland terra firme forest increased the rate of leaf exchange and some riparian vegetation was deciduous. Terra firme forest that had been altered by penetration of fires from nearby pastures increased in leaf biomass over a 14-month period. This study shows that a time series of images can provide information on temporal changes in primary vegetation and guide field studies to investigate seasonal changes that may not be detectable from the ground.
41058002|Guaiacum sanctum and Guaiacum coulteri are long-lived Mesoamerican timber tree species heavily exploited throughout their range and considered to be at risk of extinction. Both species are included on the IUCN Red List and on CITES Appendix II, but there has been no formal assessment of the conservation status of either species. We used ecological niche modeling and rapid assessments of local density and population size structure to provide such evaluations. For the year 2000, we estimated geographic range sizes for G sanctum and G coulteri of 95,422 and 130,973 km 2, respectively. The main core remaining habitat for G sanctum occurs in Campeche State (Yucatan Peninsula), where populations exhibit high adult abundance and profuse regeneration. Several areas along the Mexican Pacific coast remain with suitable habitat for G coulteri. Guaiacum coulteri is at greater risk as only 1.3 percent of its current habitat is protected, which contrasts with the 13.2 percent of current habitat protected for G sanctum. We projected that available habitat for G sanctum and G coulteri will decline by a further 30-50 percent by 2020 if estimated habitat loss rates continue. We suggest that under the IUCN criteria, the conservation status of G sanctum and G coulteri should be updated to near threatened and vulnerable, respectively. Additionally, we conclude that the amount of protected habitat needs to be increased to safeguard both species. Our study provides a quantitative basis for updating the conservation status of both species and illustrates an assessment framework that could be applied to other threatened tree species.
20492516|Geophagy, the intentional ingestion of soil, is a widespread phenomenon whose function is still debated. Recent studies suggest that consumed soils adsorb dietary toxins and provide sodium. However, quantification of soil choice has been absent from most studies, prohibiting the direct comparison of soil use and characteristics. To determine correlates among bird use and soil characteristics, we analyze physical structure, mineral composition, and alkaloid adsorption (14 soil characteristics in total) for 22 soil samples from a riverbank 'clay lick' used by macaws and parrots (family Psittacidae) in Amazon lowland forests in the Tambopata region of southeastern Peru. We quantified bird preferences through photographic mapping. Mineral concentrations were determined using analyses designed to approximate the mineral availability in the vertebrate stomach. The sodium levels in the soil were much higher than in food plants consumed by parrots in this region. Both adsorption of quinine, the model alkaloid used, and sodium concentration correlated significantly with bird use. Sodium explained a much higher percentage of the variation in bird use than quinine adsorption. However, the analyses were complicated by the high degree of correlation among soil variables: clay percentage and sodium concentration were highly correlated with each other and with bird use, making it impossible to determine which of these may have the greater contribution to bird preference. The results suggest that the soils consumed provide an important source of dietary sodium and adsorb alkaloid toxins.
20492536|Tree regeneration is severely hampered in the fragmented afromontane forests of northern Ethiopia. We explored how trees regenerate in remnant forests along the gradient from open field, forest edge to closed sites and canopy gaps inside the forest. We investigated the effects of seed sowing, litter removal, and weeding on the regeneration success along this gradient. Regeneration success was investigated for four indigenous tree species, and measured in terms of seedling establishment, growth, and survival. Species performed differently according to site conditions. Within the forest, local canopy openings facilitated seed germination (Ekebergia), seedling growth (all species except Olea), or survival (Ekebergia and Olea), suggesting that all species benefited from local high light conditions in the forest. Outside the forest, germination (all species) and growth rates (Juniperus and Olea) were lower in the open field, most probably due to water stress in the dry season. Outer edge conditions favored growth for three of the four species. Natural seed germination was, however, zero at any site for Juniperus and Olea and low for Ekebergia and Prunus in the open field. Soil scarification influenced germination positively, while weeding did not have a positive effect. These results suggest that simple measures may improve seedling establishment, and that, for some species, forest edges are particularly useful for growth and survival after succesful establishment. Together with erecting fences, needed to protect seedlings against grazing, seed sowing, planting seedling, and soil scarification may contribute to maintain and restore church forests in the fragmented landscapes of northern Ethiopia.
10.2307/2388804|A new classification and conceptual framework for plant phenology are proposed to resolve problems in describing tropical patterns. A long-term (12 yr) survey of flowering in 254 lowland tropical rain forest trees of 173 species from the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica showed highly diverse, irregular, and complex patterns. Analysis of this survey data relied primarily on graphical analyses that provide data representation methods rather than numerical summaries that provide data reduction methods. The classification differs from previous ones in three ways. It uses, as the primary criterion, frequency of the time series, based on explicit time and amplitude scales, so that irregular temporal sequences are revealed. It features a system of subsidiary classes based on other quantitative descriptors: regularity, duration, amplitude, date, and synchrony Finally, the conceptual framework separates patterns at each level of analysis so that adding the time series at one level produces a time series for the next higher level. Levels are hierarchical from the flower to the individual, population, and community with additional non-nested levels such as the guild. The four basic classes-continual, subannual, annual, and supra-annual-are applied to patterns at any level of analysis. The classification system provides a logical framework for quantitative description of phenological behavior leading to more standardized comparisons. Thus we can see that tropical phenology differs from temperate phenology in two major ways. In tropical species, the nature of the pattern may change from one level of analysis to the next, which is not typical of temperate species. In many tropical species, phenological patterns vary more widely over the geographic range of a species than they do in temperate species.
41241886|Although Ficus (Moraceae) is a keystone plant genus in the tropics, providing resources to many frugivorous vertebrates, its population genetic structure, which is an important determinant of its long-term survival, has rarely been investigated. We examined the population genetic structure of two dioecious fig species (Ficus hispida and Ficus exasperata) in the Indian Western Ghats using co-dominant nuclear microsatellite markers. We found high levels of microsatellite genetic diversity in both species. The regression slopes between genetic relationship coefficients (f ij ) and spatial distances were significantly negative in both species indicating that, on average, individuals in close spatial proximity were more likely to be related than individuals further apart. Mean parentoffspring distance () calculated using these slopes was about 200 m in both species. This should be contrasted with the very long pollen dispersal distances documented for monoecious Ficus species. Nevertheless, overall population genetic diversity remained large suggesting immigrant gene flow. Further studies will be required to analyze broader scale patterns.
30045481|Aboveground forest structure, biomass, and primary productivity in a tropical heath forest in Central Kalimantan (Indonesian Borneo) were examined using data from 1-ha plots and stand-level allometric equations developed from harvested tree samples. The study site experienced a severe drought in 1997-1998 associated with the El Nio Southern Oscillation event. The drought effect on heath forest productivity was also assessed by evaluating changes in wood mass increment rates. Allometric relationships suggested that heath forest trees had leaves with smaller specific leaf area (SLA), and large heath forest trees allocate more to leaf mass compared to mixed dipterocarp forest trees. Aboveground biomass (for trees  4.8 cm DBH) in two 1-ha plots, P1 and P4, totaled 244.8 and 232.0 Mg/ha. Aboveground wood mass increment rate was -0.1 and 4.7 Mg/ha/yr in P1 and P4 during the drought period (from February to August 1998), while it quickly recovered to 8.1 and 8.5 Mg/ha/yr during the post-drought period (from August 1998 to August 1999 for P1 and from August 1998 to November 1999 for P4). This suggests a severe impact of the drought on heath forest productivity. Leaf characteristics of heath forest such as small SLA and long-lived leaves probably play a significant role in effective assimilation and maintenance of heath forest productivity under stressful conditions.
4132952|We investigated the variation of stable (
10.2307/2388438|The photosynthetic pathway of grasses collected in several vegetation formations in Sao Paulo State, Brazil, was identified by leaf anatomy. Of the 78 species collected, 48 sun species and seven shade species possessed the C4 pathway. Twenty-three species possessed the C3 pathway, of which three were sun species and 20 were shade species. This result indicates that the C4 species are more abundant in open habitats and C3 species in shaded habitats. The data also show the taxonomic distribution of the photosynthetic pathways. All genera of the collected species are exclusively C3 or C4, except Panicum which has both C3 and C4 species.
10.2307/2388527|This article examines reasons for the continuing degradation of forests and land in the moist forest zone of West Africa, where land is predominantly used for crop agriculture and forest production. Crop production is primarily limited by problems of soil management. The predominant soils, kaolinitic clays, being dominated by low activity, retain little nutrients or water. Their fertility depends largely on their organic matter content, but this latter breaks down rapidly under cultivation. Continuous cultivation combined with shortened fallow periods, forced by increased demand from burgeoning human populations, leads to rapid degradation of soils, while so-called modern alternative practices are ecologically unsustainable. Forest production is constrained mainly by the high diversity of trees and the complexity of forest processes, which must be understood for successful management. Lack of such understanding, and the consequent inability to manage the natural forest to meet rising wood demands, has shifted emphasis to plantation production. This together with pressure from other land uses accounts for increasing natural forest degradation. Agroforestry practices, revival of natural forest management based on better understanding of forest regeneration dynamics, and fuller utilization of forest sites by managing plantations also for their undergrowth species, all within the framework of integrated land use policies, are underlined as promising approaches to sustainable use of land in the region.
20492534|Habitat fragmentation is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity. Despite their importance for conservation, the genetic consequences of small-scale habitat fragmentation for bat populations are largely unknown. In this study, we linked genetic with ecological and demographic data to assess the effects of habitat fragmentation on two species of phyllostomid bats (Uroderma bilobatum and Carollia perspicillata) that differ in their dispersal abilities and demographic response to fragmentation. We hypothesized that population differentiation and the effect of habitat fragmentation on levels of genetic diversity will be a function of the species' mobility. We sequenced mtDNA from 232 bats caught on 11 islands in Gatn Lake, Panam, isolated from the mainland for ca 90 yr, and in adjacent, continuous forest on the mainland. Populations of both species showed significant genetic differentiation (
10.2307/2387906|Tapirus bairdii, the largest indigenous land mammal in the Neotropics, is one of the least-studied species of the rapidly declining family Tapiridae. This report presents the findings of a study of the distribution and habits of Baird's tapir on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, with primary emphasis on foraging behavior. A list of plant species eaten by tapirs is included.
30045415|Global comparisons suggest that rates of N fixation in tropical rain forests may be among the highest on earth. However, data supporting this contention are rare, and the factors that regulate N fixation within the biome remain largely unknown. We conducted a full-factorial (N x P) fertilization experiment in two lowland tropical rain forests in Costa Rica to explore the effects of nutrient availability on rates of free-living N fixation in leaf litter and soil. P fertilization significantly increased N fixation rates in both leaf litter and soil, and the effect was dependent on sampling date. Fertilization with N did not affect rates of N fixation at any time. In addition, variation in N fixation rates measured in unfertilized plots at four sampling time points suggested seasonal variability in N fixation: leaf litter N fixation ranged from 0.36 kg/ha/yr in the dry season to 5.48 kg/ha/yr in the wet season. Soil N fixation showed similar patterns ranging from a dry season low of 0.26 kg/ha/yr to a wet season high of 2.71 kg/ha/yr. While the observed temporal variability suggests potential climatic control over free-living N fixation in these forests, data suggest that neither soil nor leaf litter moisture alone regulate N fixation rates. Instead, we hypothesize that a combination of ample availability, low leaf litter N:P ratios, and high rainfall coincide during the latter portions of the rainy season and drive the highest free-living N fixation rates of the year.
10.2307/2388556|We examined the behavior patterns and the extent of aggression exhibited during intraspecific interactions in Abronia vasconcelosii. a tropical, arboreal lizard from Guatemala. Interactions between these lizards in three types of paired trials (male-male, female-female, male-female) were videotaped in the laboratory. Nine behavior patterns were exhibited by A. vasconcelosii in the trials. Neither body size nor residency status influenced the frequency of behavior patterns. Encounters between males were longest in duration, involved the most interactions, and resulted in the most extensive aggression in the form of biting. Males bit males more often then females bit females and the location of the bites differed. Bite location was nonrandom in both cases with the majority of bites in male-male encounters directed at the tail and more evenly distributed among the head, trunk, and tail in female-female encounters.
10.2307/2388314|The characteristics of the palm community in Amazonian terra firme forests are defined from three inventories carried out in the lower Tocantins (east), the lower Rio Negro (center), and the lower Ucayali (west) valleys. At all sites, most of the palms are small, understory species; the palm community is mainly under 10 m in height (99.8 to 99.9%); and adult arborescent palms occur at very low densities. Species richness and diversity are clearly higher in the western and central forests. The difference in density seen in the latter sites reflects a difference in dominant life forms. Spatial occupation of the understory by palms is almost complete at both sites: in the western forest by a large number of small axes from rhizomatous species, and in the central forest by a lower density of subterranean-trunked palms with larger leaves.
40645586|The moth Rothschildia lebeau uses three tree species as its primary larval hosts in the tropical dry forest of northwestern Costa Rica. These hosts were shown previously to have different relative effects on caterpillar performance, resulting in an apparent host-related life history trade-off between large adult body size on the one hand but low offspring survival on the other. To further assess the potential ecological and evolutionary importance of this trade-off, an observational field study of the relationship between male body size and mating success was conducted. Across mating trials, larger males had a higher probability of being observed mating. Independent of the effect of size, the amount of wing damage an individual had sustained (a measure of relative age) was negatively correlated with the probability a male was observed mating. Within mating trials, the mated male tended to be larger than the average unmated male, but there was no difference in wing damage. Overall, results of this study were consistent with a positive effect of male body size on mating success, consistent with the idea that larval host plant history and its effects on adult body size matters in terms of adult male fitness. However, all sized males were observed mating over the course of the study, and the size advantage did not appear to be particularly strong.
2663848|I compared the concentrations of N, P, and S in both litter and mineral soil (0-15 cm depth) from three old-growth, tropical moist forests on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Each site was on a different substrate (i.e., parent material), but otherwise had similar climate, vegetation, and topography. There were no site differences in concentrations of N and S for either litter or soil. Concentrations of litter P and soil-extractable P were greater for the andesite (igneous rock) site than for two sites on different sedimentary rocks; however, concentrations of several other litter and soil P fractions did not differ among sites. Patterns in soil P fractions suggested advanced soil development to the point that parent material has little control of P dynamics. Litter samples from each site, leached in the laboratory, released similar amounts of N, P, and S to the soil, indicating no differences in rates of turnover in the litter and in fluxes from litter into the mineral soil among sites. I expected more site differences in soil nutrient dynamics given vastly different parent materials and soil types (i.e., Oxisol vs. Alfisol) and very shallow soil on BCI that brings the parent material close to the plant root zone. Erosion and soil mixing may explain the uniformity in soil nutrient dynamics across the sites.
10.2307/2389010|In the course of a comprehensive survey of rain forest vegetation in the Northern Territory, Australia, population size classes of presumed adults of each species present were censused at 394 mostly small (<2.5 ha) rain forest patches. It is found that populations of adult plants are typically very small; most species were represented by less than 50 adults in 81 percent of patches. Adult population size is dependent on patch size. Of 137 common rain forest species occurring at 10 percent or more sample sites, only 20 percent of species typically occurred in populations of more than 50 adults per patch. After characterizing the adult population profiles of each common species as either very small (1-6 individuals per patch; Type I), small (7-50 individuals; Type II), or large (> 50 individuals; Type III), these data are modelled via logistic regression with life form, sexual reproductive mode (dioecious or cosexual individuals), diaspore dispersal agent, dispersability (vagility), diaspore dormancy, and vegetative reproductive capacity. It is found that species with typically small populations (Types I and II) are characterized by the tree habit and bird/bat dispersed diaspores. By contrast, species which typically occur in large populations (Type III) comprise disproportionately large numbers of vines and ferns, wind- and gravity-dispersed species, and clonally reproducing species. The representativeness of the sample sites, and implications for conservation, are considered in discussion. It is suggested that these data provide evidence of significant gene flow between isolated patches.
10.2307/2389185|Between 1984 and 1987 we located and recensused 217 Paraponera clavata colonies on a 50 ha plot of lowland rain forest located on Barro Colorado Island, Republic of Panama. In this study we describe patterns of dispersion of colonies of P clavata with respect to habitat type, topography, and intercolony distance. We then used colony mortality data to determine if differential mortality contributes to observed patterns of dispersion. Colony density was 4.34/ha. Colonies were overdispersed, but were not significantly associated with habitat type or slope. Colony mortality was not significantly related to habitat type, slope, or tree species or size class. Colonies 20 m from another colony had significantly higher mortality rates than colonies found at greater distances. Mean life expectancy of a colony was 2.5 yr. Intercolony aggression appears to be a major factor contributing to colony mortality in this species. Patterns of colony-tree association reported by Belk et al. (1989) cannot be fully explained by differential mortality, and thus appear to be due to selection by founding queens.
10.2307/2388319|We present the results of a study of the ant and herbivore faunas found on the leaves of five species of euphorbiaceous saplings (Macaranga aleuritoides, M. punctata, M. quadriglandulosa, Mallotus philippensis, and Homalanthus novo-guineensis) during the wet season in a submontane tropical rain forest in Papua New Guinea. All of these species have foliar extrafloral nectaries. The abundance, density, and composition of the ant and herbivore communities differed among the tree species; ant densities per unit leaf area varied by a factor of ca 20; and herbivore densities varied by a factor of ca 3. The leaves of these species were visited by 6 to 13 species of ants. Ants were experimentally excluded from branches or small saplings of three tree species: Macaranga aleuritoides, M. punctata, and Homolanthus novo-guineensis. Numbers of herbivores and levels of leaf damage were found to be significantly greater on ant exclusion saplings than on ant access saplings for M. aleuritoides, but not for the other two species. Macaranga aleuritoides was visited by more ant species than the other four tree species and had the highest number of ants per leaf. The antplant associations we examined are relatively unspecialized compared with most of the ant associations with euphorbs that have been studied previously in the Indo-Malesian tropics.
2663983|Many species of woody plants in Hawaiian montane forests germinate on nurse logs or epiphytically, often developing aerial roots. This study investigated the role of fallen logs, wood fragments, and other forms of coarse woody debris (CWD; 35 cm diam.) in providing habitat for woody species in a forest with waterlogged soils. Oxidation-reduction potentials (Eh) of root mats and nurse logs (-70.1 to 278.6 mV) were higher than the underlying soil horizons (-203.6 to -128.1 mV). CWD volume varied between 135.9 and 427.9 m
30045438|Populations at geographic range limits may frequently encounter changing biotic interactions as well as abiotic constraints. A conundrum in plant population biology, the frequent apparent overproduction of flowers, is thought to be a response by plant populations to unpredictable pollinator environments, such as those that may be expected at the range limit. We studied pollinator visitation rates and pollen limitation of fruit set in populations of Witheringia solanacea, a widespread bee-pollinated species. We compared two populations in the south and two in the north of Costa Rica, with each region encompassing a lower montane site at the upper elevational limit of the species range with small plant populations, and a premontane site where population densities were high. Populations in the south, where the climate was favorable, had higher pollinator visitation and higher natural fruit set, and showed only minor pollen limitation as compared with northern populations at windy sites near the Continental Divide. Lower montane populations had lower pollinator visitation rates than premontane populations but did not show more pollen limitation of fruit set. In general, pollen limitation was not inversely proportional to pollinator abundance but was higher where the climate is unpredictable. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
27742793|Vertebrates play a fundamental role in the dispersal of Neotropical trees, generating different seed shadows according to their physical and behavioral features. Tapirs are capable of consuming great quantities of large fruits, and they defecate seeds far from parent trees. For instance, intact seeds of the palm Syagrus romanzoffiana have been found in tapir dung piles in the Atlantic Forest of southeastern Brazil, suggesting that tapirs effectively disperse this species. However, recruitment was not examined therein. We studied tapir endozoochory of large and medium seeds in the semi-deciduous Atlantic Forest of Argentina by examining dung piles found within Iguazu National Park. We recorded dung-pile positions to evaluate the spatial distribution. We also counted the number of juveniles in 2  2 m quadrats placed on old dung piles in latrines, beneath adults and in random sites to estimate recruitment levels. Syagrus romanzoffiana seeds were present in 98 percent of dung piles, averaging &gt; 200 seeds/dung pile, indicating that this species constitutes the main fruit component in the tapir's diet. Dung piles showed a clumped deposition pattern reflecting the use of latrines. Juvenile recruitment in latrines was 21 times higher than that of under-adult sites and 500 times greater than in random sites, and correlated with the frequency of use of the areas. We concluded that the lowland tapir is a major disperser of S. romanzoffiana. Given that this palm can be considered a keystone species, a disruption of this interaction might affect the entire community of frugivores in the long term.
10.2307/2989694|Fecal samples were analyzed for helminth eggs to determine level of helminthiasis in representative populations of Tucuna Indians from Puerto Narino and Petuna, Colombia. Although both populations were hyperendemic for round-worm, hookworm, and whipworm, Indians from Petuna village appear to have more severe helminthiasis. Modernization of Puerto Narino has contributed to a reduced incidence and worm burden in the inhabitants.
10.2307/2388535|Epiphytic vascular plant and soil samples were collected from recently fallen trees at two rain forest sites in Costa Rica: tropical wet forest at La Selva and lower montane rain forest at Monteverde. Plant samples were examined for mycorrhizal colonization. Soils were analyzed for a number of chemical properties and bioassayed for vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal inoculum. Six of 14 orchid species examined supported typical orchid mycorrhizae, and all four ericaceous species examined supported ericoid mycorrhizae. Of the remaining 50 species examined, representing 14 families, 9 species in 6 families showed low levels of vesicular-arbuscular colonization. Most of the species lacking vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae came from families generally considered to be mycorrhizal. Canopy derived soils were highly organic, acidic, and high in extractable phosphorus. Bioassays using onion failed to produce vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae. We suggest that a number of ecological factors act to limit occurrence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae in the epiphyte assemblages examined.
4132922|The epiphytic Bird's Nest Fern (Asplenium nidus complex) has a large basket-shaped rosette that accumulates leaf litter. We investigated the role of these ferns in supporting invertebrate populations in the primary lowland dipterocarp forest of Danum Valley, Sabah, Malaysia. Ferns were divided into three size classes: large (rosette diameter >60 cm), intermediate (30-60 cm), and small (<30 cm). Seven hectares of forest were surveyed: the canopy had a mean density of 30 large ferns/ha and 20 intermediate ferns/ha. Six large and five intermediate ferns were removed from the crowns of Parashorea tomentella (Dipterocarpaceae) at heights between 39 and 52 m. The largest ferns had fresh weights of ca 200 kg. The mean animal abundance in large and intermediate ferns was 41,000 and 8000, respectively. Termites and ants represented at least 90 percent of the abundance in these ferns. Of the 11 ferns, 4 contained a nest of Hospitalitermes rufus (Nasutitermitinae), while another contained a nest of an undescribed species of Hospitalitermes. An additional 56 small ferns were removed from the low canopy (2-6 m above the forest floor), of which only 1 contained a termite nest (Nasutitermes neoparvus). These results suggest that Bird's Nest Ferns contain ca 0.5 million termites/ha and contribute almost one ton (dry mass) of suspended soil and plant material/ha. Five of the trees containing large ferns were fogged immediately before the removal of the ferns. From these samples we were able to estimate the total number of animals in each tree crown. When each estimate was added to the abundance in each fern, the results suggested that a single large fern may contain from 7 to 93 percent of the total number of invertebrates in the crown. Although these results must be treated with caution because of the small sample size, they have important implications for studies of canopy invertebrates.
10.2307/2387840|This study describes the association between the ant-plant Leonardoxa africana (Caesalpiniaceae) and its inhabitants Petalomyrmex phylax (Formicinae) and Cataulacus mckeyi (Myrmicinae) in lowland rainforest in Cameroon. Ant-related features of Leonardoxa include foliar nectaries and swollen internodes which, when young, are excavated and occupied by the ants. Petalomyrmex workers protect the young leaves of Leonardoxa from herbivores. In the study site, possession of a Petalomyrmex colony appears to be required for a Leonardoxa shoot to survive to adulthood. In contrast, Cataulacus workers do not protect the plant and exclude Petalomyrmex from shoots they occupy; this species can be considered a parasite on the Leonardoxa x Petalomyrmex mutualism. Petalomyrmex workers patrol only the young leaves of Leonardoxa. Mature leaves are not patrolled but accumulate extremely little herbivore damage, being well defended chemically and mechanically. The hypothesis is proposed that in ant-plants such as Leonardoxa, whose leaves are very long-lived, the cost of providing leaves with permanent chemical or mechanical protection decreases relative to the cost of maintaining a large worker force of ants throughout the life of the leaf. A smaller worker force is maintained that patrols only the young leaves.
10.2307/2989783|The alpine enclaves of the high East African mountains provide a number of geographically and ecologically isolated temperate islands, inhabited by an afroalpine flora which is poor in species and peculiarly adapted to the extreme diurnal climate. Phytogeographically this afroalpine flora is of complex derivation. Its high degree of endemism indicates that its enclaves have long been isolated from each other and from other temperate areas. The high mountams harboring it have evidently stood isolated from each other since their origin, and Pleistocene climatic changes cannot have enabled direct contacts between the different alpine enclaves. Intermountain migration has probably occurred by independent long-distance dispersal. The frequency of apparent adaptations to different vectors is given in table 1. Establishment of newly dispersed afroalpine plants has necessitated climatic preadaptation and may have been facilitated by the occurrence of open habitats with weak competition. The vicarious plant communities occurring on the mountains appear to have been synthesized on each mountain separately after independent long-distance dispersal of the constituent species. The distribution of afroalpine plant communities seems to depend mainly on edaphic differences, and below the foreground of the glaciers there are few signs of regular successions.
10.2307/2388802|Distribution patterns of Dendrobium canaliculatum and Dischidia nummularia were examined on branches of Melaleuca viridiflora trees in lowland, coastal woodlands of northeastern Queensland subjected to different fire regimes. These epiphytes are adapted to growing on branches and are able to withstand periods of drought. Epiphytic density was greatest on the higher branches in comparison with the trunks. A greater proportion of trees >1.5 mm to <1.5 m was recorded at sites with fire frequencies between 10 and 20 years. Epiphytic distributions appeared to be correlated with the sizes of host trees (>1.5 m in height) and the effects of past fire regimes.
27742827|In the tropics, several ant species are obligate inhabitants of leaf pouches and other specialized structures in plants known as myrmecophytes. However, the cues used by ant queens to locate suitable host-plants following dispersal remain poorly understood. Here we tested the hypothesis that Pheidole minutula queens use volatiles to distinguish their host Maieta guianensis (Melastomataceae) from other sympatric myrmecophytes. To do so, we used a Y-tube olfactometer to quantify the preference for volatiles of different plant species. Our results indicate that P. minutula queens discriminate the chemical volatiles produced by its host-plant from those of other sympatric ant-plant species. However, queens failed to distinguish the volatiles of Maieta from those of the ant-plant Tococa bullifera (Melastomataceae), with which P. minutula is not mutualistically associated. Nevertheless, a strong preference for Maieta over Tococa was observed during a subsequent bioassay, where the ants had physical contact with a domatium of each plant species. These results suggest that additional, short distance mechanisms are also necessary for host discrimination. Overall, our findings suggest that the high degree of compartmentalization observed in symbiotic ant-plant relationships is achieved, at least in part, by the relatively high degree of specificity in host selection displayed by foundress queens.
10.2307/2388974|Population projection matrices were used to explore the population stability of Iriartea deltoidea in an extractive reserve in Acre, Brazil. Palm population structure at 5 sites was described using height class distributions; projections were based on survival probability estimates derived from the size class distributions, growth rates calculated from leaf production rates and leaf scar records, and fecundity estimates obtained from seedling densities. Matrix analyses suggested all 5 populations were stable under recent (1989) harvesting intensities; the dominant latent roots () of the five transition matrices ranged from 0.989 to 1.017 Elasticity analyses indicated that population stability was most sensitive to changes in survival probabilities of palms 10-15 m tall. Lambda values were relatively insensitive to changes in fecundity and growth.
10.2307/2388169|Atmospheric sulfuric acid inputs and leaching in a tropical and temperate forest are compared. In both cases, H
2663872|A one-year phenological study of three columnar cacti, Stenocereus griseus (Haw.) Britton & Rose, Pilosocereus sp., Cereus hexagonus (L.) Mill., and a decumbent cactus Monvillea cf. smithiana (Britton & Rose) Backeberg., was carried out in the Andean arid region of La Tatacoa, Colombia. Pollinators and/or dispersers of the cacti species also were studied monthly, and fecal samples were collected for the identification of pollen and seeds. The flowering of all species was prolonged and showed bimodal, multimodal, or irregular patterns. Fruiting in all species also was prolonged and followed flowering with a lag of less than two months. Although there were no simple correlations between rainfall and flowering or fruiting, flower production during the dry season was higher for S. griseus, while Pilosocereus sp. and C. hexagonus showed higher flower production during the wet season. Fruit production was also seasonal, with higher production during the wet season for S. griseus and C. hexagonus. The patterns of flowering and fruiting in M. cf. smithiana showed no relationships with dry and wet seasons. The bats Glossophaga longirostris, Carollia perspicillata, Sturnira lilium, the birds Melanerpes rubricapillus (Picidae) and Mimus gilvus (Mimidae), and moths of the family Sphingidae, were identified as pollinators and/or fruit consumers of these cacti species.
10.2307/2989798|The proposition in two recently published papers that the concentration of sugar in nectars of flowers adapted to hummingbird pollination tends to be unusually high compared with that for most insect-pollinated flowers is contradicted, with evidence. Increased cross-pollination when hummingbirds are forced to visit many flowers, difficulties in rapidly ingesting viscous nectar, and need for water as a dietary article are suggested factors in keeping down nectar-sugar concentrations.
2663790|After defoliation by herbivores, some plants exhibit enhanced rates of photosynthesis and growth that enable them to compensate for lost tissue, thus maintaining their fitness relative to competing, undefoliated plants. Our aim was to determine whether compensatory photosynthesis and growth would be altered by increasing concentrations of atmospheric CO
10.2307/2388172|The percent seeds killed by pollinating agaonid wasps and their associated parasitic Hymenoptera in four species of Costa Rican deciduous forest fig trees averaged 41 to 77 percent in nine samples. No fig fruits lost less than about 25 percent of their seeds to predation, and it was commonplace for more than 80 percent of the seeds to have been preyed on in a fruit. One tree's crop was found to be sufficiently asynchronous that wasps leaving the early-maturing figs could have entered much younger figs receptive at that time; in this case, the later-maturing, and perhaps in part self-pollinated, fig crop had fewer seeds per fig and a higher percent seed predation.
30043068|I investigated the effects of successional stage and micro-elevation on seedling establishment of Calophyllum brasiliense (Clusiaceae), a common canopy tree of seasonally flooded lowland forest along the Man River meander zone in southeastern Peru. To compare seedling establishment between microhabitat types, I planted C. brasiliense seeds in a fully crossed experimental design of three successional stages (early, mid, and mature) and two micro-elevations (levees and backwaters). Seedling establishment success in this study was affected by both successional stage and micro-elevation, but micro-elevation was most important in mid-successional habitats. In general, seedlings in early succession experienced better conditions than in mature forest; light levels were higher, herbivory lower, and seedling growth higher. In mid-successional forest, micro-elevation determined habitat quality; backwaters had higher light levels, lower herbivory, and higher seedling growth and survival than levees. Mid-successional backwaters were similar in quality to early successional forest for seedling establishment, while levees in that same successional stage were the poorest microhabitats for establishment. Although mid-successional backwaters are similar to early succession for seedling establishment, in the long run, seedlings that establish in mid-succession have a lower chance of reaching reproductive size before their habitat ages to mature forest than members of their cohort that established in early succession. I hypothesize that successful recruitment for C. brasiliense in the Man River meander system requires dispersal to early successional habitat. /// Yo investig el efecto de microhbitats del sistema serpentino ribereo, los cuales se diferencian en estado sucesional y en microelevacin, en el establecimiento de plntulas de Calophyllum brasiliense (Clusiaceae), un rbol comn en bosques estacionalmente inundados alrededor de los meandros del Ro Man en Per. Para comparar establecimiento de plntulas entre los microhbitats, sembr semillas de C. brasiliense en seis condiciones de microhbitat, combinando los efectos de tres estados sucesionales (bosque temprano, mediano, y maduro) y dos microelevaciones (lomos y depresiones). El establecimiento de plntulas en este estudio fue afectado por estado sucesional y por microelevacin, pero microelevacin fue ms importante en sucesin mediana. En general, plntulas en sucesin temprana tenan mejores condiciones que plntulas de bosque maduro; niveles de luz ms altos, menor herbivora, y una mayor tasa de crecimiento. En sucesin mediana, microelevacion determin calidad de hbitat; depresiones presentaron ms luz, menos herbivoria, y mayor crecimiento y sobreviviencia de plntulas que los lomos. Depresiones en sucesin mediano fueran similares en calidad a sucesin temprano en cuanto al establecimiento de plntulas, mientras que lomos en este mismo estado sucesional fueron los peores microhbitats para establecimiento. A largo plazo, las plntulas establecidas en sucesin mediano tienen menos probabilidad de alcanzar el tamao reproductive (antes de que el hbitat llega a ser bosque maduro) que las plntulas de 1a misma edad, establecidas en sucesin temprana. El reclutamiento efectivo de brasiliense en el sistema serpentino del Ro Man probablemente requiere 1a dispersin al hbitat de sucesin temprana.
30043069|Seedling dynamics were followed in a Puerto Rican forest for 20 months following a severe hurricane to study the interactive effects of hurricane debris, nutrients, and light on seedling diversity, density, growth, and mortality. Three treatments (debris removal, an unaltered control with hurricane debris, and chemical fertilization added to hurricane debris) altered levels of forest debris and soil nutrients. Canopy openness was measured twice using hemispherical photographs of the canopy. We examined the demographic responses of six common species to treatments over time. Seedling densities increased for all six species but the only significant treatment effects were increased densities of the pioneer tree Cecropia and the shrub Palicourea in the debris removal treatment. Seedling growth declined with declining light levels for four species but not for the pioneer tree Alchornea or the non-pioneer tree Dacryodes. Only Cecropia and the non-pioneer tree Chionanthus had treatment effects on growth. Mortality also differed among species and tended to be highest in the fertilized plots for all but Cecropia and Dacryodes. We found only some of the expected differences between pioneer and non-pioneer plants, as each species had a unique response to the patchy distributions of organic debris, nutrients, and light following the hurricane. High local species diversity was maintained through the individualistic responses of seedlings after a disturbance. /// Seguimos la dinmica de plntulas en un bosque en Puerto Rico durante 20 meses despus del huracn Hugo para estudiar el efecto de la interaccin de hojarasca de huracn, nutrientes, y luz sobre la diversidad de especies, la densidad, el crecimiento, y la mortalidad. Establecimos tres tratamientos (remocin de hojarasca, control con la hojarasca de huracn inalterada, y fertilizante qumico aadido a la hojarasca del huracn) para alterar los niveles de hojarasca en el bosque y los nutrientes en el suelo. Medimos luz directa e indirecta dos veces usando fotografas hemisfricas del dosel. La diversidad y la uniformidad en la distribucin de especies pero no la riqueza de especies fueron reducidas en presencia de fertilizacin. Durante el estudio examinamos respuestas demogrficas de seis especies communes a los tratamientos. La densidad de plntulas aument para todas las seis especies pero el nico efecto de tratamiento fue el aumento en la densidad del rbol pionero Cecropia y el arbusto Palicourea en el tratamiento de remocin de hojarasca. El crecimiento de plntulas disminuy segn los niveles de luz disminuyeron para cuatro de las especies pero no para el rbol pionero Alchornea o el rbol no-pionero Dacryodes. Slo el crecimiento de Cecropia y del rbol no-pionero Chionanthus fue affectado por los tratamientos. La mortalidad fue diferente entre las especies y tuvo una tendencia a ser mayor en las parcelas fertilizadas. Slo encontramos algunas de las diferencias esperadas entre plantas pioneras y no-pioneras. Cada especie respondi de forma nica a la distribucin en parches de hojarasca, nutrientes, y luz luego del huracn. La alta diversidad local de especies se mantuvo a travs de las respuestas individualizadas de las plntulas despus de la perturbacin.
4132927|The hypothesis that water depth, plant species, and the presence of submerged substrates influence seed dispersal by water was tested in a whitewater tributary of the Tocantins River of the Amazon Basin. Seed dispersal was greatest when water depth was greatest, which occurred during the new moon. Seeds of buoyant species with smaller seeds required less water for dispersal than large seeded species. Submerged objects reduced the distance dispersed but not the probability of dispersal.
10.2307/2388736|The taxonomic distribution and abundance of woody plants with extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) are reported for different areas of cerrado vegetation (subtropical savanna) in the state of Sao Paulo, southeast Brazil. Thirty-four plant species belonging to 15 families were found to have EFNs. The Mimosaceae (6 species) and Bignoniaceae and Vochysiaceae (4 species each) were the families most frequently bearing EFNs. Glands associated with vegetative parts (leaves, stem) were more common (91.2%) than those found near the bud or flower (20.6%). The percentage of EFN-bearing species within the woody floras of 5 cerrado areas in Sao Paulo ranged from 15.5 to 20.2. The abundance of plants with EFNs in these areas varied from 7.6 to 20.3 percent. These results are compared with data obtained from other similar studies undertaken in temperate and tropical habitats.
2389032|The goal of this study was to determine whether there exists intersexual differences in the degree of herbivore attack on a tropical, dioecious tree. Neea psychotrioides is a Costa Rican tree that experiences at least two types of attack on its reproductive structures: flower herbivory and gall formation on inflorescences. Although female trees were more common than males in the two study populations (overall sex ratio = 1.5 females/male), male flowers were more likely to be eaten by lepidopteran larvae. Similarly, inflorescence-borne, fly-induced galls were more frequent on males. Ten families of insects from three orders (Diptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera) occupied the galls with varying levels of parasitism and hyperparasitism occurring within. Although the sexes were not significantly different in vegetative size, males had larger floral displays (more inflorescences and larger flowers) that may have acted as attractants to herbivores and gallmakers. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that flower damage and the energetic costs of producing galls exert a greater expense to males, ultimately resulting in death, and over time, a skewing of the sex ratio.
10.2307/2388107|The compact, resinous, coral-like mounds of Azorella compacta, or yareta, live in the dry, cold climate of high-altitude southern Peru and are practically free of herbivores. Observations in two stands, at 3960 and 4500 m, showed that flow-ering, although variable, occurs all year, even on individual plants. Development from flower to ripe seed takes three to four months. Flowering and plant growth are concentrated on the east and north sides of plants, perhaps because of greater direct insolation. At an especially vigorous stand the standing crop was 11 kg/m
30043272|Leaf-cutting ants (genera Atta and Acromyrmex) are considered dominant herbivores of Neotropical forests. However, so far quantitative, long-term, and large-scale assessments of their impact on these ecosystems are rare, because the available assessment methods were laborious and/or destructive. We describe a rapid, nondestructive, and inexpensive method to estimate the long-term harvest of Atta colombica colonies. Workers of A. colombica dump the colony refuse (exhausted fungal substrate) outside the nest. A single trail connects the refuse pile and the nest. In contrast to the foraging activity, the refuse deposition rate (the number of deposited refuse particles per minute) is diurnally constant and varies little on subsequent days. The number of refuse particles deposited per day was tighdy correlated with the number of harvested fragments in nests of differing sizes (R2 = 0.77, P < 0.0001). Therefore, the daily harvest of a particular colony can be calculated from short-term counts (5 min) of the refuse deposition rate at any time of the day. Combining these data with information on average fragment size (weight and/or area) allows the calculation of the total daily amount of biomass and/or foliage area harvested by the colony. This new method facilitates quantifying A. colombica herbivory on scales of populations and ecosystems, or over long-term scales.
41058538|The strength of competitive and facilitative interactions in plant communities is expected to change along resource gradients. Contrasting theoretical models predict that with increasing abiotic stress, facilitative effects are higher, lower, or similar than those found under more productive conditions. While these predictions have been tested in stressful environments such as arid and alpine ecosystems, they have hardly been tested for more productive African woodlands. We experimentally assessed the strength of tree seedling facilitation by nurse trees in mesic and dry woodlands in Benin, West Africa. We planted seedlings of the drought-sensitive Afoelia africana and the drought-tolerant Khaya senegalensis under three microsite conditions (closed woodland, woodland gap, and open fields). Seedling survival was greater within woodlands compared with open fields in both the mesic and dry woodlands. The relative benefits in seedling survival were larger at the dry site, especially for the drought-sensitive species. Nevertheless, plant interactions became neutral or negative during the dry season in the drier woodland, indicating that the net positive effects may be lost under very stressful abiotic conditions. We conclude that facilitation also occurs in the relatively more productive conditions of African woodlands. Our results underscore the role of environmental variation in space and time, and the stress tolerance of species, in explaining competitive and facilitative interactions within plant communities.
40645585|Tropical forest floor characteristics such as depth and nutrient concentrations are highly heterogeneous even over small spatial scales and it is unclear how these differences contribute to patchiness in forest floor arthropod abundance and diversity. In a lowland tropical forest in Panama we experimentally increased litter standing crop by removing litter from five plots (L ) and adding it to five other plots (L+); we had five control plots. After 32 mo of treatments we investigated how arthropod abundance and diversity were related to differences in forest floor physical (mass, depth, water content) and chemical properties (pH, nutrient concentrations). Forest floor mass and total arthropod abundance were greater in L+ plots compared with controls. There were no treatment differences in nutrient concentrations, pH or water content of the organic horizons. Over all plots, the mass of the fermentation horizon (Oe) was greater than the litter horizon (Oi); arthropod diversity and biomass were also greater in the Oe horizon but nutrient concentrations tended to be higher in the Oi horizon. Arthropod abundance was best explained by forest floor mass, while arthropod diversity was best explained by phosphorus, calcium and sodium concentrations in the Oi horizon and by phosphorus concentrations in the Oe horizon. Differences in arthropod community composition between treatments and horizons correlated with phosphorus concentration and dry mass of the forest floor. We conclude that at a local scale, arthropod abundance is related to forest floor mass (habitat space), while arthropod diversity is related to forest floor nutrient concentrations (habitat quality).
2663944|Plant communities differ in species composition and litter input. To examine the influence of plant species on the abundance and community structure of soil fauna, we sampled earthworms in areas close to and away from the bases of Dacryodes excelsa and Heliconia caribaea, two distinct plant communities within a tropical wet forest in Puerto Rico. We also carried out a litter manipulation experiment to examine the short-term responses of earthworms to litter removal and litter addition treatments. We found that: (1) the density and biomass of both soil-feeding endogeic and litter-feeding anecic worms did not differ between areas close to and away from Dacryodes trees (in contrast, the density and biomass of anecic worms was higher in areas away from Heliconia plants despite the lack of differences for endogeic worms); and (2) total dry weight of earthworms tended to be higher in the litter addition treatment than in the control within the Heliconia community. Our results suggest that Heliconia caribaea has a strong negative influence on anecic earthworms and that earthworms in the Heliconia community are more sensitive to litter input than in the Dacryodes community.
30043076|The epiphytic tank bromeliads Nidularium procerum (a CAM plant) and N. innocentii (a C3 plant) can be found as terrestrial plants in the understory of a Brazilian swamp forest. They occur in segregated patches differing in light and flooding regimes; however, plants of each species are found in the other species preferred habitat in a narrow boundary zone where the two populations meet. Although ecophysiological factors were previously thought to dictate the distribution of these species at this site, we suggest that their current distribution is probably related to colonization history and subsequent competition for space.
10.2307/2388806|Anemophily may be frequent in neotropical dioecious trees, of diverse taxonomic affinity, as shown here for 19 species in 13 families at one locality, on the basis of floral morphology and pollen presentation. Flower-visiting bees often are not pollinators but commensal or parasitic. The perceived scarcity of anemophily in tropical trees is brought into question by a reconsideration of the evidence regarding pollen type, nectar, weather, insect visitors, and tree density.
10.2307/2989766|The Guayana Highland is a great upland characterized by the spectacularly eroded Roraima sandstones, associated sediments, and intrusive elements which overlay the ancient immutable basic crystalline Guayana Shield, which with the larger Brazilian Shield to the south gives form and permanence to the continent of South America. The Roraima sediments are usually considered to be Cretaceous in origin. It is suggested, on botanical evidence, that the emergence of these sediments may antedate the Cretaceous, and that the original flora, which developed thereupon and persists into this age, was a part of the early evolution and development of the contemporary angiosperm flora. Persisting autochthonous elements are prominent. A preliminary review indicates that the historical relationships of the provincial flora of Guayana lie, in order, with those of: 1) the Brazilian Highland; 2) tropical Africa: 3) the Andes; 4) the Caribbean, and 5) Malaysia. The magnitude of these relationships requires the early existence of historical land continua. The floras of the surrounding Amazon and Orinoco Basins, the Hvlea, are youthful.
30043298|The island of Sulawesi is the largest in Indonesian Wallacea, one of the most important ecoregions in SE Asia and globally. Here, we generate a comprehensive and detailed map of forest type, its condition, and some of its threats, which highlights key forest conservation areas, pinpoints frontlines within them, and provides the basis for the development of more specific objectives. We relied upon a variety of techniques to generate five main descriptors of forest quality: condition, its level of endangerment, its landscape setting, its simulated fate given a simple model of forest change, and its overall size. Using the results of this analysis, we assessed the existing protected areas (PA), recognized by the Indonesian government, and a conservation portfolio (CP) generated by a recently completed Ecoregional Conservation Assessment (ECA). Our map of conservation priorities is congruent with previous conservation activities, although several priority areas were identified outside of the current PA system and should be the focus of strategic protected area development. Our ranking system is simple, transparent, and flexible. Its modular construction will allow local managers to choose among available proxy measures and to add their own conservation values according to specific priorities and desired outcomes. We envision this analysis as the foundation upon which more specific conservation strategies, based upon detailed biotic information as it becomes available, can be developed.
2663768|In many areas of the humid tropics, relatively small patches of forest is the habitat most commonly available for forest-dwelling organisms. To assess resident hummingbird use of forest fragments near the Las Cruces Biological Station in southwestern Costa Rica, we mist-netted birds in five fragments (0.3-20 ha; ca 1300 m elev.) and the station's 226-ha forest preserve (ca 900-1280 m elev.). From January 1994 through mid-March 1999, we recorded 1069 captures of 21 hummingbird species during 49,900 net hours. Species richness, diversity indices, and capture rates increased asymptotically with patch size, as expected. We captured 16 hummingbird species in both the largest fragment (20 ha) and in the nearby forest preserve. Non-forest hummingbirds did not occur more frequently in the fragments than in the preserve, and all fragments supported a mixture of forest-interior and canopy-dwelling hummingbird species, along with a diverse group of hummingbird-pollinated plants. Phaethornis guy was common at all sites and visited >13 plant species in the fragments during the 1998 dry season (based on analyses of pollen collected from the birds' heads). In contrast, Eutoxeres aquila was found at only the largest three sites (10, 20, and 226 ha) and carried pollen from only one plant species during the 1998 dry season. Lampornis castaneoventris, a high-elevation hummingbird species, was far more common in the fragments than in the preserve, while three species typically found at lower elevations were rare in the fragments and common in the preserve. These distribution patterns could be influenced by local climatic differences because the fragments are higher and receive more cloud mist and annual precipitation than the preserve. Our data show that pollen loads on hummingbird species vary, and this has implications for gene flow among hummingbird-pollinated plants. Although our results are consistent with previous reports that hummingbird species may be less affected by deforestation than insectivorous avian species such as army ant followers, it is important to note that from the perspective of the genetics and demographics of hummingbird-pollinated plants, the important issue is whether appropriate pollinator species are able to move plant propagules among subpopulations of plants in fragmented landscapes. We conclude that the biodiversity of tropical forest fragments as small as 10 to 20 ha is high enough to warrant long-term preservation of these areas, especially if they are located near larger tracts of forest.
10.2307/2989753|Tadpoles involved in predator-prey interactions were studied in tropical wet forest in Costa Rica under laboratory and field conditions. Larvae of the frog Leptodactylus pentadactylus and naiads of the odonate Pantala flavescens are important predators on larvae of several species of frogs. The predators discriminate the prey on the basis of size and species, but not type of habitat in which predation occurs. A graphical model is proposed to illustrate the relationships between species diversity and habitat complexity as they affect the composition of tadpole communities. The model is used to evaluate the relative importance of abiotic and biotic factors in determining the use of specific kinds of aquatic habitats by frogs with larval stages. Predation by permanent aquatic predators (primarily fish) is considered to be the most important biotic factor influencing the temporal and spatial composition of tadpole communities. The development and maintenance of predatory feeding modes, including cannibalism, in certain tadpoles is examined in light of the model.
30045507|We characterized the dispersal spectra and phenology of 298 vascular plant species of the sandstone plateaus of Colombian Amazonia. Dispersal modes were determined by the morphology of dispersion units, personal observations on fruit consumption, and an extensive literature review. We obtained the number of species per dispersal mode for the sandstone plateaus and for two recognized vegetation types: open-herbaceous vegetation and low forest-shrub vegetation. Dispersal modes were assigned to 295 plant species. Animals dispersed the highest percentage of species (46.6%), while the percentage of autochorous and anemochorous species was 29.4 and 23 percent, respectively. The dispersal spectrum of the low forest-shrub vegetation type, based on the coverage of every species, showed that percentages of anemochorous (40.2%) and zoochorous species (37.8%) were similar. Autochory was the most important seed dispersal mode of the open-herbaceous vegetation (60%). Birds were the principal group of potential dispersers (58.9%) of zoochorous species and reptiles the least important. We found two marked fruiting peaks, one from the end of the dry season to the beginning of the wet season and the second one from the beginning to the middle of the dry season. Our results showed that besides the differences in the vegetation structure and floristic composition between the sandstone plateaus and the adjacent tall forest, there also exist differences in the dispersal spectra and the fruiting rhythms. /// Nosotros caracterizamos el espectro de dispersin y la fenologa de 298 especies de plantas vasculares de las mesetas de arenisca de la Amazonia Colombiana. Los mecanismos de dispersin fueron determinados en base a la morfologa de las unidades de dispersin, observaciones personales sobre el consumo de frutos y una exhaustiva revisin de literatura. Obtuvimos el nmero de especies por mecanismo de dispersin para las mesetas de arenisca y para los tipos de vegetacin reconocidos: vegetacin herbcea abierta y vegetacin arbustiva-boscosa-baja. Los mecanismos de dispersin fueron asignados a 295 especies de plantas. Los animales dispersaron el mayor porcentaje de especies (46.6%), mientras que el porcentaje de especies autocoras y anemocoras fue 29.4 y 23 por ciento, respectivamente. El espectro de dispersin del tipo de vegetacin arbustiva-boscosa-baja, basado en la cobertura de cada especie, mostr que los porcentajes de especies anemocoras (40.2%) y zoocoras (37.8%) son muy similares. La autocoria fu el mecanismo de dispersin de semillas ms importante de la vegetacin herbcea abierta (60%). Las aves fueron el grupo principal de dispersores potenciales (58.9%) de las especies zoocoras, y los reptiles los menos importante. Encontramos dos picos marcados de fructificacin, el primero desde el final de la estacin seca hasta el inicio de la estacin lluviosa, y el segundo desde el inicio hasta mediados de la estacin seca. Nuestros resultados muestran que a pesar de las diferencias en la estructura de la vegetacin y composicin floristica entre las mesetas de arenisca y el bosque alto adyacente, tambin existen diferencias en el espectro de dispersin y en los ritmos de fructificacin.
10.2307/2388321|Eight piranha species (Characidae: Serrasalminae) coexist in streams and pools of the western Orinoco River Basin Ilanos. The species differ in adult size, body form, and relative abundance. Examination of some 1300 specimens collected over a seven-year period (1979-1985) showed that food habits and diet diversity usually change with age. Small juveniles of the abundant and widespread Pygocentrus notatus eat microcrustaceans and aquatic insects. Above 40 mm standard length (SL), they take small fish and chunks of fish flesh. Small juveniles (20-80 mm SL) of six species (Serrasalmus altuvei, S. irritans, S. cf. elongatus, S. rhombeus, S. caribe, and Pristobrycon cf. striolatus) specialize in fins of other small fishes, but by 80 mm SL their diets shift to small fish, pieces of fish flesh, and fins. However, all sizes of Catoprion mento eat scales. Considerable diet overlap among different piranha species in the same size classes suggests that plentiful food resources are not limiting. These savanna piranhas do not depend on fruits and seeds as has been reported for piranhas in flooded tropical rain forests.
30045406|Small vertebrates were inventoried within three habitat types in a degraded dry forest region of Panama. Animals were classified as frugivorous if they were observed foraging on fruit or if fecal samples contained mostly or exclusively seeds. Overall, we found that eight bat species and 21 bird species consumed fruit. The greatest numbers of birds were observed within live fences and bird species richness was greatest within riparian forests. Bat assemblages were not significantly different between habitats. The implication is that ecosystem services such as seed dispersal may still be functional in this landscape.
20492467|The variation in leaf mass per area, leaf nutrients (% carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus), and the allometric relation between tree height and diameter of the black mangrove, Avicennia germinans, were explored in nine mangrove forests in similar environments along a 5 latitudinal gradient in the central region of the Gulf of Mexico, as indicated by a southward increase in temperature and precipitation. There was no correlation between leaf nitrogen or phosphorus content and latitude. Leaf mass per area and leaf carbon content were positively correlated with latitude and negatively correlated with temperature and annual rainfall, whereas asymptotic tree height and maximum diameter showed the opposite trend. Such patterns suggest a trade-off between leaf traits and tree size which may be constrained by the same environmental factors along a dry-cold to humid-warm latitudinal gradient.
20492526|Tropical hardwood hammocks, among the rarest and most threatened vegetative communities in the United States, occur throughout the 225-km Florida Keys archipelago as it extends toward the Caribbean from the southeast tip of peninsular Florida. Compounding their critical conservation status, tropical hardwood hammocks and the dynamics that support their peculiar species diversity in the region are poorly understood. The goal of this study was to explore the dynamics of the species compositional gradient of the hammocks along the Florida Keys, and to identify significant ecological units within the gradient. The primary data for this research were assembled from the Institute for Regional Conservation's floristic database of South Florida. We were able to extract presence/absence data for 295 species from comprehensive surveys of 23 study sites. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling was used to deconstruct the compositional trends into a reduced ordination space. Cluster analysis was subsequently used to identify discrete ecological units. Additionally, we used vector fitting to interpret the significant correlated ancillary variables. Our main results were three well-fitted nonmetric multidimensional scaling axes with three nonoverlapping ecological units. Of the ancillary variables, latitude, longitude, percent composition from biogeographical regions, richness, and area were correlated to the nonmetric multidimensional scaling results. These results increase our understanding of the community structure of the hammocks along the Florida Keys, and can contribute to increasing our ability to adequately protect and restore tropical hardwood hammocks and other similar tropical dry forest communities throughout the Caribbean.
10.2307/2388154|Tropical weed communities show geographic patterning at a variety of scales. Broad inter-regional contrasts still exist but are being gradually reduced by species migration. Striking intra-regional patterns exist that are correlated with specific edaphic conditions and agricultural practices. Weed communities exist under conditions of density-independent population regulation in which patterning is primarily a response to site access, agricultural treatments, and seedbed conditions. The abandonment of agricultural land brings rapid transformation to a competive environment that induces successional change. The heterogeneity of weed vegetation within even one region may precipitate differing successions. Many weed communities contain the floristic ingredients of later successional stages. Where intense agricultural usage has eliminated these elements, an atypical, and often arrested, succession results. The change from shifting to intensive permanent agriculture in the tropics is resulting in the elimination of many woody, secondary species and their replacement by aggressive, hebaceous pantropical elements.
10.2307/2989759|The growth of Avicennia marina was recorded in nutrient culture to which a range of concentrations of sodium chloride, potassium chloride, and calcium chloride were added. All levels of potassium chloride and calcium chloride suppressed growth, but a positive growth response to sodium chloride was recorded. The optimum level of sodium chloride was approximately 1 1/2 per cent, which is half of the concentration in sea water.
10.2307/2387770|In Hawaii, a carpenter bee (Xylocopa sonorina) and the honey bee (Apis mellifera) use floral perforations to obtain nectar. With its maxillae, X. sonorina perforates corollas and calyces of introduced plant species; in corollas of different lengths and diameters, the perforations made are significantly different in length. Through these perforations, X. sonorina imbibes nectar without pollinating the flowers. Old and New World Xylocopa spp. perforate the flowers of at least 22 families. Apis mellifera obtains nectar through perforations made by X. sonorina. Elsewhere in the world, A. mellifera uses previously made perforations in flowers to obtain nectar from at least 10 plant families. These bees are "robbers" of some plants in that they take floral provisions in ways that are unlikely to effect pollination.
10.2307/2388052|The seasonal pattern of leaf production and fate of leaf cohorts were assessed in 59 species of woody plants over a period of 28 months in a West African dry forest (mean annual rainfall 1100 mm). In all species, leaves were produced in synchronous flushes. Flushing patterns varied somewhat between species and between individuals within species, although all flushing activity was restricted to wet periods. Damage to leaves by folivorous insects was largely confined to newly flushed leaves. Insects inflicted severe damage to 13 percent of new leaf cohorts. Species having potential deterrents to folivore attack (hairy leaves or secondary compounds) were attacked less frequently than species without apparent protection. Prolonged flushing activity brought about an added risk of insect attack in species lacking such protection. Drought is considered to be the most important single factor affecting the growth, distribution, and phenology of woody species in this dry forest. The restriction of leaf production to short, synchronous flushing periods is adequately explained in terms of physiological constraints relating to the avoidance of moisture stress. A consequence of this rapid flushing, however, may be escape from folivory.
27742804|Although members of the family Hylobatide are known to be monogamous, adult white-handed gibbons (Hylobates lar) at Khao Yai National Park, Thailand, also show multimale groups and polyandry. A need for more than one male to successfully raise offspring cannot explain the occurrence of polyandry in these territorial primates, because direct paternal care is absent in this species. We hypothesize that polyandry is primarily related to costs/benefits for males of cooperatively defending a female and/or resources; our prediction was that polyandry would become more frequent with increasing costs of female/resource defense. We measured the ecological quality of seven gibbon home ranges over a 3-yr period (20012003) to investigate how resource availability affected the probability of polyandry, and found a significant negative relationship between home range quality and home range size. Larger home ranges were of lower quality. As predicted, groups living on larger, poorer home ranges also experienced longer periods of polyandry. In forest areas of comparatively low quality, acquiring and maintaining a large home range that includes enough resources for a female to reproduce steadily may surpass a single male's capacity. Our model of cooperative male polyandry was supported by preliminary data of shared territorial defense and access to the female. However, interaction proportions were strongly skewed, and female's primary male partners monopolized grooming and mating. Nevertheless, a primary male on a large territory may benefit from the presence of a secondary male with aid in territorial/female defense, whereas a secondary male may gain by avoiding high dispersal costs.
30043193|Canopy closure, leaf flush, and ramet recruitment in Bambusa arnhemica, a semelparous, clumping bamboo from the Australian monsoonal tropics, were monitored monthly for 2.5 years at three sites along a flood gradient. Bambusa arnhemica was facultatively deciduous, remaining evergreen at a downslope riparian site but suffering total loss of canopy on a hillside for up to 4 mo during the dry season. Leaf flush was flexible, occurring after as little as 25 mm of rain at the onset of wet season, in response to unusual dry season storms, and apparently also in response to fire independent of rainfall. New culms emerged soon after leaf flush early in the wet season. Culm growth took place during the middle and late wet season, with peak elongation rates of 15-30 cm/day. Some growth continued into the dry season, mostly on branches and leaves of new culms at riparian sites. Not all culms completed elongation before the onset of the dry season, and those that did not were permanently stunted. The demands of culm elongation may limit the occurrence of bamboo in wet-dry climates to areas with predictable and sustained wet season rainfall, but the flexibility of branching and leaf processes facilitates coping with, and permits exploitation of less predictable pre- and postmonsoonal rains. The bamboo growth form and phenological patterns differ markedly from those of dicotyledonous trees and shrubs.
10.2307/2388482|The reduction of carbon in the vegetation and soils of Southeast Asia as a result of changes in land use since 1860 has been analyzed. Several independent estimates of deforestation and of forest biomass were used to construct a range of estimates for the loss of carbon from the land. A net release of carbon to the atmosphere of between 8 and 19 x 10$^{15}$ g was calculated for the period from 1860 to 1980. In 1980 the net release was 0.15-0.43 x 10$^{15}$ g C. The largest contributors to this release were the conversion of forests to shifting cultivation and the expansion of permanently cleared land. The greatest uncertainties in the analysis included estimates of biomass, estimates of the area cleared annually by shifting cultivators and the fate of those lands, and the lack of historical or current data on the extent of grasslands in Southeast Asia.
30044041|We studied the effects of contrasting light environments on the relationship between the host plant size of Poulsenia armata and the abundance of two gall midges in a tropical rain forest in Veracruz, Mexico. The number and density of two gall morphs (i.e., laminar and vein-petiole galls) were positively correlated with plant size only in trees found in the forest but not in gaps. The availability of foliar area of P. armata trees was greater in forest gaps than in the forest. The foliar area was positively correlated with the abundance of laminar galls in trees in forest sites, but not with vein-petiole galls. We concluded that the abundance of two morphs of gall midges on P. armata was associated with host plant size only in the forest trees. Larger plants had more galls than small plants, although this relationship was affected by local light environments. /// Se evaluaron los efectos de ambientes contrastantes en la disponibilidad de luz sobre la relacin entre el tamao de la planta hospedera de Poulsenia armata y la abundancia de insectos formadores de agallas en un bosque tropical hmedo. El nmero y la densidad de los dos morfos de agallas (i.e., agallas laminares y veno-peciolares) estuvieron correlacionados positivamente con el tamao de la planta hospedera exclusivamente en rboles presentes dentro del bosque y no en rboles presentes en claros. La disponibilidad de rea foliar de Poulsenia armata fue mayor en rboles que ocurren en claros que en rboles encontrados dentro del bosque. El rea foliar estuvo correlacionada positivamente con la abundancia de agallas laminares en rboles encontrados dentro del bosque y no con agallas veno-peciolares. Se concluy que la abundancia de los dos morfos de agallas inducidas en Poulsenia armata estuvo asociada con el tamao de la planta hospedera solamente en rboles de bosque. Plantas grandes tuvieron mayor nmero de agallas en comparacin con plantas pequeas. Sin embargo, esta relacin fue afectada por las condiciones locales de luz.
30045491|Rate of oxygen consumption was measured in five bulbuls (Family Pycnonotidae) from western Uganda to evaluate whether this group is indeed characterized by the very low basal rates of metabolism previously reported. For three of these species, body temperature and rate of metabolism were measured as a function of ambient temperature from 10C to 35C. In these species body temperature was highly variable, and declined with ambient temperature in Andropadus virens. Such variation, in conjunction with behavioral adjustments, may reduce heat loss at low ambient temperatures. Body mass accounted for 98 percent of the variation in the basal rates of metabolism presented here. Basal rates in these species ranged from 81 to 90 percent of values predicted by the Aschoff-Pohl relationship for passerines, whereas previous measurements ranged from 56 to 72 percent of predicted values. This difference may reflect differences in species or measurement techniques, which, if the latter, suggests that the reduction in metabolic rate in this family may be less than originally thought. These data underline the importance of continued data collection on the metabolism of tropical birds, few of which have been measured to date.
30043110|This study compared elephant use of woody vegetation on termite mounds with surrounding woodlands in western Zimbabwe. Twelve sites consisting of paired plots on termite mounds and in woodlands were selected. At each site, soil and vegetation samples (leaf and stem) were collected for chemical analysis. Both soil and plant samples were analyzed for calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, and phosphorus, and plant samples were also analyzed for crude protein concentration. Two indices of elephant feeding damage were computed: the median number of stems and branches removed per plant, and the mass of stems and branches removed by elephants per unit area. Termite mound soils had higher concentrations of all elements tested than soils from woodlands, and termite mounds differed from woodland plots in terms of plant species composition. Trees growing on termite mounds had higher concentrations of all nutrients except sodium and crude protein, and were subjected to more intense feeding by elephants than trees from the surrounding vegetation matrix. Termite mounds may play an important role in determining food availability and spatial feeding patterns by elephants and other herbivores.
2663990|The mating system in a natural population of Shorea leprosula from Malaysian lowland dipterocarp forest was quantified by allozyme analysis using the multi-locus mixed-mating model. The population was found to be predominantly outcrossed (t
10.2307/2388488|The role of competition in the spacing of trees in a Burkea africana-Terminalia sericea savanna was examined using spatial pattern analysis. The results of both dispersion analyses and comparisons of nearest-neighbor distance with combined size of the nearest-neighbor pair suggest that intraspecific competition is an important factor in the spacing of B. africana and T. sericea trees. Interspecific interference was not observed. On the contrary, the two species were found to be negatively segregated, with interspecific nearest-neighbor pairs occurring more often than intraspecific ones. Resource partitioning in the two species is discussed in light of data on root distributions and the interaction between water availability and photosynthesis.
10.2307/2387669|Flowers of the woody vine Pachyptera hymenaea change from dark lavender to light lavender or white in three days while retained on plants. By the time flowers are three days old, they do not contain pollen or nectar, but may attract pollinators to the plants. Thrips and weevils preyed upon reproductive parts of P. hymenaea. Ants and bees foraged upon its nectar, and bees collected its pollen.
10.2307/2388536|The pollination biology and reproductive morphology of a dioecious seagrass, Syringodium filiforme Kutz (Cymodoceaceae), was studied in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands where S. filiforme was found to be submarine pollinated. In staminate plants, anthers dehisce concurrently with filament elongation. The filamentous pollen is then expelled underwater from the anthers in strands and clumps over a period of several hours. Submarine pollination occurs when the pollen clumps collide with the filiform stigmas of the pistillate plants. However, Syringodium pollen released on the water surface floats and coalesces, forming snowflake-like rafts, suggesting the possibility that surface pollination may occur during very low tides in populations growing in shallow water. Morphological investigation confirmed that size and age of the short shoot does not influence the likelihood of inflorescence production. Leaf production rates also differed between shoots. Thus, morphological analysis can give little or no phenological or demographic information by which the reproductive history of a clone can be reconstructed. The floral sex ratio was found to be spatially heterogenous, but the number of flowers per shoot did not significantly differ between the sexes. Fruit set appeared to be related to proximity of staminate plants.
41057989|We describe a new method for estimating population density of vocally responsive animals, which is based on playback calls coupled with auditory point transect sampling. The method yielded, for red titi monkeys (Callicebus discolor), better estimates than traditional line transect surveys. We propose it as an effective alternative for sampling certain cryptic, but vocally responsive animal species.
20492567|Leaf chemical, biophysical and optical properties were measured in 13 populations of Metrosideros polymorpha across gradients of soil fertility and climate in Hawaii. Climate (predominantly temperature) caused large changes in specific leaf area (SLA) and SLA-linked traits, including nitrogen (N) and pigment contents, as did conditions of highest soil fertility on 20 ky old substrates. When averaged by site, chemical constituent ratios containing chlorophyll (Car/Chl, Chl/N) varied more across climate than substrate gradients, while the Chl a/b ratio was similarly influenced by climate and substrate. Variations in Chl a/b ratios and SLA were similar to those found previously in a common garden of M. polymorpha taken from our climate gradient, suggesting strong genetic control over these traits. Optical reflectance indices related to photosynthetic function were closely correlated to pigment changes, varying three times more in response to climate than across substrate ages. Combined, our results suggest that variation in leaf structure, composition, and function of M. polymorpha is a result of genetic and phenotypic adaptation to environmental differences, and that these variations are greater in response to climate (especially temperature) than to soil fertility.
2388825|Physical disturbance, such as falling debris, is an important cause of mortality to rain forest seedlings. I used artificial seedlings to quantify physical disturbance in a rain forest at the Crater Mountain Biological Research Station in Papua New Guinea. Single (N = 418) and clustered artificial seedlings (N = 428) were placed on eight transects spanning varied topography to assess the area's disturbance regime, to test if ground slope affected disturbance, and to test if clustering affected the incidence of damage. Two transects showed a significant departure from random in the spatial distribution of damaged seedlings within the transect, suggesting that some areas of experience more disturbance than others. Artificial seedlings on level ground experienced damage less often than artificial seedlings on slopes; disturbance increased with ground slope. Artificial seedlings in dry washes experienced the greatest probability of damage. Artificial seedlings in clusters experienced significantly less damage than single ones, suggesting clustered seedlings might be less vulnerable to damage than lone seedlings. The disturbance rate at this site (34.7% damaged in one year) was markedly lower than that measured at the La Selva Biological Reserve in Costa Rica (82.4%).
2663984|Gap-phase regeneration of tropical mangroves was studied to test if there were significant environmental, structural, and floristic differences between canopy gaps and adjacent forests with intact canopies. Twenty-five canopy gaps in the low to mid intertidal zone were sampled at two study areas in northern Australia. Canopy gaps at the more equatorial study area were larger and had a higher surrounding canopy. Soil analyses showed that sediment texture exerts strong control on conductivity, pH, organic matter, total P, total N and total S. Some soil factors differed between gaps and intact forest, and PAR was significantly higher in gaps. Despite this, propagule and young seedling abundances did not differ between gaps and adjacent forests due to the dominance of viviparous species. Enhanced recruitment of seedlings to the sapling stage was detected in many canopy gaps, although saplings were also present under mangrove forest canopies. Nevertheless, the overall floristic composition, species richness, and species rank abundance were similar between canopy gaps and forests with intact canopies. There appears to be little evidence for specialized gap colonists in tropical mangrove forest as distinct from other tropical forests. Instead, gap-phase regeneration of mangroves appears to follow a simple "direct replacement" model in which a species population is replaced by members of the same species in forest gaps. The scope for gap-dependent specialization in mangroves via seed dormancy and fast growth rates, common in rain forest pioneers, may be constrained by the intertidal environment in which mangroves occur.
10.2307/2388501|A cyclone in November 1978 caused extensive damage to a site of natural dry evergreen forest in Sri Lanka. The cyclone destroyed more than 50 percent of the woody vegetation that had produced most of the food for two species of leaf-eating monkeys or langurs. Apparently, this caused an imbalance between these langur populations and their natural food supply and resulted in overbrowsing on those feeding trees which were not destroyed by the cyclone. Preferentially browsed tree species that were relatively rare and/or small in size died at significantly greater rates due to overbrowsing than those which were buffered against overbrowsing by virtue of being large in tree size and/or relatively abundant in the forest. The virtual disappearance of three overbrowsed tree species from the forest suggests that langurs may contribute to the change in floristic diversity in cyclone-disturbed areas. However, such an effect of langur folivory is thought to be short-lived and specific to this kind of rare disastrous environmental situation.
10.2307/2387695|Topsoil samples were collected from two 1 m
10.2307/2388997|In Hong Kong, the mangrove Avicennia marina (Forsk.) Vierh. experiences intense herbivory every summer such that within 3 months all trees are defoliated. Rapid regeneration of the canopy follows, but reproductive output is severely impaired as defoliation coincides with flowering. The causal herbivore is the caterpillar of Nephopterix syntaractis Turner (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), as demonstrated in investigations of caterpillar densities and leaf consumption rates. The effect of N. syntaractis on leaf area damaged, leaf tannin content, and reproductive output of A. marina was investigated by applying insecticide over trees in marked plots. In comparison with the control plot, spraying reduced leaf damaged and increased flower and propagule production in the treated stand. Tannin levels showed no increase with level of leaf damage but did differ between sprayed and control plots, reflecting a raised tannin content of regenerated leaves. The consequences of defoliation of the stand are discussed.
30043200|The processing of leaves in temperate streams has been the subject of numerous studies but equivalent tropical ecosystems have received little attention. We investigated leaf breakdown of a tropical tree species (Hura crepitans, Euphorbiaceae), in a tropical stream using leaf bags (0.5 mm mesh) over a period of 24 days. We followed the loss of mass and the changes in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentrations and respiration rates associated with the decomposing leaves. The breakdown rate was fast (k = -0.0672/d,
20492554|Foliar endophytic fungi live inside healthy plant leaves, and in some cases they confer herbivore resistance to the host. All previous studies of endophyte-herbivore interactions have occurred in temperate areas, and many use correlations rather than experiments. In Panama, Glomerella cingulata is a common endophyte species found in healthy leaves, and Chelymorpha alternans is a common herbivore on Merremia umbellata, a tropical vine. We manipulated the abundance of G. cingulata in the leaves of M. umbellata. We then assessed the effects of high and low endophyte densities on the food choice, development, and reproductive success of the leaf beetle, C. alternans. In 'choice' experiments, adult females with a history of feeding on wild plants showed no preference when offered food plants with high and low endophyte densities. Further, in 'no-choice' experiments, C. alternans larvae that were fed high- or low-density endophyte leaves did not differ in development or survivorship. However, when larvae fed on leaves with low endophyte densities became adults, they produced 80 percent more offspring. This suggests high endophyte levels in hosts can have a negative effect on herbivore fecundity. Further experiments are necessary to understand whether the reproductive effects are due to feeding on low-density endophytes in the larval or adult stages, and whether changes in reproductive success are motivated by the adult's perception of food quality or by physiological constraint due to food quality.
10.2307/2388650|A total of 171 adult female and 139 adult male Norops uniformis from southern Veracruz, Mexico, was examined to determine reproductive condition. Average body size (snout-vent length) of males and females increased at the beginning of, and peaked during, the early rainy season with a decline as the dry season approached. Reproductive patterns in this species are similar to those reported for N. humilis, a closely related species, and appeared to be associated with rainfall cycles. Gravid females were found in all months for which samples were available (March through October). Testis size was greatest at the end of the dry season. Egg production increased dramatically during the early rainy season and exhibited a marked decline immediately prior to the dry season.
30045492|Although agriculture dominates much of Central America, little is known about the bat assemblages that occur within agricultural landscapes and how bats use different types of tree cover within these landscapes. Using mist-nets and a mark-recapture protocol, we compared bat diversity and movement across six types of tree cover within an agricultural landscape in central Nicaragua. The tree cover types surveyed included secondary forests, riparian forests, forest fallows, live fences, pastures with high tree cover and pastures with low tree cover. We captured a total of 3084 bats of 39 species, including two new species records for the country (Lonchorhina aurita and Molossops greenhalli). Of these, 2970 bats and 27 species were in the Phyllostomidae family. There were significant differences in mean species density, abundance and evenness of phyllostomid bats across the different types of tree cover, but not in bat diversity. Riparian forests had the highest mean species density and bat abundance per plot. In contrast, mean bat abundance and species density were lowest in pastures with low tree cover. Of the 1947 phyllostomid bats marked, a total of 64 bats of eight species were recaptured. The average linear distance between extra-site recaptures was 2227 m ( 228 SE) and the maximum distance was 10.6 km. Bats were recorded moving between almost all types of tree cover, and especially to and from riparian forests. Our study suggests that agricultural landscapes retaining a heterogeneous tree cover may maintain a diverse bat assemblage, and that bats visit and use a variety of tree cover types within the agricultural matrix. /// Aunque la agricultura domina Centroamrica, se conoce poco sobre los ensamblajes de murcilagos que ocurren en los agropaisajes y cmo ellos utilizan los diferentes tipos de cobertura arbrea presente en estos paisajes. Utilizando redes de nieblas y un protocolo de mark-recapture, caracterizamos la diversidad y el movimiento de murcilagos en seis tipos de cobertura arbrea en un agropaisaje dominado por pasturas en Nicaragua. Los tipos de cobertura arbrea incluyeron bosques fecundanos, bosques riparios, charrales, cercas vivas, y potreros con alta o baja cobertura arbrea. Capturamos un total de 3084 murcilagos de 39 especies, incluyendo dos nuevos registros para el pas (Lonchorhina aurita y Molossops greenhalli). 2970 murcielagos de 27 especies fueron phyllostomidos. Hubo diferencias en la densidad promedia de especies, abundancia y equitividad de murcilagos phyllostmidos entre tipos de cobertura arbrea, pero no en la diversidad. Los bosques riparios tuvieron la mayor densidad de especies y abundancia por parcela. En cambio, la abundancia y densidad promedia de especies por parcela fueron las ms bajas en potreros con poca cobertura arbrea. De los 2016 murcilagos marcados, un total de 64 individuos de ocho especies fueron recapturados. La distancia linear promedio entre sitios de recaptura fue 2227 m ( 228 SE) y la distancia mxima fue 10.6 km. Se registraron murcilagos en movimiento entre casi todos los tipos de cobertura arbrea, y especialmente desde y hacia bosques riparios. Nuestro estudio sugiere que los agropaisajes que retienen una cobertura arbrea heterognea pueden mantener un ensamblaje diverso de murcilagos y que los murcilagos visitan y utilizan la cobertura arbrea presente en la matriz agropecuaria.
30043067|Changes in forest structure and species diversity throughout secondary succession were studied using a chronosequence at two sites in the Bolivian Amazon. Secondary forests ranging in age from 2 to 40 years as well as mature forests were included, making a total of 14 stands. Fifty plants per forest layer (understory, subcanopy, and canopy) were sampled using the transect of variable area technique. Mean and maximum height, total stem density, basal area, and species number were calculated at the stand level. Species diversity was calculated for each stand and for each combination of forest layer and stand. A correspondence analysis was performed, and the relationship between relative abundance of the species and stand age was modeled using a set of hierarchical models. Canopy height and basal area increased with stand age, indicating that secondary forests rapidly attain a forest structure similar in many respects to mature forests. A total of 250 species were recorded of which ca 50 percent made up 87 percent of the sampled individuals. Species diversity increased with stand age and varied among the forest layers, with the lowest diversity in the canopy. The results of the correspondence analysis indicated that species composition varies with stand age, forest layer, and site. The species composition of mature forests recovered at different rates in the different forest layers, being the slowest in the canopy layer. Species showed different patterns of abundance in relation to stand age, supporting the current model of succession. /// Se estudio, usando una cronosecuencia, los cambios en la estructura del bosque y en la diversidad de especies durante la sucesin secundaria en dos sitios de la Amazona boliviana. Se incluyeron bosques secundarios con un rango de edad de 2 a 40 aos, as como bosques maduros, para un total de 14 rodales. Se inventariaron 50 plantas por estrato del bosque (sotobosque, subdosel, y dosel), usando transectos con rea variable. Se calcul a nivel de rodal la altura mxima y mnima, la densidad total, el rea basal y el nmero de especies. La diversidad de especies fue calculada para cada rodal y para cada combinacin de estrato del bosque y rodal. Se realiz un anlisis de correspondencia, y se model la relacin entre la abundancia relativa de las especies y la edad del rodal, usando un grupo de modelos jerrquicos. La altura del dosel y el rea basal aumentan con la edad del rodal, indicando que los bosques secundarios recuperan rpidamente la estructura de un bosque maduro. Se encontr un total de 250 especies, de las cuales aproximadamente el 50 porciento representaron al 87 porciento de los individuos muestreados. La diversidad de especies aument con la edad del rodal y vari con el estrato del bosque, con la diversidad ms baja en el dosel. Los resultados del anlisis de correspondencia indican que la composicin de especies vara siendo la edad del rodal, el estrato del bosque, y el sitio. La composicin de especies del bosque maduro se recupera con diferente rapidez en los diferentes estratos del bosque, siendo la recuperacin ms lenta en el dosel. La relacin entre la abundancia relativa de las especies y la edad del rodal varia entre las especies, lo que respalda el modelo de sucesin actual.
10.2307/2388249|On 18 September 1989 Hurricane Hugo defoliated large forested areas of northeastern Puerto Rico. In two severely damaged subtropical wet forest sites, a mean of 1006-1083 g/m$^2$, or 419-451 times the mean daily input of fine litter (leaves, small wood, and miscellaneous debris) was deposited on the forest floor. An additional 928 g/m$^2$ of litter was suspended above the ground. A lower montane rain forest site received 682 times the mean daily fine litterfall. The concentrations of N and P in the hurricane leaf litter ranged from 1.1 to 1.5 and 1.7 to 3.3 times the concentrations of N and P in normal leaffall, respectively. In subtropical wet forest, fine litterfall from the hurricane contained 1.3 and 1.5-2.4 times the mean annual litterfall inputs of N and P, respectively. These sudden high nutrient inputs apparently altered nutrient cycling.
10.2307/2989799|Some additional localities for a wild tetraploid cotton, G. mustelinum Watt, in northeast Brazil are reported, together with field observations on this cotton in its natural habitats. The history of cotton cultivation in northeast Brazil is reviewed and G. mustelinum compared with cottons cultivated in the region from early Colonial times onward. G. mustelinum appears to be specifically distinct from the other tetraploid cottons, and it is not likely that it is a feral derivative of any commercially cultivated cotton. This little-known tetraploid may help in reconstructing the origin of the New World polyploid cottons.
10.2307/2388961|We examined the effectiveness with which two common understory birds, Andropadus latirostris and A. tephrolaemus (Pycnonotidae), dispersed seeds of a tropical pioneer forest tree, Maesa lanceolata (Myrsinaceae). Relative dispersal effectiveness of each species was assessed in terms of quantity and quality of seed dispersal. The number of seeds dispersed was examined by quantifying the tree visitation frequency, duration of time in the tree and number of fruits ingested, and probability that the bird would deposit seeds under the parent tree. The quality of seed dispersal was examined using defecation frequency, number of seeds defecated through time following ingestion of a cohort of 20 fruits, seed viability after passage through the gut, and general diet analysis. Andropadus tephrolaemus and A. latirostris were the most common visitors to M. lanceolata and accounted for 49 1 percent and 17 3 percent of all animal visits to the tree, respectively. The mean (and standard deviation) residence times in the tree were 2.82  1.65 min for A. tephrolaemus and 3.14  1.70 min for A. latirostris. Individuals of both species ate estimated 23 to 25 fruits per visit (3-20 seeds/fruit). Mean minimum seed passage times were 17.8  1.93 min for A. tephrolaemus and 12.9  0.80 min for A. latirostris. Seeds were viable after passing through the birds' gut. The majority of seeds passed through the gut within 20 min of the first defecation that contained seeds, and nearly all seeds passed within 80 min of ingestion. Mean time between defecations was 2.6 min for A. tephrolaemus and 2.2 min for A. latirostris. Frequency of return to the tree combined with the short tree residence times and defecation rates suggest that both species are unlikely to defecate more than 5 percent or 10 percent of seeds under the parent tree. Both species consistently dispersed most seeds away from the parent tree; A. tephrolaemus may be a more important disperser for the tree, however, because of its higher visitation rate.
10.2307/2388862|Young plants of the palm, Astrocaryum jauari, are well-adapted anatomically and physiologically to hypoxic conditions. Annual inundation for as long as 300 days, at water temperatures of 28
10.2307/2388238|Analysis of a 35 year data base on frogs from species assemblages in southeastern Brazil, suggests three kinds of species changes: the appearance of Hyla albopunctata at Boraceia; the possible extinction of Fritziana ohausi at Boraceia when the bamboo species in which Fritziana reproduces flowered and died; and population reductions and extinctions of a number of species at several localities in southeastern Brazil in 1979. We argue that the cause of this latter event was most likely due to unusually heavy frosts. The unusual event in 1979 had differential effects on the species which resulted in both short-term ecological changes within the assemblages effected and potential long-term evolutionary effects on the assemblages and individual species involved.
10.2307/2387968|The pollination biology of Combretum farinosum, a hummingbird-pollinated, outcrossing liana of the dry forest in Costa Rica, was investigated in order to determine the evolutionary interactions between nectar rewards and pollinator foraging behavior. Plants generally produced many flowers, arranged in dense inflorescences which were highly synchronized in development, and with large nectar output per flower. Inflorescences change color from green on the first day, to green-orange (day 2), orange (day 3), and red (days 4 and 5). Only green, first-day inflorescences secrete nectar, and these were visited preferentially by all hummingbirds. Red inflorescences contained little nectar, were rarely visited (2% of all visits), and probably serve as "flags" to attract pollinators. The hummingbirds Chlorostilbon canivetii and Archilochus colubris foraged as transients, moving primarily between plants, while Amazilia saucerottei and A. rutila foraged as tenants at single plants and periodically defended small sections of large plants. The visitation rate per inflorescence increased with effective plant size (= number of nectar-producing inflorescences) for tenants, but not transients. Mean seed set per inflorescence decreased with effective plant size, but seed production per plant increased. Seed set was not limited by hummingbird visitation rate per se, as expected seed set per inflorescence (calculated from visitation rate and the number of flowers probed per visit) increased with plant size. Despite the higher visitation rate of tenants to large plants, seed set per inflorescence did not increase due to the low outcrossing potential of tenants as compared to transients, and the occasional removal of transients by territorial tenants. I suggest that the large nectar production of Combretum has evolved to satiate potentially territorial species and reduce the advantages of patch defense-increasing the number of outcrossing visits per plant. This pollinator-satiation strategy is an evolutionary parallel of that found in seed-dispersal systems; in both cases foraging behavior is altered through resource abundance.
10.2307/2388174|Mortality rates of bird nests near the Brazilian equatorial localities of Belem and Manaus were between 1.5 and 4.5 percent per day for different types of nests and habitats, except for 6.8 percent per day in cup-shaped nests in open zones at Belem. Only the last percentage is as high as rates commonly found by earlier workers in neotropical areas further from the equator. As in previous studies, cup nests were less successful than enclosed nests, but, in contrast, forest nests were as successful as or more successful than open-area nests. Further data are needed to verify the ideas that nest mortality rates near the equator and in tropical forests are higher than in open areas, subequatorial zones, or temperate zones. Earlier work was mostly in isolated habitats in which large predators no longer occurred, and thus could not limit nest-robbing small predators; such habitats could be abnormal, as are habitats near houses.
10.2307/2388039|Quantitative zooplankton samples and hydrographic data were collected in oceanic, shelf, harbor mouth, and harbor basin waters of the Caribbean Sea off Jamaica, from February 1962 to July 1964. These data constitute a pre-condition base-line study in an area of subsequent increased pollution. All measurements were higher for the harbor stations than for the shelf and oceanic stations, indicative of an "island mass" effect. Considerable fluctuations occurred in quantitative measurements for all stations, more than an order of magnitude in each case, but the overall variations showed no distinct seasonal pattern. Eighty-seven species of zooplankters were identified from oceanic (1J), 84 from shelf (2J), 77 from harbor mouth (3J), and 66 from harbor basin waters (4J). Copepods were the most important constituent of the zooplankton in all areas, but most important at the shelf and oceanic stations. Other important zooplankters were fish eggs at 1J and 4 J, and cladocerans, larvaceans, and larvae at 3J and 4J. Chaetognaths were also relatively abundant at the two harbor stations.
30045462|In the SE Peruvian Amazon, large numbers of frugivorous bats regularly visit natural forest clearings known locally as collpas (which are also referred to as clay licks or mineral licks). Bats arrive at collpas to drink water that has accumulated in depressions created by larger geophagous mammals that consume exposed soil. Although collpa visitation is common, little is known about its causes and its ecological implications for the bat community. We compared patterns of use of collpas and non-collpa forest sites by bats in SE Peru. We mist netted bats at collpas and non-collpa sites during the dry season and compared abundance, species richness, species composition, sex ratio, and reproductive condition. More species were captured at collpas than at non-collpa sites, and collpas were visited almost exclusively by frugivores. Overall, bat-capture frequency and combined frugivorous bat-capture frequency were higher at collpas than at non-collpa sites, although some species of frugivorous bats were captured more frequently at non-collpa sites than at collpas (e.g., Carollia spp.). Irrespective of capture site, more female bats were pregnant or lactating than not, but there was a distinct female sex bias in bats that visited collpas: 70 percent of bats captured at collpas were female, whereas 44 percent of bats captured away from collpas were female. These patterns suggest that collpas may provide important resources for frugivorous bats in SE Peru, just as they are thought to provide important resources to the vertebrates that consume collpa soils. Accordingly, collpas are important conservation targets in the region. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2989730|Adults of the soldier beetle species, Chauliognathus proteus, appear on host plant Compositae at successively later dates following emergence with increase in altitude. Appearance is correlated with flowering of the host. Ground color is darker in cool, moist highlands than in the hot, dry lowlands, an example of Gloger's Rule as applied to invertebrates. Selective advantages are discussed as well as basic physical factors affecting the environment in which the species lives.
10.2307/2388361|The tropical tree, Platypodium elegans (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae), matures indehiscent wind-dispersed fruits containing one or, much less commonly, two seeds. Relative to single-seeded fruits, double-seeded fruits have greater wet mass, area, wing-loading, and rate of descent in still air, and consequently are dispersed shorter distances under field conditions. The proximal seed of double-seeded fruits has a smaller dry mass and usually has lower and slower germination than the distal seed. Its radicle has difficulty emerging from the legume and establishing a root system, and the seedling has lower survival and slower growth. Twin seedlings arising from one fruit grow more slowly than single seedlings from double- or single-seeded fruits, and both twins rarely survive to one year under growing house conditions. In fruit samples of equal size, more total seedlings emerge from double- than single-seeded fruits; however, due to their lower probability of survival, double-seeded fruits have no more seedlings at one year under growing house conditions than do single-seeded fruits. Seed predation was not measured in this study. Unless multiseeded fruits more easily escape seed predation, there is no apparent evolutionary advantage to a parent of P. elegans producing multiseeded fruits. Their presence in low numbers appears to result from incomplete elimination or suppression of development of the multiple ovules after pollination.
30043181|Although more than 39 primate species have been described as nectar feeders, no studies have documented the negative affect this behavior may have on the reproductive success of the plants they consume. Here we report, for the first time, massive flower destruction of the tropical tree Symphonia gbbulifera by the frugivorous spider monkey, Ateies geoffioyi, and document the detrimental effect this behavior has on fruit set. Foraging behavior was collected from one troop of A. geoffroyi during 460 contact hours from June 1999 to May 2000 in the tropical humid forest at the Refugio de Vida Silvestre Punta Rio Claro (839 N, 8344 E) in the Osa Peninsula in Southwestern Costa Rica. Detailed phenological data were collected from ten S. gbbulifera trees that the monkeys fed upon and ten trees that were outside of their home range, but in the Refugio. From July to September 1999 S. globulifera was the most important species consumed, representing from 86 to 100 percent of the total feeding time each month. Monkey foraging on S. globulifera flowers was destructive, detaching the flowers completely from the branches in 80 percent of the foraging bouts, and leaving flowers without petals and with damaged reproductive parts in 20 percent of the bouts. None of the ten trees where the monkeys were foraging set fruit, but seven of ten trees outside of their home range set fruit in November and December 1999. These results suggest that some primates may play an important role in floral herbivory in tropical forests and the subsequent reduction in reproductive success. Future studies should focus on evaluating the long-term effect this foraging behavior may have on the population structure of this species and evaluate the effect of primate floral herbivory on the reproductive success of other plant species. /// Aunque se han descrito ms de 39 especies de primates como consumidoras de nctar, ningn estudio ha documentado el efecto negativo que tiene este comportamiento alimentario en el xito reproductivo de las plantas que son consumidas por los primates. En este estudio documentamos, por primera vez, la destruccin masiva de flores del rbol Symphonia globulifera por el mono araa (Ateies geoffroyi) y su efecto en el establecimiento de frutos. Se estudi el comportamiento de forrajeo de una tropa de A. geoffroyi durante 460 horas de observacin durante los meses de junio 1999 hasta mayo 2000 en un bosque tropical hmedo en el Refugio de Vida Silvestre Punta Rio Claro en la Pennsula de Osa, en el suroeste de Costa Rica (8O39'N, 83O44'E). Se colectaron datos fenolgicos detallados de diez individuos de S. globulifera de los cuales las flores fueron depredadas por los monos araa, y 10 individuos que se encontraron afuera de su rea hogarea, pero dentro de la Refugio. Desde julio hasta setiembre de 1999 S. globulifera fue la especie ms importante en la dieta de A. geoffroyi, representando entre el 86 y el 100 por ciento del total de tiempo de la dieta en este periodo. El comportamiento alimenticio de las flores fue destructivo, removiendo completamente las flores de las ramas en un 80 porcentaje de los eventos alimenticios y dejando las flores sin ptalos en un 20 porcentaje. Ninguno de los 10 rboles que fueron visitados por los monos produjo frutos, mientras que 7 de los 10 rboles que se encontraron fuera del rea de forrajeo de los monos lo hicieron durante noviembre y diciembre del 1999. Estos resultados sugieren que algunas especies de primates pueden jugar un papel importante en la herbivora floral en bosques tropicales, reduciendo el xito reproductivo de las especies afectadas. Futuros estudios deben enfocar en evaluar los efectos de largo plazo de este comportamiento alimenticio sobre la estructura de la poblacin de esta especie y evaluar el efecto de herbvoro de flores sobre el xito reproductivo de otras especies de plantas.
10.2307/2388323|Female reproductive cycles were studied in five species of colubrid snakes from the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico (Dryadophis melanolomus. Elaphe triaspis, Leptophis mexicanus. Oxybelis aeneus, and Stenorrhina freminvillii). Leptophis mexicanus and Oxybelis aeneus reproduce annually during the rainy season (March-October and March-August, respectively). Dryadophis melanolomus also reproduces during the rainy season, but has a biennial cycle. Stenorrhina freminvillii lays two clutches of eggs annually during the dry season (November-April). Elaphe triaspis appears to have aseasonal (continuous) reproduction. Clutch size varies from $\bar{x}$ = 3.1 eggs (D. melanolomus) to $\bar{x}$ = 11.6 eggs (S. freminvillii). The timing of reproductive cycles of these species is compared with the climatic regime of the Yucatan Peninsula, and the significance of adaptation of reproductive cycles to geographic distribution and dispersal is discussed.
10.2307/2389193|Global concern over rising atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide is stimulating development and implementation of policies aimed at reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by enhancing carbon sinks. One option for reducing net emissions is to lessen damage to residual forests during selective logging, thereby retaining additional carbon in biomass. A pilot carbon offset project was initiated in Sabah, Malaysia, in 1992 in which a power company provided funds to a timber concessionaire to implement guidelines aimed at reducing logging damage; in doing so, the utility gained potential credit towards future emissions reduction requirements. To quantify the carbon retained due to this effort, we compared dipterocarp forests logged according to reduced-impact logging guidelines with forests logged by conventional methods in terms of the above- and below-ground biomass both before and after logging. Prior to logging, the forest stored approximately 400 Mg biomass ha
10.2307/2989786|The Hawaiian biota originated from ancestors which arrived accidentally from various directions across open sea. These plants and animals became established in a favorable environment on a young, rapidly changing geological substrate where environmental pressures were limited. Processes of adaptive radiation were thus given much freedom for operation in a sort of "biological vacuum." This condition resulted in an astonishing proliferation of species, species diversification, adaptive morphology, and habitat utilization. The many empty ecological niches have been filled by plants and animals delicately adapted to them and resulting in the development of remarkable differences from their nearest relatives in other areas. This flourishing adaptive radiation would continue today, but its variety and rapidity have been slowed to a disturbing degree by the vastly increased activities of man. The new unfavorable conditions introduced by man have doomed a large fraction of the biota to extermination, and it is doubtful if such an unique biological flowering will ever again be duplicated on earth.
30043259|We studied roost structure, modification, and availability in Lophostoma silvicolum (Phyllostomidae), an insectivorous gleaning bat, on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panam. Collection of nest material beneath termitaria and infrared video filming indicated that males of L. silvicolum excavate and maintain cavities inside active termite nests. A binary logistic regression analysis showed that to be suitable as roosts, termite nests have to be larger than 30 cm in diameter and taller than 30 cm, well shaded, with few transecting branches, and freely accessible from below. Use of active termite nests as roosts may provide several benefits to L. silvicolum, including reduction of competition for roost sites with sympatric bat species, reduced parasite load and a suitable microclimate. A comparison of number of all termite nests in selected forest plots with number of termite nests that are potentially suited as bat roosts and number of termite nests that are actually used by bats suggests that L. silvicolum may not be roost-limited on BCI in spite of its highly specialized roost choice. /// Se estudi la estructura, modificacin y disponibilidad de la percha para Lophostoma silvicolum (Phyllostomidae), un murcilago insectvoro en la Isla Barro Colorado (BCI), Panam. La coleccin de material de las perchas debajo de los termitarios y la filmacin con vdeocmara infrarroja, indica que los machos de L. silvicolum excavan y mantienen cavidades en el interior de los nidos activos de la termita. Un anlisis con regresin logstica binaria demostr que para ser adecuados como perchas, los nidos de la termita deben ser ms de 30 cm en dimetro y 30 cm de altura, con buena sombra y pocas ramificaciones que se crucen, as como ser fcilmente accesibles desde abajo. El uso de nidos activos de la termita como percha puede proporcionar algunos beneficios a L. silvicolum, incluyendo la reduccin de la competencia para perchas con especies de murcilagos simptricas, la reduccin en la carga de parsitos y un microclima adecuado. Una comparacin del nmero total de los nidos de la termita en porciones selectas de bosque, con el nmero de nidos que potencialmente pueden utilizarse como perchas y el nmero de ellos que en realidad estn siendo usados, sugiere que las poblaciones de L. silvicolum pueden no estar limitadas a las perchas en BCI, a pesar de su altamente especializada preferencia por las perchas.
10.2307/2388484|The vegetative phenology of Passiflora pittieri, a liana, was monitored for nine months in Corcovado National Park, Costa Rica. Corcovado is tropical premontane wet forest with a dry season from January to April. A time-series analysis of shoot production and rainfall revealed a significant seasonal trend in shoot production, high during the dry season and low during the wet season, and a strong negative correlation between shoot production and current rainfall even after removal of the seasonal trend from the data. Apparently, P. pittieri was able to respond immediately to some factor associated with dry spells. Evidence is also presented for an endogenous inhibition of shoot mitiation following shoot production. Possible factors that regulate shoot production are also discussed.
20492575|Parrot populations are being increasingly pressured to occupy modified or fragmented landscapes, yet little is known of the habitat requirements of most species, particularly with regard to the effects on breeding habitat. We evaluated nesting habitat of the lilac-crowned parrot Amazona finschi in the modified landscape of coastal Michoacan in Mexico. We located 90 parrot nests in 12 tree species in Michoacan, with lilac-crowned parrots presenting a narrow niche-breadth of tree species used for nesting. Considering an additional 82 nest trees recorded for lilac-crowned parrots in Jalisco, we determined a 51 percent similarity in cavity resource use by parrots in the two dry forest regions. Overall, the predominant nest tree species with 76 percent of nests were Astronium graveolens, Piranhea mexicana, Brosimum alicastrum, and Tabebuia spp., all characteristic of semi-deciduous forest. Only 8 percent of nests occurred in trees characteristic of deciduous forest. Parrots utilized large trees with canopy level cavities as nest sites, and preferred conserved semi-deciduous forest for nesting, with fewer nests than expected in deciduous forest and transformed agricultural land. Nest areas in semi-deciduous forest occurred on significantly steeper terrain, as remnant semi-deciduous forest is restricted to steep ridges and canyons. Those parrot nests in modified habitats and forest patches were located near to continuous forest, with nest trees in open agricultural land being significantly closer to continuous forest than nests in disturbed forest patches. These results demonstrate the importance of conserved semi-deciduous forest as breeding habitat for the threatened, endemic lilac-crowned parrot, making wild populations of the species vulnerable to the high rate of transformation and fragmentation of tropical dry forest.
10.2307/2389079|The numerous Anolis species which are present in Cuba fill a place of great importance in the trophic webs of the terrestrial ecosystems, because they eat a considerable amount of arthropods, mainly insects. In order to know the food habits of one of the endemic species, Anolis argenteolus Cope, 1862, in a place of touristic use, 155 males and 161 females were collected at the La Mula camping base, on the south coast of Sierra Maestra, during the months of January, March, May, July, September and November. The digestive tract contents were analyzed and it was found that ants constituted the most frequent and important food item for both sexes during the two seasons of the year. The second place was occupied by dipterans, mainly domestic flies, and the third place, by scolitid coleopterans and lepidopteran larvae. Furthermore, this lizard includes in its food supply homopterans, lepidopterans, orthopterans, and araneids. The intraspecific differences observed in the food habits probably allow the sustenance of a numerous population.
10.2307/2387724|Leaf-size variation with respect to climate was studied at 38 sample sites in Costa Rica. The variation in leaf size was analyzed by plotting the sample sites on Holdridge's (1967) life zone chart and comparing the percentage of species having large leaves (greater than 20.25 sq cm in area) in the different life zones. Three foliar belts could be identified in the tropical basal and altitudinal belts. Although the percentage of species having large leaves is significantly different between the foliar belts, the variation in leaf size is not continuous along environmental gradients either within or between foliar belts. The variation in leaf size within each foliar belt recognized suggests that other environmental parameters also have an important influence on leaf size. Extreme care must be exercised in the estimation of paleoclimate by angiosperm paleobotanists because of the potential variation in leaf size within a single foliar belt and the recognition that this variation does not follow climatic gradients.
10.2307/2388067|To determine palatability, floral nectars from 25, and floral tissue extracts from 17, plant species of wet and dry forests of Costa Rica were offered to foraging ants in pairwise tests with sugar solutions. Nectars from all 25, and floral tissues from 10, species were analyzed chemically to ascertain the presence of potentially attractive and deterrent substances. In general, floral nectars are palatable to ants, whereas floral tissues showed highly variable palatability. We observed ants foraging in flowers of only 10 species of plants. Defense from nectar thievery by chewing insects seems most often to involve varying degrees of chemical and morphological modification of floral parts, rather than by the production of deterrent compounds in the nectar itself.
4132940|Male euglossine bees were sampled with chemical baits every two months from September 1997 to July 1999 at nine sites in the Desengano mountain range, Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Four sites were located in Atlantic Forest mature second growth, two sites in disturbed forest, and three sites in forest fragments of 200, 156, and 14 ha, respectively. We collected 3653 male euglossine bees from at least 21 species. Analyses of variance indicated no differences among the three habitat types for total number of bees, and 5 of the 6 dominant species. Bootstrapping indicated significant variation in species richness and diversity for some sites, but there was no clear indication of differences among habitats. Similarity as measured with the Morisita-Horn index was inversely related to distance between sites, but relatively high for most site combinations. These results suggest that the euglossine bee community in the three habitats was essentially the same. Although some species were associated with each habitat type, most appeared to respond to temporal local conditions. Our results do not support the hypothesis that forest fragmentation or habitat alteration reduces abundance and diversity of euglossine bees.
10.2307/2387826|To determine how the conversion of mature tropical forests to secondary forests affects the soil carbon budget, major soil carbon storages, inputs, and CO
30044948|Hunting and habitat loss represent an increasingly common anthropogenic impact. Available evidence suggests that defaunation is typically differential: medium/large mammals are most affected while small rodents are less affected, or even favored. In heavily impacted areas, such as Los Tuxtlas, the residual mammalian fauna is dominated by small rodents. We tested the expectation that if small rodents will preferentially attack small-seeded species, large-seeded species may escape predation in the absence of medium/large seed predators and that this may affect germination and, possibly, recruitment. Experiments with caged rodents (Heteromys desmarestianus) under laboratory conditions showed a preference for smaller seeds. A field experiment involving seeds of contrasting size showed that small, unprotected seeds experienced a predation risk 30-times larger than protected seeds, while the effect of protection was not significant for large seeds. These patterns of predation led to significant differences in germination: protected small-seeded species had a fourfold greater germination than unprotected small-seeded species, while germination was not significantly different between exposed and protected large seeds. The observed contrasts in germination suggest that under heavy defaunation, small-seeded species are likely to be penalized by the overabundance of small rodents, while large-seeded species escape predation. Our results are consistent with the observation of dense seedling carpets dominated by large-seeded species in the understory of Los Tuxtlas. We speculate that the patterns we uncovered may explain, at least partly, the impoverished diversity of the understory vegetation that characterizes heavily defaunated understories and that this has the potential to affect forest regeneration. Abstract in Spanish is available at hnp://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
2389033|We examined the potential for exploitation competition by differential attractiveness in two sympatric species of columnar cacti on Curacao, Netherlands Antilles. Stenocereus griseus and Subpilocereus repandus have temporally overlapping flowering phenologies and share pollinators. We examined nectar volume, energy contents, and sugar ratios for the entire night and at two-hour intervals in both cactus species. Except for a burst in nectar volume and sugar concentration by Subpilocereus repandus during the first two hours of anthesis, nectar secretion patterns, energy contents, and sugar ratios (70% hexose) were similar for the two species. The standing crops of nectar in both species were kept very low by bat pollinators. We suggest that the potential for exploitation competition between Stenocereus griseus and Subpilocereus repandus is currently very low on Curacao.
4132932| The forest type dominated by Peltogyne gracilipes (Caesalpiniaceae) on the riverine Marac Island is the least species-rich of any recorded for Brazilian Amazonia. Because the forest has high soil and foliar Mg concentrations, and Mg is known to be toxic to plant growth at high concentrations, this study tested the hypothesis that dominance by Peltogyne is related to Mg leaf litter amounts and decomposition. We predicted that decomposition of Peltogyne leaves would differ from that of other species, and that their decomposition would result in a pulse of Mg release. Three plots (50 x 50 m) were established in each of three forest types: Peltogyne-rich forest (PRF; dominated by P. gracilipes), Peltogyne-poor forest (PPF), and forest without Peltogyne (FWP). Three leaf litter decomposition experiments tested if decomposition of mixed leaf litter in coarse-mesh (CM) litterbags differed among forests (experiment 1); whether or not decomposition and nutrient release of Ecclinusa guianensis, Lueheopsis duckeana, and Peltogyne in CM litterbags differed among forests and species (experiment 2); and using fine-mesh (FM) litterbags, investigated the differences in the influence of faunal activity on Ecclinusa and Peltogyne decomposition (experiment 3). Decomposition was independent of the presence and dominance of Peltogyne, since decomposition rates in both PRF and FWP were in general lower than in PPF. These differences appeared to be related to faunal activity. The decomposition of Peltogyne leaves was lower than that of the other species tested and was more affected by microbial and physical action. It is possible that the monodominance of Peltogyne is related to its deciduousness and faster decomposition in the dry season, which coincides with a large leaf fall. Magnesium was lost quickly from the Peltogyne leaves and the resultant pulses of Mg into the soil during the heavy rains at the beginning of the wet season may be deleterious for other species that are not adapted to high solution Mg concentrations. Results obtained were consistent with the hypothesis that Peltogyne dominance is related to the pattern of its leaf decomposition and the seasonal pulses of toxic Mg. 
10.2307/2388626|A flower-dwelling mite, Proctolaelaps lobata, is specific to Lantana florets and phoretic on a variety of Lepidoptera. A study of the spatial and temporal distribution of the mite shows significant differences between sites in Costa Rica and Texas in numbers of mites/floret and mites/butterfly such that the site with more mites/floret has fewer mites/butterfly. In both sites, first-day florets contain more mites than older florets. The number of mites/floret is significantly affected by the number of neighboring flowerheads, although the effect varies with the site. There is no distinctive change in number of mites/floret or mites/butterfly with time of day. The Texas site is recolonized annually, perhaps by mites carried by Lepidoptera from the south.
30044913|A recent increase in published studies of lianas has been paralleled by a proliferation of protocols for censusing lianas. This article seeks to increase uniformity in liana inventories by providing specific recommendations for the determination of which taxa to include, the location of diameter measurement points on individual stems, the setting of minimum stem diameter cutoffs, the treatment of multiple-stemmed and rooted clonal groups, and the measurement of noncylindrical stems. Use of more uniform liana censusing protocols may facilitate comparison of independently collected data sets and further our understanding of global patterns in liana abundance, diversity, biomass, and dynamics. /// El reciente incremento de publicaciones sobre bejucos ha estado acompaado por una proliferacin de protocolos para censarlos. Este artculo busca incrementar la uniformidad de los inventarios de lianas dando recomendaciones especficas sobre los taxa que deben incluirse, la ubicacin de los puntos de medicin del dimetro en tallos individuales, el establecimiento de dimetros mnimos de medicin, la forma de tratar a grupos de tallos mltiples y clones arraigados, y la medicin de tallos no cilindricos. El uso de protocolos de medicin ms uniformes facilitar la comparacin de bases de datos colectadas de forma independiente y incrementar nuestro entendimiento de patrones globales de abundancia, diversidad, biomasa y dinmica de lianas.
10.2307/2388504|When disturbed, diurnally active species of tiger beetles flew from the forest floor, where they foraged, to temporary perches in the vegetation. The height of these perches was correlated with the size of the species. At night, these species roosted for 10-12 hours at the same height as their temporary daytime perches. Some species congregated nocturnally on communal roosts of 2-9 individuals during the early rainy season. Species from sandy edges of rivers roosted on grass blades at night. When 10 individuals were removed one at a time from the grass and placed on the ground, four were captured and ingested within two minutes by large nocturnally-active tiger beetles.
10.2307/2387784|The soldier beetle, Chauliognathus distinguendus, which defends inflorescences of the tree Coccoloba floribunda against intrusion by conspecific individuals, is unusual among insects in that intersexual agonistic behavior is as strong as intra-sexual agonistic behavior. Both types of behavior probably result from competition among individuals of both sexes for a common limiting resource. Several lines of evidence suggest that the limiting resource is nectar produced by C. floribunda.
30043168|Amphibian populations are in decline throughout Latin America; all families of frogs have experienced declines, but the species associated with aquatic habitats in upland areas have been most affected. Declines in Latin America were most common during the 1980s, but new declines continue to be reported. The causes of declines are varied, but they have most often been associated with habitat loss, a pathogenic fungus, and climate change. Scientists are just beginning to grasp the ethical and biological implications of losses of this magnitude. In this Special Section, we provide a general summary of the phenomenon and introduce five contributed papers that provide new data and new insights into Latin American declines. /// En Amrica Latina se ha documentado un declive generalizado en poblaciones de anfibios. Dicho declive se ha presentado en especies de todas las familias de anfibios, pero especialmente en aquellas asociadas a ambientes acuticos en zonas montaosas. El declive en America Latina, ocurri en la dcada de los 80s, pero en la actualidad todava se siguen registrando disminuciones. Los investigadores apenas estn empezando a a entender las implicaciones ticas y biolgicas de prdidadas de biodiversidad de esta magnitud. Aqu presentamos un resumen general de este fenmeno y la introduccin a cinco trabajos que proveen datos nuevos para Amrica Latina.
2388883|The abundance and distribution of vines were studied in a desert plant community at the Centro Ecologico de Sonora in Mexico. A total of 14 vine species representing eight families were recorded in the sampled area (0.6 ha). Mean vine abundance was 2859 individuals/ha. Overall, Cardiospermum corindum was the most frequent vine species whereas Janusia californica, C. corindum and J. linearis were the most abundant. Vine species richness was highest in streams and poorest in plains; species diversity in streams was more than twice the value found for plains. Several species were more abundant in streams than in plains or hillslopes. Merremia palmeri and Nissolia schottii were almost exclusively found along streams and were virtually absent from plains and hillslopes. The most important host species were Olneya tesota, Mimosa laxiflora and Cercidium microphyllum as they supported 60 percent of the vines found in the sampled area. O. tesota was the most important host in plains, M. laxiflora along streams and C. microphyllum on hillslopes. Only two climbing mechanisms were found among vines: twining and tendrils. Mean leaf size among sampled vine species was 13 cm
10.2307/2388597|Fluctuations in abundance of adult Ephemeroptera were analyzed from a year of daily light-trap collections made at Miramar, a relatively nonseasonal locality on the Atlantic coast of northwest Panama. Most taxa occurred year-round and some of these showed within-year fluctuations in abundance that may be seasonal. The species in the genus Leptohyphes showed a pronounced lunar periodicity. A comparison of this sample with other samples of Ephemeroptera suggests that mayflies in the tropics may not be more diverse than in the temperate zone
20492515|Sea turtle egg mortality, egg predation, and small organisms associated with turtle nests were studied at Playa Ostional, Costa Rica. Sites with concentrated sea turtle nesting were compared with solitary nesting sites as a function of place and time based on ANOVA, Akaike's Information Criterion, and Bayesian analyses. Results indicate that sea turtle egg mortality was significantly associated (P &lt; 0.005) with flowing water that erodes or saturates nesting sites, and with overlapped nesting in which sea turtles disturb each other's nests. Sarcophagid and calliphorid fly larvae (Bayesian prior = 1.19; posterior = 2.27), fungi (prior = 1.14; posterior = 1.92), mites (prior = 0.51; posterior = 1.15), and several other types of small organisms increased in number after turtle egg laying (N = 303 nests; 34,451 turtle eggs). During peak sea turtle nesting periods, visitation to nesting sites by poachers and vertebrate predators was high, and relative number of nests disturbed by these predators was low (P &lt; 0.02). In multimodel analysis, the three most parsimonious models were: (1) turtle egg mortality and distance from mean high tide; (2) turtle egg predation and distance from mean high tide; and (3) turtle egg mortality and nesting density, with Akaike weights of 0.224, 0.203, and 0.153 respectively. Intensive sea turtle nesting might result in upwelling and turnover of nesting debris and nest organisms, and may influence biotic community structure of sandy beach ecosystems.
30043184|Edge effects alter biotic interactions and forest regeneration. We investigated whether edge creation affected the seedling community and its interactions with herbivores and leaf-fungal pathogens. In forest edges and interior sites in Chiapas, Mexico, we counted all woody seedlings and species (10-100 cm tall) present in l-m plots, measured their size (height and leaf number), and examined them for the occurrence of herbivory and pathogen damage. We investigated relationships between levels of damage and size, species richness and density. Species composition and biotic damage varied greatly among sites and habitats (edge vs interior). Late-successional species dominated the community, but richness was lower in interior sites and species similarity was greater among edges than among interiors. Nearly all species (95%) present at edges and interiors showed herbivory damage, whereas 76 percent of the species in edge plots and 68 percent in interior plots showed pathogen damage. Although leaf area damaged by herbivores was similar between habitats (average 9.2%), pathogen damage was three times greater in edge plots (1.85%) than in interior plots (0.57%). Size was positively related to biotic damage at both habitats. Relationships between herbivory and pathogen damage and between pathogen damage and leaf number were significant only for edges. Biotic damage was not related to density or species richness. Overall, plant community structure was similar between habitats, but biotic damage was enhanced at edges. Thus, disease spread at edges may arise as a threat to tropical rain forest vegetation. /// Los efectos de borde alteran las interacciones biticas y la regeneracin del bosque. Investigamos si la comunidad de plntulas y su interaccin con herbvoros y hongos patgenos son afectadas en los bordes. En bordes e interiores de selva contamos el nmero y especies de plntulas leosas (10-100 cm de altura) por m, medimos su tamao (altura y nmero de hojas) y describimos la comunidad. Evaluamos el dao por herbvoros y patgenos foliares en cada plntula. Encontramos una gran variabilidad en la composicin de especies y dao bitico entre sitios y hbitats (bordes e interiores). Especies de sucesin tarda dominaron la comunidad, siendo la riqueza y la similitud de especies mayor en bordes. Casi todas las especies (95%) en bordes e interiores presentaron dao por herbvoros, mientras que 76 por ciento de las especies en bordes y 68% en interiores presentaron dao por patgenos. El rea foliar daada por herbvoros fue similar en ambos hbitats (promedio, 9.2%), pero el dao por patgenos fue tres veces mayor en bordes (1.85%), que en interiores (0.57%). El tamao estuvo positivamente relacionado con el dao bitico. Sin embargo, la relacin entre la herbivora y el dao por patgenos y entre ste y el nmero de hojas fue significativa solo en bordes. El dao bitico no estuvo relacionado con la densidad ni con la riqueza de especies. La exposicin al borde aumenta los niveles de dao bitico. La proliferacin de enfermedades en bordes puede ser una amenaza para la vegetacin.
40863751|Asplenium nidus is an abundant epiphytic fern of tropical rain forests in the Old World, where it plays an important ecological role in the forest canopy as host to diverse arthropod communities. We investigated the factors that determine the distribution and abundance of A. nidus in the canopy of an aseasonal lowland dipterocarp forest at Pasoh Forest Reserve, Malaysia. We found that A nidus was more abundant in the understory, and on hosts with smooth bark and relatively flat branch angles. Ferns were found on a wide diversity and size range of host taxa. However, both host taxa and host diameter at breast height had a significant effect on A. nidus occupancy. Asplenium nidus had an aggregated spatial distribution at all scales within the study area. Spatial aggregation at larger scales appears to be driven by habitat preference, as A. nidus abundance was positively associated with swampy areas and negatively associated with hilly areas. At smaller scales, limited dispersal of their wind-dispersed spores most likely explains the aggregated distribution. Larger individuals occurred higher in the canopy and were more common in the hilly area. Thus, the distribution of A. nidus may represent a trade-off between the availability of suitable microsites for establishment in the understory and better growth conditions higher in the canopy. However, A. nidus is known to comprise a complex of cryptic species, and future studies should incorporate molecular techniques to elucidate the potential role of speciation in explaining these patterns.
20492491|We studied patterns of call acoustics and external morphological differentiation in populations of the dart-poison frog Allobates femoralis occurring in forested areas along a 250-km stretch of the upper Madeira River, Brazil. Multivariate analyses of variance using principal components representing shared acoustic and morphological parameters distinguished three groups in relation to call structure and external morphology: (1) populations belonging to a two-note call morphotype; (2) populations with four-note calls inhabiting the left riverbank; and (3) populations with four-note calls inhabiting the right riverbank. Our results report a case of Amazonian anuran diversity hidden by current taxonomy and provide evidence for the upper Madeira River being a boundary between distinct populations of A. femoralis, and suggest a new taxonomic interpretation for these groups. Samples that did not fit into the general differentiation pattern and the existence of a well-defined contact zone between two morphotypes on the left riverbank indicate that mechanisms complementary to river-barrier hypotheses are necessary to explain the phenotypic differentiation between populations. Our study shows that at least one anuran species shows congruence between population differentiation and separation by a large Amazonian river, as documented for birds and mammals. Conservation efforts should not consider the taxon now known as A. femoralis as a homogeneous entity. There is much within-taxon variability, which can be probably explained partly by the existence of cryptic species, partly by geological barriers and part of which currently has no obvious explanation.
10.2307/2388959|Enlarged or deformed floral tubes of the herbaceous perennial plant genus Cuphea have been noted by many collectors but without knowledge of the causative agent. A survey of herbarium collections of Cuphea found enlarged, thickened or inflated, sometimes exceptionally hairy flowers present in nine species from Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Panama, and Ecuador. Investigation determined the enlargements were due to two different gall-forming parasites. Cuphea appendiculata, C. cyanea, C. hookeriana, C. llavea, C. nitidula, and C. spectabilis in the closely related sections Diploptychia, Heterodon, and Leptocalyx are hosts to Asphondylia sp. (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), a gall midge. Asphondylia is notable for its apparent symbiotic relationship to fungi which grow in the gall. Cuphea bombonasae, C. epilobiifolia, and C. spraguei, of section Heteranthus, are parasitized by Mompha sp. (Lepidoptera: Momphidae), a microlepidopteran that feeds on the reproductive organs of the flower. These are the first records of gall-forming genera parasitizing the Lythraceae and are new host records for the insects. Flowers infected by either parasite produce no seeds. However, the number of infected vs. non-infected plants is relatively low (14% gall midge infection in C. cyanea and 22% Mompha sp. infection in C. epilobiifolia), and among the multi-flowered inflorescences of any plant, at least 80 percent of the flowers remain free of galls, suggesting the gall makers strike a balance in their parasitism that does not excessively threaten the plant species on which it depends.
10.2307/2388500|The discovery of accumulations of monarch butterfly wings on the forest floor beneath a 2.25 hectare aggregation of overwintering monarch butterflies in the Sierra Chincua, Michoacan, Mexico suggested that small mammals prey upon these butterflies. During two trapping sessions in 1979 and 1980, we captured 112 Peromyscus maniculatus labecula. three Peromyscus spicilegus. one Microtus mexicanus salvus, and one Sorex saussurei. Feeding experiments showed that all three mouse species eat monarchs and that captive P. m. labecula killed and at least partially ate an average of 25 butterflies per night. Stomach contents of wild-captured P. m. labecula showed that they prey naturally upon the monarchs. Spectrophotometric and thin layer chromatography analyses of cardenolides in the stomach contents of both experimental and wild individuals indicated that the mice do not select or reject butterflies on the basis of cardenolide content. Rather than being adversely affected by feeding on monarchs, female mice were found to be larger, heavier, and reproductively more active in the butterfly colonies than outside them. The mutual impact between the Peromyscus population and the butterflies may be substantial.
2663896|The palm Raphia taedigera Mart. forms vast, monodominant swamps in Central and South America, but very little is known about the ecology and natural history of these ecosystems. Debate surrounds the issue whether R. taedigera swamps are early successional stages or mature "climax" communities. This paleoecological analysis of a 1.46-m sediment core from swamps on the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua establishes the abundant presence of R. taedigera swamps for at least 2800  90 years. R. taedigera swamps must be considered persistent communities, warranting further study because of their great extension into Central and South America.
41419465|Leaves and branches of mature trees, lianas, and gap species were warmed in an Amazonian forest for 4 mo to observe the effect of warming on photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and transpiration. Electric resistance heaters increased air temperatures near the leaves by approximately 2C. Sunlit leaf temperatures increased by 2-3C on average, but during some periods leaf temperatures increased by > 5C. Maximum photosynthesis (A max ) decreased significantly in the warmed leaves vs. the control leaves over the 13-wk study period with an average decrease in A max of 1.4 mol/ms (19% decrease from a mean A max of 7.2 mol/ms) when measured at 30C and there were no signs of acclimation to higher temperatures within existing leaves. The decline inA max was likely due to irreversible temperature damage caused by very high leaf temperatures and not due to C i limitation of carboxylation. Warming had a larger negative impact on A max in canopy level tree species than other tested functional groups such as lianas or gap species. Transpiration did not significantly increase in the warmed leaves compared with the control group. This study indicates that increased temperatures due to global warming could potentially decrease future tropical forest carbon uptake by a significant amount.
10.2307/2388579|Two mangrove communities, polluted and unpolluted, were compared in terms of herbivory intensity and the chemical characteristics of leaves of three mangrove species. Water, ash, chloride, sodium, total nitrogen, total phenolic compounds, soluble carbohydrates, and crude fiber in leaves were measured. Between-site differences showed no definite trend with respect to the effect of pollution load on herbivory intensity. Between-species differences were evident. Avicennia shaueriana had significantly lower values for percent of area eaten and for number of leaves attacked than the other two species, which in turn had similar values. Leaf composition was also different among species. Avicennia schaueriana showed significantly higher values of Na, crude fiber, and ash; lower values of total phenols and soluble carbohydrates; but similar values of Cl, water, and total N, in relation to the other two species. Laguncularia racemosa and Rhizophora mangle presented similar values for all parameters except total N and phenols, which were lower and, higher, respectively, in Laguncularia racemosa. Correlation analysis showed ash, crude fiber, and water contents to be negatively correlated with herbivory; soluble carbohydrates and phenols were positively correlated with herbivory; but Cl, Na, and total N did not correlate significantly with herbivory. The results showed that some factors associated with intensity of herbivory in other plant systems (e.g., nitrogen) are not associated with herbivory in these mangroves, and that anatomical adaptations (e.g., ash and fiber) may be more important as deterrents against herbivores than are secondary compounds
10.2307/2388756|Five species of Didelphid marsupials were trapped live, marked, and released in a secondary forest in French Guiana during a 26-mo field study. Data on body weight, body length, dental stage, and reproductive state of females were collected. A total of 851 individuals, including 372 pouch-young, were monitored in 2273 captures. This abundance of data we made led us to a comparative analysis of the population dynamics of three species: Didelphis marsupialis, Philander opossum, and Caluromys philander, which represented 94 percent of the whole captures. Some data on the two other species, Marmosa murina and M. cinerea, were added for comparison. These sympatric Didelphids are nocturnal, with a basically frugivorous and insectivorous diet. The three main species have high densities, high reproductive rates, short life-spans, and rapid population turnover. There are some differences in these parameters, mainly between the arboreal species, C. philander, and both terrestrial species, D. marsupialis and P. opossum. Although all have few social interactions and show a lack of territoriality, C. philander appear to have a longer life-span, a lower reproductive rate and a more sedentary population. M. cinerea were very rare in this area, whereas M. murina show large density variation.
2388880|We characterized plant regeneration in four old logging roads (700-1000 m long), 12-17 yr after abandonment, in selectively logged forests in lowland Costa Rica. Sets of 4-m
10.2307/2388037|The diversity and abundance of vascular epiphytes is greater in the neotropics than in other tropical regions. Previous observations indicate that this difference is partially due to the presence of large areas of montane cloud forest in the neotropics. In this study the distribution of epiphytes was compared in two montane regions, the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta and the Serrania de Macuira, both situated in northeastern Colombia. Our evidence shows, other factors being favorable, that the greatest abundance and diversity of vascular epiphytes are found in those montane regions where periods of cloud cover are most frequent, regular, and prolonged. Amount of rainfall is of little consequence to cloud-forest epiphytes; the greatest abundance of vascular epiphytes was found on the Serrania de Macuira, which experiences daily 14-hour periods of cloud cover and negligible rainfall for 10 months of the year.
10.2307/2387872|When carton nests or covered trails of Nasutitermes termites were breached experimentally, nasute soldiers were recruited rapidly to the break, while workers retreated into the nest or trail. Nasutes mobilized both in larger numbers and more rapidly to breaks in nests than at sites away from the nest. Nasutitermes formed an important part of the diets of two species of Tamandua anteaters. Anteaters, however, ignored or actively rejected most nests of Nasutitermes that they encountered, and fed primarily at concentrations of Nasutitermes in logs, branches, and covered trails away from the nest. Feeding at carton nests occurred mainly when these nests contained winged reproductives and nymphs or ants living in association with the termites. Feeding on Nasutitermes was often accompanied by grooming behavior. A captive T. mexicana rejected recently killed nasute soldiers while accepting both workers and reproductives of the same species. We suggest that the nasute soldiers are an effective defense against predation by anteaters on the nest and speculate on the role of mammalian termite-eaters in maintaining the Nasutitermes defense system.
20492513|Shaded coffee agroecosystems traditionally have few pest problems potentially due to higher abundance and diversity of predators of herbivores. However, with coffee intensification (e.g., shade tree removal or pruning), some pest problems increase. For example, coffee leaf miner outbreaks have been linked to more intensive management and increased use of agrochemicals. Parasitic wasps control the coffee leaf miner, but few studies have examined the role of predators, such as ants, that are abundant and diverse in coffee plantations. Here, we examine linkages between arboreal ant communities and coffee leaf miner incidence in a coffee plantation in Mexico. We examined relationships between incidence and severity of leaf miner attack and: (1) variation in canopy cover, tree density, tree diversity, and relative abundance of Inga spp. shade trees; (2) presence of Azteca instabilis, an arboreal canopy dominant ant; and (3) the number of arboreal twig-nesting ant species and nests in coffee plants. Differences in vegetation characteristics in study plots did not correlate with leaf miner damage perhaps because environmental factors act on pest populations at a larger spatial scale. Further, presence of A. instabilis did not influence presence or severity of leaf miner damage. The proportion of leaves with leaf miner damage was significantly lower where abundance of twig-nesting ants was higher but not where twig-nesting ant richness was higher. These results indicate that abundance of twig-nesting ants in shaded coffee plantations may contribute to maintenance of low leaf miner populations and that ants provide important ecosystem services in coffee agroecosystems.
30044020|We tested the impact of a predatory species of the family Miridae (Hemiptera) on its host plant Piper urostachyum (Piperaceae) by comparing folivory in mirid-excluded plants and controls. We also tested the effect of resident anyphaenid spiders on mirid behavior and levels of folivory. Plants without mirids suffered significantly more folivory than plants with mirids. The impact of spider removal was less clear. Together, these results support the idea that resident mirids serve in anti-herbivore defense for P. urostachyum plants. /// Investigamos el impacto de una especie depredadora de la familia Miridae (Hemiptera) en su planta husped Piper urostachyum (Piperaceae), comparando los niveles de folivora en plantas de las cules se excluyeron los Miridae y las plantas de control. Adems, se investig el efecto de araas de la familia Anyphaenidae en el comportamiento de los Miridae y en niveles de folivora. Las plantas sin Miridae sufriron ms dao por herbivora que las plantas con Miridae. El efecto de las araas no fue conclusivo. Conjuntamente, estos resultados apoyan la idea de que los Miridae sirven para defender P. urostachyum de sus herbvoros.
10.2307/2387772|Measurements over approximately a 30-year period in a Dacryodes-Sloanea forest indicate two distinctive phases in stand development. Secondary species were common in the early stand (1940's), and rapid accumulations of biomass and basal area were measured. Many new species entered the stand, and the number of stems increased. In contrast, the stand of the 1970's approached steady-state for biomass and basal area accumulations, and, relative to earlier measurements, fewer stems and fewer species were recorded in the plot. This apparent dichotomy can be correlated to the periodic disturbance caused by tropical storms. The last severe hurricane to strike Puerto Rico occurred in 1932, 11 years prior to the establishment of the El Verde plot. It is postulated that the early measurements reflect the rapid recovery of the stand following this hurricane, with both invading secondary species and residual primary species present in the stand. Subsequent perturbations (i.e., cutting and another storm) were insufficient to disrupt the unmistakable trend toward a mature forest and the stand quickly approached steady-state conditions.
2663904|The reproductive ecology of nine hermaphroditic understory species in a tropical montane Quercus forest was studied at two sites (2300 and 2600 m elev.) in the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica. Flower life span, studied in six species, averaged 4.4 d. This is longer than flower life spans found in the Monteverde cloud forest (2.7 d) and comparable to flower life spans found for arctic and alpine species. We studied the breeding system in five species and found no self-incompatible species. Four species proved self-compatible, and three of these showed autogamy. The main diurnal insect pollinator was the bumblebee Bombus ephippiatus. Natural fruit set was low (8-32%) in six species with few seeds per fruit, while two many-seeded species showed a high rate of fruit set (90 and 96%). The incidence of pre-dispersal seed predation was high; the percentage of seeds infested in four species ranged from 8 to 56 percent.
20492548|Information concerning the fruit production of timber species is important for the assessment of the effects of logging practices and for the improvement of harvesting techniques. We assessed the effects of stem diameter, crown illumination, and liana load on Chrysophyllum lucentifolium subsp. pachycarpum fruiting over a 3-yr period in areas subjected to conventional and reduced impact logging 10-13 yr prior to the study and within a control area, in the eastern Brazilian Amazon. We further used this data set to estimate the proportion of fertile trees harvested following the adoption of 90 percent harvesting intensity and two different minimum diameter cutting limits (MDCL). Liana presence on &gt; 50 percent of the crown was associated with a decrease in the odds of fruiting. Therefore, liana cutting aiming to increase fruiting output should target only trees in such a condition. We found no significant effects of logging treatments and crown illumination on the odds of fruiting. The percentage of reproductive trees, frequency, and intensity of fruiting increased markedly for trees &gt; 40 cm dbh. The proportion of fertile trees harvested following the adoption of 50 cm dbh MDCL is relatively low (13-15%) and therefore, this practice is likely to have a low direct impact on C. lucentifolium fruiting at the population level. However, even for a population with relatively small fertile individuals and low proportion of trees  50 cm dbh, the MDCL should not be &lt; 50 cm dbh, unless a lower harvest intensity is adopted.
2389125|Hurricane disturbance may have strong effects on plant-animal interactions important in plant reproductive success. Components of reproductive success (flowering, pollination, seed predation) in the tropical shrub Ardisia escallonioides (Myrsinaceae) were examined from 1991-1994 in four southern Florida populations. Hurricane Andrew struck three of the four populations on 24 August 1992. Hurricane Andrew delayed flowering by two months in 1992. In 1993 and 1994, the three hurricane-damaged populations had increased flowering and inflorescence production compared to 1991 and 1992, while the undamaged population had no flowering. Hurricane disturbance had different effects on generalist versus specialist plant-animal interactions. Species composition and relative abundance of the generalist pollinator community that visits A. escallonioides was similar before and after the hurricane, indicating little effect of the disturbance on this interaction. In contrast, populations of a specialist flower galling moth (Periploca sp., Cosmopterigidae) declined in 1992 following Hurricane Andrew. Although moth populations increased at two of the three sites in 1993, the relative impact of moth predation on seed production was low due to extensive flower production. One moth population suffered local population extirpation for two years, reestablishing itself in November 1994. Hurricane disturbance resulted in a window of opportunity for massive seed production of Ardisia escallonioides in south Florida. Total seed production in 1993 increased twelve to seventy-three times the 1992 levels. Total seed production declined in 1994, but remained high compared to prehurricane levels.
10.2307/2388784|Regional variation in the characteristics of gaps larger than 10 m
30043070|We studied the concentration of leaf N and C among 183 fern species along an elevational gradient at 1700 to 3400 m in humid montane forest in the Bolivian Andes at different levels of taxonomic resolution. For two species of Ehphoglossum sampled 8 and 14 times, respectively, there were no elevational trends. Similarly, a contrast of 22 species with wide elevational amplitudes sampled at their highest and lowest locations did not show any change in C or N contents, or in C:N ratios with elevation. At the community level, however, the mean values of C:N ratios for (a) all species found at a given elevation showed a significant decline with increasing elevation and (b) among epiphytic species, higher ratios (i.e., lower relative N content) than among terrestrial species at the same elevation. These trends were opposite to those of the upper soil layer, in which C:N ratios increased with elevation. /// Estudiamos 1a concentratin de N y C en las hojas de 183 especies de helechos a lo largo de un gradiente elevacional a 17003400 m en bosque montane hmedo en los Andes bolivianos, a diferentes niveles de resolucin taxonmica. Para dos especies de Ehphoglossum analizadas 8 y 14 veces, respectivamente, no encontramos cambios elevacionales. De mismo modo, una comparacin de las localidades ms bajas y altas de 22 especies con amplios rangos elevacionales tampoco mostr cambios en las concentraciones de C y N, o en la relacin C:N. Al nivel de comunidades, sin embargo, el valor medio de la relacin C:N ratios de (a) todas las epecies encontradas a una elevacin dada disminuy significativamente con la elevacin, mientras que (b) epfitas mostraron valores ms altos (es decir, concentraciones relativamente menores) que las especies terrestres en la misma elevacin. Estas tendencias fueron opuestas a las de los valores del suelo, donde los valores de C:N incrementaron con la elevacin.
30044917|We quantified nectar-robbing in two ornithophilus plant species by marking and monitoring robbed flowers and unrobbed flowers of each plant until fruit production. Significantly more marked unrobbed Cavendishia pubescens flowers successfully matured fruits than their robbed counterparts, while fruit set did not differ significantly between robbed and unrobbed flowers of Fuchsia venusta. In C. pubescens, birds of species known to be legitimate visitors sometimes behaved as secondary nectar robbers; conspecific birds handled flowers of F. venusta consistently. This behavioral change may contribute to the observed negative effect of nectar-robbing on reproduction of C. pubescens. /// Se cuantific el efecto del robo de nctar en dos plantas ornitfilas por mareaje y monitoreo de las flores robadas y las no robadas hasta la produccin de frutos. Ambas especies de plantas fueron visitadas por aves que visitaron legtimamente y por robadoras de nctar. Entre las flores robadas y no robadas de Cavendishia pubescens, hubo una diferencia significativa en la maduracin hasta fruto; no se encontr esta diferencia en Fuchsia venusta. Algunas de las aves que visitaron legitimamente las flores de C. pubescens fueron observadas como robadores de nctar secundarios; este comportamiento no se registr en F. venusta. Este cambio de comportamiento puede contribuir al efecto negativo observado del robo de nctar sobre la reproduccin de C. pubescens.
10.2307/2387743|We examined the structure of the community of epiphytes growing on Crescentia alba trees in Santa Rosa National Park. Costa Rica. Four orchid species were dominant in this community, showing a distinct order of colonization of the calabash trees, with Oncidium cebolleta colonizing first, Encyclia cordigera second, Brassavola nodosa third, and Laelia rubescens fourth. We were unable to find any differentiation of the locations of these species based on the physical characteristics of the sites. It is hypothesized that the colonization pattern observed is due to the quantity of propagules produced by each species.
10.2307/2389229|We compared soil phosphorus levels below canopies of the lowland tropical rain forest tree species Simarouba amara Aubl. with soil sampled beyond the edge of S. amara canopies. Our data show that trees affect soil phosphorus concentrations and that differences below individual trees are related to gender for this dioecious species. Soil sampled adjacent to female trees had significantly higher soil phosphorus levels for several different indices of phosphorus availability than soil sampled beyond tree crowns. Male trees did not significantly modify soil phosphorus levels. Analysis of total mineral phosphorus (Total-phosphorus) below and beyond the canopies of male and female of S. amara found no differences in the total amount of phosphorous combined within bound and labile soil fractions. We measured a small increase in soil organic matter under tree canopies, but found no gender-related difference. Our results indicate that increased phosphorus availability beneath female S. amara arises from a gender-related modification in phosphorus cycling rather than from higher recruitment of females on sites rich in phosphorus or organic matter. We suggest that gender-dependent controls on soil phosphorus may include below-canopy enrichment of available phosphorus due to fruit and litter cycling or increases in phosphorus transformation from bound to labile forms.
10.2307/2388653|Forest-understory, orb weaving spiders display at least two, alternative, foraging modes. Large spiders build one large web per feeding period. Although their webs intercept more prey than webs built by small spiders, the biomass of captured prey relative to spider biomass is low. In contrast, small spiders build three to five webs per feeding period. The ratio of prey biomass intake relative to spider biomass, however, is high. Small spiders may be able to tolerate high rates of web loss because of their potentially high rate of prey intake. However, for large spiders, the high rates of web loss may not be tolerable because of the low rate of prey biomass intake. This work shows that orb weaving spiders forage differently and that different patterns of web use have resulted in at least two very different, but equally effective, means of prey capture.
2663875|We compared the community structure, nutritive quality, and aboveground biomass of grazing lawns (patches of shortgrass communities) to neighboring grasslands in the Terai of western Nepal. Grazing lawns differed from the adjacent grasslands in species composition and community structure. Species diversity and species richness were higher on grazing lawns (H = 1.60, S = 20.93) than the grasslands (H = 0.97, S = 8.97). Fencing that excluded grazers for 150 days made areas of grazing lawns indistinguishable from neighboring grasslands in terms of plant height and biomass. Growing shoots of forage from grazing lawns had higher digestibility, crude protein, and sodium than forage from the grasslands. Grazing lawns appear to be maintained by continuous grazing and are enriched by deposition of urine, dung, and by certain plant species not found in the the adjacent grasslands.
10.2307/2989623| Collections of a stream-dwelling South American microteiid lizard were made during a 15-month period (1967-1968) at Tingo Mara, Peru. These were analyzed in terms of four seasonal three-month periods of a year. Spermatogenesis was found in all adult males throughout the year, though testis size was significantly reduced during the dry season. The follicular developmental sequence of females is outlined. The female population was reproductively active, fecund and/or ovigerous, throughout the year. The percentage of the population with oviducal eggs dropped sharply from the pre-dry season period to the dry season, but yolked follicle size was maximal during the dry season. Evidence from additional females collected during the dry season of 1971 suggests that reductions in percentage of ovigerous females during the dry season may fluctuate from year to year, depending upon environmental conditions. It was not possible to determine the proximal environmental factors, cues, regulating the reproductive cycles in N. ecpleopus, but rainfall may be involved in the female cycle. Correlations between precipitation changes and female reproductive activities were used in an attempt to identify the selective pressures influencing the reproductive cycle. Seasonal changes in food availability to adult females and hatchlings and effects of flooding on success of incubating eggs may be some selective pressures involved. Also, reproduction in N. ecpleopus is related to two possible evolutionary strategies in lizard reproduction. 
30043627|We evaluated the utility of stable-hydrogen isotope ratios in tropical bird tissues for detecting altitudinal migration events. Our results identified two of five species as altitudinal migrants in Nicaragua. This approach may circumvent the current limitations of mark-recapture techniques and enhance our ability to study this poorly characterized behavior. Abstracts in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2989715|Pollination observations were made for six Amazonian species of Lecythidaceae from five genera. Large bees were found to be the pollinators in five species and wasps in one species, Couroupita subsessilis Pilg. The species studied were allogamous, and flowers lasted only a single day. The diversity of androphore structure is discussed. The complex androphore structure is concluded to have evolved to protect the fertile stamens and to increase efficiency of pollination rather than as an adaptation to new pollinators.
10.2307/2388403|The effects of three levels of experimental defoliation on leaf production, reproductive behavior, and survival of an understory dioecious palm, Chamaedorea tepejilote, were studied. In both sexes leaf production usually increased significantly in defoliation treatments. Complete defoliation caused the highest leaf production in both male and female plants. Fifty percent removal of leaves increased the probability of reproduction of both female and male plants. Completely defoliated and undefoliated female plants had a similar probability of reproduction. Defoliated male plants produced more than twice the number of inflorescences as undefoliated controls while defoliated female plants did not differ significantly from control plants. No significant differences between treated and control plants were found in infructescent production. However, almost 50 percent of the inflorescences produced by completely defoliated palms failed to develop ripe fruit. Partial defoliation significantly increased fruit production. Completely defoliated palms produced as much fruit as the undefoliated controls in 1985, but twice as many in 1986. Survival was not affected by any defoliation treatment.
41419474|The structural complexity of habitats and the distance from the dispersion source are considered important determinants of species diversity. The fractal dimensions of substrates are a strong alternative measure for quantifying the structural complexity. In this paper, we tested the hypothesis that structural complexity and distance from a dispersion source affect the density and diversity of macro-invertebrates on submersed macrophytes. To test this hypothesis, we used artificial substrates with different fractal dimensions, which were incubated at different distances from a dispersion source (a stand of macrophytes) in a Neotropical floodplain lake. The relationship between the structural complexity of macrophytes and the density and diversity of invertebrates attached to artificial substrates was positive and significant. On the other hand, distance from the dispersion source negatively affected both the density and diversity of the attached invertebrates. For Oligochaeta, however, there was a significant effect of structural complexity for the artificial plants positioned further away, but it was not significant in the plants positioned closer to the dispersion source. Thus, the effects of complexity depended on the distance from the dispersion source, at least for this specific group of macro-invertebrates. These results suggest that both structural complexity and distance from the dispersion source should be considered together to explain the diversity of invertebrates in river-floodplain systems. In addition, our results show that there is great potential for using fractal dimensions as a tool to quantify structural complexity in aquatic habitats, especially at the small spatial scales perceived by macro-invertebrates.
30043036|We radio-tracked five red-rumped agoutis (Dasyprocta leporina) for two to nine months each at the Estao Ecolgica Ilha de Marac in the northern Brazilian Amazon. Agoutis fed primarily on seeds and pulp but also ate cotyledons, leaves, flowers, and invertebrates. Three plant species made up 63 percent of the feeding observations. Home range size varied from 3 to 8.5 ha. High-use areas and home range boundaries shifted from the season of high fruit availability to the season of low fruit availability as different individual trees became the focus of feeding activities. Agoutis foraged preferentially within conspecific patches of preferred fruit species and concentrated their feeding and scatterhoarding activities near individual fruiting trees. These results suggest that agoutis, as extremely short-distance seed dispersers, may contribute to the aggregated dispersion pattern of large-seeded tropical forest trees. /// Ns seguimos cinco cutias-vermhelhas (Dasyprocta leporina) marcados com tele-transmissores por dois  nove mses cada um na Estao Ecolgica Ilha de Marac, localizada no norte da Amaznia Brasileira. Os principais itens da dieta foram sementes e polpa de frutos, mas as cutias tambm consumiram cotiledones, folhas e invertebrados. Trs espcies de plantas foram responsveis por 63 porcento das observaes de dieta. O tamanho da rea de vida variou entre 3 e 8.5 ha. As reas mais usadas e as bordas da rea de vida variaram de acordo com as estaes de maior e menor disponibilidade de frutos porque diferentes rvores foram procuradas em diferentes estaes. As cutas preferiram forragear nas reas onde as espcies de sementes preferidas eram mais abundantes, e concentraram a alimentao e atividades de armazenamento nas regies prximas as rvores frutferas. Estes resultados sugerem que o papel das cutias como dispersores de sementes de curta distncia podem contribuir para a disperso agregada de rvores tropicais com sementes grandes.
30043029|We determined rates of acetylene reduction and estimated total nitrogen fixation associated with bryophytes, lichens, and decaying wood in Hawaiian montane rain forest sites with underlying substrate ranging in age from 300 to 4.1 million years. Potential N fixation ranged from ca 0.2 kg/ha annually in the 300-year-old site to ca 1 kg/ha annually in the 150,000-year-old site. Rates of acetylene reduction were surprisingly uniform along the soil-age gradient, except for high rates in symbiotic/associative fixers at the 150,000-year-old site and in heterotrophic fixers at the 2100-year-old site. Low fixation at the youngest site, where plant production is known to be N-limited, suggests that demand for N alone does not govern N fixation. Total N fixation was highest in sites with low N:P ratios in leaves and stem wood, perhaps because epiphytic bryophytes and lichens depend on canopy leachate for mineral nutrients and because heterotrophic fixation is partly controlled by nutrient supply in the decomposing substrate; however, differences in substrate cover, rather than in fixation rates, had the largest effect on the total N input from fixation at these sites.
10.2307/2388978|This study deals with the proportions of seeds, ovules and flowers-fruits aborted, and seeds formed per ovule per inflorescence, related to the weight and number (seed, ovule, flower and fruit) of reproductive structures among five life forms. The study shows that ovule abortion, flower-fruit abortion and seed per ovule per infructescence were significantly higher in trees than in annual and perennial herbs. The correlations between the characteristics of reproductive structures and the abortion levels revealed an increase of ovules aborted with the weight of fruits and seeds, the number of seeds per fruit and flower, fruit weight/flower weight ratio and seed per fruit weight/flower weight ratio from annual herbs to trees. The percentage of seeds per ovule per infructescence decreased with the increase of fruit weight, fruit weight/flower weight ratio, percentage of ovules aborted and flower-fruit aborted. These results suggest that the increase in the energetic investment in fruits and seeds can result in an increase in the number of ovules and fruits aborted from herbs to trees.
2663807|The species composition in the soil seed bank of degraded hillslopes in southern Wello, Ethiopia, was assessed using the seedling emergence method and compared with that of the standing vegetation. Surface soils were sampled at 0- to 5-cm depth from 49 plots of four physiognomic vegetation classes (hereafter vegetation classes): forests, shrublands, grasslands, and degraded sites. Soils were spread on sterile sand in a glasshouse and watered. Emerging seedlings were recorded for five months until no new seedlings emerged. A total of 3969 seedlings belonging to 71 species and 30 families germinated. The species composition of the seed bank was dominated by 53 herb species (75%) compared to 2 tree species which accounted for only 3 percent of the total number of species. Seedling density differed significantly among vegetation classes and ranged from 391 to 7807 seeds/m
10.2307/2388906|We measured the response of seed predators to variation in seed density and distance between seed sources of palms in North Queensland, Australia. Adult palm trees occurred at a density of 20/ha. Their distribution was highly clumped and more than half the immature plants occurred within 3 m of an adult. Adult palms were also arranged in lines down the slope, apparently reflecting patterns of seed carriage by overland water flow. Seed dispersal is also affected by cassowaries, a ratite which ranges over many hundreds of ha and deposits seeds in clusters. Small mammals which range over a few ha may deposit seeds as single entities (singletons). Many seeds remain undispersed beneath the female parent with heavy predation. In this study seeds were placed beneath adult trees at two densities and were dispersed over varying distances as clusters of ten seeds and as singletons. Pigs and earwigs were the principal predators but they did not destroy all the seeds in any treatment. However, the germination percentage of the remaining seeds was greatly depressed indicating that one or both predators were disproportionately selecting potential germinants. Pigs were responsive to both density of seeds beneath a tree and the distance between seed sources; they did not damage dispersed seeds to a great extent. Earwigs also destroyed seeds more heavily beneath adult trees, but they were more efficient than pigs at locating dispersed seeds. Rodent predation was light and not responsive to seed density or dispersal.
10.2307/2389078|A Polybia occidentalis wasp was conditioned to collect sugar-water from a blue card (CB). In discrimination experiments, the wasp was able to detect the CB card when it was placed among 11 other cards that were all white, different shades of gray, different colors, or different shades of blue. The wasp made fewer mistakes in later trials than in earlier trials of each experiment, showing that she learned to focus on cues that were sufficient for discriminating between the CB card and the other cards present. The wasp was very successful at discriminating the CB card from other cards of similar brightness but that differed in their spectral reflection properties. The wasp's most common mistakes were with cards that were most similar to the CB card in their relative spectral reflection curves at wavelengths shorter than 575 nm. Cards that were similar in this region, and also reflected longer wavelengths, were most commonly confused with the CB card. Cards with reflection peaks in the blue region but that also reflected other wavelengths shorter than 575 nm were not commonly confused with the CB card. Therefore, unlike a few hymenopteran species, Polybia does not seem to have a red-sensitive photoreceptor. Color vision was supported in that the wasp discriminated between the CB card and cards that varried in their spectral reflection properties, independent of light intensity This is the first behavioral demonstration of color vision in the Polistinae and could further our understanding of the evolution and ecology of this large group.
10.2307/2389179|Recent studies in Amazonia suggest that the ecological impacts of selective logging are minimal in floodplain areas where mechanized wood extraction is unfeasible. Yet demand for a wider range of tropical timber products is transforming forest exploitation in the Amazon floodplain. This paper examines early ecological changes associated with logging of virola (Virola surinamensis (Rol.) Warb.), an important export timber occurring in floodplain forests of the Amazon estuary. In a permanently inundated swamp forest characterized by an extraordinarily high volume of virola (243 m
10.2307/2388524|Well developed, complex rain forests of humid tropical lowlands (RFHTL) do not seem to support large populations of animals compared with other types of forest. Recent studies of terrestrial and understory species of tropical and subtropical forests indicate that the resources available to animals of RFHTL are generally scattered and uncommon. Human populations that utilize this environment contend with a similar pattern of resource availability. On the forest floor only ants and termites, among insects, are consistently common; they are utilized as food by a variety of specialized ground insectivores. Terrestrial herbivores that eat large fallen fruit are also generally scarce as are the often specialized insectivores that seek typically uncommon understory foliage insects. The low densities and high degrees of specialization that accommodate animal species to resources of RFHTL may be ultimately due to a combination of relatively low net primary productivity of undisturbed mature rain forest and the rapid rate of microbial decomposition of forest litter. To develop strategies of conservation suited to RFHTL it will be necessary to understand both the responses of animals to catastrophic disturbances and the often idiosyncratic ways in which animals and people utilize scattered and scarce resources.
10.2307/2389071|Measurements of driptips of understory plants in three different communities of the central Amazon-the "campina" (an open scrub) and the "campinarana" (a low forest), both occurring on sandy soils, and the high forest occurring on a clay soil-revealed that driptips were significantly more evident in high forest than in the other two communities, which were not different from each other. As these communities are located in the same region and exposed to the same climate, selection for driptips may have been more intense on clay soils than on sandy soils because the former are more susceptible to erosion. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that driptips provide a natural mechanism to reduce soil erosion by decreasing the drop size of leaf runoff. Soils exhibiting different sensitivities to erosion would then be associated with the degree of driptip development in understory plants.
10.2307/2387990|Termite population parameters and termite nest-nutrient content are compared among three nutrient-deficient vegetation types along the Rio Negro. Termite population parameters are positively associated with forest productivity, biomass, stature, and soil fertility. As calculated from these population parameters, a minimum of three to five percent of total litter is consumed by termites. However, the high spatial variance, or patchiness, of termite consumption and nutrient concentration may be much more important to forest dynamics. Termitaria form rich nutrient patches that contrast significantly with the highly weathered soils of the region. Termitaria are abandoned at a rate of 165  66 nests ha
30044040|Laughing falcon (Herpetotheres cachinnans) predation on coral snakes (Micrurus nigrocinctus) was recorded in two incidents that illustrate previously unreported variation in predatory behavior. In the first, the falcon held a live coral snake by the posterior end for an extended period of time, rather than decapitating it immediately. In the second, the falcon left a decapitated coral snake in a tree for more than 2 h before returning to recover its prey. A variety of behavioral adaptations may protect laughing falcons from coral snake venom. /// El halcn guaco (Herpetotheres cachinnans) fue observado depredando serpientes de coral (Micrurus nigrocinctus), en dos incidentes que ilustran una variacin en el comportamiento predatorio que hasta ahora no ha sido reportada. En el primer incidente, el halcn sujet una serpiente de coral viva en la parte posterior por un periodo extendido, en vez de decapitarla inmediatamente. En el segundo incidente, el halcn dejo una serpiente de coral decapitada en un rbol por ms de dos horas antes de regresar por su presa. Una variedad de adaptaciones en sus comportamientos podran proteger al halcn guaco del veneno de las serpientes de coral.
10.2307/2387939|The mangrove Pelliciera rhizophorae had a wide distribution in the Caribbean area until at least the beginning of the Miocene. By the early Pliocene its distribution had been reduced drastically. This reduction in range and its present distribution appears to be related to the influence of past and present climates on soil salinity regimes within the mangrove ecosystems. Intolerance of the species to soil salinities higher than 37% may explain its absence in the dry areas of the eastern Pacific coast. Abundant runoff from more humid uplands and localized areas of high tainfall have allowed the survival of small P. rhizophorae populations on the Caribbean coasts of Central and South America.
10.2307/2387996|Observations of birds eating the figs of a single Ficus continifolia (H.B.K.) tree in Costa Rican lowland deciduous forest indicate that a crop of ca 100,000 figs was exhausted in five days, of which 95,000 were removed during the first three days. Birds processed an estimated average of 20,828 figs/day (65.1% of the total daily consumption), and the difference (34.9%) represented fruits consumed by mammals and/or those falling to the ground. Parrots were responsible for 78 percent of the total taken by birds and 50.6 percent of the figs leaving the tree per day Use by these seed predators represents fruit (and seed) waste. The "true" avian dispersers (e.g., orioles, tanagers, trogons, flycatchers) took only ca 4600 figs/day An estimated 4.42 10
30043111|We investigated the distribution patterns of leaf mining insects along an elevational gradient in cerrado vegetation of southeastern Brazil. We tested four hypotheses related to the distribution of mining insects: (1) the "altitudinal gradient hypothesis," which predicts that mining insect species richness will decrease with altitude or elevation; (2) the "habitat-mediated richness hypothesis," which predicts that mining insect species richness will be higher in mesic habitats than in xeric habitats; (3) the "plant species richness hypothesis," which predicts that mining insect species richness will be positively correlated with plant species richness; and (4) the "plant architecture hypothesis," which predicts a positive correlation between mining insect species richness and plant structural complexity. A total of 33,000 herbs, 3520 shrubs, and 1760 trees were sampled at 44 sites across an elevational gradient of 700 m. Mining insect species richness and plant species richness showed a negative correlation with elevation in xeric habitats, while in mesic habitats mining insect species and plant species richness did not show any statistically significant relationship with elevation. The differential distribution of mining insect species between xeric and mesic habitats supported the habitat-mediated richness hypothesis, which states that miners would be more speciose in mesic, more favorable habitats. Mining species richness also increased with increasing plant structural complexity. The results suggest that the mining habit may not represent a strong adaptive strategy in protecting mining insects against desiccation. /// Ns investigamos os padres de distribuio de insetos minadores ao longo de um gradiente altiudinal no cerrado, no sudeste do Brasil. Testamos quatro hipteses relacionadas  distribuio de insetos minadores: (1) a "hiptese do gradiente altitudinal" que prediz que a riqueza de espcies de minadores aumenta com o decrscimo da altitude; (2) a "hiptese da riqueza mediada pelo habitat" que prediz que a riqueza de espcies de minadores deve ser maior em habitats msicos que em habitats xricos; (3) a "hiptese da riqueza de espcies de plantas" que prediz que a riqueza de espcies de minas deve ser positivamente correlacionada com a riqueza de espcies de plantas; e (4) a "hiptese da arquitetura da planta" que prediz uma correlao positiva entre riqueza de espcies de minas e complexidade estrutural das plantas. Foram amostradas 33,000 ervas, 3520 arbustos, e 1760 rvores, em 44 stios ao longo de um gradiente de 700 m: A riqueza de espcies de minadores e de plantas apresentou uma correlao negativa com a altitude em habitats xricos. Entretanto, em habitats msicos as espcies de minadores e a riqueza de espcies de plantas no apresentaram nenhuma relao estatisticamente significativa com a altitude. A distribuio diferencial de espcies de minadores entre habitats xricos e msicos corroborou a hiptese da riqueza mediada pelo habitat, segundo a qual a riqueza de minas deve ser maior em habitats msicos, que so mais favorveis. A riqueza de espcies de minadores aumentou com o aumento da complexidade estrutural da planta. Estes resultados sugerem que o hbito minador no deve representar uma forte estratgia adaptativa para fornecer aos minadores proteo contra dessecaao.
10.2307/2388731|Although bark eating is quite common among mammals, few species include it as a major item in their diet. The diet of the small squirrel Sundasciurus lowii on Siberut Island, Indonesia, consists mainly of bark. Physical characteristics, nutrient concentrations, and the presence of defense compounds were investigated in bark from 711, 13, and 57 food and nonfood trees, respectively. The results suggest that the squirrels select bark on large, smooth-barked trees with low levels of hydrolysable tannins, whereas concentrations of fat, crude protein, crude fibre, carbohydrate, and calorific value examined in a set of bark samples had no detectable influence on food tree selection.
20492472|Knowledge of survival rates of Neotropical landbirds remains limited, with estimates of apparent survival available from relatively few sites and species. We used capture-mark-recapture models to estimate apparent survival of 31 species from eastern Ecuador based on data collected from 2001 to 2006. Models assuming constant survival had highest support for 27 species; models incorporating effects of transients were highest for four. Average apparent survival across 30 species of passerines was 0.58 ( 0.02 SE); apparent survival was lower during the first interval after initial capture (: mean = 0.49  0.03) than during subsequent intervals (: mean = 0.60  0.02). Apparent survival was similar among three families represented by at least four species (Thamnophilidae: 0.57  0.03, N = 10; Furnariidae: 0.59  0.03, N = 5; Pipridae: 0.56  0.02, N = 4). There was no indication that species that occur in flocks had higher survival than nonflocking species (obligate flock members: 0.57  0.03, N = 10; facultative flock members: 0.56  0.04, N = 5; nonflocking: 0.59  0.03, N = 15). Comparisons of published estimates of apparent survival of tropical species demonstrated substantial differences among species and, in some cases, within species across different sites in the Neotropics. Our results support previous studies that concluded that early estimates of high (&gt; 85%) survival in tropical birds may not be representative of all tropical species. Future studies should focus on understanding factors (e.g., life-history traits) that promote differences in survival among species within tropical forests.
4132920|The post-dispersal fate of Chrysophyllum lucentifolium (a canopy tree; Sapotaceae) seeds was analyzed in French Guiana over three consecutive years. Experiments using 750 thread-marked seeds were performed to investigate seed removal, predation, and caching by terrestrial vertebrates on howler monkey (Alouatta seniculus) defecation sites, where clumps of intact C. lucentifolium seeds were observed. Year-to-year variations in seed fate during the peak fruiting period were considered in relation to overall fruit and seed resource availability estimated by a raked-trail survey. The effect of two forest areas, which differed in soil and floristic composition, was examined with conspecific fruiting tree density as a covariant. Exclosure versus open treatment was used to discriminate small rodents (not larger than a spiny rat) from other vertebrates. The presence of fresh howler dung did not affect seed fate after 20 days as shown by comparisons between defecation sites and control during the first year. There was a significant effect of year on the percentage of seeds remaining after 20 days. Low seed removal in 1995 and 1996 (compared to 1997) corresponded to higher overall fruiting and higher fruiting of C. lucentifolium, or the presence of alternative resources for rodents. An effect of forest area was observed on the seed removal rate, which varied with years and protection. Comparatively, an effect of forest area on the percentage of seeds lost was observed in 1996 and an effect of treatment on the percentage of seeds eaten was seen in 1995. The mode of seed caching suggested that spiny rats were the main seed remover. Results of this study suggest that greater seedling recruitment may occur when large fruit crop and high howler dispersal co-occur with a lower impact of rodents (i.e., when rodents are saturated by abundant and diversified fruit resources such as in 1995). Such event synchrony, however, is highly unpredictable after only three years of study.
2388834|We studied avian resource use in a native West Indian pine (Pinus occidentalis) forest in the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic during the nonbreeding season. The forest is characterized by a fairly open pine canopy and a dense mixed-broadleaf and pine understory. We used a principal components analysis of 23 foraging characters for 23 bird species, including foraging height, the proportional use of 5 different foraging methods, 3 horizontal positions and foliage densities, and 11 foraging substrates. Five principal components accounted for 74 percent of the total variance of the assemblage variables and resulted in the delineation of at least 5 foraging guilds. 78 percent of bird species had mean foraging heights of 5.0-10.0 m, corresponding to the region of overlap of pine and broadleaf vegetation. As a result, the diversity of foraging substrates and maneuvers used by birds, rather than foraging height, appears to be the primary means by which birds that exploit this habitat separate ecologically. Migrant wood warblers (Parulinae) are probably able to integrate into the community because of little diet overlap between residents and migrants, and the fairly specialized nature of their largely insectivorous foraging habits. Avian foraging in this habitat may reflect the effects of frequent disturbance such as hurricanes.
2663902|The floral syndrome of Macleania bullata Yeo (Ericaceae) reflects its adaptation to hummingbird pollination. Its flowers, however, are subject to high levels of nectar robbing. I examined the floral visitor assemblage of M. bullata in a tropical montane wet forest in southwestern Colombia, focusing on the behavior of the visitors. I also tested for the presence of nocturnal pollination and the effects of nectar removal on new nectar production. The principal floral visitors were the nectar robbing hummingbirds Ocreatus underwoodii (19.1% of visits) and Chlorostilbon mellisugus (18.9%). Only two species of long-billed hummingbirds visited the flowers of M. bullata as "legitimate" pollinators: Coeligena torquata (14.7% of visits) and Doryfera ludoviciae (14.3%). The remaining visits constituted nectar robbing by bees, butterflies, and other species of hummingbirds. Nocturnal pollination took place, although fruit set levels were 2.4 times higher when only diurnal pollination was allowed as opposed to exclusively nocturnal pollination. Nectar robbers removed floral nectar without pollinating the flower. Treatments of experimental nectar removal were carried out to examine if flowers synthesize more nectar after nectar removal. Nectar removal increased the total volume of nectar produced by each flower without affecting sugar concentration. Thus, nectar robbing can impose a high cost to the plants by forcing them to replace lost nectar.
40863784|Many conservationists are now convinced that the expansion of the world system of protected areas combined with appropriate levels of biodiversity persistence within human-modified landscapes would drastically mitigate the announced impoverishment of tropical biotas. In this context, an inherent/intrinsic biodiversity ability to persist and recover within human-modified landscapes has emerged as a 'trump card' in the conservation battle, renewing our hope in a more sustainable development of the tropical region. However, this optimistic perspective on the conservation value of human-modified landscapes sounds, a priori, a little unrealistic in face of the current knowledge on the nature of human environments and the spectrum of native species that is likely to persist there. Rather than relying on illusory levels of biodiversity resilience and consequent flexible land-use regulations, our real trump card reposes on a radical and ambitious shift from freely exploited landscapes to strictly managed ones, despite the misleading noise produced by those voices advocating for immediate and almost unlimited access to natural resources. Otherwise, we are condemning future human populations to live in biologically impoverished and fragile environments with limited opportunities for life support.
41057998|Ideas on the spatial variation of biodiversity often imply a causal link between the abundance and species richness of organisms. We investigated this 'more individuals hypothesis' using light-trapping data of three unrelated groups of moths (Arctiidae, Geometridae and Pyraloidea) from the Ecuadorian Andes. We analyzed environmental correlates of specimen densities found in different habitats, finding effects of temperature, moonlight, forest succession, elevation and season. We corrected abundance data for light-trapping artefacts, and we measured species diversity with various metrics known to be unbiased by undersampling. We found significant positive correlations between abundance and species diversity for all three taxonomic groups. We discuss implications for a general evaluation of species-energy theory as well as for a better understanding of ecological processes in montane habitats of the Andes.
10.2307/2388589|The time course of leaf litter disappearance of six rain forest tree species was monitored for 32 weeks at the El Verde lower montane rain forest study site in northeastern Puerto Rico. Dacryodes excelsa, Sloanea berteriana, and Drypetes glauca were chosen to represent primary climax species, while Cecropia peltata, Inga vera, and Ixora ferrea were selected to represent secondary successional species in this forest. The study was designed to elucidate differences in nutrient release associated with the successional position of different tree species to determine what properties of leaf structure influenced the observed rates of nutrient disappearance. The string, nonconfined, tethered leaf method was employed. Dry weights and concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium were determined over a period of 32 weeks. The secondary canopy species exhibited slower decay rates than did the primary species. The same pattern emerged between the secondary and primary understory species. The interacting effects of the leaf structural characteristics such as percentage lignin and percentage fiber correlated most strongly with observed decay rates. Nutrients were considered important in establishing organic matter resource quality but did not appear to influence decay rates; instead, nutrient dynamics reflected intervals of element immobilization, mineralization, and importation. Secondary species exhibiting specific combinations of structural properties may act to conserve nutrients by their slower rates of leaf litter disappearance.
27742819|Knowledge sharing between scientists and nonscientist stakeholders is necessary to implement research findings in an appropriate and effective manner within the context of the environment and conservation sectors. Yet scientific ecological knowledge is rarely shared and transferred effectively. This special section has addressed a number of opportunities and barriers to the improvement of scientific communication and knowledge transfer with respect to environmental management in tropical settings. A main challenge is seen in creating a research 'impact-metric' system, which is fundamental to foster knowledge exchange. Research relevance and impact will be improved by matching interdisciplinary research with local capacity building and support through research activities. We conclude that training the next generation of tropical biologists through more effective knowledge sharing will be crucial to the long term success of scientifically based environmental management in tropical regions.
30043061|We quantified patterns of vegetation removal and light availability above Atta colombica nests on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Ants cleared vegetation less than 1 cm in diameter from an area of 77 m, and up to 3 m above ground level. Overall light availability 1.5 m above ground level was 49 percent greater at ant nest sites than at sites in undisturbed understory. These higher light levels fell within the range known to enhance growth of both shade tolerant and pioneer species.
10.2307/2989622|The foraging behavior of three colonies each of two species of leaf-cutting ants (Atta colombica and Atta cephalotes) was studied for a year in the seasonal evergreen forest of Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. Foraging was predominantly nocturnal during the dry season and diurnal during the rainy season, probably induced by seasonal changes in rain patterns, insolation, and vegetative cover. Largest quantities of vegetation were harvested at the beginning of the rainy and dry seasons, in correlation with peaks in the number of plant species producing new leaves or flowering. Colonies harvested new leaves or flowers (especially during the dry season) as they became available. Though large amounts of mature leaves were available to them throughout the year, during the rainy season the ants cut the mature leaves of a limited number of host plant species. It is proposed that Atta ants select new leaves, flower parts, and mature leaves of certain plant species because of their suitability for the growth of their fungus gardens and therefore the colony.
20492576|Reduced-impact logging (RIL) represents a viable option for sustainable use of Neotropical lowland forests while minimizing negative effects on local biodiversity. Many Neotropical bats of the family Phyllostomidae provide ecosystem services associated with pollination and seed dispersal that promote the regeneration of disturbed areas; therefore, effects of RIL on these species is of particular concern. We determined patterns of temporal activity, degree of temporal overlap of activity, and dispersion in peaks of activity for seven abundant species of frugivorous bat in Tapajs National Forest, Par, Brazil. In addition, we evaluated the effects of RIL at a harvest level of 18.7 m/ha and habitat physiognomy on temporal patterns of activity for these species. Bats were surveyed for four nights at each of 96 sites for a total sampling effort of 64,512 net-m-h. Sites were distributed among four experimental blocks, two blocks of unlogged forest and two blocks of forest subjected to RIL. Half of the sites in each management type were in forest gaps and half were in closed-canopy forest. In general, species exhibited similar patterns of activity, and greater than expected temporal overlap in activity among species. RIL and forest physiognomy had little effect on activity patterns of species. RIL in Amazonia removes fewer trees than do naturally occurring treefalls and such changes in habitat structure do not alter activity patterns of frugivorous bats. Evidence suggests that RIL does not have an appreciable adverse effect on frugivorous bats in Amazonia.
10.2307/2387652|Increase in biomass and variations in plant and soil nutrient content with tropical forest succession were investigated in the Uxpanapa region of Veracruz, Mexico. Two successional stages were studied; a ten-month-old "Acahual" with a biomass of 530 g/m
30043032|Epiphytes perform critical functions in primary tropical forests, but their ecological roles have only rarely been studied in secondary forests or in forest plantations. We assessed the composition and distribution of epiphytic bromeliad communities in four- and eight-year-old replicated experimental monospecific tree plantations (3 species) at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. The bromeliad communities of these stands are dominated by two species Guzmania monostachya (L.) Rusby ex. Mez and Vriesea gladioliflora (H. Wendl.) Antoine. We identified bromeliads on over 700 trees and estimated their biomass and leaf area. Mean bromeliad biomass ranged from 2 to 8 g/tree in the four-year-old plots and from 20 to 94 g/tree in the eight-year-old plots. The mean bromeliad leaf area ranged between 104 and 704 cm/tree and from 1600 to 8500 cm/tree in the four- and eight-year-old plots, respectively Although bromeliads accounted for less than 2 percent of the total foliar biomass and leaf area in both four-year-old and eight-year-old plots, the biomass of bromeliads exhibited a 5- to 46-fold increase between the four-year-old anc eight-year-old plots, respectively. Bromeliads showed clear patterns of host tree preference, which may be attributed to host tree characteristics that differentially favor recruitment and survivorship. Between four and eight years of growth, differences among host tree species with respect to the amount of available host tree woody biomass, host tree foliar biomass, and host tree leaf surface area were positively correlated with the abundance of epiphytic bromeliads. /// Se ha documentado que las epfitas ejecutan funciones crticas en bosques tropicales primarios. Sin embargo, se sabe muy poco de su ecologa en bosques secundarios o en plantaciones forestales. Determinamos la composicion, distribucin, y la abundancia de comunidades de bromelias epifticas en plantaciones forestales experimentales de 4 y 8 aos de edad en la Estacin Biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica. Dos especies de bromelias, Guzmania monostachya (L.) Rusby ex. Mez. y Vriesea gladioliflora (H. Wendl.) Ant., dominan las comunidades de epfitas en estas plantaciones Un anlisis de la altura sobre el suelo a la que se encuentran las bromelias y de su distribucion de tamao, realizado en ms de 700 rboles, junto con medidas del rea foliar y biomasa, demostr que el rea foliar de las bromelias es <2% del total en parcelas de 4 y 8 aos de edad. La biomasa promedio de bromelias vara entre 2-8 g/rbol en las parcelas de 4 aos, y entre 20-94 g/rbol en las parcelas de 8 aos. El rea foliar promedio de las epfitas estudiadas en las parcelas de 4 aos fu de 104-704 cm/rbol, y entre 1600 y 8500 cm/rbol en las parcelas de 8 aos. La biomasa de bromelias aument de 5 a 46 veces ms entre los 4 y los 8 aos, mientras que el rea foliar aument de 2 a 40 veces ms. Entre los 4 y 8 aos de edad, los cambios en la abundancia relativa de epfitas estuvieron relacionados positivamente con la edad del substrato y con la fenologa de las hojas.
20492578|Macadamia tetraphylla is a subtropical rain forest tree from fragmented lowlands in eastern Australia. Owing to habitat loss and fragmentation, this commercially important species is vulnerable to extinction. Breeding system and fecundity were investigated in nine populations incorporating three habitat types (moderately disturbed, highly disturbed, and intact) to determine if seed set, seed weight, and genetic diversity are compromised by disturbance. Breeding success was also tested using pollen donors from distant (30-100 km), local (2-3 km), neighbor (10-20 m), and near-neighbor (&lt; 10 m) sources. Macadamia tetraphylla is weakly self-compatible but incapable of automatic self-pollination. Across populations, seed to flower ratios were always &lt; 0.1 percent in open-pollinated trees and trees from moderately disturbed habitats had the highest fruit production. Outcross pollen produced more seed per raceme than open-pollinated or self-pollination treatments. Seed set and seed weights were positively influenced by pollen source with local pollen and distant pollen effecting more or heavier seeds. Germination rates and genetic diversity did not vary significantly in seedlings from different pollen sources. Results suggest a pollen source from at least a 2 km distance is an optimal outbreeding distance; however, many wild populations do not have conspecifics at optimal distances owing to habitat fragmentation. Highly disturbed populations are producing seed but the longevity of these sites is threatened by weed invasions. We conclude that small populations in degraded habitats that are at risk of being overlooked should not be ignored but should be a focus for restoration efforts as they are a valuable asset for the conservation of M. tetraphylla.
10.2307/2387953|In Costa Rica, the "mala mujer" (or "evil woman") (Cnidoscolus urens (L.) Arthur ssp. urens. Euphorbiaceae), is protected from herbivores by urticating hairs and sticky latex. Erinnyis ello L. larvae (Lepidoptera: Sphingidae) exploit C. urens as a food source using an unusual and previously undescribed behavior. Before attempting to feed on a leaf, a larva grazes the hairs from the petiole, then constricts the petiole, effectively stopping latex flow into the leaf. The larva thus avoids the deleterious effects of copious latex flow normally resulting from a break in the plant's epidermis. The process of latex flow prevention appears to be mechanical, as shown by laboratory and field experiments.
10.2307/2387829|The small terrestrial mammals of an isolated Malaysian mountain were studied by live trapping and removal techniques. Population densities were estimated by removal trapping and compared with other estimates. The altitudinal distribution was examined using four line transects and a grid from 150-1000 m. The common tree shrew, Tupaia glis, occurred at all elevations, but the rats Leopoldamys sabanus. Maxomys surifer/rajab and M. whitebeadi were replaced by Niviventer bukit and Berylmys bowersii at 1000 m. Biomass estimates appeared to be greater than those given for small ground mammals in other Malayan rainforests, but less than those in Neotropical forests. Tupata glis showed a definite breeding season. Survival rate for Maxomys surifer was 0.80/month. All trapped animals ate insects, but these were major items only for Tupaia glis, Leopoldamys sabanus. and Maxomys surifer
30043291|The interactive effects of forest disturbance and fragmentation on tropical tree assemblages remain poorly understood. We examined the effects of forest patch and landscape metrics, and levels of forest disturbance on the patterns of floristic composition and abundance of tree functional groups within 21 forest fragments and two continuous forest sites in southern Brazilian Amazonia. Trees were sampled within 60 (10 x 250 m) plots placed in the core areas of the fragments. Tree assemblage composition and abundance were summarized using nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS). Forest patch size explained 36.2 percent and 30 percent of the variance in the proportion of small-seeded softwood and hardwood stems in the 21 forest patches, respectively. Large fragments retained a higher abundance of hardwood tree species whereas small-seeded softwood trees appear to proliferate rapidly in small disturbed fragments. Generalized linear mixed models showed that time since fragmentation had both positive and negative effects on the density of different functional groups of trees and on the ordination axes describing tree abundance. The composition and abundance of different tree genera were also related to time since fragmentation, distance to the nearest edge, and fire severity, despite the recent post-isolation history of the forest patches surveyed. Both the proliferation of fast-growing pioneer trees and the decline of hardwood trees found in our forest plots have profound consequences on the floristic composition, forest dynamics, carbon storage, and nutrient cycling in Amazonian forest fragments.
10.2307/2389075|The effects of fire on growth of Palicourea rigida (Rubiaceae) were significant in a comparison between adjacent burned and unburned sites in cerrado savanna vegetation near Brasilia, Brazil. Many more small and young leaves appeared after the fire in the early part of the wet season, and leaves after the burn were much less tough for a given leaf length class than in the unburned area (unburned area leaves were 150% tougher). Growth of host plants after fire resulted in higher colonization of a leaf-galling midge in the genus Contarinia (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) as yet unnamed at the species level. On the highest intensity of attack per leaf length class, galls were over five times more abundant per leaf in the burn than in the unburned area. Within the galls larvae survived better in the burned site, and numbers of surviving larvae at the end of the first generation were 5.4 times higher per leaf than in the unburned area. An even stronger effect of fire was observed in the second generation of gallers after the fire, when no living larvae could be found in the unburned area, but 17 living larvae per 100 leaves occurred in the burned site. These results supported the Plant Vigor Hypothesis, because regrowth after fire produced younger more tender leaves favorable for herbivore attack. The importance of fire in a landscape as a disturbance factor in cerrado, which rejuvenates plant growth, increasing favorability for many insect herbivores, deserves more attention and study.
30043239|We surveyed nonbreeding Northern Waterthrushes (Seiurus noveboracensis) in several coastal habitats in southwestern Puerto Rico, West Indies. Waterthrush abundance was highest (mean = 2.2/point) in well-developed mangrove habitats characterized by large trees and standing water, and lowest (mean = 0.1 /point) in dry coastal scrub and savannah. Within the latter habitats, waterthrushes were more common in moist microhabitats such as temporary ponds and dry washes. Abundance in most habitats declined between October and January, probably a result of the presence of transients during the October surveys, Between January and March, abundance in mature red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) forests increased dramatically, suggesting that this habitat provides a refuge for birds at the end of the dry season and prior to northward migration. In conjunction with other data demonstrating the use of coastal red mangroves as nocturnal roosting sites, these results suggest that mangroves are the most important nonbreeding habitat for this species. Conservation of this globally threatened habitat may thus be important for the long-term stability of waterthrush populations. /// Hicimos observaciones del chipe charquero (pizpita de mangle) en varias regiones costeras en el sudoeste de Puerto Rico durante la poca de no apareamiento. La abundancia del chipe charquero fue ms alta (el medio = 2.2/punto) en regiones bien desarrolladas de mangle rojo (Rhizophora mangle), caracterizadas por rboles grandes y agua encharcada, y ms baja (el medio = 0.1/puntos) en la floresta seca de la costa y la sabana. En estas regiones, el chipe charquero fue ms comn en microregiones hmedas, tal como estanques temporneos y pantanos secos. La abundancia en la mayora de regiones baj entre octubre y enero, debido probablemente a la presencia de transentes durante las observaciones de octubre. Entre enero y marzo, la abundancia en manglares rojos maduros aument dramticamente, lo que sugiere que esta regin provee un refugio para las aves al final de la poca seca y antes de la emigracin al norte. Estos resultados, en conjuncin con otros datos que demuestran que el uso de los mangles rojos como sitios nocturnos para perchas, sugieren que el manglar es ms importante durante la poca de no apareamiento para esta especie. As, la conservacion de este hbitat amenazada globalmente talvez podr ser importante para la estabilidad a largo plazo de las populaciones del chipe charquero.
10.2307/2989657|Buttressing in tropical rain forest trees has been the subject of numerous monographs seeking to associate the phenomenon with various environmental or ecological factors. Since Senn (1923) and Navez (1930) showed a strong correlation between anchorage conditions and the appearance of buttresses on the upwind sides of trees, buttresses have been generally accepted as structural members helping to support the tree. The mechanism by which the support is provided has not been previously explored. This paper seeks to determine, by the application of engineering analysis, how the buttress contributes to the structural integrity of the tree. Also, a comparison is made between the advantages inherent in the buttressed configuration and the traditional root anchorage system.
10.2307/2989688|A recensus of the Amboseli vervets in 1975 revealed a significant decline of about 43 percent in their numbers since 1964. The young juvenile age class showed the greatest decrease; the juvenile age class had declined less. Numbers of adults and subadults seemed unaffected, although there was a suggestion of an incipient decline in the males of these two age classes. This decrease in vervets is attributed to a natural reduction in their food resources. Natality remained high, and the birth season had not changed.
10.2307/2388168|A nest of Rhinocorynura inflaticeps, a rare Brazilian halictine bee, is described for the first time. The main burrow ends in a cavity in which the brood cells are clustered. No blind burrow issues from the cavity. The cell cluster is brittle and supported by pillars. The vertical cells are not closely spaced. In general appearance the nest resembles those of Pseudaugochloropsis and Neocorynura. Known nest types of Augochlorini are reclassified using arrangement and orientation of cells and presence or absence of lateroid burrows. Compared with those of Halictini, nests of Augochlorini are generally more specialized by absence of laterals, frequent appearance of clustered cells, and frequent vertical orientation of cells. A cladistic analysis of augochlorine nest types suggests the parallel evolution of two types of cluster nests, one with thick-walled clusters of predominantly vertical cells and one with thin-walled clusters of horizontal or tilted cells, and a secondary evolution of the supposedly primitive unclustered cells of Augochlora (Oxystoglossella). Nest types suggest that Paroxystoglossa and Augochlorodes were incorrectly placed in generic groups based on adult morphology.
40863795|Wood specific gravity is the single best descriptor of wood functional properties and tree life-history traits, and it is the most important variable in estimating carbon stocks in forests. Tropical pioneer trees produce wood of increasing specific gravity across the trunk radius as they grow in stature. Here, we tested whether radial increases in wood specific gravity were dependent on a tree's diameter or its age by comparing trees of different diameters within cohorts. We cored trunks of four pioneer species in naturally regenerating, even-aged stands in the lowland, wet forests of Costa Rica. For each core, specific gravity was determined for 1-cm radial wood segments, pith to bark. Increases across the radius were evident in all four species studied, and in four different stands for one species. For any given species in a given stand, the rate of radial increase in specific gravity as a function of radial distance from the pith was greater in smaller diameter trees. As the trees in a stand represent a colonizing cohort, these results strongly suggest that the radial increases in specific gravity in lowland pioneers are associated with tree age, not with tree diameter. Furthermore, the specific gravity of the outermost wood was not associated with tree radius, further negating size dependence. One consequence of these results is that species-specific biomass estimates for trees in secondary forests are likely to be confounded by age, as diameter alone may be a poor indicator of specific gravity in individual trees for pioneers of tropical wet forests.
30045370|We hypothesized that salinity and light interactively affect mangroves, such that net photosynthesis, growth, and survivorship rates increase more with increase in light availability at low than high salinity. Using greenhouse and field experiments, we determined that net photosynthesis, growth rates, and size increased more with light at low than high salinity. At high salinity, the ratio of leaf respiration to assimilation increased fourfold, suggesting that salinity may have contributed to declines in net photosynthesis. Stomatal conductance, leaf-level transpiration, and internal
10.2307/2989811|The nest of Stelopolybia areata (Say) differs from the known nests of congeners in that it is built in exposed sites and has a covering envelope. Mature nests are ovoid in shape, 40-45 cm long by 32-34 cm in diameter, with the entrance at the bottom. The 8-9 combs appear at first glance to be concentric spheres, but are actually arranged into a continuous, three-dimensional spiral. The cells of the outermost comb, directly beneath the envelope, are covered by the workers with carton, forming closed air spaces. Mature nests contain approximately 100,000 cells. The three types of cell initiation used by S. areata (petiolate, lateral, sessile) are defined. Construction begins with a patch of sessile cells built on the supporting branch. This structure is expanded into a freely hanging semicylindrical comb. One edge of the lower portion of this comb is expanded laterally, overlapping the other edge and forming the beginning of the spiral. New petiolate combs are formed on top of the initial comb, and are expanded laterally and downward to fuse with the growing spiral below. Estimated adult populations of four nests ranged from 6000 to 8500, with from 5.5 to 12.2 percent queens. Queens are significantly larger than the workers and differ from them in color and in the shape of the first abdominal tergite. No males were found. Nests collected in southern Veracruz in January contained adult populations but no brood. Oviposition begins in February. Distribution of meconia suggests that nests are reused during a second season and possibly during a third.
10.2307/2387662|Between 10 January and 14 February 1976, activity patterns, habitat use, and selection of prey by some insectivorous bats were studied in mopane and brachystegia deciduous woodlands in the Sengwa Wild Life Research Area of the Hostes Nicolle Institute of Wild Life Research in Rhodesia (18
30043285|We quantified the fruit set of four Acacia spp. inside and outside of long-term experimental exclosures in order to examine the fitness consequences of herbivory by large mammals. We found a considerable interspecific variation in the reproductive fitness costs of herbivory in four African Acacia spp. Acacia nilotica and A. brevispica respond to protection from large mammalian herbivores by greatly increasing their seed set. In contrast, there was little or no increase in seed set in A. mellifera and A. etbaica. The reasons for these differences are not known, but may be related to armament morphologies.
2663767|We provide the first data on nocturnal pollination by bees. Heterophragma quadriloculare is a self-incompatible hermaphroditic tree solely pollinated at night by the carpenter bee Xylocopa (Mesotrichia) tenuiscapa Westwood, whose pollinating flights were lunar insensitive and unaffected by low nighttime temperatures (2-14
30043227|Among their effects on forest structure and carbon dynamics, hurricanes frequently create large-scale canopy gaps that promote secondary growth. To measure the accumulation of aboveground biomass (AGBM) in a hurricane damaged forest, we established permanent plots 4 mo after the landfall of Hurricane Joan on the Atlantic coast of Nicaragua in October 1988. We quantified AGBM accumulation in these plots by correlating diameter measurements to AGBM values using a published allometric regression equation for tropical wet forests. In the first measurement year following the storm, AGBM in hurricane-affected plots was quite variable, ranging from 26 to 153 Mg/ha, with a mean of 78 (15) Mg/ha. AGBM was substantially lower than in two control plots several kilometers outside the hurricane's path (331 15 Mg/ha). Biomass accumulation was slow (5.36  0.74 Mg/ha/yr), relative to previous studies of forest regeneration following another hurricane (Hugo) and agricultural activity. We suggest that large-scale, homogenous canopy damage caused by Hurricane Joan impeded the dispersal and establishment of pioneer trees and led to a secondary forest dominated by late successional species that resprouted and survived the disturbance. With the relatively slow rate of biomass accumulation, any tightening in disturbance interval could reduce the maximum capacity of the living biomass to store carbon. /// Los huracanes pueden afectar la estructura y dinmica de carbono de los bosques mediante la formacin de grandes aperturas del dosel, las cuales estimulan el crecimiento de vegetacin secundaria. Para medir la acumulacin de biomasa sobre el suelo en un bosque afectado por un huracn, establecimos parcelas permanentes cuatro meses despus del paso del huracn Juana en la Costa Atlntica de Nicaragua en 1988. Cuantificamos la acumulacin de biomasa sobre el suelo mediante el uso de ecuaciones de regresin alomtrica desarrolladas con datos de dimetro y biomasa de rboles de bosques hmedo trpicales. En el primer ao despus del huracn, la biomasa en las parcelas dentro del rea afectada por el huracn fue muy variable, con un mbito de 26-153 Mg/ha, con un promedio de 78 (15) Mg/ha. Se estim una biomasa de aproximadamente 331 (15) Mg/ha en dos parcelas de control a varios kilmetros del rea afectada por el huracn. La acumulacin de biomasa fue lenta (5.36  0.74 Mg/ha/yr) en las parcelas afectadas en comparacin a reportes de regeneracin despues de otro huracn (Hugo) o posterior a uso agrcola. Estos resultados sugieren que el impacto extensivo y homogneo del huracn Juana impidio la dispersin y establecimiento de especies pioneras, llevando a la formacin de un bosque secundario compuesto por especies de sucesin tarda que rebrotaron y sobrevivieron al impacto del huracn. La baja tasa de acumulacin de la biomasa, sugiere que un incremento en la frecuencia de disturbios podra reducir la capacidad mxima del bosque de almacenar carbono en la biomasa viva.
30043083|In an effort to understand variations in ecological patterns among lowland tropical rain forests, Alwyn Gentry and colleagues synthesized data sets from four of the premier Neotropical field stations-La Selva (Costa Rica), Barro Colorado Island (Panama), Cocha Cashu (Peru), and the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragmentation Project (Brazil). To promote the kind of geographically comparative tropical ecology advocated in the 1990 Gentry book, the Organization for Tropical Studies and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute organized a course in 2001 that visited each of these field stations. Papers from some of the studies resulting from this course are highlighted in this special section. These studies are notable for the consistent methods applied across forests, and they underscore the acute need and bright future for comparative tropical ecology. Key site characteristics for each of the field stations are summarized here. /// En un esfuerzo de entender las variaciones en patrones ecolgicos entre selvas tropicales de bajura, Alwyn Gentry y colegas sintetizaron bases de datos en las cuatro principales estaciones biolgicos del Neotrpico: La Selva (Costa Rica), Barro Colorado Island (Panam), Cocha Cashu (Per), y el Proyecto de Dinmica Biolgica de Fragmentacin de Bosque (Brasil). Con el fin de promover el estudio ecolgico tropical comparativa a nivel geogrfico recomendada por Gentry en 1990 la Organizacin para Estudios Tropicales y el Smithsonian Tropical Research Institution organizaron un curso en el ao 2001, el cual visit cada una de stas estaciones. Los artculos cientficos de algunos de los estudios producto de este curso se presentan en esta seccin especial. Estos estudios son notables debido a la consistencia en los metodologa aplicada a travs de los cuatro sitios. Asimismo, estos estudios denotan la necesidad y el potencial de llevar a cabo ms investigacin a nivel de ecologa tropical comparativa. Caractersticas importantes para cada una de las estaciones de campo son resumidos en esta seccin.
30045461|Birds face varying risk from parasites as they select and utilize habitat. Unfortunately, behavioral and habitat correlates of parasitism in birds are not well documented. This study combines data from a foraging behavior study with results from a banding study to test whether behavior and habitat affect an ectoparasite infestation by trombiculid mite (chigger) larvae on the bird community found in two different coffee agroecosystems in Chiapas, Mexico. Individuals from bird species with regular prevalence (i.e., infestation) foraged more frequently in lower vegetative layers and had significantly lower foraging height than those from species with little or no prevalence, suggesting that foraging near the ground increases exposure risk to chigger larvae. Using linear regression, across species, parasite prevalence decreased with increasing average foraging height. Lower infestation rates were found in coffee agroecosystems with higher management intensity (i.e., less shade and drier conditions), suggesting that management activities influence infestation rates. Consequently, drier tropical habitats may pose less risk to birds from ectoparasites, though seasonal prevalence was highest during the winter dry season. Although no direct link was found between host condition and infestation by chigger larvae on the wintering grounds, birds were sampled during the middle of the over-wintering period, not the end when infestation could affect birds fattening for migration. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30043637|Montane evergreen forest in SE Asia is structurally and floristically different from lowland habitats. The response of large mammals to this variation is largely unexplored. We used sign transects to compare community structure of large mammals in montane (>1100 m), and lowland (<1100 m) forest types over 4 yr in western Thailand. Relative abundance of most ungulate species was significantly higher in lowland forest, except for elephant (Elephas maximus) and tapir ( Tapirus indicus), which were most abundant in montane forest (based on chi-square tests of sign encounter rates). Sexual segregation was apparent for gaur (Bos gaurus): breeding herds were concentrated in the lowlands, whereas single males were most abundant in montane forest. Large cat abundance was similar in both elevation zones. Tapir, single gaur, and bears (Ursus spp.) characterized the montane mammal community, whereas most other ungulate species and social groups were indicative of lowland forest (based on discriminant function analysis). Results pertain only to the dry season; seasonal movements could alter the patterns we observed. Differences in community structure between elevation zones are hypothesized to result from differences in habitat structure, resource availability, and human impacts. Lowland forests provide bamboo, grass, and mineral licks, probably accounting for higher ungulate densities despite higher levels of hunting. These resources are scarce in montane forest. However, montane forest functions as a refuge for at least three globally threatened large mammal species, because commercial hunting is concentrated in the more accessible lowlands. Abstract in Thai is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
2663816|During a five-year field study, we made observations and conducted experiments to demonstrate unequivocally that Euphyonarthex phyllostoma (Fulgoromorpha: Tettigometridae) is a myrmecophile. Isolated adults and colonies always were found in association with ants. Colonies were associated only with Camponotus brutus or C. acvapimensis (Formicinae), whereas isolated adults were attended by ants belonging to several species of Formicinae, Dolichoderinae, and Myrmicinae. The size of the planthopper colonies reached higher levels when attended by C. brutus than by C. acvapimensis. Experiments using ant exclusion showed that both ant species protected egg masses against parasitic wasps, but egg masses were less parasitized on trees occupied by C. brutus than on those occupied by C. acvapimensis (P = 0.0052). The production of egg masses by female hoppers was recorded only when C. brutus, C. acvapimensis, or the myrmicine ant Myrmicaria opaciventris attended the hopper. In both former cases, the presence of ants influenced the aggregation of the nymphs as they dispersed when ants were excluded. The aggregation of the nymphs ensured that they were properly attended. Parental care by the females was reduced to their presence above or close to the egg masses. In fact, specialized workers of the attending ant species protected the egg masses as well as nymphs.
27742843|Floral characteristics often indicate the pollinators' functional group visiting the plant and the pollination syndromes associated with them. This idea has been challenged in the past decades due to increasing evidence that most plants, including those exhibiting floral syndromes, are visited by large arrays of species that differ in their effectiveness as pollinators. Our study focuses on Mecardonia tenella (Plantaginaceae) from the Araucaria forest of southern Brazil, which exhibits characteristics of the oil flower pollination syndrome. However, it is visited by three types of functional groups of bees: male orchid bees, oil-collecting bees, and pollen-seeking bees. The relative contribution of each functional group to the plant's reproductive success was estimated based on their pollen load, visitation frequency, and morphology. We assessed resources, phenology, and breeding system of M. tenella. Our results indicate that flowers lack nectar, but volatiles, lipids, and pollen are resources that can be gathered by visitors. This combination of floral traits and visitors' assemblage makes M. tenella a challenge to the concept of pollination syndromes. Our findings indicate that the current interactions may not reflect the circumstances under which some floral traits of this plant were selected.
30043035|Foliar herbivory and abundance of folivorous insects were studied on shrub species (Miconia glaberrima, Moussonia deppeana, Ocotea psychotrioides, and Palicourea padifolia) in a tropical montane cloud forest, Veracruz, Mexico. Monthly, we determined folivore damage, insect abundance on leaves, and microenvironmental variables (air and soil temperatures, relative humidity, and soil water content). Folivory per month varied between 2.04  0.45 percent in April and 4.41  0.86 percent in September. The highest levels of folivory occurred during the end of the wet-warm season (Palicourea), the relatively dry-cool season (Miconia and Ocotea), or during both seasons (Moussonia). Eighty-eight percent of the herbivores were caterpillars (Lepidoptera). Insect abundance was lower in the dry-warm and the beginning of wet-warm seasons (April-July) and higher during the wet-warm and dry-cool seasons. Leaf production was continuous throughout the year for Miconia, Moussonia, and Palicourea; Ocotea had a leafing peak during December-March (dry-cool). Folivory and insect abundance were negatively correlated with maximum temperature and positively correlated with soil water content. The correlations between folivory and leaf production were not significant for any of the studied species. Because leaves are produced throughout the year (except for Ocotea), insect abundance was not related to leaf flush. Also, folivory and insect abundance were not correlated (except for Palicourea). Thus, foliar phenology may not be an escape from herbivory, at least for the studied shrub species. Rather, environmental conditions may play an important role in insect abundance and indirectly affect foliar herbivory levels. /// La herbivora foliar y la abundancia de insectos herbvoros se estudiaron en arbustos (Miconia glaberrima, Mousonia deppeana, Ocotea psychotrioides, y Palicourea pediceUta) en el bosque de niebla, Veracruz, Mxico. Mensualmente, se determinaron dao por herbivora, abundancia de insectos sobre hojas y variables microambientales (temperaturas de aire y suelo, humedad relativa y contenido de agua del suelo). El dao por herbivora vari entre 2.04  0.45 por ciento en abril (estacin seca-clida) y 4.41  0.86 por ciento en septiembre (estacin hmeda-clida). El nivel ms alto de herbivora ocurri al final de la estacin hmeda-clida (Palicourea), en la estacin seca-templada (Miconia y Ocotea), o en ambas (Moussonia). Ochenta y ocho porciento de los insectos herbvoros fueron larvas de Lepidoptera. La abundancia de insectos fu baja durante abril-julio (seca-clida e inicio de hmeda-clida) y alta en las estaciones hmeda-clida y seca-templada. La produccin de hojas fu continua para Miconia, Moussonia, y Palicourea, Ocotea tuvo un pico en diciembre-marzo (seca-templada). Herbivora y abundancia de insectos estuvieron negativamente correlacionadas con temperatura mxima y positivamente con contenido de agua del suelo. Herbivora y produccin de hojas no estuvieron correlacionadas para ninguna especie. Dado que la produccin de hojas ocurre a lo largo del ao (excepto para Ocotea), la abundancia de insectos no estuvo correlacionada con produccin foliar. Tampoco la herbivora foliar estuvo correlacionada con abundancia de insectos (excepto para Palicourea). Aparentemente, la fenologa foliar no es un escape a la herbivora, al menos para las especies estudiadas. Ms bien, las condiciones ambientales parecen jugar un papel importante en la abundancia de insectos e indirectamente en los niveles de herbivora foliar.
30043221|Tropical dry forests are located predominantly in the northern portion of Venezuela, above 6N. Although their potential extent covers ca 400,000 km2 (44% of the land), they currently occupy about 10 percent of this area. The diversity and complexity of Venezuelan dry forests increases from north to south along a gradient of decreasing severity of the dry season. A typical dry forest in Venezuela presents ca 110-170 species of plants from ca 40 to 50 families within an area of approximately 10 ha. Species composition and forest structure, however, are dependent on local landscape conditions (e.g., soil type, topography), and nearby forest types can be very different. Our analysis of five dry forest variants showed a maximum family similarity of 67 percent, although most values fell in the 50-60 percent interval. They are currently considered as one of Venezuela's most threatened ecosystems, but only 5 percent of extant dry forests are included in protected areas; this represents 0.5 percent of their potential extent. It is fundamental to promote the creation of at least 3 or 4 more large protected areas (ca 5000 ha), with different climatic and orographic characteristics, in combination with the recovery of threatened species, the restoration of degraded systems, and the implementation of sustainable development projects. Their apparent high resilience suggests that with the proper management we can restore and maintain the integrity of Venezuelan dry forests. /// Los bosques secos tropicales de Venezuela se ubican predominantemente al norte del pas, por encima de los 6N. Aunque su distribucin potencial abarca ca 400,000 km2 (44 porciento del territorio terrestre), actualmente ocupan 10 porciento de esta rea. La diversidad y complejidad de bosques secos en Venezuela aumenta de norte al sur, la direccin en la que el nmero de meses secos disminuye de 8 a 3. Un bosque seco tpico en Venezuela presenta ca 110-170 especies de plantas, de ca 40-50 familias. La composicin de especies y la estructura de los bosques, sin embargo, son dependientes de las condiciones locales del terreno (e.g., tipo de suelo, topografa), por lo que tipos de bosque cercanos pueden ser muy diferentes. Nuestro anlisis de cinco variantes revel una similaridad entre familias de 67 porciento, aunque la mayora de los valores cay entre 50 y 60 porciento. Actualmente son considerados como uno de los ecosistemas venezolanos ms amenazadas, pero slo 5 porciento de los bosques secos remanentes estn incluidos en reas protegidas; esto representa 0.5 porciento de su distribucin potencial. Es fundamental promover la creacin de al menos 3 o 4 reas protegidas grandes adicionales (ca 5000 ha), con condiciones climticas y orogrficas diferentes, en combinacin con la recuperacin de especies amenazadas, la restauracin de sistemas degradados y la implementacin de proyectos de desarrollo sostenible. Su alta resiliencia aparente sugiere que con el manejo adecuado se podra restaurar y mantener la integridad de los bosques secos de Venezuela.
10.2307/2388790|Solitary bees are known to be important pollinators of seasonal dry forest plants in Costa Rica. Recent assessments of the genus Centris (family Anthophoridae) and other solitary bee taxa indicate that populations of these bees have declined by 85-90 percent in this forest over the past 20 yr. Deforestation, wildfires, and conversion of forest land to agriculture are the main reasons for the decline. From 1987 to 1991 we studied the preferred nesting habitats of seven Centris species that specialize in making their nests in preexisting holes in dead trees. Special wooden sampling units, with preexisting standardized holes, were systematically placed in several habitat types in the Lomas Barbudal Biological Reserve, Guanacaste Province. Female bees encountered the holes as they searched for natural holes for nesting. Systematic monitoring of the units over five years, 1987 to 1991, provided a quantitative measure of habitat preference and changes in bee frequency through time. There were sufficient data for statistical analysis of three of the seven species (Centris nitida. C. bicornuta and C. analis). The closed oak forest was the predominantly preferred habitat for the three common Centris species, and this pattern remained constant through time. At least one species (C. nitida) apparently had less strict habitat requirements as it was commonly found nesting in a wide variety of habitat types. Significant increases and decreases in frequencies for individual species through time were recorded; however, there was no significant change in overall bee numbers through time. Results of the analysis, together with a qualitative assessment of the rare Centris species, suggest that the dry forest is actually a mosaic of preferred nesting sites, with each species having specific preferences. This pattern is consistent with other Centris species that have been studied in Costa Rica. The preference for oak forests is significant and suggests that more of this type of habitat should be conserved for Centris refugia.
2389036|Food habits of jaguar and puma were studied in two regions of the Paraguayan Chaco. Biochemical analysis of 280 scats attributed 106 to jaguar and 95 to puma. Overall dietary overlap was 65 percent and they shared six of seven main prey types. For both cats 43 percent of prey items and 15 percent of prey biomass taken were mammal species <1 kg, 23 percent of items and 29 percent of the biomass were from species 1-15 kg, and 27 percent of items and 53 percent of the biomass were from larger species. Birds, reptiles, and insects made up the remainder. In a developed region no significant differences between their diets were found, while in an undeveloped area more small mammals were taken by both species, and jaguar took more large prey than puma. The potential roles of competition and of differences in habitat structure and prey availability between the two areas on these species' diets are discussed.
30044033|Herbivores can be associated with distinct ontogenetic stages of their host in a nonseasonal, directional, and continuous pattern of colonization and extinction of species populations called ontogenetic succession, but the processes behind this pattern are still largely unknown. We used plants of Cryptocarya aschersoniana Mez (Lauraceae) belonging to different ontogenetic stages, to examine how the density of different gall-inducing insects varies along the ontogeny of the host, and how gall density is influenced by mechanisms associated with host quality (plant height, plant shape, leaf area, specific leaf area, and hypersensitivity), and by mechanisms associated with their natural enemies (parasitoids, pathogens, and predators). In a remnant of Araucaria Forest, located in the Sao Francisco de Paula National Forest (Brazil), gall density (ind./100 g of leaf) was obtained for 42 plants of aschersoniana divided into three height classes. Two galling species were recorded, showing quite distinct density patterns among height classes of aschersoniana. While Hymenoptera gall density decreased almost 50 times from small plants to canopy trees, Hemiptera gall density increased almost 10 times. Path analyses showed that Hymenoptera density was higher in smaller plants, independent of other host traits, while Hemiptera density was higher in plants exhibiting smaller leaves. Natural enemies were not detected in the Hemiptera population, and mortality rates due to predators, parasitoids, and pathogens did not affect Hymenoptera density. Processes associated with plant quality play the main role in generating the observed ontogenetic succession pattern. /// Herbvoros podem estar associados a distintos estdios ontogenticos dos seus hospedeiros em um padro no sazonal, direcional e contnuo de colonizao e extino das populaes, que foi chamado de sucesso ontogentica, mas os processos por detrs deste padro so ainda desconhecidos. Plantas de Cryptocarya aschersoniana Mez (Lauraceae) pertencentes a diferentes estdios ontogenticos foram utilizadas para testar (i) como a densidade de diferentes espcies de galhadores varia ao longo da ontogenia do hospedeiro e (ii) como a densidade de galhas  influenciada por mecanismos associados a qualidade da planta (altura e forma da planta, rea da folha, rea especfica da folha, hipersensitividade) e por mecanismos associados a seus inimigos naturais (parasitides, patgenos e predadores). Em urn remanescente de Floresta de Araucria, localizada na Floresta Nacional de Sao Francisco de Paula (Brasil), a densidade de galhas (ind/100g de folhas) foi obtida para 42 plantas de C. aschersoniana dividas em trs classes de altura. Duas espcies de galhadores foram registradas, apresentando padres de densidade distintos entre as classes de altura de aschersoniana. Enquanto a densidade do galhador Hymenoptera decresceu aproximadamente 50 vezes das plantas pequenas para as rvores de dossel, a densidade do galhador Hemiptera aumentou 10 vezes. Anlises de rota demonstraram que a densidade do Hymenoptera foi maior em plantas menores, independente das outras caractersticas do hospedeiro, enquanto que a densidade do Hemiptera foi maior em plantas que exibiam folhas menores. Inimigos naturais nao foram detectados para a populao de Hemiptera e as taxas de mortalidade por predadores, parasitas e patgenos no afetaram a densidade do Hymenoptera. Os processos associados  qualidade da planta desempenham o papel principal na gerao do padro observado de sucesso ontogentica.
10.2307/2989660|The Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle (Oryctes rhinoceros) is a major pest of the coconut palm in its Asian homeland and on the South Pacific islands it has invaded. Each adult female lays 3 or 4 clutches, with about 30 eggs per clutch, in logs or other concentrations of organic material over a period of 9 to 12 weeks. Eggs incubate 11 days, and, under favorable conditions, the first feeding of the adult will occur 17 weeks later. Boring down into the folded, emerging fronds, the adult can damage spadices and leaflets, with consequent loss in coconut production. The palm dies if the growing tip is destroyed by the beetle or by secondary infections. In hard logs or other nutritionally poor sites, preadult mortality of beetles may exceed 98 percent. However, many sites created by typhoons or human activities are more favorable and contribute to beetle population increase. To prevent economic losses, it is necessary to identify and remove or destroy these beetle-producing sites.
30045379|Ruminant-mediated seed dispersal, an understudied process in tropical forests, was examined via Phyllanthus emblica-Axis axis interaction. A captive Axis deer regurgitated intact P. emblica seeds after retaining them in the rumen for 7-27 h. At Rajaji National Park, a considerable fraction (22%) of deer-regurgitated P. emblica seeds germinated, although lower than unconsumed seeds (72%). The size and strength of seeds like P. emblica might ensure that ruminants regurgitate them intact instead of defecating them.
4132961|Neotropical herpetofaunas have been studied at selected Central and South American sites, but intra-regional analyses in the Neotropics have not been possible due to lack of long-term data. A particular problem in interpreting herpetofaunal communities is the large geographic distances between the known localities. Such sampling does not take into account the patchiness of the habitat and this prevents analysis of regional diversity. In this study, five Neotropical herpetofaunal communities within a small geographic area (
4132949|Previous studies have shown that sloth bears are mainly myrmecophagous, but in this study, 39 and 83 percent (wet and dry season, respectively) of scats surveyed in South India contained fruits. Seeds from three of six plant species collected from scats germinated faster than seeds not passing through bears; germination percentage was not higher in any of the six species. These results suggest that the sloth bear may play an important role in the population dynamics of fleshy-fruited species of the region.
30043642|By genetically characterizing adult individuals, we documented the presumed prefragmentation population structure of an endangered Andean tree, Magnolia espinalii. Our sample included all known surviving individuals for this species. Genetic diversity was high, but genetic distance was not related to geographic distance between sites. Magnolia espinalii apparently was originally distributed in numerous semi-isolated demes. The lack of evidence of recruitment around most adults in this species suggests a fragmentation-related disruption of their reproductive ecology. Artificial propagation projects should obviously attempt to involve all 23 known surviving trees. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388502|Five species of plants were visited by nectar-feeding bats Glossophaga soricina in a suburban study area in Colombia. Pollen from these five and two other species was transported regularly on the hair of five marked bats during the wet and dry seasons. Of 234 samples collected from G. soricina, 153 (65.4%) were positive for pollen and 74 of the 153 (48.4%) contained pollen from Agave desmettiana (Agavaceae). Most samples containing pollen were collected from the top of the head and neck (29.4%) and upperback (29.8%) of Glossophaga. Pollen was placed on the dorsal surface of bats by flowers of Crescentia cujete (Bignoniaceae) and Thunbergia grandiflora (Acanthaceae) and on all surface areas by flowers of A. desmettiana and Cereus atroviridis (Cactaceae). Bats ingested the anthers of Calliandra laxa flowers (Leguminosae-Mimosoideae) without providing pollination services. Glossophaga's preoccupation with A. desmettiana was not coincidental. Agaves produced more pollen and 10x more nectar than other plants visited. Agave desmettiana was also the only species to flower year-round and the only one not observed to be visited by other pollen vectors.
2388881|Many studies demonstrating the high species diversity of old growth tropical rain forest plant communities have focused on tree species while neglecting the composition of understory shrubs. This study addresses whether the floristic composition, species diversity, richness, and density of three common families of understory shrubs (Melastomataceae, Piperaceae, and Rubiaceae) are different between two secondary growth forests of different ages (12 and 25-years old) and an adjacent old growth forest at La Sclva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Twenty-two species encountered (47%) occurred only in secondary growth, one species occurred only in old growth forest and 24 species (51%) occurred in both types of forest. Both of the secondary forest understories had higher Shannon-Wiener diversity values, and had higher species richness and density than the old growth forest. Diversity, species richness, and density were not statistically different between several distances from the boundary separating secondary and old growth forests. Understory plant species assemblages may have different patterns of diversity than tree species because of variable responses to different abiotic factors. Furthermore, the canopies of secondary growth forests may be more open than in old growth forests, allowing higher levels of light at the shrub layer which may result in shrub assemblages of higher diversity than adjacent old growth forest.
41241912|Conservation management has undergone a dramatic paradigm shift from the strong 'wilderness conservation' ethos of the 1980s and 1990s to the 'biodiversity on degraded lands' ethos of recent years. Most conservation biologists now consider that wilderness conservation alone is no longer sufficient to conserve biodiversity, and conservation strategies must also demand more effective protection for biodiversity on degraded lands. Recognition of this shifting paradigm in biodiversity conservation has led to an overt change in tone of recent studies, emphasizing relatively modest effects of human disturbance, and high biodiversity values on some degraded lands. A case in point is a series of studies from Southeast Asia reporting relatively modest impacts of logging on biodiversity, with the majority of species (75%) persisting after repeated intensive logging. This is a marked shift in conservation message after > 30 yrs of research showing substantial adverse effects of logging on biodiversity, and raises serious questions about the appropriate ways to qualify the conflicting messages that 'human impact degrades biodiversity' yet 'degraded habitats have high biodiversity value.' Clearly logging is the lesser of two land-use evils compared with conversion to intensive cattle pastures, crop fields or oil palm plantations, but there is a real risk that overselling the 'biodiversity on degraded lands' paradigm might end up being a double-edged sword for conservation management. After all, if > 75 percent of species are resilient to repeated logging, why bother trying to preserve the few remaining wilderness areas from being logged themselves? It remains to be seen whether this new message of 'weak' effects of logging on biodiversity will serve its strategic purpose of conserving biodiversity on degraded lands, or simply devalue the last vestiges of wild nature.
4132896| Epiphytes generally occupy arboreal perches, which are inherently unstable environments due to periodic windstorms, branch falls, and treefalls. During high wind events, arboreal bromeliads are often knocked from the canopy and deposited on the forest floor. In this study, we used a common epiphytic tank bromeliad, Guzmania berteroniana (R. & S.) Mez, to determine if fallen bromeliads can survive, grow, and reproduce on the forest floor and evaluate the potential impact of adult dispersal on plant and soil nutrient pools. Bromeliads were transplanted to and from tree stems and the forest floor and monitored intensively for six months; survival, growth, and impacts on ecosystem nutrient pools were followed on a subset of plants for 16 months. Six months after transplanting, bromeliad mortality was low (3%), and 19 percent of study individuals had flowered and produced new juvenile shoots. Mortality on the subset of plants followed for 16 months was 14-30 percent. Although survival rates were relatively high in all habitats, bromeliads transplanted to trees grew significantly more root length (x  SE: 189  43 cm) than those moved to the forest floor (53 15 cm) and experienced lower rates of leaf area loss. All transplanted bromeliads rapidly altered the substrate they occupied. Individuals transplanted to and among trees rapidly decreased base cation concentrations but significantly increased P concentrations of their underlying substrate. On the ground, bromeliads increased C, N, and P concentrations within nine months of placement. Our results suggest that in this montane tropical forest, bromeliads respond rapidly to displacement, locally modify their substrates, and can access the resources needed for survival regardless of habitat. 
41419473|Epiphytes are conspicuous structural elements of tropical forest canopies. Individual tree crowns in lowland forests may support more than 30 ant species, yet we know little about the effects of epiphytes on ant diversity. We examined the composition of arboreal ant communities on Annonaghbra trees and their interactions with the epiphytic orchid Caularthron bilamellatum in Panama. We surveyed the ants on 73 trees (45 with C. bilamellatum and 28 lacking epiphytes) and recorded their nest sites and behavioral dominance at baits. We found a total of 49 ant species (in 20 genera), ranging 19 species per tree. Trees with C. bilamellatum had higher average ( SD) ant species richness (4.2  2.28) than trees without epiphytes (2.7  1.21). Hollow pseudobulbs (PBs) of C. bilamellatum were used as nest sites by 32 ant species, but only 43 percent of suitable PBs were occupied. Ant species richness increased with PB abundance in trees, but nest sites did not appear to be a limiting resource on A. glabra. We detected no close association between ants and the orchid. We conclude that higher ant species richness in the presence of the orchid is due to bottom-up effects, especially the year-round supply of extrafloral nectar. The structure of ant communities on A. glabra partly reflects interference competition among behaviorally dominant species and stochastic factors, as observed in other forests.
10.2307/2387728|Most tropical upper montane rain forests are in cloud for prolonged periods and in most years are subject to only a moderate drought-stress or none at all. However, the leaves of their constituent trees and shrubs have several features which are characteristic of plants that grow in areas which are regularly subject to strong drought-stress. Experiments made on cut shoots and detached leaves in Malaya and Jamaica show that, in general, the xeromorphic montane plants are not characterized by an ability to restrict water loss more than trees of lowland rain forest; that they and the lowland trees usually appear to shut their stomata at small water deficits; and that relatively small water deficits are lethal for both these groups. The examined trees and shrubs of the tropical upper montane rain forests differ from the undoubtedly drought-resistant sclerophylls of mediterranean climates, which are able to survive much larger water deficits and mostly need large water deficits to induce appreciable stomatal closure. Among the tropical montane plants studied, two minority groups do restrict water loss very effectively: the conifers and the facultative epiphytes. The stomata of tested species from upper montane rain forest in Malaya failed to close when leaves were dried at 34-35
10.2307/2388260|Hurricanes frequently affect the forests of St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands, but there has been little study of their effects on the island's vegetation. Hurricane Hugo hit St. John on 17-18 September 1989 Six weeks later damage was assessed in three plots on the island (1.0 or 0.5 ha; in subtropical moist and subtropical dry life zones) that were established and inventoried before the hurricane. Most damage involved loss of small branches; loss of major limbs, crown loss, tip-ups, and snapped stems were less common. Taller and larger diameter trees were usually more severely damaged than shorter and smaller diameter trees; forests on slopes facing hurricane winds were damaged more than leeward forests; low elevations received more damage than higher elevations within each forest plot. Overall, damage to vegetation seemed minor, judging from the relative number of stems in different classes of damage severity.
10.2307/2388869|Experiments were performed to determine the effects of burial, light quality, and temperature on seed germination of Metrosideros polymorpha, the dominant tree of Hawaiian lava flows and rain forests. Fewer than 1 percent of seeds buried under 5 mm of sand were able to germinate and emerge, compared to 90 percent for seeds sown on the sand surface. Germination was greater under white, red, or far-red light (all  62%) than in the dark ( 10%). The light requirement was not overcome by a fluctuating thermoperiod (of 5
10.2307/2388775|Activity periods of rain forest animals, especially those with flexible activity periods, are poorly known. We used camera trapping to describe the activity periods of at least partly terrestrial wildlife in 2 Sumatran and 1 Javan rain forest sites. We used these data and a comparison with the literature to classify all mammalian taxa occurring in the study areas as either diurnal, nocturnal, or cathemeral (potentially active during both day and night). Exploratory analyses revealed that body size and substrate are the major correlates of activity period, with diet and travel mode playing minor roles. We explain the substrate effect by noting that vision-related constraints force diurnal mammals in an arboreal environment to stay diurnal regardless of conditions, and that nocturnal mammals are kept from becoming diurnal by predation risk by visually hunting diurnal predators. To explain why the largest animals are cathemeral we suggest that they require more time to forage than is provided by the roughly 12-hour diurnal or nocturnal period.
30043101|Forest fragmentation and the resulting spatial isolation of tree species can modify the activity of pollinators and may have important implications for the reproductive success and mating systems of the plants they pollinate. The objectives of this study were to (1) evaluate the effect of forest fragmentation on pollinator activity in bat-pollinated bombacaceous trees and (2) determine the effects of forest fragmentation on reproductive success and mating systems of bombacaceous trees. We studied these parameters in three bombacaceous tree species in tropical seasonal forest of Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico, and Osa and Guanacaste, Costa Rica. For Ceiba aesculifolia, more visits were observed in fragments by both Glossophaga soricina and Leptonycteris curasoae. For Ceiba grandiflora, Musonycteris harrisoni visited flowers exclusively in forest and G. soricina visited more flowers in forest than in fragments; no difference was shown by L curasoae. For Ceiba pentandra in Chamela, no differences were found in visitation by G. soricina between forest and fragments; L. curasoae visited significantly more flowers in forest. Ceiba pentandra received more visits by Phyllos-tomus discolor than G. soricina in Guanacaste, whereas no bat visitors were observed in Osa. Total mean flower production was greater in fragments than forest for aesculifolia, whereas no difference was observed for C. grandiflora. Fruit set was greater in forest than in fragments for grandiflora, whereas no difference was observed for C. aesculifolia. Outcrossing rates were high for aesculifolia and grandiflora in Chamela, and for pentandra in Guanacaste, independent of tree habitat, while pentandra in Osa showed a mixed-mating system. The effects of forest fragmentation on bat pollinators, plant reproductive success, and mating patterns varied depending upon the bombacaceous species. This variability was associated with the effects that forest fragmentation may have on differences in flowering patterns, bat foraging behavior, and plant self-incompatibility systems. /// La fragmentacin de bosques y el aislamiento espacial, producto de este fenmeno, pueden modificar la actividad de los polinizadores y pueden tener implicaciones importantes sobre el xito reproductivo y los sistemas de apareamiento de las plantas que polinizan. Los objetivos de este estudio consisten en: (1) evaluar los efectos de la fragmentacin de bosque sobre la actividad de los polinizadores de rboles de Bombacaceas, y (2) determinar los efectos de la fragmentacin sobre el xito reproductivo y el sistema de apareamiento de rboles de Bombacaceas. Evaluamos estos parmetros en 3 especies de rboles de esta familia en bosques estacionales en Jalisco, Mxico y Guanacaste y Osa, Costa Rica. Las flores de Ceiba aesculifolia fueron mas visitadas en fragmentos por Glossophaga soricina y Leptonycteris curasoae. En Ceiba grandiflora, Musonycteris harrisoni visit flores exclusivamente en el bosque y G. soricina visit mas flores en el bosque que en los fragmentos mientras que no hubo diferencias para L. curasoae. En Chamela, no hubo diferencias en la tasa de visitas de flores entre bosque y fragmentos para G. soricina en Ceiba pentandra mientras que L. curasoae visit ms flores en el bosque. En Guanacaste, pentandra recibi ms visitas de Phyllostomus discolor que de G. soricina mientras que no hubo visitas por murcilagos en Osa. La produccin total promedio de flores fu mayor en los fragmentos que en el bosque para aesculifolia mientras que no hubo diferencias para grandiflora. La probabilidad de que una flor produzca fruto fu mayor en el bosque que en los fragmentos para grandiflora pero no hubo diferencias en aesculifolia. La tasa de exocruzamiento fue alta para aesculifolia y grandiflora en Chamela, y para pentandra en Guanacaste, mientras que C. pentandra en Osa mostr un sistema de apareamiento mixto. Los efectos de la fragmentacin de bosques sobre la polinizacin por murcilagos, la reproduccin de plantas y sus patrones de apareamiento varan dependiendo de la especie de Bombacaceae. Esta variabilidad est asociada a los efectos que la fragmentacin de bosques puede tener sobre diferencias en los patrones de floracin, el comportamiento de forrajeo de los polinizadores, y los sistemas de incompatibilidad de las plantas.
30045403|In this work, we report the predicted distribution of the threatened fluminense swallowtail butterfly, Parides ascanius (Cramer 1775), and correlate it to the presence of urban and protected areas within its range. The distribution was modeled using a genetic algorithm. The predicted distribution of the fluminense swallowtail shows high agreement within Rio de Janeiro state, in a near-continuous strip of 2,038,253 ha along the coastal lowlands, 17.8 percent of which is within urban areas. Only 8.7 percent (178,187 ha) of the remaining (nonurban) predicted model overlapped at least partially with protected areas (19 in all). Almost half of these protected areas also overlapped with urban areas, resulting in an additional loss of 58,751 ha. In seven of 19 protected areas, the distribution of 7? ascanius was predicted by less than 50 percent of the models; five of the remaining protected areas are less restrictive reserves. Despite the wide distribution predicted by the models, only two of the observed occurrence points matched the predicted distribution within protected areas. Modeling threatened species distribution is a useful tool for highlighting gaps in networks of protected areas and should aid in planning to fill these gaps. However, in several developing countries with high biodiversity, there is insufficient basic biological information for many threatened species. In these cases, prospecting field studies are urgently needed.
10.2307/2663955|The effects of fire on forest structure and composition were studied in a severely fire-impacted landscape in the eastern Amazon. Extensive sampling of area forests was used to compare structure and compositional differences between burned and unburned forest stands. Burned forests were extremely heterogeneous, with substantial variation in forest structure and fire damage recorded over distances of <50 m. Unburned forest patches occurred within burned areas, but accounted for only six percent of the sample area. Canopy cover, living biomass, and living adult stem densities decreased with increasing fire intensity/frequency, and were as low as 10-30 percent of unburned forest values. Even light burns removed >70 percent of the sapling and vine populations. Pioneer abundance increased dramatically with burn intensity, with pioneers dominating the understory in severely damaged areas. Species richness was inversely related to burn severity, but no clear pattern of species selection was observed. Fire appears to be a cyclical event in the study region: <30 percent of the burned forest sample had been subjected to only one burn. Based on estimated solar radiation intensities, burning substantially increases fire susceptibility of forests. At least 50 percent of the total area of all burned forests is predicted to become flammable within 16 rainless days, as opposed to only 4 percent of the unburned forest. In heavily burned forest subjected to recurrent fires, 95 percent of the area is predicted to become flammable in <9 rain-free days. As a recurrent disturbance phenomenon, fire shows unparalleled potential to impoverish and alter the forests of the eastern Amazon.
10.2307/2388903|Research on epiphyte (9 bromeliads and 1 orchid) relationships with host trees, and with arthropods, especially ants, was undertaken in the low inundated forest of Quintana Roo, Mexico. Epiphyte association with host trees is determined by the interaction of the epiphyte seed type and dispersal mode with the bark type of the host. Airborne seeds of the Tillandsia spp. are caught on the rough-barked and small, spiny branches of Bucida spinosa; flat, ovoid seeds of Aechmea bracteata, which are disseminated by birds, germinate principally on Haematoxylum campechianum and Erythroxylum confusum, two rough-barked tree species, often in forks of major branches, and never on B. spinosa; the minute seeds of Schomburgkia tibicinis germinate generally on E. confusum, but also on Manilkara zapoia and rarely on B. spinosa. Epiphyte association with non-ant arthropods is determined principally by the size and shape of the cavities. Most of the arthropods, including aquatic insects, are detritivores feeding on rotten debris which collects in the reservoirs of bromeliads. Also, some animals utilize epiphytes only as shelter. Epiphyte association with ants is largely correlated with the size and shape of the cavities. Intermediate steps between the "phytotelm" type and the "myrmecophytic" type were determined in the genus Tillandsia. The best rate of occupation by ants (96% of the ramets sheltered ants) was obtained by A. bracteata of the "phytotelm tank" type (reservoir in peripheric cavities, but also a waterproof central cavity), while the best rate of ant diversity was observed in T. bulbosa ("myrmecophytic" type; 26 ant species). Ants sheltered in the bromeliads were shown to protect host trees against defoliation by an undetermined chrysomelid beetle and the leaf-cutting ant Atta cephalotes.
10.2307/2388402|Teak harvest in Northern Thailand in 1985 was only one-tenth that in 1971. The dramatic decrease has been attributed by some authors to loss of trees through shifting cultivation and intensification of modern agriculture. This study examined the possibility that previous removal of large trees during selective logging is also a reason for present low yields of teak. In a selectively logged mixed deciduous forest, most of the remaining teak was concentrated in diameter size classes less than 50 cm. In contrast, most of the teak stumps were larger than this diameter. The large trees had been removed by logging. Reduction of teak production in Thailand to the point where sustainable, profitable yield is no longer possible may have resulted from over-intensive harvest of large trees.
41241892|Toucans (Ramphastidae) are highly frugivorous, widespread throughout the Neotropics, and travel long distances, thus likely providing dispersal for many tropical trees. Despite being large conspicuous members of the canopy and subcanopy bird community, their movement ecology has been little studied. To understand how these frugivores move through a lowland tropical forest, I tracked the movements of Ramphastos tucanus (White-throated Toucan), Ramphastos vitellinus (Channelbilled Toucan), and Pteroghssus pluricinctus (Many-banded Araari) in Yasun National Park, Ecuador. The objectives of this study were to use radiotelemetry to estimate toucan home ranges, movement patterns, and potential seed dispersal distances. Using canopy nets, a total of 20 P. pluricinctus and three Ramphastos toucans were captured, radio-tagged, and tracked over a 4-yr period from 2001 to 2005. Average home range sizes were 191 and 86 ha for P. pluricinctus and Ramphastos toucans, respectively. The maximum travel distance in a single 30-min tracking interval was 3665 m for P. pluricinctus and 3027 m for Ramphastos. Estimated dispersal distances of medium-sized seeds ranged from 269 to 449 m. Large home range size and long-distance movements indicate that toucans likely disperse seeds over a scale of hundreds of meters. This study is the first to estimate home range size of any toucan species in intact closed-canopy forests.
10.2307/2387763|Studies on the reproductive biology of Solanum palinacanthum reveal it to be andromonoecious and self-sterile. Pollination is by bees, the probable principal pollinating genera being Xylocopa, Centris, Eulaema, and Oxaea. The principal floral attractants are color, provided by the blue corolla and yellow anthers, and aroma, produced by the anthers. Pollen is the only pollinator reward. The anthers are shown to be more important attractants than is the corolla. The relative frequencies of male and hermaphroditic flowers undergo a seasonal variation which is caused primarily by a decreased production of male flowers during the latter half of the season. It is suggested that the high frequency of male flowers coincident with the peak flowering period may be adaptive in preventing excessive fruit set. Cross-pollination is promoted in S. palinacanthum by the flower structure and the strongly asynchronous flowering pattern of individuals in association with the andromonoecious condition. It is concluded that the andromonoecious condition in S. palinacanthum encourages cross-pollination and results in an equitable distribution of the reproductive effort involved in seed production.
20492492|Although open-cup nesting birds generally face increased risk of nest depredation from forest edge predators and brood parasites in fragmented temperate landscapes, little information exists to assess such risks in tropical birds. We compared nesting success of real birds' nests in large and small forest fragments to a control site in Caribbean lowland wet forest of Costa Rica. Pooling across species, nesting success was significantly greater in unfragmented forest than in either small, isolated fragments or the La Selva Biological Reserve, which is at the tip of a forest 'peninsula' embedded in a largely deforested landscape. Nesting success in isolated fragments did not vary according to distance from edge, suggesting that predators in fragments act throughout these forest patches. The case for increased nest predation as a plausible mechanism to explain the documented decline of forest interior bird populations in this fragmented tropical landscape is enhanced by a simple demographic model that suggests nesting success is likely too low to maintain populations at La Selva and in the fragments. The fact that the large (&gt; 1000 ha) La Selva forest reserve is experiencing nest predation rates similar to those in much smaller fragments is cause for concern. Our results make a strong case for additional studies to document the identities of nest predators in both fragmented and unfragmented forests in such tropical forest landscapes.
30043282|Strangler figs (Ficus spp) are among the most diverse and abundant species in the tropics. In the present work we describe and quantify two seed (achene) morphotypes of F. maitin, ovoid and non-ovoid, we quantify seed predation by pollinators, and study the effects of temperature and light on the germination of these raorphotypes. We found that both types of seed have reduced germination rates at low temperatures, and that ovoid seeds are photosensitive. In the discussion we present the possible implications of the findings for the understanding of the life history strategy of this species.
4132965|This paper examines dung beetle communities in remnant patches of tropical deciduous forest at Veracruz, Mexico, as a case study of the effects of tropical deforestation on biodiversity. The two study areas have a common biogeographic history and similar macroclimatic conditions and have been modified by human activities to different extents. The main difference between them is that cattle, which provide the dung beetle's food supply, are present in only one of the areas. Comparison of the dung beetle faunas sheds light on the relative importance of forest cover versus food supply as the principal factor determining the structure and diversity of the fauna. This comparison, which we broaden through an examination of data from other localities in central Veracruz, permits us to speculate about what happens to biodiversity when a tropical deciduous forest undergoes modification of varying type and intensity. Where tree cover has been most modified, native forest species undergo local extinction and are replaced by open area species. On the whole, there has not been a net reduction in species richness (gamma diversity) in the fragmented landscape of central Veracruz, although local species richness (alpha diversity) has diminished.
10.2307/2388845|For this paper, we sampled a fenced and an unprotected portion of a dry gallery forest (the Beza Mahafaly Reserve) in southwestern Madagascar for structure and floristic composition. Seedling plots were also sampled to assess invasion and regeneration. A total of 923 plants 2.5 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) were censused in 25 transects. Sixty-nine species and 43 genera were represented. In plant density, diversity, and size classes of individuals, the forest is similar to many continental tropical dry forests in Africa and the Neotropics. Over 80 percent of those species identified were native, as were 26 percent of the genera. Unlike many insular forests, Beza Mahafaly is not being invaded by fast-growing exotic species. There were no noticable differences in density, diversity, size classes, or proportion of native species between transects within and outside of the protected reserve. Two distinct microhabitats were noticed. Individual plants were more dense on "drier" soils; whereas, large trees 25 cm DBH were over twice as frequent on "wetter" soils. The floristic composition also differed, with only two species of tree, Tamarindus indica and Azima tetracantha, being common to both habitats. The distribution and density of lemur populations within the forest appear to be directly related to microhabitat differences.
41241895|In many species males vocally advertise for mates in choruses and these choruses serve as acoustic beacons to conspecific females as well as to eavesdropping predators and parasites. Chorusing will often cease in response to disturbances, such as the presence of predators. In some cases the cessation is so rapid and over such a large area that it seems improbable that males are all responding directly to the same local disturbance. Here, we demonstrate experimentally in Neotropical tungara frogs, Physalaemus pustulosus, that the cessation of calling by males spreads rapidly through the chorus. The cessation of chorusing in response to the cessation of playbacks of three calling males is more effective in inducing chorus cessation than is the cessation of one male calling. When three males are calling, the cessation of complex calls is more effective in inducing chorus cessation than simple calls. There is no main effect on whether the final call of the male is complete or is interrupted. We thus conclude that the sudden lack of signalsthe 'sounds of silence'becomes an alarm cue that can explain the rapid cessation of choruses that are common in many chorusing species.
10.2307/2387650|Temporal patterns of flower production and the level of fruit set were determined for 20 individuals each of six shrub species (four families) in a semi-deciduous lowland forest in Panama. The species were: Hybanthus prunifolius, Turnera panamensis, Rinorea sylvatica, Psychotria horizontalis. Erythrina costaricensis var. panamensis, and Pentagonia macrophylla. There were two objectives of the study: 1) to compare among species the relation between the individual's flowering pattern and the population's flowering synchrony; and 2) to compare within species the relative influence of the individual's and the population's flowering phenology on the individual's fruit set. The six species differed in number of flowers per individual (mean values for species ranged from 98-2995), how long the individual produced flowers (mean values ranged from 3.5-59.0 days), and synchrony of the individual with its conspecifics (mean values ranged from 0.48-0.95, where value of 1.0 = perfect synchrony). Among the six species, population synchrony increased as the mean duration of an individual's flowering decreased. Population synchrony of the first day, peak (median) day, and the entire flowering period were highly correlated. When comparing individuals within each species, the individual's flower number was the best predictor of fruit set. Neither the individual's length of flower production nor its synchrony with conspecifics added significantly in explaining the variance in fruit set. A regression including the individual's number of flowers, length of flower production, and synchrony with conspecifics as independent variables and the proportion fruit set (and its arcsin transformation) as the dependent variable yielded no significant regressions. The consequences of these widely varying phenological patterns are discussed. Comparisons are made with the temporal patterns observed in other tropical forests.
30044926|The genus Tococa is comprised of 47 species of small trees and shrubs distributed from southern Mexico to Bolivia. About 30 of the species have ant domatia that develop at the base of the leaf blade or at the apex of the petiole. Ant exclusion experiments on three different species of Tococa occupying different environments were carried out to assess their effect in protecting the plant against herbivores. Additionally, ant behavior was monitored in control plants to study how they might be conferring protection against herbivory. Herbivory was significantly lower on control plants (ants maintained) than on experimental plants (ants removed), demonstrating the role of the ants as defenses against herbivores. Herbivory rates in open and disturbed areas were higher than in the forest understory. Ant exclusion experiments showed that both timid and aggressive ants protect their host plants against potential herbivores by killing or warding off scouts of leaf-cutter ants (Atta sp.) and removing the eggs of Lepidoptera and Coleoptera from the surface of the plants. /// El gnero Tococa esta compuesto por 47 especies de arbustos y rboles pequeos distribuidos desde el sur de Mxico hasta Bolivia. Cerca de 30 especies poseen domacios que se desarrollan en la base de la lamina de la hoja o en el pice del pecolo. Se llevaron a cabo experimentos de exclusion de hormigas en tres especies de Tococa en distintos hbitat con el fin de evaluar su rol potencial de proteccin contra la herbivora. Adicionalmente, se observ el comportamiento de las hormigas en las plantas del grupo control con el fin de estudiar su papel como defensa contra los herbvoros. Las diferencias en las tasas de herbivora entre plantas con y sin hormigas fue siempre significativa, demostrando as el rol de las hormigas como defensa contra los herbvoros. Adems, en las zonas abiertas y secundarias, la cantidad de herbivora fue siempre mayor que en el dosel del bosque. Estos experimentos tambin demuestran que tanto las hormigas tmidas como las agresivas protegen a las plantas que habitan, ya sea matando o ahuyentando los exploradores de las hormigas cortadoras de hoja (Atta sp.) o removiendo los huevos de Lepidoptera y Coleoptera de la superficie de las plantas.
10.2307/2388454|The abundance and reproductive status of five Australian Eurema species were monitored at a tropical savannah site (Townsville, 19$^\circ$S, 147$^\circ$E) for a 2-yr period, and less intensively in areas north and south of Townsville. These species exhibit three different mechanisms for coping with seasonal drought and the associated lack of food plants. First, three species breed continuously, expanding and contracting their geographic distribution seasonally to exploit changing patterns of host plant availability. Second, one species (Eurema herla) exhibits a regularly timed adult reproductive diapause during the winter dry season; it was reproductively active at the same times of year in Townsville regardless of weather conditions, and we suggest that its diapause is most probably under photoperiodic control. Third, one species (Eurema laeta) has reproductive activity tightly correlated with rainfall. We infer that either low humidity or some other correlate of drought is the environmental stimulus initiating and maintaining diapause. This third mechanism may seem to be the most appropriate to the unpredictable rainfall of the seasonal tropics. However, it may also be the most restrictive to the species distribution, because it cannot synchronize breeding with the growing season of the host plant except in areas where only drought prevents host plant growth. E. laeta is the only one of these Eurema species whose geographic distribution is strictly tropical. Because seasonality in tropical habitats is controlled primarily by variations in rainfall rather than temperature, it tends to be less predictable in timing and spatially more patchy than seasonality in temperate habitats. This spatial and temporal unpredictability constrains the ways in which tropical species can adapt to seasonally adverse conditions and, in particular, may give greater importance to migratory behavior as a component of seasonal adaptation.
41241944|Although it is known that forest loss and degradation negatively impact most forest-dwelling primates, such relationships are difficult to quantify because many primates are difficult to survey over large areas. Furthermore, recovery times are also difficult to assess due to a lack of long-term data. Here, we determined how forest characteristics and habitat disturbance correlate with the abundance of pileated gibbons, Hylobates pileatus. We studied a population in Khao Ang Rue Nai Wildlife Sanctuary in southeastern Thailand, assessed its density using an auditory method combined with distance sampling at 24 randomly placed sample sites. In addition, we determined how simple forest structural characteristics and habitat disturbance correlate with the gibbon abundance. Average gibbon density per site was 1.02  0.16 (SE) groups/km (range 0-2.74). Bivariate analyses indicated that densities depended on food tree biomass, level of disturbance, evergreen forest cover, time since protection, and distance to the sanctuary boundary. Multiple regression analysis suggested evergreen forest cover and distance to boundary were the most influential factors. Because evergreen forest cover, time since protection, and habitat disturbance are correlated, these results suggest a direct dependence of gibbon densities on mature, undisturbed evergreen forest. While gibbons can persist in disturbed areas if the forest is protected, it appears that recovery to previous densities may take decades. We suggest that this is due to the slow pace of forest regeneration and/or poor recovery potential of gibbons.
10.2307/2388126|Janzen (1977) speculated that ants generally do not feed on floral nectars in lowland tropical habitats because the nectars contain repugnant, indigestible, or toxic chemicals. We report numerous ant species taking floral nectar from 27 plant species in primarily a lowland dry forest habitat in Costa Rica. Floral nectar from 21 plants was readily accepted by ants in all but two cases. In these studies, some of the nectars were known to contain phenolic compounds and alkaloids. We find little evidence to support Janzen's speculation.
41058540|In this study, we use tree-ring records to determine the climate factors controlling the growth of Centrolobium microchaete, a high-value timber species from the tropical dry Chiquitano forest in Bolivia. We present the first tree-ring chronologies from microchaete for Concepcin and Santa Mnica, Bolivia. Statistical analyses show that the chronologies are of good quality and have a significant common signal between trees. The growth of C. microchaete is strongly influenced by climatic conditions during late spring-early summer. Abundant precipitations concurrent with below-average temperatures during this period of the year favor tree growth. Climate variations in late spring-early summer explain > 40 percent of the total variance in C. microchaete tree growth during the interval 19432005. Minor differences in tree responses to climate recorded between the two stands may reflect differences in the extent of the dry season and in soil water capacity between sites. Although the chronologies cover the past 180 yr, adding samples from older individuals would permit the extension of these records further back in time. The strong climate dependency of tree growth suggests that predicted future climate changes in the region could have a significant influence on C. microchaete tree growth during the 21st century.
27742839|Habitat fragmentation may affect the reproductive success of plant populations in many different ways. Thus, negative, neutral, or positive plant responses can be observed, according to the balance of the different interactions. Variables related to mutualistic and antagonistic interactions (pollinator activity and gall occurrence, respectively) were measured on Byrsonima sericea populations of a fragmented seashore area (restinga) in southeastern Brazil. Pollinator visits to the oil-bearing flowers, insect gall occurrence on stems and inflorescences, and fruit set of B. sericea were compared between three small (up to 0.3 ha) and three large (14.099.0 ha) fragments. MANOVA showed differences between fragment classes. Nevertheless, a posteriori univariate ANOVA showed that the pollinator visit frequency was more than twofold higher in small fragments, and that gall occurrence and fruit set did not show significant differences between small and large fragments. These results suggest that the habitat fragmentation does not affect the female reproductive success of B. sericea in the studied restinga areas because resource availability seems to be a more important factor for fruit set than pollen limitation due to pollination failure. This is the first work assessing the effects of habitat fragmentation in restinga areas, which are intensely impacted by urbanization, so that no generalization about the fragmentation consequences can still be made for this ecosystem.
10.2307/2989767|The substance of this article was delivered as the Presidential Address to the Society for the Study of Evolution, December 30, 1969, in Boston, Massachusetts. Attention is drawn to evolutionary studies in the tropics which appear to be advancing the subject significantly. Then, detailed attention is given to the possible evolutionary bases of the most striking biological characteristic of the tropics: the extraordinary floristic and faunistic diversity of tropical ecosystems. Because most contributions to the discussion of this topic have come from zoologists, the emphasis here is placed on botanical aspects. It is concluded that each of several potential explanations for the diversity may be valid and that a great need for the future is synthesis rather than arbitration between theories.
10.2307/2389199|The abundance of adventitious-root-climbing vines, predominantly Freycinetia excelsa and Piper caninum, on potential host trees was investigated in a north Queensland tropical rain forest. All trees 10 cm DBH and greater were measured and assessed for adventitious-root-climber presence. Additional trees of the 17 most abundant species were examined giving a total of 833 trees. Some 1694 adventitious-root-climbing vines were recorded from the study area. Distribution over the rain forest trees was not homogeneous, but exhibited host associations. Interspecific differences between potential host trees were analyzed in terms of allelopathy, bark characteristics, and gross morphological features. Bark characteristics are proposed as the main factor for the relative absence of adventitious-root-climbing vines on trees of Syzygium papyraceum and Austromyrtus shepherdii. Thin, peeling, sloughable bark characterize these members of the Myrtaceae. Trees heavily infested by adventitious-root climbers include Beilschmiedia collina with non-descript (though slightly rough) bark providing a good, stable climbing surface with little phytotoxicity, and Citronella smythii, with thick, corky, fissured bark, also lacking allelopathic materials. Allelopathic effects of bark phytochemicals seem to be predominantly responsible for the absence of infestation of Alphitonia petriei by adventitious-root climbers.
10.2307/2388571|A tree inventory was conducted in a terra firme Amazonian rainforest of northeastern Bolivia. A 1-ha linear transect (10 x 1000 m) was sampled for all trees with a DBH of 10 cm or greater to provide information about diversity, frequency, density, and dominance. Species and family importance values (FIV) were also calculated. The results show that 94 species, represented by 649 individuals with a total basal area of 214,844 cm$^2$, occur in the hectare. Iryanthera juruensis, Pseudolmedia laevis, Euterpe precatoria, and Socratea exorrhiza are the most frequent species, occurring in at least 85 percent of the sampling subunits. The forest is dominated by relatively few species: 10.6 percent of them account for 47.4 percent of the importance value of the sample. The five most important families in order of importance are Moraceae, Myristicaceae, Palmae, Leguminosae sensu lato, and Melastomataceae. These five account for 60 percent of the total family importance values.
10.2307/2388486|Allozyme variation was studied in sympatric populations of three species of Piper (Piperaceae) in Parque Nacional Santa Rosa, northwestern Costa Rica. Levels of intrapopulational genetic diversity for all three species are low relative to other plants (proportion of polymorphic loci = 2/21 for P. amalago, 1/24 for P. jacquemontianum, and 0/20 for P pseudo-fuligineum). Genotype frequencies at one polymorphic locus (b-Aat1 in P. amalago) are significantly heterogeneous among subpopulations within the Santa Rosa population. Within subpopulations of P. amalago, heterozygote frequencies are consistent with the estimated effective outcrossing rate (0.58) at one locus (b-Aat1) but are in excess at the other locus (Pgi2). Nei's genetic distances between species are relatively high compared to other pairs of congeneric plants, ranging from 0.454 to 0.988. These high genetic distances are consistent with the idea that this large genus of flowering plants is relatively old.
10.2307/2387681|Reproductive success in Costa Rican populations of the tropical shrub Cassia biflora was shown to be density-dependent. Seed set, as mediated by carpenter bee pollination, and pod infestation by bruchid beetles were directly related to C. biflora density. Seed infestation levels per pod were density-independent. These results, together with observations on the natural history of C. biflora, indicate that individuals which occur in clumps have a higher fitness by virtue of increased reproductive success.
2389167|Using a 0.78 ha transect in an undisturbed forest in French Guiana, we sought a typology of forest mosaic units (5 x 5 m quadrats) based on diameter distribution with three main classes of trees 5 cm DBH. We identified nine basic structural types corresponding to potential stages of a sequence of development from colonization of gaps to filling of the vertical space among three layers. Two enumerations made over a 10-year interval (1981 and 1991), enabled a transition matrix to be estimated. This summarizes movement between structural types over the period and enables ideas on dynamics to be discussed.
30043195|The rattleweed Crotalaria retusa was introduced in Brazil from Africa, and combines a series of characters that have ensured its establishment in NE Brazil. We focused on its reproductive biology and pollinator behavior to explain its reproductive success. We performed manual pollination and germination experiments, and monitored the behavior of C. retusa's main pollinators in monospecific plots, and in mixed plots where C. retusa occurred together with two congeners, Crotalaria pallida and Crotahria lanceolata. Crotalaria retusa is self-compatible and capable of automatic selfing. Inbreeding depression was expressed at the level of percent seed germination, but not seed set. Few insects visited the inflorescences. Legitimate pollinators were two large carpenter bees, Xylocopa frontalis and Xylocopa grisescens which, together, accounted for more than 90 percent of the visits. The former foraged on retusa exclusively and has low pollen spread potential. The latter flew longer distances between plants and visited fewer flowers per inflorescence, potentially increasing the extent of pollen carryover, but at the risk of increasing heterospecific pollen transfer, because it visits other Crotalaria species during the same foraging bout. The different foraging strategies, allied to morphological disadvantages represented by pollen overlap on X. grisescens' body, may partially explain the much lower seed germination observed in pallida and lanceolata. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that a reduction in flower constancy may significantly depress viable seed set by increasing the chances of self-pollination. /// A leguminosa Crotahria retusa, vulgarmente conhecida como chocalho ou xique-xique, foi introduzida no Brasil pela frica, e combina uma srie de caractersticas que facilitaram seu estabelecimento no nordeste do Brasil. Focalizamos aspectos da biologia reprodutiva e do comportamento dos seu polinizadores para explicar seu sucesso reprodutivo. Para isto realizamos tratamentos de polinizao manual e germinao de sementes, e monitoramos o comportamento dos principais polinizadores em reas monoespecficas e em reas onde retusa ocorria junto a duas congneres, pallida e lanceolata. retusa  autocompatvel e capaz de autofertilizao espontnea. Ocorreu depresso endogmica no nvel de porcentagem de germinao de sementes, mas no no nmero. Pouco insetos visitaram as inflorescncias. Os polinizadores legtimos foram duas abelhas de grande porte, Xylocopa frontalis e X. grisescens que representaram mais de 90 por cento das visitas. O primeiro forrageia exclusivamente em retusa e tem baixo potencial de disperso polnica. O segundo voa a distncias mais longas e visita menos flores por inflorescncia, potencialmente aumentando a extenso de disperso do plen, mas com o risco de ampliar a transferncia de plen heteroespecifco, pois visita outras espcies de Crotalaria durante vo. As diferentes estratgias de forrageio, junto com a sobreposio de plen no corpo de X. grisescens, explica em parte a baixa taxa de germinao de pallida e lanceolata. Os resultados so consistentes com a hiptese de que uma reduo na constncia floral pode deprimir significativamente a produo de sementes viveis, ao aumentar as chances de autopolinizao.
2663820|The responses of small mammal communities to forest disturbance by logging were evaluated. The study area was located in the Imataca Forest Reserve (Venezuelan Guayana Region), where vegetation was predominantly lowland rain forest. Field analyses were based on a comparative inventory of species inhabiting primary forests and areas disturbed by selective logging. The taxonomic groups used as indicators of the ecological impact of logging belonged to the orders Didelphimorphia, Chiroptera, and Rodentia (families Sciuridae, Muridae, and Echimyidae). The following sampling methods were used: (1) mist nets; (2) traps in 2.4 ha grids (each with 120 stations: 60 at ground level and 60 in trees); and (3) diurnal and nocturnal sight surveys. Total sampling effort consisted of 1904 net-hours, 10,320 trap-nights, and 567 h of direct observations. At least 83 mammalian species inhabited the evaluated forests (74.7 percent corresponding to Chiroptera), of which 15.3 percent were restricted to primary forest. In logged areas, small mammal communities were characterized by: (1) higher abundances of individuals; (2) lower proportions of carnivorous and gleaning insectivorous bats; (3) increases in the relative abundance of frugivorous bat species that eat the fruits of colonizing plants; (4) higher proportions of aerial insectivores (Molossidae) at the lowest levels of the forest; (5) simplification in trophic structure of non-volant species, with semiarboreal predator-omnivores being the dominant guild (followed by terrestrial frugivore-omnivores); and (6) reduction in the relative abundance of mainly canopy-associated species. These results are explained by: (1) lower availability of key resources associated with primary forest (e.g., roosts in hollow trunks of mature trees, canopy fruits, and tree-crown continuity); (2) higher relative abundance of some food resources, such as terrestrial invertebrates and saprophytic plants, principally in areas where primary production is limited by low-fertility soils; (3) increase of roosting sites under fallen trunks; (4) modification of microclimatic conditions at the understory level as a consequence of a greater incident sunlight after canopy opening; and (5) increase in density of early successional plants. The implications of these results to the conservation of biodiversity in forests managed for timber extraction in the Venezuelan Guayana Region are discussed.
40891346|This study was designed to explicitly formulate the effect of census interval and plot size on the variability of descriptors of tropical forest structure (stand density, basal area, aboveground biomass [AGB]) and dynamic (tree growth, mortality and recruitment rates, biomass fluxes). A unique dataset from a broad plot network (37.5 ha) surveyed every 2 yr over a 16-yr period was used to develop and parameterize a new statistical model predicting the coefficients of variation for each forest descriptor. More than 90 percent of the inherent variability of these coefficients was predicted using a simple model including plot size and census interval in a Bayesian modeling framework. All descriptors of forest structure varied by < 10 percent for plot sizes > 2 ha. Among the descriptors of forest dynamics, AGB loss was the most variable. The number of 6.25 ha plots required to estimate its mean, over a 16-yr period, within a 20 percent error of the mean remains above four. This contrasts with a relative constant flux of biomass entering the plot through tree growth and tree recruitment. Tree growth was remarkably well estimated with < 15 percent variability for a 2-yr census in a plot of 2 ha. This study provides an easy method to assess dataset limitations in efforts to estimate descriptors of forest structure and dynamic, which is of primary importance to decipher any clear consequences of global change in tropical forests.
10.2307/2387891|Syzygium syzygioides is a self-incompatible canopy tree, common in the lowlands of Sulawesi, which produces a mass of small (ca five mm across) flowers from mid-February to mid-March 1980. These are visited sparingly by a wide variety of short-tongued insects which collected the quite concentrated nectar. Fruits, small whitish fleshy drupes, are produced by the end of March, but no animal was recorded feeding on them either on or beneath the trees. All the individuals in one hectare of forest were mapped showing that the abundant seedlings are clumped on the forest floor, and that there are fewer seedlings within 10 m of a flowering adult than further away The results of this study are perhaps typical of a species-poor island situation such as Sulawesi, and different results may be expected from an area such as Borneo where S. syzygioides also occurs.
10.2307/2388440|Leaf, stem, and metamer characteristics were studied in 41 sympatric species of vines of a tropical dry forest at Chamela, Mexico, and compared with other growth forms. Leaf weight and specific leaf weight were significantly lower in vines than in tree species at the same site. For both vines and trees at Chamela, specific leaf weight values are among the lowest values reported in the literature. Leaf nitrogen concentration was higher in trees than in woody vines. A relationship was found between leaf structural characteristics and nutrient concentration for all growth forms that was reflected in part in the specific leaf weight. Relative leaf weight ratio (the ratio of leaf to stem internode weight) and internode length were related to the specific vine growth forms, whereas other morphological features were not. Large compensatory changes in stem density and volume, as well as in leaf weight, resulted in similar metamer weights among vine species of different growth habits. Nitrogen per leaf weight in vines was similar to that of annuals and crop plants, and 2 to 6 times higher than evergreen shrubs or trees in Mediterranean climates.
10.2307/2663957|Deforestation rates were estimated in 270 km
10.2307/2989708|Among unusually low and isolated ridges and peaks of volcanic origin in Panama occur cloud forests having a high frequency of endemic plants. Exploration of these botanically ignored forests is urgently needed in face of their impending destruction.
20492495|Hunting by humans may affect the abundance and activity patterns of game species. We examined the effect of hunting on the abundance and activity patterns of sympatric red brocket deer Mazama americana and dwarf brocket deer M. nana. We conducted four camera-trap surveys (158 sampling stations, 10,244 trap-days, total area sampled 1200 km) in three areas within the Atlantic Forest of Misiones, Argentina, that differ in protection and hunting pressure. We used logistic regression and tests of independence to evaluate if protection, hunting pressure, and other independent variables affect the probability of recording each species and their recording rate. We used the Mardia-Watson-Wheeler test to examine if the daily activity pattern differs between species and changes with hunting pressure. Red brocket deer were more frequently recorded (397 records, 58% of stations) than dwarf brocket deer (100 records, 37% of stations). The probability of recording red brockets was higher in areas with better protection and increased with the distance to the main accesses used by poachers. The probability of recording dwarf brockets was higher in areas with low protection. Red brockets were more nocturnal than dwarf brockets, a difference that may reduce interspecific competition. However, red brockets were more diurnal in the best-protected areas, suggesting that they can adjust their activity to local hunting pressure. Hunting has opposite effects on the abundance of these deer and may facilitate their coexistence. Hunting should be carefully controlled or managed to ensure the conservation of these little known species.
30045511|Most studies examining dominance hierarchies have focused at the intraspecific level. While some examples of interspecific hierarchies have been noted, these have usually been limited to a few species in the same taxonomic group that utilize resources in similar ways. Here, we examine evidence for dominance interference competition among vertebrates comprising a diverse frugivore community, including 19 species of birds, squirrels, and primates in a mature Central African rainforest. A total of 38 fruiting trees from 18 species were observed for 2058 h to record dominance interactions between foraging vertebrates. We show that interference competition occurs within and between taxonomically diverse species of vertebrates at fruiting trees. The resulting cross-taxonomic dominance hierarchy includes larger vertebrates, such as primates and hornbills, as well as smaller ones, such as squirrels and parrots. Within this hierarchy, the dominance rank of each species is highly correlated with body mass, and is shown to significantly affect the number of fruits removed from a given tree. Because a majority of tropical tree species depend on vertebrates to disperse their seeds, and particular vertebrates may preferentially disperse the seeds of specific tree species, results may have important conservation implications for the maintenance of tree diversity in regions where populations of larger frugivores have been depressed or extirpated.
30043232|Phytotelmata, small aquatic ecosystems within different structures of terrestrial plants, occur in the inflorescescences and infructescences of Xanthosoma (Araceae). This study reports changes in composition and abundance of arthropods during the anthesis of inflorescences and in the developing infructescences of three species of Xanthosoma at three different geographic locations: (1) X. undipes in a tropical cloud forest of Costa Rica, Central America; (2) X. daguense in a tropical cloud forest in the central Andes of Colombia; and (3) X. poeppigii in the Peruvian Amazonas. All Xanthosoma species displayed similar interactions with the main pollinators, dynastine beetles. We observed a succession from terrestrial to aquatic arthropods as inflorescences aged and set fruit. However, community composition varied among different Xanthosoma species. Some arthropods recorded in Xanthosoma phytotelmata have also been reported as inflorescence visitors of the dynastine-pollinated terrestrial genus Dieffenbachia and of vines from Philodendon and Syngonium. Further research may elucidate if phytotelmata similar to those described for Xanthosoma could occur among dynastine-pollinated genera of Araceae, both in the understory and the canopy of Neotropical forests. /// Las fitotelmata, pequeos ecosistemas contenidos dentro de diversas estructuras de plantas terrestres, estn presentes en inflorescencias e infrutescencias de Xanthosoma (Araceae). Este estudio reporta los cambios en la composicin y abundancia de artrpodos durante la antesis de inflorescencias, y la fructificacin en tres especies de Xanthosoma presentes en tres diferentes localidades geogrficas: 1) X. undipes, presente en un bosque montano en Costa Rica, Amrica Central; 2) X. daguense presente en un bosque montano en los Andes centrales de Colombia, Sur America; y 3) X. poeppigii en la Amazonia peruana en Sur Amrica. Las tres especies de Xanthosoma presentaron interacciones similares con sus polinizado res, escarabajos dynstinos. Las inflorescencias, inicialmente colonizadas por artrpodos terrestres, al marchitarse y producir frutos, presentaron un proceso de sucesin y posterior colonizacin por artrpodos acuticos. Sin embargo, la composicin de artrpodos vari entre las tres especies de Xanthosoma. Algunos de los artrpodos registrados en fitotelmata de Xanthosoma tambin han sido reportados como visitantes de inflorescencias en el gnero terrestre Dieffenbachia y bejucos de los gneros Philodendron y Syngonium. Futuras investigaciones podran dilucidar si sistemas similares al descrito para Xanthosoma son comunes en la familia Araceae, tanto en el sotobosque como en el dosel de los bosques Neotropicales.
41058536|The inadvertent inclusion of weevil-infested seeds when evaluating seed predation by vertebrates, and particularly rodents, may lead to an overestimation of predation rates, thereby confusing the roles of rodents and invertebrates as ecological filters. A study of weevils, rodents and Syagrus romanzoffiana palm seeds indicates the usefulness of X-rays to improve evaluation of invertebrate seed predation.
10.2307/2387718|Certain species of stingless bees are highly aggressive and defend floral food sources, especially when the flowers occur in locally dense patches. An experiment with two bee species, Trigona silverstriana and Trigona corvina, exploiting a large number of artificial baits, tested the effect of grouping the baits on the success of aggressive defense. Spacing or clumping the baits made no difference in the numbers of the dominant bee species (T. silvestriana) visiting the experimental site. However, the numbers of the rival bee species (T. corvina) were reduced dramatically when the baits were clumped, because of more effective distribution of defending T. silvestriana bees.
27742797|We examined frugivore visitation and seed dispersal of five large-seeded ( 5 mm) tree species in tropical montane forest based on their occurrence in frugivorous primate diets: Ekebergia capensis, Olea capensis, Parinari excelsa, Prunus africana, and Syzygium guineense. A total of 21 frugivores in five assemblages (i.e., chimpanzees, cercopithecines, large-bodied birds, small-bodied birds, and squirrels) were observed over the study period (August 2006 and OctoberApril 2007). We observed seed dispersal in four of five tree species studied; no dispersal was observed for P. excelsa. Frugivore assemblages did not visit tree species equally. Primates spent the most time in trees and had the largest group size. Large-bodied birds (LB) and chimpanzees dispersed the highest number of seeds per minute. LB and cercopithecines potentially dispersed the greatest number of seeds for E. capensis, and chimpanzees for S. guineense. Our analyses indicated that the mean fruiting duration of the focal tree, time in the tree, and number of species present are important predictor variables for seed dispersal by small- and large-bodied birds, and cercopithecines. The number of fruiting trees in the immediate vicinity of the focal tree further predicted seed dispersal for small-bodied birds (SB). Large-bodied birdseed dispersal also was predicted by time in tree by SB, and the number of individuals for SB and cercopithecines. Cercopithecines (CS) were further explained by the time in tree and number of species (SB & LB), and number of individuals for CS. Our study highlights the complexity of describing the relative importance of a frugivore assemblage to the dispersal of a tree species seeds.
20492475|Guidelines designed to aid in the restoration of rare species have been previously proposed using two primary strategies to select individuals for augmentation and reintroduction: mixing progeny from different populations or separating individuals from different populations. Understanding the genetic structure and diversity of an endangered species can offer insights into conservation management strategies. We used random amplified polymorphic DNA markers to assess the genetic structure and diversity of Jacquemontia reclinata, a federally endangered species endemic to Southeastern Florida. We sampled 20 percent of total number of individuals from eight of the ten known wild populations. Across individuals high levels of polymorphic loci (94.7%) were found and larger populations had greater genetic diversity. Cluster and ordination analyses found that one population was genetically differentiated from all the others; this population grows in a unique habitat. Most genetic variation (77.5%) was found within populations, and genetic distances between populations were not explained by their geographic distances. We recommend the use of two management units in restoration programs for J. reclinata, one consisting of the genetically differentiated population and the second consisting of the other seven populations sampled.
10.2307/2388267|Hurricane Hugo caused extensive damage to the Luquillo Experimental Forest in September 1989 Individually marked Eleutherodactylus coqui were monitored in two study plots from January 1987 through October 1990. Survivorship estimates of adults for the period including the storm were within the normal range from previous years. Juveniles suffered severe reductions, primarily among the smaller size classes. By October 1990 adult population density had increased fourfold over prehurricane levels, although adults were smaller. Juvenile numbers also appeared to be increasing, but had not yet reached prehurricane densities. The rapid increase in density may have resulted from an increase in retreat sites and a decrease in invertebrate predators. Auditory censuses suggested that density changes for other species ranged from a 14 percent increase for the relatively common E. hedricki to an 83 percent decrease for the relatively rare E. richmondi.
10.2307/2387886|In a primary evergreen rain forest in Veracruz, Mexico, liana recruitment to the forest canopy from the forest floor is commonly by vegetative mechanisms. Two liana species were selected to study this pattern of clonal growth. Ipomoea phillomega maintains extensive stolon systems, colonizing gaps from adjacent undisturbed forest and penetrating undisturbed forest from gaps. Marsdenia laxiflora is restricted to primary forest and its stolon systems generate new liana canopies from deep shade of the forest floor. Both species produce a variety of shoot types, each one with characteristic morphology, growth rate and survival rates of apex and leaves. Vegetative spread is by basal branching (the production of epicormic shoots). It is suggested that vegetative spread by stolons is a natural consequence of hydraulic constraints on liana canopy growth and that this pattern may result in long lives for established liana genetic individuals.
10.2307/2388071|The large ungerminated seeds of guanacaste (Enterolobium cyclocarpum) and carao trees (Cassia grandis), and plastic buttons, were fed to a captive adult male Costa Rican Baird's tapir (Tapirus bairdi) in artificial fruits. Seed survival during gastrointestinal passage and seed passage rate was studied. The tapir's digestive processes killed 78 percent of the guanacaste seeds and all of the carao seeds, despite their hard seed coats, apparently because they germinated and there-by become suspectible to digestive fluids. Guanacaste seeds that survived required an average of 15.3 days to make the trip through the tapir; the dead carao seeds required an average of 10.3 days and the two sizes of buttons required an average of 8.1 days (730 mg) and 10.3 days (360 mg) to make the passage. The tapir is clearly a seed predator of guanacaste seeds as well as a potential dispersal agent. Which of these functions is more important depends on the unknown behavioral interaction between the tree and the tapir.
10.2307/2388707|Paraponera clavata is a large, arboreal foraging, ground nesting, Neotropical ant which appears to rely heavily upon nectar from extra-floral nectaries. In a Costa Rican forest this ant built nests at the base of ten species of trees but seemed to select preferentially the tree Pentaclethra macroloba (Bennett & Breed 1985). These authors suggested that trees with extra-floral nectaries and buttresses may be selected by P clavata. In Panama we found P clavata nests at the base of 76 species of trees and shrubs, 1 palm, and 2 lianas on a 50 ha forest plot. The palm and 4 tree species were positively associated with P clavata, while 4 species (3 shrubs and 1 tree) were negatively associated. Buttressing and the presence of extra-floral nectaries were not conspicuous features of nest trees.
30043209|Pathogens and other symbiotic fungi that infect above-ground plant parts commonly disperse as airborne spores. Here we present diel patterns of the density of airborne fungal spores in the canopy and understory of a tropical rain forest. Spores were 52-fold more abundant in the understory than in the canopy. Additionally, spores were 5- to 35-fold more abundant at night than during the day, associated with environmental conditions conducive to germination and plant infection. /// Los hongos patgenos y otros hongos simbiticos que colonizan las hojas y tallos de plantas se dispersan comunmente como esporas en el aire. Aqu presentamos patrones diarios de la densidad de esporas de hongos en el aire en el dosel y en el sotobosque de un bosque tropical lluvioso. Las esporas son 52 veces ms abundantes en el sotobosque que en el dosel. Ademas, las esporas fueron 5- a 35-veces ms abundantes en la noche que durante el da, con la mayor abundancia de esporas asociada con las condiciones ambientales adecuadas para la germinacin e infeccin de plantas.
30043059|The relative importance of cotyledons and leaves for seedling survival was evaluated using a factorial field experiment on three neotropical tree species with contrasting cotyledon functional morphologies (photosynthetic, epigeal reserve vs. hypogeal reserve). In all species, cotyledon and leaf removal shortly after leaf expansion had additive negative effects on seedling survival over 7 weeks. Carbon supplies from cotyledons and other carbohydrate reserves apparently enhanced ability of seedlings to cope with herbivory and disease.
30045441|The reasons that forest vertebrates differ in their response to selective timber extraction in tropical forests remain poorly characterized. Understanding what determines response and sensitivity can indicate how forest management might yield greater conservation benefits, and help us identify which lesser-known species may be especially vulnerable. We assessed the response of 41 Bornean mammals to selective timber harvest and tested eight hypotheses regarding the correlation between those responses and a range of species characteristics. Multivariate analyses show that phylogenetic species age is a key variable determining sensitivity. Older species are less able to cope with the effects of selective timber harvest. Most of these species are endemic to insular southeast Asia, and do not occur on the Asian mainland. These species are more specialized, and appear less able to cope with habitat change. In contrast, species tolerant to logging evolved more recently. This group tends to be omnivorous or herbivorous, to use all vegetation strata, and to be regionally widespread. This finding allows the sensitivity to habitat disturbance of lesser-known species to be predicted, and therefore has important conservation implications. These new insights also help in the design of large-scale forest landscapes that combine sustainable forest management and species conservation requirements. We recognize that these functions can be compatible, but that some species still need completely protected areas for their survival. Abstract in Indonesian is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2989806|Recent field and laboratory observations are the basis of a review of various aspects of the biology of the Velloziaceae. Some of the pollinators of the flowers have been identified. Fruit, seed and seedling morphology, rate of germination, phenology, the effect of rainfall on flowering as well as the effect of ecological shift on the habit of the species have been studied. Attention is drawn to the future survival of the Velloziaceae in view of current destruction of the areas in which the plants grow.
30044934|In spite of the important role played by bats in tropical ecosystems, little is known about how they are affected by habitat fragmentation. By using a mark/recapture protocol and radiotelemetry techniques in a naturally fragmented landscape composed of primary forests and forest fragments surrounded by savannas in Alter do Cho, Par State, Brazil, we were able to track the movements of various species of bats, calculate the size of the area used, locate roosts and potential feeding areas, and determine preferred flight routes. We marked 3440 bats belonging to 44 species and recaptured 151 belonging to 14 species. The average distance between extra-site recaptures was 2.2 km. With the exception of bats marked in fragments and recaptured in forests, all other possible inter-habitat recaptures were observed. We selected 23 bats of 8 species for radiotelemetry and the areas used by them varied from 65 to 530 ha. Some species restricted their activity to the vicinity of their roosts, rarely moving more than 500 m away, but others traveled greater distances between roosts and foraging areas. All tracked bats flew over savannas, crossing distances from 0.5 to 2.5 km. Roost location and type varied among species, from individuals roosting alone in the foliage to colonies in buildings. Bats were highly mobile and savannas did not appear to inhibit the movements of some species, suggesting that a persistent biological flow may be maintained among isolated fragments, with bats acting as pollinators and seed dispersers. /// Apesar da importncia dos morcegos nos ecossistemas tropicais, pouco se sabe a respeito de como estes animais interagem com uma paisagem fragmentada. Apresentamos aqui dados sobre a mobilidade de morcegos em uma paisagem naturalmente fragmentada, composta por florestas e fragmentos florestais circundados por savanas em Alter do Cho, Estado do Par, Brasil. Atravs de marcao/recaptura e de rdio-telemetria conseguimos rastrear os movimentos de espcies selecionadas, calcular o tamanho da rea usada, localizar abrigos e reas potenciais de forrageio e apontar rotas preferidas de vo. Marcamos 3440 morcegos de 44 espcies e recapturamos 151 individuos de 14 espcies. A distancia mdia entre recapturas em stios diferentes foi de 2.2 km. Com exceo dos morcegos que foram marcados em fragmentos e recapturados em florestas, todas as outras combinaes de recapturas entre habitats foram observadas. Selecionamos 23 morcegos de oito espcies para radio-telemetria e as reas usadas por eles variaram entre 65 e 530 ha. Algumas espcies restringiram suas atividades ao redor dos abrigos, raramente afastando-se mais do que 500 m destes, enquanto outras deslocaram-se por distncias maiores entre os abrigos e as reas de forrageio. Todos os morcegos rastreados cruzaram as savanas, cobrindo distncias de 0.5 a 2.5 km. O tipo e a localizao dos abrigos variou entre as espcies, desde indivduos abrigando-se sozinhos na folhagem at colnias em edificaes. Os morcegos apresentaram alta mobilidade e as savanas aparentemente no inibiram a movimentao de algumas espcies, sugerindo que um fluxo biolgico entre fragmentos pode persistir, tendo os morcegos como agentes polinizadores e dispersores de sementes.
10.2307/2387773|A nest aggregation of Epicharis zonata in coastal French Guiana was periodically examined from October 1976 to August 1977. There is only one generation per year; adults emerge and nest during the dry season. Waterproof cells constructed in level, sandy soil were well beneath the water table during the west season. Prepupae passed at least nine months within the cells.
30043056|As tropical forest fragmentation accelerates, scientists are concerned with the loss of species, particularly those that play important ecological roles. Because bats play a vital role as the primary seed dispersers in cleared areas, maintaining healthy bat populations is critical to natural forest regeneration. Observations of foraging bats suggest that many Neotropical fruit-eating species have fairly general habitat requirements and can forage in many different kinds of disturbed vegetation; however, their roosting requirements may be quite different. To test whether or not general foraging requirements are matched by equally broad roosting requirements, we used radiotelemetry to locate roost sites of two common frugivorous bat species (Sturnira lilium and Artibeus intermedius) in a fragmented forest in southeastern Mexico. Sturnira lilium roosted inside tree cavities and selected large-diameter roost trees in remnant patches of mature forest. Fewer than 2 percent of trees surveyed had a mean diameter equal to or greater than roost trees used by S. lilium. Artibeus intermedius roosted externally on branches and vines and under palm leaves and selected roost trees of much smaller diameter. Compared to random trees, roost trees chosen by A. intermedius were closer to neighboring taller trees and also closer in height to these trees. Such trees likely provide cryptic roosts beneath multiple overlapping crowns, with sufficient shelter from predators and the elements. While males of A. intermedius generally roosted alone in small trees within secondary forest, females roosted in small groups in larger trees within mature forest and commuted more than three times farther than males to reach their roost sites. Loss of mature forest could impair the ability of frugivorous bats to locate suitable roost sites. This could have a negative impact on bat populations, which in turn could decrease forest regeneration in impacted areas.
10.2307/2387902|Old World ants of the subfamily Dorylinae are represented by the genera Aenictus and Dorylus. Aenictus, being monomorphic, does not display the behavioral versatility achieved through caste polyethism such as found in the polymorphic genus Dorylus, especially the subgenus Anomma. General predation has evolved in both monomorphic and polymorphic species but is restricted to those species that forage on the substrate surface. Hypogaeic foragers are trophic specialists that may evolutionarily expand their diets through the adoption of epigaeic foraging combined with swarm raiding. Epigaeic foraging is only recently derived in Old World dorylines, and surface foraging from a temporary surface bivouac or nest is even younger in origin. The usefulness of the terms hypogaeic and epigaeic is discussed, and eyelessness in workers and the morphological condition of the mandibles, waist, and sting are examined with respect to foraging success.
30044042|Multiparasitism is reported for the first time in Eucharitidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea). Dilocantha lachaudii, Isomerala coronata, and Kapala sp. were found simultaneously attacking the same population of Ectatomma tuberculatum (Olivier) (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ectatomminae) in southern Mexico. Adults of D. lachaudii and I. coronata completed development on the same individual host on three occasions. The genus Kapala is reported for the first time as a parasitoid of E. tuberculatum, and I. coronata is reported in Mexico for the first time. /// Este es el primer reporte de multiparasitismo en Eucharitidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea). Dilocantha lachaudii, Isomerala coronata y Kapala sp. fueron encontradas atacando simultneamente a la misma poblacin de Ectatomma tuberculatum (Olivier) (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ectatomminae) en el sureste de Mxico. En tres ocasiones los adultos de D. lachaudii e I. coronata completaron su desarrollo en el mismo husped. El gnero Kapala es reportado por primera vez como parasitoide de E. tuberculatum e I. coronata se reporta por primera vez para Mxico.
10.2307/2387833|A substantial portion (15%) of the non-aquatic avifauna of the Amazon Basin is restricted to habitats created by rivers. These habitats are divided into six categories: beaches and sandbars, sandbar scrub, river edge forest, varzea forest, transitional forest, and water-edge. Lists of species restricted to these habitats are presented; for many of these species, this is the first published information on habitat preferences. As many as 169 bird species in the lowland neotropics may have evolved in Amazonian river-created habitats, with 99 of these spreading secondarily to man-made second-growth or to regions outside the Amazon Basin. Neither the Congo or Mississippi basin avifaunas show such a high percent of species restricted to river-created habitats; this difference is almost certainly due to the greater amplitude of seasonal water level fluctuations of the Amazon River and its tributaries and consequent greater extent of riverine habitats. Alteration of seasonal water flow patterns that would destroy these habitats could potentially exterminate 64 species of Amazonian river-created habitat specialists. The use of mist nets to sample bird community composition is discussed.
10.2307/2388322|Some aspects of the reproductive biology of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) nesting at Tortuguero, Costa Rica, were studied. Ten relationships involving reproductive and morphologic traits of recruits (first-time nesters) were analyzed. Statistically significant positive relationships were found between clutch sizes and carapace lengths of recruits, but significant negative relationships were found between sizes of hatchlings and sizes of recruits. The relative clutch mass of recruits was between 3.42 and 5.54 percent, and no significant size dependence was detected.
10.2307/2387790|The standing crops of Pinus caribaea at Ibadan, Nigeria, aged 6, 8, 9, and 10 years were estimated to weigh 82.2, 81.6, 157.8, and 207.0 x 10
30043169|Population declines have previously been reported for at least 31 amphibian species in Brazil, in the families Leptodactylidae (19), Hylidae (7), Centrolenidae (2), Dendrobatidae (2), and Bufonidae (1). In five Brazilian museum collections, we found no entries of new records dating back to at least 15 yr ago for 13 of these species. We suggest that these taxa be studied in more detail to verify their status and to generate basic ecological data. Museum data indicate that the remaining species have been recently found in areas of reported crashes, or elsewhere. Several apparent declines in Brazil can be associated with habitat loss, interspecific interactions, natural fluctuations, or lack of intensive sampling. Personal observations and field data also indicate possible declines in the states of Parana and Cear as well as in highlands within the Cerrado biome, in the state of Minas Gerais. Records suggest declines of montane and stream-associated populations of Brazilian amphibians in apparently pristine habitats. Field work is necessary to confirm these cases and to examine whether factors associated with similar extinctions in other parts of the globe-such as pathogens and climate change-are also related to local disappearances. To clarify pending questions and perhaps circumvent new cases, it is important to invest in short- and long-term field studies, and in the maintenance and expansion of museum collections. /// Uma reviso bibliogrfica indica a existncia de 31 registros de declnios de populaes de anfbios no Brasil, abrangendo as famlias Leptodactylidae (19), Hylidae (7), Centrolenidae (2), Dendrobatidae (2) e Bufonidae (1). Em cinco colees brasileiras, nenhum registro foi encontrado nos ltimos 15 anos para 13 destas espcies. Sugerimos que as mesmas sejam estudadas em maior detalhe, de modo a verificar seu status e gerar dados ecolgicos necessrios para conservao. Levantamentos em colees indicam que as demais espcies tm sido recentemente encontradas nas localidades do proposto declnio, ou em outras regies. Vrios registros de declnios no pas esto associados a perda de habitat, interaes entre espcies, flutuaes populacionais, ou amostragem insuficiente. Com base em observaes pessoais e dados de campo, levantamos a possibilidade de novos casos de declnios nos estados do Paran e Cear, e em reas de altitude no bioma do Cerrado, em Minas Gerais. Vrios casos de declnios populacionais sugeridos para anfbios brasileiros referem-se a espcies de altitude que se reproduzem em riachos, em reas aparentemente bem conservadas. Ser interessante confirmar tais casos e avaliar se fatores associados a padres semelhantes de extines em outras partes do mundo-tais como patgenos ou mudanas climticasesto tambm relacionados a desaparecimentos ou declnios no pas. Para esclarecer questes pendentes,  importante investir em estudos de campo a curto e longo prazo, bem como na manuteno e expanso das colees herpetolgicas do pas.
10.2307/2387994|Fruits of Trichilia cuneata (Meliaceae), a common tree in drier forests of Central America, are eaten by a number of birds. The fruits are 10 to 12 mm in diameter, covered by a yellowish-brown, capsular exocarp, and contain three to six seeds distributed among three locules. Each seed is covered by an orangish-red aril that averages 59.7 percent lipid and 15 1 percent protein, which makes this species one of the most nutritious known. The fleshy tissue of only 15 of 59 other species for which we found data contained at least 10 percent protein (dry wt.). Only nine species of 57 had fleshy tissue containing more than 40 percent lipid (dry wt.). Between 1971 and 1972, weights of whole fruits decreased by 36 percent, perhaps in response to a severe drought in the area. The decrease was not equally distributed among component tissues of the fruit. Exocarp decreased by 36 percent, aril by 4 percent, and seeds by 62 percent. However, the reduction in weight per seed was not so dramatic, for two reasons. First, the number of seeds per fruit decreased by 26 percent. Secondly, many seeds did not develop. Thus, the decrease in weight per normally developed seed was only 18 percent. The fruit of Trichilia cuneata was attractive to both specialized (4 species) and opportunistic (11 species) frugivorous birds and is intermediate ("a generalist") in several dispersal-related characteristics.
10.2307/2388522|The argument is developed that the resource base, on which food webs are built, controls many aspects of trophic structuring. With emphasis on food webs based on plants, important effects are represented: the plant's influence on three-trophic-level interactions; the cascading effects of plant quality on herbivore attack and performance; the resource-based influence on the probability of competition in communities; how within-species variation in resources selects for high specificity in resource utilization by foraging females and the consequences for intraspecific competition at low herbivore densities; and, how minor differences between plant species cause differences in herbivore behavior and consequently the number of parasitoids in the food web. Phylogenetic constraints on herbivores are superimposed on plant variation. Insect species in which females actively forage for rare high-quality resources are constrained to be latent species, while those in which larval feeding sites are reached more passively tend to generalize on plant quality and can become epidemic periodically-eruptive species. Thus the resource base and the responses of organisms to this base have major organizing influences on populations and communities.
30043234|I examined relationships between tongue length of orchid bees (Apidae: Euglossini) and nectar spur length of their flowers in the genera Calathea, Costus, and Dimerocostus using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Long-tubed flowers have specialized on one or several species of long-tongued euglossine bees, but long-tongued bees have not specialized on long-tubed flowers. Whereas long tongues may have evolved to provide access to a wider variety of nectar resources, long nectar spurs may be a mechanism for flowers to conserve nectar resources while remaining attractive to traplining bee visitors. /// Examin la relacin entre la longitud de las lenguas de las abejas de orchdeas (Apidae: Euglossini) y la profundidad de las flores en los generos Calathea, Costus, y Dimerocostus usando un anlisis filogentico de contrastes independientes. Las flores de tubos largos se han especializado en una o ms especies de abejas Euglossinis con lenguas largas, pero las abejas de lengua larga no se han especializado en flores de tubos largos. Lenguas largas en las abejas probablemente han sido seleccionado para facilitar el acceso a diversas fuentes de nectar, mientras que en las flores, tubos largos podrian ser un mecanismo para conservar nctar, y a la vez, manteniendose attractivas a las abejas de forajeo "traplining."
10.2307/2387960|The growth patterns of two closely related deciduous tree species. Schima wallichii (at 100 m and 1600 m altitude), and S. kbasiana (at 1900 m) in Meghalaya, north-eastern India, were compared. Both species conform to Rauh's model of architecture. Sylleptic lateral branches formed on S. khasiana during periods of vigorous growth of the main shoot. Although stem extension and leaf production were continuous throughout the growing season, they exhibited (endogenous?) periodicity which was most marked in S. wallichii at lower altitude. Schima wallichii at lower altitude had the fastest turnover of leaves.
10.2307/2388631|The production of leaves, flowers, and fruits by 68 lianas (woody vines) representing 43 species was studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, over a period of 12 months. The liana phenology data are contrasted with data for 16 species of light-demanding (pioneer) trees and 10 species of shade-tolerant trees. More of the lianas were evergreen and produced new leaves during more of the year than the trees. Flowering of lianas was concentrated during the middle of the dry season and the middle of the wet season. Many liana species, especially those with wind-dispersed propagules, fruited late in the dry season; several fleshy fruited species underwent a secondary fruiting peak late in the wet season.
10.2307/2387708|A juvenile male Amazonian manatee was captured in the wild, freeze-branded, and held in captivity for 20 months. It was then radio-tagged, translocated into a flood-plain lake system near Manaus, Brazil, and radio-tracked for 20 days. The study was terminated only because of logistical limitations. The 150 mHz transmitter was attached by a collar of machine belting around the caudal peduncle. Tracking was carried out by triangulation from small boats. The manatee spent almost all its time in areas where the food supply was greatest, in newly emerging aquatic vegetation near the edges of expanding lakes, and in floating meadows which were expanding as the water rose. The animal moved about 2.6 km/day on average and was about equally active during day and night.
10.2307/2388551|This study presents heavy metal concentrations and distributions in a mangrove forest in Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro. Sediments are the main reservoir of the total metal contained in mangrove studied: 99 percent for Mn; 100 percent for Fe; 100 percent for Zn; 99 percent for Cu; 100 percent for Cr and 100 percent for Pb and Cd. Rhizophora mangle biomass contained less than 1 percent of reservoir. Within the biotic compartment, perennial tissues accounted for almost all of the metals present in biomass. The results indicate that mangrove may act as an efficient metal trap in tropical coastal environments.
10.2307/2389011|Site and vegetation characteristics were examined in 113 Florida Keys locations that had been undisturbed for at least 50 years. Detrended correspondence analysis (DECORANA) indicated that Keys vegetation was arranged along two major environmental gradients: an elevational gradient within islands, and a geographic gradient associated with position along the NE-SW trending island chain. Both were complex gradients, with soil depth and type, periodicity of tidal inundation, ground water depth and salinity, climate, and geological substrate as potential contributing factors. Two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) was used to divide the samples into 14 major groups on the basis of plant species composition. Finally, the TWINSPAN classification was modified to recognize 13 Ecological Site Units which were homogeneous in important site factors as well as vegetation characteristics. Plant species diversity increased from intertidal to upland site units, while canopy height, basal area, and fine litter production increased both upslope and downslope of the supratidal units.
10.2307/2389076|The pitchers of Nepenthes madagascariensis are visited by a wide variety of insects attracted to the bright color of the pitcher, the nectar secreted around its opening and the odor of the fluid. The insect visitors appear to become disoriented over time and with increasing likelihood fall into the pitcher and drown. The pitchers form a temporary habitat functional for about three months. Several specialized arthropods including mosquito larvae (Uranotaenia bosseri, U. belkini), mites (Creutzeria sp.), and frit fly larvae (Chloropidae) complete their life cycle in the pitcher and depend directly or indirectly on the drowned insects falling into the pitcher. Colonization by these arthropods varies spatially and temporally between the two forms of pitchers (juvenile, rosette form and adult form). Mites (Creutzeria sp.) show a phoretic relationship in colonizing new pitchers by clinging to adult frit flies that emerge from the pitcher's fluid. Food web interactions in the Nepenthes madagascariensis pitcher are more complex than those reported by Beaver (1985).
10.2307/2389110|Male euglossine bees, including Euglossa and Eulaema, collect fragrances from flowers and other sources and probably biochemically modify the fragrances and release them to attract females for mating. The fragrance-collecting activity follows a diel cycle that may be influenced by variation in the thermal environment. To ascertain the degree of the influence of the thermal environment on the activity of these tropical bees, we used Euglossa carcasses as temperature sensors to measure operative environmental temperatures (T
10.2307/2389092|Despite recent studies of the effect of disturbance on the abundance and distribution of organisms, little research has focused on the legacy of infrequent and large scale disturbances, especially from the perspective of habitat associations of animals. In 1989, Hurricane Hugo caused considerable damage to the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico, with the degree of disturbance strongly affected by topogeographic considerations. We examined the abundance, distribution, and habitat associations of four species of land snail (Caracolus caracolla, Nenia tridens, Gaeotis nigrolineata, Polydontes acutangula) in the tabonuco forest at two sites (El Verde and Bisley) which were differentially damaged by the hurricane. Five years after the impact of Hurricane Hugo, significant differences between sites in density persisted for all snails except P. acutangula. Moreover, significant differences in habitat characteristics (central tendency and dispersion) were detected between El Verde and Bisley based on univariate and multivariate analyses of a suite of 31 abiotic and biotic variables. Despite these differences, the basis of habitat association for each snail did not differ between sites. The factors that affected microspatial differences in snail density within sites accounted for differences in density between sites. Insight derived from research conducted at a single location (e.g., El Verde) adequately accounted for patterns of variation at another site (e.g., Bisley), even though differences between sites in the extent and severity of damage were well-documented. We hypothesize that the absence of scale-dependence with regard to habitat selection exists because the association among abiotic and biotic variables (character correlation matrix) within sites was not altered differentially by the hurricane or has recovered to a similar state as a consequence of secondary succession.
20492546|Oceanic islands are good model systems with which to explore factors affecting exotic species diversity. Islands vary in size, topography, substrate type, degree of isolation, native species diversity, history, human population characteristics, and economic development. Moreover, islands are highly vulnerable to exotic species establishment. We used AICc analyses of data on 1132 vascular plant species for 15 countries and 114 islands from the Pacific Island Ecosystems at Risk (PIER) project to examine biological, geographical, and socioeconomic correlates of exotic species richness. PIER provides data on the distribution of naturalized non-native plant species thought to pose environmental or economic risk. We hypothesized that the numbers of PIER-listed species would be positively correlated with island size, habitat diversity, and proximity to major source pools for propagules. Further, we expected numbers of PIER-listed exotic species to be similar among islands in the same country and to be greater where human populations were larger and where economic activity was high. Most species (908) were found on  10 islands. Species number was significantly correlated with island and country areas and with native plant species richness. The strongest model revealed by AICc analyses of island data included log (area) and maximum elevation as well as country membership, substrate type, and presence of an airport with paved runway (an index of economic activity). By country, AICc analyses revealed two equivalent models, both of which included log (area) and per capita gross domestic product as well as a measure of population size (either log (population size) or (population density)). Our analyses provide strong evidence of the roles of biogeographic, environmental, and socioeconomic impacts on the distribution and spread of exotic species.
10.2307/2388129|Hippomane mancinella L., the manchineel or manzanillo, has a long record in the literature of the West Indies as a toxic plant. Recently there has been a tendency to consider existing tales as exaggerations. A personal involvement with latex in the eyes countered a feeling of immunity developed over the years. Case histories and suggested treatments in botanical literature are few, but others are supplied from medical literature less familiar to botanists. A report of blistering from Hippomane spinosa L. is supplied.
27742871|Habitat loss and fragmentation can have severe negative and irreversible effects on biodiversity. We investigated the effects of forest fragmentation on frog diversity in Singapore because of its high rates of deforestation and the demonstration that frogs are some of the most sensitive species to habitat degradation. We surveyed frog species in 12 forest fragments varying from 11 to 935 ha. We compared differences in species richness, abundance, and Shannon's index in relation to forest fragment size, connectivity (distance between fragments), and breeding habitat heterogeneity. A total of 20 species from 12 genera and five families were encountered in 12 fragments. Larger fragments and those closer to larger fragments had higher species richness. Abundance, however, was not correlated with forest area or connectivity, but we found fewer individual frogs in the larger fragments. We also found that breeding habitat heterogeneity best explained frog species diversity and abundance in forest fragments. Fragments with a high diversity of breeding habitats had more species. We found no evidence to suggest that abundance and diversity are strongly correlated, particularly in disturbed areas, but that breeding habitat heterogeneity is an under-appreciated factor that should be considered when prioritizing areas for anuran conservation. Enriching breeding habitat heterogeneity, creating corridors between fragments, and reforesting degraded areas are some of the most beneficial strategies for preserving urban frog biodiversity.
30044908|In the coastal semideciduous forest of La Mancha, Veracruz (Mexico), we evaluated the removal of fallen fruits and seeds of different species by the land crab Gecarcinus lateralis under different environmental conditions (age soil of forest stand, topography, and cover). Crabs removed 67 percent of the propagules in the experiments (3106 of a total of 4608), and seeds were removed in greater quantities (61.1%) than fruits (38.9%). Fruits of Madura tinctoria (Moraceae) and Ehretia tinifolia (Boraginacea) and seeds of E. tinifolia were the most affected species. Crabs removed higher quantities of fruits in old-soil forest and in the understory than in young-soil forest and gaps. In experiments with seeds, only for the older forest, the crabs removed more seeds in slopes and peaks than in valleys and in the understory than gaps, whereas in the young-soil forest, the differences were not significant. Our results suggest that G . lateralis, like Gecarcoidea natalis and Gecarcinus quadratus, is an efficient propagule predator and can exert pressure in the establishment of plant species, but in La Mancha, this also depends on site conditions and identity of the species. /// En la selva costera subcaducifolia de La Mancha, Veracruz (Mxico), evaluamos la remocin de frutos y semillas cadas de rboles de diferentes especies por el cangrejo rojo Gecarcinus lateralis. Se hicieron experimentos para evaluar la remocin bajo diferentes condiciones ambientales: edad del suelo de la selva, grado de cobertura del dosel y topografa. Los cangrejos removieron 67 por ciento de los propgulos en los experimentos (3106 de un total de 4608). Las semillas fueron removidas en mayor cantidad (61.1%) que los frutos (38.9%). Los frutos de Madura tinctoria (Moraceae), Ehretia tinifolia (Boraginaceae) y las semillas de E. tinifolia fueron las especies ms afectadas. En los experimentos con frutos, la mayor remocin por cangrejos ocurri en la selva con el suelo de mayor edad y bajo el dosel, en contraste con la selva de suelo joven y claros. En el caso de los experimentos con semillas, en la selva con el suelo de mayor edad los cangrejos removieron ms semillas en laderas y cimas respecto a los valles y bajo el dosel con respecto a los claros, mientras que en la selva con el suelo joven las diferencias no fueron significativas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el cangrejo rojo, G. lateralis, es un depredador eficiente de semillas y frutos y, al igual que Gecarcoidea natalis y Gecarcinus quadratus, puede ejercer presin en el establecimiento de algunas especies vegetales. En La Mancha, esto tambin depende de las condiciones ambientales y de la identidad de la especie vegetal.
10.2307/2388015|Thirteen species representing 10 genera of woodpeckers (Picidae) coexist in Malayan lowland dipterocarp forests, a greater number of picids than found together elsewhere in the world. Studies of these specialists at several central Malayan sites, and museum analysis of their external morphology, provided a basis for examining some ecomorphological parameters of their sympatry. There is a gradient in size from 9 to 430 g, with seven species weighing between 50 and 100 g. Structural differences in wing length, tail length, tail/wing ratio, tarsal length, and especially features of the bill (its length, width, depth, shape of the tip and culmen, and width between the nostrils) appear correlated with different activity patterns, habitat preferences, foraging sites, and foraging modes. The phylogenetically unrelated woodpecking specialists (Hemicircus concretus, Blythipicus rubiginosus, Reinwardtipicus validus, Dryocopus javensis) are fewer in number than less specialized picids, and are well dispersed in size among the 13 species, whereas the four relatively unspecialized (non-woodpecking) species (Meiglyptes tristis, M. tukki, Celeus brachyurus, Picus miniaceus) are more uniform in size, but differ in structure, foraging modes, and habits. The other species (Sasia abnormis, Picus puniceus, P. mentalis, Dinopium rafflesii, and Mulleripicus pulverulentus) vary widely in size, forage diversely, and generally fall between the other two groups of species in their ecology. The only sympatric congeners occurring in these forests involve two species of Meiglyptes and three of Picus. Though congeners tend to be similar in size, they differ in bill structure and in foraging habitat and modes. The extensive "picifauna" of Malayan forests is to a great extent due to floral diversity coupled with accessibility to diverse groups of speciating woodpeckers. Ant- and termite-foraging picids are numerous, accounting for over half the foraging efforts of woodpeckers in these forests.
10.2307/2388732|Data are provided on consumption of the fruit of the Guayacan (Guaiacum sanctum, Zygophyllaceae) by 19 avian species of 17 genera in 8 families in the arid interior of Guatemala. G. sanctum is an abundant evergreen tree of the dry deciduous scrub forest of the Motagua River valley in the Departments of Zacapa and El Progreso. Arilloids were exposed in conspicuous displays during 2 distinct fruiting periods, each lasting about 2 mo. During a fruiting period, individual trees bore ripe fruit continuously for as long as 6 wk. Diverse harvesting and handling procedures of Guayacan arilloids were employed by avian consumers, both intra- and interspecifically; these are characterized and harvesting procedures are related to tree morphology Arils and/or arilloids were consumed and/or transported by adult birds to nestlings and fledglings. Thirteen species transported seeds away from G. sanctum parent trees and did not drop seeds beneath these; two other species transported a portion of the seeds they handled away from parent trees.
30043231|We examined the postdispersal fate of large seeds (5 mm) dispersed by chimpanzees in an afromontane forest to evaluate aspects of the effectiveness of seed dispersal by chimpanzees, Pan troglodytes. We assessed the influence of six microhabitat characteristics on seed persistence and germination in seeds dispersed in chimpanzee feces and "wadges." A total of 257 fecal samples and 56 wadges were located over a 4-mo period by tracking a semi-habituated chimpanzee community on day follows. Forty-nine (19.1%) of the fecal samples contained large seeds from five different tree species. The majority of fecal samples with seeds contained seeds from the mature forest tree Olea capensis (Oleaceae) (83.7%). Forty-two wadges (75%) contained seeds from the mature forest tree Syzygium guineense (Myrtaceae). Seeds were monitored at their deposition site for removal and germination up to 49 d following deposition. We collected data on the microhabitat surrounding each fecal and wadge sample. Multivariate analyses indicated that while fecal and wadge samples were not clustered into particular microhabitats, there was little overlap in the microhabitats in which wadges and fecal samples were deposited. Significantly more seeds persisted over 49 d in wadges (67.9%) than in feces (30.3%). Elevation was the only microhabitat variable determined to have a significant influence on seed persistence, whereas slope was determined to have a significant influence on germination. /// Le destin des graines des grandes tailles (5 mm) qui sont disperses par les chimpanzs, Pan troglodytes, dans une fort ombrophiles de montagne fut tudi pour dterminer l'influence des six microhabitats sur l'habilit des graines de survivre et germer. Deux cent cinquante-sept chantillons des matires fcales et 56 "wadges" ont t trouv en suivant journellement pendant quatre mois un groupe de chimpanzs semi habitus  la prsence humaine. Quarante-neuf (19.1%) chantillons des matires fcales contenaient des larges graines provenant de 5 espces d'arbres. La majorit des chantillons des matires fcales avec graines (83.7%) contenaient les graines d'une espce d'arbre mature de la fort Olea capensis (Olaces). Quarante-deux wadges (75%) contenaient seulement des graines d'une espce d'arbre mature de la fort Syzygium guineense (Myrtaces). Les enlvement et germination des graines ont t surveilles sur le site de dposition durant 49 jours suivant la dposition. En plus, nous avons rcoltes des donnes sur les microhabitats environnant chaque chantillon des matires fcales et wadges. Les analyzes multivaries ont indiques que pendant que les chantillons des matires fcales et wadges n'taient pas groups dans des microhabitats particuliers, il y avait quelque empitement entre les microhabitats qui recevaient les wadges et les habitats qui recevaient les chantillons des matires fcales. La proportion des graines persistant jusqu'au 49me jour tait diffrente pour les chantillons des matires fcales et des wadges, 30.3% et 67.9% respectivement. L'lvation tait la seule variable du microhabitat qui avait une importante influence sur la persistance des graines. La pente taient le seule variable du microhabitat qui ont eu un effet important sur la germination des graines.
41241887|In species with broad distribution, geographic variation could be associated to particular environmental factors that may affect plant reproduction. In dimorphic species, environmental factors may influence evolutionary processes governing sex ratio variation and floral traits evolution. Kalhtroemia grandiflora is an annual insectpollinated gynodioecious herb with broad distribution from the Sonoran desert to the semiarid west coast of Mexico. In this study, we explored if female frequency increases in harsh environments and the associated changes in floral morphology in female and hermaphrodite plants. We selected 23 populations along the pacific coast of Mexico where we estimated female frequency and in eight of them we also measured flower size in hermaphrodite and female plants. The average decrease in precipitation was correlated with the increase in female frequency, and a reduction in the flower size of hermaphrodite plants. Our results support the idea that harsh environments may influence female frequency, but also flower size and possibly breeding system evolution.
10.2307/2388145|Semi-evergreen forests cover the dry zone plains of Sri Lanka and constitute four-fifths of the island's vegetation. In a sample area of 3 km
10.2307/2388469|The very low diversity of animal pollinators on remote oceanic islands can act as a potent biotic filter to potential plant immigrants. To assess the relative difficulties faced by colonizing plant species, we studied the pollination ecology of kapok, Ceiba pentandra (Bombacaceae), a widespread aboriginal introduction to Pacific islands. The Samoan form of this tree is self-fertile, but requires pollination for fruit set. In continental areas C. pentandra attracts a diverse assemblage of pollinators, but in Samoa it is pollinated only by Pteropus tonganus (Megachiroptera: Pteropodidae)-an example of a plant exclusively dependent on one bat species for pollination. The pollination system is dystrophic, however, since foraging flying foxes may destroy up to 50 percent of C. pentandra flowers and developing fruits. Though resource defense is regarded as rare in nectarivorous bats, P. tonganus vigorously defends small feeding territories on the rich, but readily depleted, C. pentandra nectar resource. This intraspecies conflict probably shapes patterns of pollen transfer within and among trees, and enhances cross-pollination. Our study highlights the importance of conserving pollinators in remote oceanic islands with depauperate pollinator faunas.
10.2307/2387935|Flowers of Plumeria rubra, a mass-flowering tropical tree, share many traits with hawkmoth-pollinated flowers, and Plumeria pollen was recovered from the tongues of 17 hawkmoth species in Costa Rica. Rates of visitation and fruit set were exceptionally low compared with other hawkmoth flowers sympatric with Plumeria, apparently because Plumeria flowers produce no nectar reward. Hawkmoths in a flight cage quickly learned to avoid nectarless Plumeria flowers, but readily fed from these flowers after artificial nectar was added. Although no specific model for Plumeria was found in Costa Rica, the presentation of generalized odor and visual cues that mimic typical hawkmoth flowers may facilitate deceitful pollination of Plumeria.
2663873|Fates and growth of Rafflesia patma buds and insect visitation to the flowers were monitored in an evergreen tropical rain forest in the Pangandaran Nature Reserve, Java, Indonesia. Of 59 buds marked in December 1985, 44 percent died before flowering, 7 percent flowered, and 49 percent were still in bud in May 1986. Mammals and birds caused the deaths of buds before they reached maturity. Only four buds flowered between December 1985 and May 1986; all were male. Rate of increase in diameter (cm/d) was much faster in large than in small buds. Once opening began, the flower opened fully in 24 to 48 hours; the flower remained open for three to five days before rotting. Only two genera of insects visited a male flower of R. patma: Lucilia and Sarcophaga (Diptera). Insect visitation was highest in the afternoon (1300-1700 h) and on the second or third day after flower opening. The increased number of flies visiting the flower coincided with the increasing odor emitted from it. Results of the present study were combined with information from the literature to construct a life cycle diagram of R. patma.
10.2307/2389100|The theory of competition is modified to include the effects of disturbance as a force that can set back the process of competitive exclusion. Disturbance may be of three forms, density dependent, density independent and quast-dependent. It is shown analytically that the quast-dependent form is incapable of setting back the competitive process to avoid competitive exclusion, while either the density dependent form or the density independent form can. The basic theory is tested with data on changes in tree population densities since the landfall of Hurricane Joan in Nicaragua. It is found that this catastrophic event indeed did have the effect of reducing competitive dominance and thus preserving species diversity. Furthermore, the effect was density independent.
10.2307/2388423|Mechanized selective logging in tropical rain forest typically removes only a small percentage of timber trees, but incidental damage may be severe. In a West Malaysian dipterocarp forest, extracting 3.3 percent of trees destroyed 50.9 percent, and damage was spread equally among all tree taxa and all size classes. The overall availability of food sources for frugivores and folivores is thus drastically reduced, even where timber trees are not themselves used by animals. To some extent, the initial loss of food sources may be buffered by increased reproductive and vegetative activity of those trees that remain.
27742838|Richness and occupancy patterns of epiphyll bryophytes in a fragmented landscape of tropical rain forests in northeastern Brazil (Murici Ecological Station) were investigated to assess the influence of regional and local disappearance of habitat on epiphyllous metapopulation indicators. Bryophytes were collected from ten forest fragments, from the fragment's border to 100m inside the forest. The number of colonized phorophytes and the cover on leaves were scored. Decreasing trends in regional and local abundance linked to habitat loss were observed, which may be related to the sexual and asexual expression. Although fertility was not related to constancy in the fragments, frequently fertile species colonized more sites within fragments than infertile species. Landscape metrics and indicators of habitat quality explained better the variation in epiphyll richness and occupancy than distance from the forest's edge. This suggests that the abrupt habitat quality modification resulting from edge creation is secondary in the area studied, while irreversible landscape modifications still play an important role. The results add to empirical support that metapopulations are prone to negative and long-term effects in fragmented landscapes. Thus, the selection of priority areas for conservation must take into account the remaining amount of habitat as well as the connectivity between the landscape's patches.
41241928|Ateline monkeys, the largest primates in the Neotropics, may disperse more than one million seeds/km/d at sites where they are abundant, but it is unclear whether a reduction in their populations can alter plant diversity patterns. The species richness and composition of regenerating plants as a proxy of future plant communities were studied by comparing 16 sites with different ateline abundance in three countries in northwestern South America. A total of 3658 plots included 94,340 regenerating plants, which were assigned to species or morphospecies. Paired t-tests comparing sites in the same region but with different densities of atelines, and regression analyses showed a consistent positive relationship between ateline density and plant diversity. These results were due to the larger number of stems per area and higher evenness at sites with more atelines, suggesting higher recruitment rates for dispersed seeds. Differences were also found in plant composition, as canopy, endozoochorous, and medium seed size plants were consistently more abundant in sites with more ateline monkeys than in sites with less atelines. The findings of this study suggest that these primates play a key role in plant regeneration. In order to maintain the diversity and plant composition of tropical forests for future generations, conservation of these large frugivores and other key game species is imperative.
40645580|In this study, we examined the impacts of Attalea oleifera on the structure of seedling bank and discuss potential mechanisms of palm influence. Seed rain, seedling bank, and palm leaf fall were assessed beneath the canopy and in the vicinity of 16 adult palms across the edges of a large fragment (3500 ha) of the Atlantic forest. Moreover, we examined A. oleifera impacts on seed germination and seedling mortality by experimentally submitting seeds and seedlings to prolonged palm-leaf covering. As expected, seedling bank beneath the adults exhibited reduced abundance and species richness at local and habitat scale. Small to large seeds (3.1-30 mm) were underrepresented in the seed rain below adults palms, while experimental leaf covering drastically reduced both seed germination and seedling survivorship. A. oleifera leaf fall occurred over the whole year (3.6  2.7leaves/individual/yr), which resulted in deep leaf litter mounds (10.7  9.2 cm). Finally, adult palm density (21.6 db 11.9 individuals/ha) correlated negatively with seedling density across Attalea clusters. Our results suggest that A oleifera exerts negative effects on the seedling bank by reducing seedling abundance and richness as a consequence of two complementary mechanisms: impoverished and size-biased seed rain plus reduced seed germination and increased seedling mortality due to prolonged covering by fallen leaves.
4132924|The composition of plant species in fragmented landscapes may be influenced by the pattern of visitation by birds to fruiting trees and by the movement of seeds among and within fragments. We compared bird visitation patterns to two tree species (Dendropanax arboreus, Araliaceae; Bursera simaruba, Burseraceae) in continuous forest and remnants of riparian vegetation in a region dominated by pasture in Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, Mexico. We quantified frequency of visitation, fruit consumption, consistency of visitation (percentage of total tree observation periods during which a given bird species was recorded), and species composition of birds at individuals of both tree species in continuous forest and riparian remnants. Bird visitation rate, species richness, and fruit consumption rates were similar within both tree species in the two habitats. Species assemblages at D. arboreus were different between continuous forest and remnants. Species assemblages at B. simaruba did not differ by habitat. Our results demonstrate that habitat disturbance may influence avian visitation patterns, which may in turn affect subsequent recruitment patterns in some tree species. Our results, however, were not consistent between the tree species, suggesting that it is difficult to generalize concerning the effects of forest disturbance on avian species assemblages in fruiting trees.
10.2307/2388992|Fruit set, fruit production, and fruit fall of the arborescent palm Acrocomia aculeata were documented for the Distrito Federal in central Brazil in 1984-1986. Flowering began in August and extended to mid-December with the highest concentration of open inflorescences (>50% of the total) occurring from mid-October until mid-November. There was a significant correlation (Spearman rank correlation coefficient; r = 0.69; N = 8; P = 0.05) between flowering time and fruit set over the course of the reproductive season. The inflorescences that opened in October were those that produced highest fruit set, with fruit set mean of 25.4 percent (SD = 20.9) in the first half and 28.9 percent (SD = 24.4) in the second half of October. Overall, fruit set was less than 10.0 percent, although it ranged from 0 to 85.0 percent. Each infructescence produced about 60 fruits, but it ranged from 0 to 271 fruits. Fruit fall occurred for 6 to 10 months, generally concentrated from October to January.
30044013|We described the plants used as roost resources by Artibeus watsoni in southwestern Costa Rica, assessed roost fidelity, and compared roosting ecology between two sites, Golfito and Corcovado, which vary in the degree of human influence. A total of 349 tents from 25 different plant species were used by A. watsoni as roosts; some plant species (e.g., Carludovicapalmata, Asplundia ahta, Heliconia imbricata and Calathea lutea) were modified into tents with significantly higher frequency than others. The highest tents above the ground were observed in Philodendron popenoei and Rhodospatha wendhndii, whereas tents in Philodendron grandipes and A. alata were significantly lower than any other species. Asplundia ahta and R. wendlandii also had the highest frequency of leaves modified per plant. Fidelity of bats to tents was low, although bats used several tents intermittently within a restricted area. Males generally were more faithful to tents than females, although not significantly so. This observation, along with indirect evidence of leaf modification, suggests that males are primarily responsible for tent construction. The two study sites differed in the plants used for roosting and in tent fidelity. Bats in Corcovado used a greater variety of plant species for tent roosting, whereas bats in Golfi to were more faithful, suggesting that roosting resources were scarcer at the latter site. /// Enumeramos la plantas utilizadas como perchas por el murcilago constructor de carpas Artibeus watsoni en el suroeste de Costa Rica, determinamos fidelidad de perchas, y comparamos la ecologa de perchas entre dos sitios con diferentes niveles de alteracin humana, Golfito y Corcovado. Un total de 349 perchas de 25 especies de plantas fueron utilizadas por A. watsoni, y algunas especies (por ejemplo Carludovica palmata, Asplundia alata, Heliconia imbricata y Calathea lutea) fueron utilizadas con mayor frecuencia que otras plantas. Las perchas halladas a mayores alturas sobre el nivel del suelo fueron Philodendron popenoei y Rhodospatha wendlandii, mientras las perchas usadas en Philodendron grandipes y A. alata se utilizaron a alturas significativamente mas bajas. Asplundia ahta y R. wendbndii tambin mostraron la mayor cantidad de hojas modificadas por planta. El promedio de fidelidad a las perchas fue bajo, sin embargo los murcilagos utilizaron perchas intermitentemente en un rea relativamente restringida. Los machos fueron en promedio mas fieles a las perchas que las hembras, aunque no significativamente. Esta observacin, junto con evidencia indirecta de modificacin de hojas, sugiere que los machos son primordialmente responsables de la construccin de carpas. Los dos sitios muestreados mostraron diferencias en las plantas utilizadas como percha y en fidelidad de carpas. Los murcilagos de Corcovado usaron una mayor variedad de especies como perchas y fueron menos fieles a estas, pero en Golfko los individuos fueron mas fieles, aunque utilizaron menos plantas. Esto sugiere, por lo tanto, que el recurso de perchas es mas escaso en Golfko.
41241943|Fire is an important agent of disturbance in many tropical ecosystems that can potentially influence plant consumers. Nevertheless, there are few reports on whether levels of plant damage change as a result of fire. Here we present the results of a 1-yr study evaluating the effects of fire on rates of herbivory and damage by pathogens in leaves of cerrado (Brazilian savanna) tree species. Damage by leaf chewers was over two times greater in burned than in unburned trees. Levels of damage by leaf miners, leaf scrapers, galling insects, and leaf pathogens were relatively low and increased, remained the same, or even decreased as a result of fire. Nevertheless, in all three plant species studied, total herbivore damage was significantly greater in burned than in unburned trees given the preponderance of damage caused by leaf chewers compared with the other types of damage. Leaf chewers, mainly leaf-cutter ants, caterpillars, and grasshoppers, completely ate over 50 percent of the > 2000 leaves we marked in burned trees. That our results were consistent among different plant species with contrasting leaf phenologies suggests that the observed increase in herbivory is a general phenomenon in our study system. Because herbivore pressure is augmented dramatically in recently burned areas, herbivory may act synergistically with fire in influencing the structure of cerrado vegetation.
10.2307/2389085|The fifteen articles in this special issue describe long-term ( 5 years) responses or perspectives on disturbance in Caribbean ecosystems. Most (11) of the articles describe the responses of Caribbean forests to hurricane disturbance, particularly the effects of Hurricane Hugo on wet forest in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF), Puerto Rico. Ten articles discuss, alone or in addition to hurricanes, the effects of other types of disturbance including that due to humans, treefalls, drought, and landslides. In this introductory article we summarize the post-hurricane trajectories of various ecosystem components in the LEF. We also address how responses to other types of disturbance can be brought together to obtain a more thorough understanding of the comparative responses of Caribbean ecosystems to different disturbances. Finally, we identify those areas of disturbance ecology in the Caribbean that require further investigation.
10.2307/2388030|A dry-season survey of the developing seeds of 74 species of Costa Rican deciduous forest perennial plants found that the developing embryos of 55 percent of the species were highly chlorophyllous; these species had flat, strap-like or cylindrical fruits with seeds less than 1 g mature weight, or had fully insolated spheroidal fruits with four or less small- to medium-sized seeds. The achlorophyllous seeds were in fruits with large seeds, fruits with many seeds packed in layers, or in fruits borne in locally shady habitats. The presence of a chlorophyllous developing embryo would seem to add significant complexity to the already-complex parasite-host relationship of the embryos that are developing in the fruit, in that fruit and seed-coat traits are evolutionarily affected by transmission of light to the embryo and a phytosynthetic embryo may be able to develop more independently of the parent than can an achlorophyllous embryo.
27742857|While research continues on the causes, consequences, and rates of deforestation and forest degradation in the tropics, there is little agreement about what exactly is being lost, what we want back, and to whom the 'we' refers. Particularly unsettling is that many analyses and well-intended actions are implemented in fogs of ambiguity surrounding definitions of the term 'forest'a problem that is not solely semantic; with development of markets for biomass carbon, vegetation classification exercises take on new relevance. For example, according to the basic implementation guidelines of the Kyoto Protocol, closed canopy natural forest could be replaced by monoclonal plantations of genetically engineered exotic tree species and no deforestation would have occurred. Following these same guidelines, carbon credits for afforestation could be available for planting trees in species-rich savannas; these new plantations would count towards a country moving towards the 'forest transition,' the point at which there is no net 'forest' loss. Such obvious conflicts between biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration might be avoided if 'forest' was clearly defined and if other vegetation types and other ecosystem values were explicitly recognized. While acknowledging that no one approach to vegetation classification is likely to satisfy all users at all scales, we present an approach that recognizes the importance of species composition, reflects the utility of land-cover characteristics that are identifiable via remote sensing, and acknowledges that many sorts of forest degradation do not reduce carbon stocks (e.g., defaunation) or canopy cover (e.g., over-harvesting of understory nontimber forest products).
2389171|There is growing concern about the potential impact of researchers on tropical forest ecology, but few data. The aim of this paper is to examine the effects of collecting botanical specimens from tropical forest trees on their subsequent survivorship, using mortality data from plots in Amazonian Peru that were established in 1989 and reinventoried in 1994. In total, 2017 trees were originally tagged and collections were made from 948 trees. Making voucher collections always involved using unsterilized telescopic plant collecting poles to cut representative small branches, and sometimes also involved using iron-spiked tree-climbing gear to gain access to the canopy. Annual mortality in the four plots averaged 1.99 percent. Among the whole population of dicotyledenous trees, there was no detectable difference between the mortality rate of collected trees (1.96%) and noncollected trees (2.29%). We conclude that in spite of the physical damage caused to collected trees, collecting voucher specimens from tropical moist forest trees may not affect their survivorship, at least in the short-term. Further studies are needed to fully evaluate the potential impacts of research activities on permanent forest plots in the tropics.
10.2307/2388269|Hurricane Hugo caused severe but short-term disruption of the avian community of a subtropical wet forest site in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. Nectarivorous and frugivorous bird species were greatly reduced in numbers immediately after the hurricane. The single granivore species studied decreased in numbers more slowly Insectivores and omnivores increased after the hurricane. All species except the granivore returned to their prehurricane abundance levels prior to the following breeding season, suggesting that population changes were a result of movement in search of food rather than mortality. Mist net captures and observations indicated that birds occupied a reduced vertical foraging range after the hurricane, and stomach contents from birds captured 6-10 months after the hurricane showed that different foods were being consumed. Fewer and different kinds of arthropods were found in stomachs after the hurricane. These findings, coupled with the frequent occurrence of hurricanes in the Caribbean, suggest that there is pressure on bird populations in this region to maintain plasticity in habitat and dietary requirements.
2389170|We tested the hypothesis that, where fire has historically been infrequent, wooded areas that have been invaded by grasses and converted to grassland by fire are predisposed to future fire compared to adjacent areas that remain wooded, thus, an initial forest fire may promote future fires. We compare microclimate between a grass-dominated burned area and a nearby grass-invaded woodland that has not burned in recent history, both located in the submontane dry forest of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. The results were used to parameterized BEHAVE, a fire behavior prediction model developed by the USDA Forest Service. The model's predictions include probability of ignition, intensity, rate of spread, and tree mortality. Contrary to expectations, daytime hourly mean temperatures were higher and relative humidity was lower in the woodland site. However, the differences in temperature and humidity were not great enough to affect spread rate or probability of ignition. Wind speeds were substantially greater in the grassland, and this was most important in driving differences in modeled fire spread. Given similar synoptic conditions, a fire started in the grassland can be expected to spread an order of magnidute faster than one started in the woodland
3593190|In Gabon, we investigated the floral morphology and biology of Napoleonaea vogelii (Lecythidaceae), a cauliflorous understory tree of lowland humid rain forest, and made observations on the behavior of insect visitors. The major insects visiting flowers were: a thrips (Ceratothripoides brunneus), a small moth (Glyphipterix sp.), four species of leaf beetles (Gabonia colae, Gabonia sp. undescribed, Macrocoma sp., and Monolepta sp.), three species of weevils (Endaeus sp. 1-3), and two species of ants (Technomyrmex sp. and Monomorium sp.). In N. vogelii, the flower is quite complex, and we propose a floral morphological definition for complexity. Insect visitors are spatially segregated on the flower. The evolution of the morphology and biology of the flower of N. vogelii is influenced by insect visitors, both pollinating and non-pollinating. The thrips are the likely pollinators of the flower.
2663822|Using mist nets, we compared phyllostomid bat ensembles of continuous mature forest in Tikal National Park, Guatemala, and of forest fragments in the nearby farming landscape. Of 20 species captured, 13 were shared between treatments, 4 were unique to continuous forest, and 3 were unique to forest fragments. Dominance-diversity curves were similar for the two treatments except that Sturnira lilium comprised 43 percent of captures in the forest fragments, resulting in greater dominance there. Capture rates (and presumably relative abundance) differed significantly between continuous forest and forest fragments, both in terms of species and feeding guilds. Sturnia lilium and Dermanura sp. were captured significantly more often in forest fragments than in continuous forest, whereas Artibeus jamaicensis, A. lituratus, and Centurio senex were taken significantly more often in continuous forest. Large frugivores accounted for a higher proportion of total captures in continuous forest than in forest fragments, whereas small frugivores showed the opposite pattern. By their abundances, Carollia perspicillata and S. lilium are indicators of forest disturbance. The relative abundances of large frugivores, which feed on large fruits of mature forest trees, and small frugivores, which feed on small-fruited plants occurring in early succession, are an indicator of forest disturbance. Other groups, such as large insect- and vertebrate-eating bats, because of their low capture rates, are impractical as indicators for rapid assessment of forest disturbance based on mist netting, but may prove especially vulnerable to forest fragmentation.
10.2307/2388442|Seed and seedling production in Pandanus tectorius were studied in high- and low-light environments to investigate the idea that multiple seeds dispersed together over long distances are advantageous in dioecious plants. Pandanus tectorius is a tree of strand habitats that is dispersed by drift. It produces fruit with 2 to 10 carpels. Seed/carpel ratio was inversely related to the number of carpels in a fruit. Most fruit contained multiple seeds. Fruit in the high-light environment produced a larger proportion of multiple seedlings (44.8%) than fruit in the shaded area (23.8%). Multiple seedlings from a single fruit were not smaller than single seedlings in the high-light environment, but were significantly smaller in the shaded area.
10.2307/2989667|Experiments on the toxicity of holothurians to fishes were conducted at Cocos Island (eastern Pacific), in Mexico, California, and Washington. Six of seven species of holothurians tested at Cocos Island are toxic to fishes. Five species in Mexico are toxic, one of two species in California is mildly toxic, and three of twelve species in Washington are mildly toxic to fishes. Feeding experiments confirm laboratory tests on toxicity. A summary of information is presented on the current status of our knowledge of toxicity in holothurians. The evidence supports the hypothesis that toxicity in tropical holothurians probably has evolved in part as a chemical defense mechanism against predation by fishes.
10.2307/2388772|The reproductive biology of three syntopical palm species, Bactris bifida, B. monticola, and B. gasipaes was investigated to determine their pollination strategies and pollinators, and to elucidate their impact on pollination for the local palm assemblage. In Peruvian Amazonia, Bactris is pollinated mainly by beetles of the genera Phyllotrox (Curculionidae) and Epurea (Nitidulidae), which are attracted to the protogynous, heavily scented inflorescences for mating and oviposition. In experiments (N = 15), beetles were constantly raised in the staminate flowers, which abscise after anthesis. Pollinator activity is crepuscular-nocturnal and the beetles change from male phase inflorescences to female phase inflorescences during twilight. The non-overlap of sexual phases within individuals largely promotes outbreeding in Bactris. The extensively cultivated B. gasipaes is pollinated by other species of Phyllotrox and Epurea than the primary forest species B. bifida and B. monticola. The latter two share the same pollinators with two species of Desmoncus. These species constitute an assemblage of reproductively similar palms. The beetle pollinators are associated with the palms mainly at and above the generic level, although development of their larvae in the abscised flowers of the host species probably leads to a chemical preference and thus "flower constancy" to that species. At the end of the host plant's flowering period beetles may switch to another assemblage member, because the palms provide the same resources. The assemblage members are patchily distributed, and population density in such patches is extremely high. They show staggered flowering and the most abundant species within the assemblage flower 2 or even 3 times a year, while less abundant species flower once a year.
10.2307/2388868|The sprouting response of the vegetation in three areas that were slashed and burned under different fire severities was determined in a 12 year second growth tropical dry forest ("caatinga") near Serra Talhada, PE, Brazil. Plots were slashed at the onset of the dry season (July) and burned on 19 September (B). 26 September (C) or 4 October (D). Sprouting responses were also examined in unburned areas. Longer drying periods resulted in increasing fire severity and increasing consumption of the original biomass (74 Mg/ha): 72, 87, and 93 percent biomass consumption, respectively Prior to burning, plant density with a stem diameter  1 cm at the soil surface was 5815 plants/ha. Greater than 94 percent coppiced after slashing, usually with epicormic sprouts, indicating their adaptation to periodical disturbance. Burning dramatically decreased the number of plants that coppiced. Two months following each burning 43, 21, and 10 percent of the plants had coppiced in the three burns, respectively The majority of sprouts following fire arose from underground tissues. Coppicing crown area decreased from 1451 m
30043296|We compared the population dynamics of a riparian ranid frog, Rana swinhoana, before (1996-1999) and after (1999-2001) a strong earthquake. This earthquake caused little disturbance to the vegetation and landscape of the study site but the stream and ponds dried up within a week. Nearly all frogs marked (1002 of 1004) before the earthquake had disappeared after the earthquake. Smaller, unmarked frogs began to appear in stream habitats about 9 mo after the earthquake, and the frog population was much smaller than it was before the earthquake. Population dynamics and temporal and spatial distribution of frogs before and after the earthquake correlated closely with the hydrology of the stream and ponds. The movement patterns of frogs before and after the earthquake were similar, suggesting frog behavior did not change in response to drastic changes in hydrology, and frogs continued to exhibit strong site-fidelity. Following the earthquake, stream water volume was much lower, especially in the summer, which allowed the normally winter-breeding frogs to breed year-round. Results demonstrate that a population of R. swinhoana can disappear suddenly as the result of a natural disturbance. We propose that anuran species that exhibit strong site-fidelity are particularly susceptible to extirpation of local populations because frogs may lack the behavioral plasticity to respond to sudden water depletion.
10.2307/2387806|An aerial rope network was constructed, using three emergent trees as supports, which provides access to a large volume of tropical rain forest from ground level to above the canopy's upper surface. The virtually unexplored canopy community thus becomes accessible for a broad range of scientific research.
30045382|We collected details on the predation of four agoutis (Dasyprocta punctata) by ocelots (Leopardus pardalis). All kills were made outside of the typical agouti activity period (<0500 h). Agoutis were captured from behind and killed with a bite through the back of the skull. The kill sites for two female agoutis were significantly closer to their den sites than expected, while kill sites for two males were not. All carcasses were completely covered by leaves during the day and were fed on during night hours. Predation by ocelots can be a significant cause of mortality for agoutis at Barro Colorado Island (BCI). /// Colectamos detalles en la depredacin de 4 agoutis (Dasyprocta punctata) por ocelotes (Leoparduspardalis). Todas las depredaciones fueron fuera del periodo tpico de actividad (<0500 h). Los agoutis fueron capturados por detrs y muertos con una mordida en la parte trasera del crneo. Los lugares de muerte en las dos hembras fueron significativamente cerca de sus guaridas, mientras que los machos no. Los cadveres fueron completamente cubiertos con hojarasca durante el da y fueron consumidos solamente durante la noche. La depredacin por ocelotes puede ser una causa significativa de mortalidad de los agoutis en BCI.
3593167|This paper describes the ant assemblages sampled from rain forest canopies ranging from southern Victoria through to Cape York Peninsula, Australia, and also in Brunei. Specifically, it examines the influence of decreasing latitude and variations in elevation on the character, richness, and abundance of the arboreal rain forest ant fauna, and also the relative contribution of ants to the total arthropod community. The sites that were examined included: cool temperate Nothofagus cunninghamii forest from a range of locations in Victoria; cool temperate N. moorei forest at both Werrikimbe and Styx River, New South Wales; notophyll vine forest in Lamington National Park, southeast Queensland; high elevation notophyll vine forest in Eungella National Park, central Queensland; complex notophyll vine forest at Robson Creek, Atherton Tablelands, north Queensland; complex mesophyll vine forest at Cape Tribulation, north Queensland; and mixed dipterocarp forest in Brunei. Although these sites represent a gradient increasingly tropical in character, botanically speaking, Eungella is less tropical than Lamington because of its high elevation. All samples were obtained by fogging the canopy with a rapid-knockdown pyrethrin pesticide. In all cases, circular funnels were suspended beneath the foliage of individual trees or small plots of mixed canopy. Arthropods were collected four hours after fogging. Following ordinal sorting, ants were identified and counted to morphospecies level. The resulting catch were then standardized across sites as numbers caught per
2389038|Tropical cyclones pass over or near American Samoa on average about once every 3 years. Because many trees may be stripped of leaves, flowers, and fruit, cyclones exert a major impact on the feeding ecology of nectivorous and frugivorous flving foxes. We examined search time and in-tree time immediately postcyclone (3-6 weeks) and during a recovery period (15-16 months after the last cyclone). Both Pteropus tonganus and P. samoensis increased search time and decreased tree time (an indication of less food available per tree) immediately after the passage of cyclone Ofa.
10.2307/2388143|A very severe frost with temperatures down to -6.0
10.2307/2387649|A complex behavior pattern of pollen robbing by several species of the large tropical bee genus Trigona (Apidae: Meliponinae, tribe Trigonini) is described. These bees probe pollen from the apical pores of tubular Melastomataceae anthers as far as their tongues reach and then cut off the top of the anther to expose more pollen. This is repeated several times. A summary of observations of this syndrome in 34 species of Brazilian Melastomataceae and records from other neotropical countries are presented. The significance of these pollen robbers' adaptations is examined.
10.2307/2989639|The percentage of pantropical and amphioceanic genera of ferns far exceeds similar percentages for angiosperms. Conversely, the number of "endemic" fern genera is much lower than the comparable figure for flowering plants. Comparison of the two groups of plants on islands points out even more strikingly the lower percentages of generic and specific endemism of ferns. These distributional differences cannot be accounted for by the longer geologic history of ferns, but can be attributed to their greater dispersibility. The wider distribution of ferns, together with the absence of many of the speciation barriers operative in angiosperms, has contributed to a relatively slower rate of speciation in the ferns, and probably also to a lower extinction rate. Delimitation of generic and suprageneric taxa is therefore more difficult in many cases.
10.2307/2389049|We studied during 9 months the diversity, abundance, and richness of Myxomycetes growing on fallen logs in a ravine covered with tropical humid forest in Mexico. We collected and described 951 specimens ascribed to 33 species and one variety. Corresponding, and 1 and 2 months shifted-back correlations, were done between diversity, abundance and richness, and the climatic variables. We found significant correlations between diversity and precipitation in corresponding form, and between diversity and temperature at 1 month shift-back. Abundance and richness were only significantly correlated with precipitation at 2 months shift-back. The results suggest a general induction of spore germination of the dominant species with the onset of rains coupled with the increase of environmental temperatures. Finally, we suggest that the scarcity of fruiting bodies in this type of ecosystem is due to the capacity of these organisms to stay for longer periods in a plasmodial rather than in the sporangial stage.
10.2307/2388412|This paper collates survey data on the abundance and diversity of arboreal ants in subtropical and tropical rain forests in northern Australia. Data on arboreal ants in nearby Eucalyptus forests and also from Eucalyptus vegetation in southwest Australia are presented for comparison. The diversity of arboreal ants, both tree- and ground-nesting, is low in Australian rain forests in comparison with other tropical regions and it is sometimes lower than that of nearby Eucalyptus forest. Except where Oecophylla smaragdina, or perhaps certain Crematogaster spp. are present, the trees of the tropical and subtropical rain forests lack dominant ants. Reasons for the low diversity of, and degree of dominance by arboreal ants in Australian rain forests are speculated upon. Reasons include the possibility that the role of ants has been replaced by some other taxon; the strong seasonal climate or the productivity of such forests may limit the abundance of ants; arboreal ants may be limited by competition from ground-dwelling ants; or, alternatively, there may be some biogeographic explanation.
10.2307/2989775|Within the last decade infestations of the crown-of-thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci) have been reported from the Great Barrier Reef, Guam and other Mariana Islands, Caroline Islands, Marshall Islands, Palau Islands, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands, Fiji Islands, Western Samoa, Cook Islands, Tahiti in the Society Islands, Molokai in the Hawaiian Islands, Philippine Islands, Taiwan, and Ceylon. The starfish have also been noted as common in Viet Nam, Tanzania, Tonga Islands, Gilbert Islands, Nauru, Papua, New Caledonia, Ko Khao (off Thailand), Wake, the Tuamotu Archipelago, and near Port Sudan, Red Sea. Within these areas the distribution of the starfish is spotty. Nearly all of the infestations are near centers of human population. Some authors believe these infestations are merely normal fluctuations of abundance that have gone unnoticed in the past. The magnitude of some of the starfish plagues, however, seems too great for this explanation. The crown-of-thorns has killed up to 90 percent or more of corals on some reefs that represent more than 1000 years of continuous development. Also the areas of infestation are too numerous, too widespread, and have occurred over too short a span of time to believe that each is the result of an independent natural cycle. It is postulated that chemical pollution, most likely in the form of chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides such as DDT, is responsible for the increased populations of A. planci. The pollutant's effect probably takes place in the pelagic community. A higher level of the pollutant may be expected in the predaceous zooplankton that feed on the larval starfish than in the larvae themselves. A level of pesticide must exist which reduces the population of one or more predators relative to the number of starfish larvae. The localization of the infestations of A. planci is probably the result of the chance combination of many factors such as a successful spawning of the starfish, the correct temperature for development, and the transport of the larvae in a current system (a gyre is needed to maintain the population at the island or reef of origin) to a suitable inshore environment for settlement. The excessive populations of sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus) in the coastal waters of southern California may also be a comparable effect of chemical pollution.
4132946|We experimentally determined whether the low density of antlion larvae found in ant-acacia clearings is due to high levels of ant predation or an inadequate substrate for pit-trap construction. Pit establishment was more affected by soil improvement than by the exclusion of ants, suggesting that soil condition is the main factor that affect antlions' density. The low density of this ant-predator in ant-acacia clearings may be considered as an indirect advantage of the ant's pruning behavior.
10.2307/2388184|The dry forests of Costa Rica's Santa Rosa National Park (11$^\circ$N lat., 0-350 m elevation, 6 mo without rain, 900-2300 mm rain/yr) range from deciduous and 2 m tall to nearly evergreen and 30 m tall. This vegetation and a complex mosaic of secondary succession in old fields and pastures supports at least 3140 species of caterpillars. Butterfly caterpillars constitute only 11 percent of the species and less than 1 percent of the biomass. Although the moth caterpillars are very species-rich, each of the 725 species of vascular plants is attacked by less than 20 species of caterpillars. From the viewpoint of a species of plant, the caterpillar species richness in Santa Rosa is therefore substantially less than from the viewpoint of any of a number of extratropical tree species; they are fed on by many more species of caterpillars at a single location. Although Santa Rosa does have some species of caterpillars that feed on seeds, dung, detritus, bark, etc., more than 95 percent of the species eat green leaves. Of these, about 37 percent feed exposed on the leaf surface. A Santa Rosa woody plant commonly loses 1-20 percent of its leaf area to defoliators during the first half of the rainy season and very little after that, but on rare occasions plants are totally defoliated. These defoliations are almost always committed by a single generation of 1 or 2 species of caterpillars feeding on their 1 or 2 sole host plants. Nearly all the species of Santa Rosa plants are not fed on by any given species of caterpillar either because the plants contain chemicals that render them unacceptable or because the caterpillar refuses to eat foliage that lacks a feeding stimulant. Simultaneously, it is the negative impact of inclement weather and carnivores on Santa Rosa caterpillar populations that prevents any given species of caterpillar from usually defoliating the few species of plants that it can eat. The Santa Rosa carnivore fauna ranges from absolutely monophagous to highly polyphagous. Its caterpillar food supply fluctuates enormously with year, season, position in a season, and microsite. This favors generalized and flexible carnivores on the one hand, and strongly specialized carnivores on the other hand. Many caterpillars are not available to the carnivores because they are too cryptic to be found, personally well-defended by urticating spines or chemicals (and are aposematic), mimics of distasteful or dangerous caterpillars, or participating in predator-satiating synchronization of life-stages. Probably no carnivore recognizes more than about three kinds of prey or host: those that are perceived and rejected, those that are eaten or used directly when encountered, and those that require some special treatment. No two species of carnivores divide the many species of caterpillars equally among these three kinds of prey or hosts. Certainly no carnivore views the Santa Rosa caterpillar fauna as consisting of 3140 species. Virtually all Santa Rosa caterpillar species share their host plants with less than 20 other caterpillar species (the average may be less than 5). This means that from the direct perspective of any one species of caterpillar, the Santa Rosa caterpillar fauna is quite small and potential competitive interactions are very limited in ecological time. Furthermore, actual direct competitive interactions are rare (if they occur at all) owing to the generally low density of caterpillars at any given point in space and time. However, there are many potential opportunities for indirect intra- and interspecific caterpillar interactions that are mediated through shared carnivores (such as parasitoid Hymenoptera and Diptera, diseases, vertebrates, spiders, etc.).
2663918|The tree flora of southeastern Brazilian Atlantic forests was investigated according to two main aspects: (a) the variations in floristic composition of both rain and semi-deciduous forests were analyzed in terms of geographic and climatic variables by performing multivariate analyses on 125 existing floristic checklists; and (b) the links of both rain and semideciduous forests to Amazonian forests and Cerrados (woody savanna) were assessed. All analyses were performed at the species, genus, and family levels. The information obtained for the 125 forest areas was organized into an environmental database containing geographic and climatic records, and a floristic database containing binary presence records for 2532 species, 520 genera, and 106 families. Canonical correspondence analyses (CCA) were utilized to assess the relationship between geographic and climatic variables, and tree flora composition. Venn diagrams and cluster analyses were used to assess the floristic links to Amazonian forests and Cerrados. The following patterns were detected at all three taxonomic levels: (a) the differentiation between rain and semi-deciduous forests is floristically consistent and strongly correlated with rainfall regime, although transitions may be abrupt to gradual; (b) a north-south differentiation exists for both rain and semi-deciduous forests, probably caused by variations in both temperature and rainfall regime; (c) The flora of semideciduous forests also changes with increasing distance from the ocean and the associated increasing rainfall seasonality; and (d) elevation and associated temperatures are strongly correlated with the internal differentiation of both rain and semi-deciduous forests. To a considerable extent, the tree flora of semi-deciduous forests is a subset of the rain forest flora, probably extracting species that are able to cope with a longer dry season. There is greater floristic similarity at the species level between Atlantic rain and semi-deciduous forests than between any of these and either Amazonian rain forests or Cerrados. Nevertheless, semi-deciduous forests and Cerrados show stronger links, particularly at the generic and familial levels. Therefore, there is little floristic ground for viewing Atlantic rain forests as being closer to their Amazonian counterparts than to the adjacent semi-deciduous forests. The most appropriate view of rain and semi-deciduous forests in southeastern Brazil is that of a continuum in tree species distribution. We suggest that the definition of Atlantic forests should be as comprehensive as that of Amazonian forests.
2663793|Characters involved in pollinator attraction are likely maintained by selection. Plants that invest more in floral displays and/or rewards are expected to attract more pollinators than those that do not. A large number of plants, however, are severely pollen-limited yet either produce small rewards or none at all. The orchid, Comparettia falcata, is a pollinator-dependent, self-compatible epiphyte distributed throughout the Greater Antilles, Central and South America. In Puerto Rico where it is pollinated by the hummingbird Chlorostilbon maugaeus, C. falcata presents a smaller nectar reward than most other plants pollinated by the same species. To determine whether or not selection would favor the production of higher nectar levels, we enhanced the quantity of nectar offered by flowers in a Puerto Rican population for two flowering seasons. We monitored visitation frequencies, pollen movement, and reproductive success at three sites with different canopy coverages. Daily censuses of hummingbirds provided estimates of relative pollinator abundance. A multiway contingency test employing Wald's statistic showed no overall differences in reproductive success between plants with enhanced rewards and unmanipulated controls. Site differences, however, were clear. Plants of the mid- and high-light sites had greater success than those of the low-light site, and the differences were usually at least two-fold. There was a significant site-treatment interaction in reproductive success that could be attributed to the overall trend whereby controls of both mid- and high-light sites did better than the nectar-enhanced plants. Most of the observed pollinations (85%) with stained pollinia resulted in self-pollinations that did not differ among treatments. Seed crops from self- and cross-pollinations revealed no differences in the number of viable seeds. Because we found little evidence of selection for increasing nectar reward via inbreeding depression or male and female reproductive success, and previous studies have indicated that meager natural levels of reward are better than none at all, we suspect that reward production in C. falcata may be driven by a combination of pollination-limitation and resource constraints.
30043112|The Wood Stork (Mycteria americand) is a wading bird inhabiting subtropical and tropical regions of the American continent. This species is considered endangered in the United States. We compared variability and genetic structuring of nine Brazilian Pantanal subpopulations with an North American population using eight allozyme loci data (MPI, ICD, NSP, EST-D, LDH, PGM, 6PGD, and PEP-A) and four microsatellite loci data (WSl, WS2, WS4, and WS6). Average expected heterozygosity of Pantanal population was similar (0.198  0.065) to that expected for the North American population (0.231  0.066). No significant genetic differentiation was found among Pantanal subpopulations (
4132915|We examined nutrient limitation to primary productivity in a secondary savanna in the interior branch of the Coastal Range of Venezuela, which was converted from forest to savanna more than 100 years ago. We manipulated soil nutrients by adding nitrogen (+N), phosphorus and potassium (+PK), and nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (+NPK) to intact savanna. Eleven months after fertilization, we measured aboveground biomass and belowground biomass as live fine roots in the top 20 cm of soil, and species and functional group composition in response to nutrient additions. Aboveground biomass was highest in the NPK treatment ([
30043273|Leaf-cutting ants are frequently characterized as the major herbivores in the Neotropics, but quantitative data to back up this assumption are scarce. In this study, the consumption and herbivory rates for the entire leaf-cutting ant (Atta colombica, Formicidae) population in an old secondary forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI) in Panama were determined over 15 mo (on average 49 colonies). The number of harvested leaf fragments was calculated from monthly refuse deposition rates of the colonies and the regression between refuse deposition and harvesting rates. The inclusion of fragment characteristics (proportion of leaf fragments in the harvest, average fragment weight, and area) allowed us to calculate consumption and herbivory rates at colony, population, and ecosystem levels. The A. colombica population harvested 13.2 tons of biomass/yr and 13.1 ha of leaf area/yr, and deposited 9.4 tons of refuse material/yr. Rates varied considerably among colonies. At the ecosystem level, i.e. per forest area, herbivory rates were 132 kg biomass/ha/yr and 1310 m2 foliage/ha/yr. For the area on BCI where A. colombica occurs (100 ha), this is equivalent to 2.1 percent of the foliage area in the forest or 1.7 percent of the annual leaf-area production. This value is considerably lower than previously published estimates of leaf-cutting ant herbivory rates in tropical forests.
27742849|Many animal populations are forced to inhabit very small forest patches, which may threaten their long-term survival. In some cases, animals in these forest remnants are able to supplement their diet by using resources outside of their home patch, a process named 'landscape supplementation'. Although this is probably a key process for population survival in fragmented landscapes, little is known about the ability of most animal species to move through the matrix and feed from different landscape elements. In this paper we report several cases of landscape supplementation by two groups of Mexican mantled howler monkeys Alouatta palliata mexicana inhabiting two different forest patches in Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Our observations show that howler monkeys used several landscape elements, such as isolated trees, live fences and neighboring forest patches to supplement their diet. These observations underline the importance of these landscape elements for the survival of forest-dependent animals in highly fragmented landscapes, as they can provide important food resources and, hence, can be considered as potential extensions of their home range. However, the degree of protection the landowner provides to howler monkeys and proper management of these landscape elements are key aspects in determining the use of these elements by these animals.
30043079|This is a personal account of a 1964 expedition in search of two conifer species on Mts. Sasari and Kubunitu, the two highest peaks on Santa Ysabel in the Solomon Islands. Dacrydium xanthandrum and Dillenia crenata were both discovered in flower and collections were made. The account was recently discovered in Tim Whitmore's files.
30043269|There are four species of Graptophyllum (Acanthaceae) in Australia which span a gradient in rarity and conservation status from the most endangered, Graptophyllum reticulatum (endangered), to G. ilicifolium (vulnerable), to G. excelsum (rare), to the least endangered G. spinigerum (widespread). Graptophyllum reticulatum and G. ilicifolium are each only known from three locations. All species were found to have quite high levels of genetic diversity (He, A, Ap, P) and there was no significant difference among species in genetic diversity (P > 0.05), thus, genetic diversity was unrelated to conservation status or species geographic range. All species had high allelic fixation values (F), indicating that populations were effectively inbred regardless of conservation status and geographic range. The genetic diversity among populations (FST) was not related to rarity and contrasted among the most restricted species, where diversity among populations was twice as high among G. reticulatum populations (FST, 0.22) compared with among G. ilicifolium populations (FST, 0.11).
2663764|Clonal reproduction is a common feature in tropical herbaceous plants and has been shown to be important for recruitment and population maintenance. Although numerous phenological responses (i.e., leaf flushing, flowering, and fruit maturation) have been shown to be associated with seasonality in the tropics, little is known about the relationship between seasonality and levels of clonal reproduction. I examined the temporal and spatial variation in clonal reproduction and its potential trade-off with growth and survival for a tropical understory herb, Aechmea magdalenae (Andre) Andre ex Baker, Handb. Bromel (Bromeliaceae). I addressed the following questions: (1) how do vegetative growth, survival, and clonal reproduction (i.e., rhizome and ramet production) vary between seasons and between years?; (2) how do these factors differ among populations?; and (3) do simulated dry and wet season light levels cause similar variation in rosette survival and vegetative and clonal reproduction, as found in natural populations? Rhizome and ramet production in A. magdalenae was found to be highly influenced by seasonality. During the transition from dry to wet season, there was a significant decrease in survival and a significant increase in clonal reproduction, and rosettes tended to grow at a slower rate. Rosettes in the location with the longest dry season had significantly lower survival, higher clonal reproduction, and a slower growth rate. Clonal reproduction also started at smaller rosette sizes in the most seasonal forest. When light levels were manipulated, rhizome and ramet production were significantly greater under the high light conditions, and rosette growth (change in longest leaf length) was significantly lower. Results from this study suggest that A. magdalenae responds to higher light levels by shifting investment from vegetative growth to clonal reproduction. Possible implications of this response to light for population demography are discussed.
30045396|Both the uloborid Philoponella vicina and the araneid Gasteracantha cancriformis spiders sometimes placed silk stabilimenta on non-orb "resting webs" that consisted of only one or a few lines. These webs completely lacked sticky silk, so their stabilimenta could not function to attract prey Some non-orbs were built by spiders when their orb webs are damaged. These observations contradict the prey attraction camouflage hypothesis for stabilimentum function, but are compatible with the spider camouflage and web advertisement to avoid web destruction hypotheses.
30045400|Diet and habitat use of the closely related and size-overlapping sympatric Cynopterus brachyotis and sphinx were established in lowland dry evergreen forest, Thailand, between March 1998 and March 2000. Feces from netted bats were analyzed, and the recapture rate determined. Although both species share a set of food plants, and fruits from early successional forest contribute about half of their diet, brachyotis, the smaller of the two species, ate a significantly greater proportion of fruits from early successional forest than sphinx. The latter ate a significantly greater proportion of fruit species in larger size classes. More C. brachyotis were captured in early successional forest in almost every month, while C. sphinx is more common in old-growth forest. However, the capture rate of sphinx increased in early successional forest in the mid-dry season when its preferred fruits become available. The recapture rate of brachyotis in early successional forest was significantly higher than that of sphinx, and the reverse situation was observed in old-growth forest. Male C. sphinx had a significantly higher recapture rate in early successional forest than females. Fruit size and habitat use are the major determinants of resource partitioning between these size-overlapping congeners.
10.2307/2388593|Nectar-sugar compositions of 34 species and 18 families of tropical and subtropical plants from west-central Mexico were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Only three of these species have been reported previously. The majority are hummingbird-pollinated, but hawkmoth, bee, perching bird, and taxa of unknown or uncertain pollinators are also represented. Nectar-sugar composition in relation to pollinator type is discussed.
30043257|Pollinators, especially insects, could be influenced by forest fragmentation. The aim of this paper was to examine whether there were differences in 1) the communities of floral visitors; 2) the frequency of visits; and 3) the fruit and seed sets of individuals of Psychotria tenuinervis occurring at anthropogenic edges (AEs), natural edges (NEs), and in the forest interior (FI) in 2 yr of study. In 2002, the total number of flower visits was greater in NE and lower in AE, while no difference among habitats was found in 2003. There were differences among sample plots, within habitats, in both years. Bees were the most frequent visitors of P. tenuinervis flowers, and the introduced honeybee Apis mellifera was the most common species observed. There were no differences in the fruit and seed sets, or in the density of reproductive individuals of P. tenuinervis among habitats. However, in 2002, NE showed the greatest proportion of fruits per flower and AE the smallest. The similarity among the habitats was probably due to the marked variation or heterogeneity among the sample plots and among the plants within the habitats, which may have masked any interhabitat differences. The observed heterogeneity and the likely importance of other factors, such as gaps and the age of the edge, on the fragment studied, could be viewed as important issues for conservation programs. /// Polinizadores, principalmente insetos, podem ser influenciados pela fragmentao florestal. O objetivo deste trabalho foi verificar se existem diferenas: 1) nas comunidades de visitantes florais; 2) na freqncia de suas visitas; e 3) na produo de frutos e sementes de indivduos de Psychotria tenuinervis localizados em bordas antrpicas (BA), bordas naturais (BN) e no interior do fragmento (IF). Em 2002, ocorreram mais visitas florais em BN e menos em BA, enquanto em 2003, no houve diferena entre os ambientes. Houve diferena entre as parcelas dentro dos ambientes em ambos os anos. Abelhas foram os visitantes florais mais freqentes de P. tenuinervis, sendo Apis mellifera a espcie mais comum. No houveram diferenas na produo de frutos e sementes nem na densidade de indivduos reprodutivos entre os ambientes, apesar de em 2002, BN ter apresentado a maior produo de frutos e BA a menor. Essa similaridade entre os ambientes proavelmente ocorreu devido a grande variao ou heterogeneidade entre as parcelas e entre plantas dentro dos ambientes, que mascarou as diferenas entre ambientes. A indicao dessa heterogeneidade e a provvel importncia de outros fatores, como clareiras ou idade das bordas, nos fragmentos estudados, podem ser muito importantes para programas de conservao.
41241925|Differences in intraspecific foraging strategies have been documented between sexes of strongly dimorphic large herbivore species. Body size implications on diet quality requirements, however, can be extended to within-species age-specific comparisons. We investigated the hierarchical separation of foraging behavior at the scale of plant type, plant species, plant part and vertically through the canopy. For this, we studied African elephant adult females (lower quality diet required) and weaned calves (higher quality diet) within the elephant family unit, which is socially constrained to traverse the landscape together. Grass and browse were used with similar seasonal frequency. Both females and calves tracked the phenology of woody species, including these species in the diet when new growth was available. Forage utilization differed at the plant part level, with calves selecting for less fibrous and more nutritious plant parts (e.g., stripped leaves), while adult females selected branches, bark and roots with greater frequency. There was displacement of females to higher foraging levels in the canopy when these females fed < 3 m away from calves. Elephant family unit foraging strategies were driven by body size, age-specific nutritional requirements and intraspecific competition. This has broader application to other large herbivore species with great variance in intraspecific body size.
2663834|Results of a shadehouse experiment and a field study with seedlings and saplings of Inga leiocalycina Willd. (Leguminoseae), a canopy tree of American lowland tropical wet forests, indicated that plant light environment affects both (1) the degree of root colonization by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungi and (2) the development of VAM structures in the root. Among shadehouse-grown seedlings, VAM colonization increased with increasing light intensity, from a mean of 20 percent (21.5 cm colonized root) at a light level approximating forest understory environments to 47 percent (233.1 cm) at a light level found in centers of treefall gap environments. In contrast, VAM colonization levels were similar between gap and understory habitats among field-collected sapling roots; however, the anatomy of the symbiosis differed between light environments. Roots of light gap saplings had significantly more intracellular fungal coils than understory sapling roots. At subsaturating levels for photosynthesis, light availability appeared to be a limiting resource for this symbiosis, restricting the extent of VAM fungal colonization and development of symbiotic structures. Despite this light-mediated limitation, woody seedlings showed evidence of VAM fungi in 20 to 30 percent of their roots at light levels typical of the tropical wet forest ecosystem in general. I consider these results in the context of forest dynamics, and I suggest that, for woody seedlings, maintaining moderate levels of VAM in understory environments is of long-term benefit because it enables them to respond rapidly to the increased nutrient demand imposed by their increased growth rate when canopy openings occur.
40645583|Spatial variation in the strength of herbivore top-down control represents an important source of variation in plant fitness measures and community structure and function. By measuring seed predator (larvae of a Noctuid moth) and parasitoid impacts on Ruellia nudiflora across a broad spatial scale in Yucatan (Mexico), this study addressed the following: (1) to what extent does seed predator and parasitoid attack intensity associated with R. nudiflora vary spatially? (2) Does parasitoid attack result in a positive indirect effect on the plant, and does the intensity of this effect vary spatially? During the peak of fruit production (late June-early July) of 2005, we collected fruits from 21 R. nudiflora populations and grouped them into four regions: center, east, north and south. For each fruit we recorded: observed seed number, number of seeds eaten, seed predator presence, parasitoid presence and number of seeds ' saved' by parasitoids. Seed predators attacked ca 30 percent of fruits/plant on average, while parasitoids were found in 24 percent of seed predator-attacked fruits. Results indicated spatial variation in seed predator and parasitoid attack levels; interestingly, a contrasting spatial gradient of attack intensity was observed: populations/regions with greatest parasitoid attack levels usually had the lowest seed predator attack levels and vice versa, suggesting top-down control of parasitoids on seed predators. We observed a weak overall indirect impact of parasitoids on R. nudiflora (4% seeds ' saved' on average), which nonetheless varied strongly across populations (e. g., close to 14% seeds saved at one population). Findings indicate a geographical structuring of interaction strengths across populations, as well as spatial variation in the strength of parasitoid cascading effects on plant reproduction.
30044032|Monodominant forests are a widespread feature of the humid and wet lowland tropics, but little is known about their origins or factors mediating their persistence. Nonetheless, escape from significant vertebrate and invertebrate seed predation plays a prominent role in most hypotheses. The seeds of Pentaclethra macroloba (Fabaceae: Mimosoideae) have long been thought to be virtually immune to predation, contributing to its local dominance in the canopy of some Mesoamerican forests. Here, we describe herbivory by the larvae of Carmenta surinamensis (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae) on the seeds of P. macroloba, and report the results of studies designed to clarify how this interaction influences germination, seedling growth, and mortality. To this end, we collected P. macroloba seeds at 30-d intervals for 5 mo along a rain forest transect in Costa Rica. The seeds were monitored in a shade house for 30 d. Adult moths were reared from 43.6 percent of seeds, and significantly affected germination and mortality, and all measures of growth (number of leaves, seedling height, seed and seedling mass at 30 d, and 30-d change in seed and seedling mass). Based on these observations, we conclude that seed boring by C. surinamensis is a potentially important factor influencing population dynamics in P. macroloba, and warrants further investigation for its prospective role in regulating local abundance in this locally dominant and ecologically significant tree. /// Los bosques monodominantes son caractersticos del trpico hmedo y lluvioso, pero poco se sabe acerca de sus orgenes o de los factores que favorecen su persistencia. Sin embargo, el escape de la depredacin de semillas por vertebrados e invertebrados juega un papel preponderante en la mayora de las hiptesis. Las semillas de Pentaclethra macroloba Kuntze (Fabaceae: Mimosoideae) son consideradas virtualmente inmunes a la depredacin, esto contribuye a su dominio local del dosel de algunos bosques de Mesoamerica. En este artculo describimos el herbivorismo en las semillas de P. macroloba por parte de las larvas de Carmenta surinamensis (Lepidpteros: Sesiidae) y describimos los resultados de estudios diseados para clarificar cmo esta interaccin influye en la germinacin, el crecimiento y la mortalidad de las semillas. Para este fin, recolectamos semillas de P. macroloba cada 30 das por 5 meses a lo largo de un transecto de selva tropical en Costa Rica. Las semillas se mantuvieron en una casa de sombra y su progreso fue estudiado por 30 das. Del 43.6 por ciento de las semillas emergieron polillas adultas y la germinacin y mortalidad de semillas y todas las medidas del crecimiento fueron apreciablemente afectadas (nmero de hojas, altura de la plntula, peso de semillas y plntulas luego de 30 das y cambio de peso en semillas y plntulas luego de 30 das). Basndonos en estas observaciones, concluimos que la actividad minadora de semillas por parte de C. surinamensis es un factor potencialmente importante que influye en la dinmica de poblaciones de P. macroloba y justifica la investigacin adicional de su papel como regulador de la abundancia local de este rbol de gran importancia ecolgica.
41241884|Large parts of the everwet tropics have been burned, leaving many unburned-burned forest edges. Here we studied a Bornean forest edge to determine: (1) how unburned and burned forest differ in vegetation structure, diversity, composition and plant functional traits 7yr after fire, and (2) if these variables showed significant edge effects. Environmental and inventory data from 120 plots (0.01 ha each), covering both sides of a ~1.3 km forest boundary were sampled. Differences in vegetation structure, diversity, composition and plant functional traits were analyzed in relation to disturbance type (Mann-Whitney tests) and edge distance (partial correlation analysis that controlled for confounding effects of elevation, slope and fire intensity). Seven years after fire, burned forest differed significantly from unburned forest in most measured variables while few significant edge effects were detected, i.e., there existed a sharp delimitation between the two forest types. The regeneration of the burned forest depended almost entirely on in situ recruitment with little input of late successional species from the neighboring old growth forest. On the other hand, old growth forest showed few signs of edge degradation. A possible explanation for these results might be related to the absence of a mast fruiting event during these first 7 yr of forest recovery, resulting in low levels of late successional species seed input into the burned forest, combined with the quick development of a closed canopy in the burned forest by early successional species that shielded the unburned forest from adverse edge effects.
30045447|For pollination studies of forest species it is sometimes only possible to work on those flowers nearest to the ground. We test whether using low flowers introduces bias, by measuring height effects on bird visitation and fruit set in one mistletoe species pollinated by bellbirds in New Zealand. At this site, previous studies have shown fruit set near the ground to be pollen limited. We measured fruit set on 32 mistletoes at different heights in 11 host trees. Mistletoe fruit set varied significantly among host trees but did not vary with height. Although bellbirds generally forage preferentially in the upper part of the forest, mistletoe flowers appear to be attractive enough to ensure adequate visitation and fruit set at all heights.
10.2307/2388362|Seventeen individual trees of 12 species of Castanopsis. Lithocarpus, and Quercus were studied at 2-4 week intervals for most of a year, and reproductive phenology of numerous other individuals and species was recorded over a 3-year period. Inflorescence primordia were macroscopically visible near the end of the wetter season and anthesis of all flushes occurred in the drier season. There was general synchrony of reproduction among reproducing individuals, but a few trees were sterile throughout the observation period. Some had multiple reproductive flushes at 3-5 week intervals. Anthesis in the drier season by Castanopsis and Lithocarpus, which are entomophilous, maximizes pollination because that is the season of insect population peaks. Quercus is anemophilous and therefore is unaffected by insect population cycles.
20492557|Patterns of movement and space usage are important components of the ecology of any organism. Among snakes, this information is often lacking even for species that are abundant, ecologically important, and/or relevant to human health. We used radiotelemetry to examine the spatial ecology and behavior of the fer-de-lance (Bothrops asper), a highly venomous pit viper that is ubiquitous throughout much of Central America. Sixteen adult snakes were tracked over 2 yr in lowland rainforest of Costa Rica to determine home range, movement patterns, and foraging behavior. Consistent with previous descriptions, B. asper was found to be a highly nocturnal ambush predator, exhibiting virtually no activity during the day. Overall home range was determined using both minimum convex polygon (mean size = 5.95 ha) and 95 and 50 percent kernel density (mean size = 3.71 and 0.370 ha, respectively); home range size did not differ between males and females by any estimation method. Movement pattern was largely aseasonal and unrelated to any observed environmental conditions other than the daily low temperature. Most movements consisted of short (&lt; 10 m) movements between daytime shelter and nocturnal ambush sites within a given area, interspersed with longer distance (&gt; 50 m) movements to new foraging areas. Compositional analysis of habitat usage indicated an avoidance of developed areas and selection of swamp habitat. Most snakes had several activity cores (50% kernel density), the majority which were in or near swamps. These patterns suggest that space and habitat usage of fer-de-lance may be related to foraging strategy.
10.2307/2387868|The passalid beetle fauna of seven Guatemalan volcanoes is apparently quite uniform. A given species has a similar altitudinal range on different volcanoes. Of the 14 species, Chondrocephalus purulensis, C. granulifrons, and the flightless Ogyges laevissimus were not found below 1750 m. Dispersal of these species among the volcanoes probably occurred during the Pleistocene glacial periods when temperature depressions caused drops in the altitudinal limits of the montane wet forest and cloud forests allowing them to coalesce from one volcano to the next. The present insular distributions of these high-altitude species are post-glacial (interglacial?) refugia. Little evolutionary divergence has occurred since their isolation.
10.2307/2388663|Ten year old bryophyte communities growing on wooden stakes along a microtopographic gradient in a flood plain forest at 750 m elevation accumulated between 210 and 1400 kg/ha of ash-free biomass and an average of 14.5, 0.8, 5.3, 2.7, 2.7, 18.5, and 22.0 kg/ha of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Mn, Fe, and Al, respectively. This biomass and nutrient accumulation was in the same order of magnitude as the accumulation of biomass and nutrients in fine litter. Both biomass and nutrient accumulation were greater in communities on stream bank slopes or slopes of tree mounds. Less biomass and nutrient accumulated in depressions with long hydroperiods. Concentration of nutrients (except N), and annual rate of ash-free biomass accumulation (20-140 kg/ha$\cdot$yr) were low in comparison with other bryophyte communities. Bryophyte communities in tropical flood plains appear to be biotic filters of flood waters and help retain nutrients in the terrestrial biota.
2663853|After Hurricane Andrew crossed southern Florida (U.S.A.) on 24 August 1992, native and exotic pioneer species in subtropical hardwood forests (hammocks) regenerated from seed banks. Regeneration occurred in hammocks of metropolitan Dade County and the Long Pine Key region of Everglades National Park. The density of the native pioneer Trema micrantha was significantly higher in hammocks of Long Pine Key than in those of metropolitan Dade County. In contrast, the basal arca of the exotic pioneer Carica papaya was greater in Dade County hammocks than Long Pine Key hammocks. Although T. micrantha tended to be restricted to areas of soil disturbance (tip-up pits) formed by trees uprooted during Hurricane Andrew, especially in Long Pine Key, C. papaya was located throughout hammocks. These results suggest differences in the regeneration niches in which the native T. micrantha required more specific disruptions (i.e., both canopy and soil) than C. papaya (only removal of canopy) for establishment. A broad regeneration niche could in part account for the capability of an exotic species with a dormant seed bank to invade native subtropical forests following natural large-scale disturbances.
10.2307/2388280|Species of Piper in the lowland tropical forest of La Selva, Costa Rica, appear to have many adaptations to avoid death resulting from branches being broken or pinned to the ground. Analysis of breakage scars along the branches shows that the majority of the individuals have at least one broken branch, and some have many more. Breakage is lower in open habitat than in the other habitats, and is similar within gap edge, secondary, and primary forest habitats. Almost all the individuals of the majority of the species showed growth after having their branches pinned to the ground with wire for 22-24 days. More than 40 percent of the plants had been propagated vegetatively; this is a conservative estimate because the remainder of the plants showed no clue to indicate origin, and also could have been propagated vegetatively.
2663988|Propagules of the red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle L.) were subjected to a variety of growing conditions in which light level, anatomical exposure to light, application of the photosynthetic inhibitor DCMU, and genotype were used to infer possible interactions between autonomous photosynthesis and the utilization of internal reserves for the development of roots and shoots. The outgrowth of these organs from hypocotyls was significantly enhanced under conditions favorable for photosynthesis, and chlorophyll-deficient propagules exhibited reduced development compared to sibling wild types. The results suggest that photosynthesis augments processing of carbohydrates derived from maternal sources during early development and differentiation of the hypocotyl, and in combination represent an adaptive trait.
10.2307/2388360|Nutritional analyses were performed on several fruit species that are eaten by the neotropical frugivorous bat Carollia persptcillata. All essential amino acids assayed were found to be present in fruit pulp. Compared to the relative amounts of essential amino acids required for growth by laboratory rats, methionine and lysine were the most limiting amino acids in fruit protein. Captive bats were fed fruits of either Chlorophora tinctoria or Muntingia calabura so that the digestibilities of pulp nitrogen and gross energy could be determined. Digestibility estimates were lower than those found for Artibeus jamaicensis fed fruits of Ficus insipida, but this was probably caused by methodological differences. The measures of nutrient content and digestibility were used with estimates of daily nitrogen and energy requirements of bats to predict the amount of pulp needed to meet these requirements. Fruits were judged to be adequate nitrogen sources if the amount predicted to satisfy nitrogen requirements was less than that to satisfy energy requirements. By thus criterion, most fruits were found to be adequate for maintenance metabolism; only fruit of Piper amalago was adequate for lactating bats. However, when amino acid deficiencies were considered, Piper amalago fruit was adequate only for maintenance metabolism, and no other fruits met this requirement. Insects found in fruit pulp were insufficient to constitute an important nitrogen source. Thus, if insects are important nitrogen sources they must be actively sought by bats. However, this analysis suggests that by selecting certain fruit species, frugivorous bats may not need to supplement their diets with insects.
10.2307/2388670|The results described are of the effects of fire exclusion since 1957 on a small area of savanna dose to the forest-zone boundary, on the northern Accra Plains, Ghana. A forest thicket has developed, with forest species in intimate association with nonforest species. The forest component includes healthy regeneration of the important timber species, Milicia (= Chlorophora) excelsa (Benth. & Hook.) Berg (nomenclature follows Hutchinson & Dalziel [1954-72] except where authorities are given) (max. 114 cm gbh) and Antiaris toxicaria Lesch. (53 cm gbh). Ceiba pentandra is the largest and most abundant canopy tree, with a maximum girth of 2 m (height 22 m). Other large trees were Albizia ferruginea (137 cm gbh) and the remnant savanna trees Lonchocarpus sericeus (74 cm gbh) and the naturalized exotic Azadirachta indica (99 cm gbh).
30043155|Insect defenses against avian predators often include both a primary defense that reduces the probability of being attacked and a secondary defense, typically escape behavior, employed if the primary defense fails. Escape behavior, however, can make insects potentially vulnerable to specialized flush-pursuit predators. Neotropical Redstarts of the genus Myioborus (Parulidae) exploit insect escape behavior by using their contrasting black-and-white plumage and animated foraging behavior to startle insect prey that are then pursued and captured in flight. We examined how insect primary defense strategy and natural variation in Myioborus plumage pattern influence escape behavior in six species of homopterans from Monteverde, Costa Rica. The six homopterans included two aposematic species of the family Cercopidae (Ocoaxo sp. and Sphenorhina sp.), two cryptic species of the family Cixiidae (both Bothriocera spp.), and two structurally defended species of the family Membracidae (Campylocentrus sp. and Vestistilus variabais). We measured the distance at which models of Myioborus Redstarts elicited escape behavior in insects under field conditions. Response distances varied significantly with both homopteran primary defense and Myioborus plumage pattern. Structurally defended homopterans were the most sensitive to the models and cryptic homopterans were the least sensitive. The model simulating the plumage of endemic M. miniatus comptus of Costa Rica elicited greater responses than did models of other Myioborus taxa with either less or more white in the plumage. Our results suggest that (1) primary defense strategies can have a significant effect on insect vulnerability to flush-pursuit predators, and (2) geographic variation in the plumage pattern of Myioborus Redstarts may reflect adaptation to regional prey and habitat characteristics that maximizes flush-pursuit foraging performance. /// Las defensas de los insectos contra aves depredadoras, frecuentemente incluye dos tipos de defensa: una primaria, que disminuye la probabilidad de ser atacado, y una defensa secundaria tpica de comportamiento de escape, la cual es empleada si falla la defensa primaria. Sin embargo, el comportamiento de escape puede ocasionar que los insectos sean potencialmente vulnerables a depredadores especializados en vuelo y persecusin. Los colirrojos neotropicales del gnero Myioborus (Parulidae) explotan el comportamiento de escape de los insectos usando su plumaje contrastante blanco-negro, y su comportamiento de forrajeo animado para sobresaltar a los insectos a cazar, que luego son perseguidos y capturados en vuelo. Nosotros examinamos cmo la defensa primaria de insectos y la variacin natural del plumaje en Myioborus influye en el comportamiento de escape en seis especies de hompteros de Monteverde, Costa Rica. Los seis hompteros estudiados incluyeron dos especies conspicuas de la familia Cercopidae (Ocoaxo esp. y Sphenorhina esp.), dos especies enigmticas de la familia Cixiidae (ambos Bothriocera esp.), y dos especies de la familia Membracidae (Campylocentrus esp. y Vestistilus variabais) que se defienden estructuralmente. Nosotros medimos la distancia en la cual los modelos colirrojos de Myioborus provocan el comportamiento de escape en insectos bajo de condiciones de campo. Las respuestas a las distancias variaron significativamente en ambas, en defensa primaria de los hompteros y el patrn del plumaje de los Myioborus. Los hompteros que se defienden estructuralmente fueron los ms vulnerables a los modelos, y los hompteros enigmticos los menos vulnerables. El modelo simulando el plumaje del colirrojo M. miniatus comptus endmico de Costa Rica, produjo mayor respuesta que los otros modelos Myioborus de otras taxas con menos o ms color blanco en su plumaje. Los resultados de este estudio sugieren que: (1) las defensas de estrategia primaria pueden tener un efecto significativo en la vulnerabilidad de los insectos a los depredadores que vuelan y persiguen; y (2) la variacin geogrfica en el patrn del plumaje de losyioborus colirrojos puede indicar adaptaciones a presas por regiones y a caractersticas del hbitat que maximizan su habilidad de volar y perseguir.
2663936|The nutrient status of Lake Naivasha, a freshwater lake in southeastern Kenya, has been rising since at least 1982. A potential effect of increases in nutrient supply to the lake's floating papyrus is increasing of the plants' investment in above-water material and reduction of the amount of energy invested in uptake and storage. Biomass and its allocation between culms, panicles, roots, and rhizomes was measured in 17 sites around the 150-km
2388827|Several characteristics of flowers and fruits have been suggested as comprising syndromes of characters that indicate particular classes of pollinators and fruit dispersers. Common phylogenetic history among species, however, may also significantly influence these characters and obscure or enhance perceived patterns of plant syndromes. We analyzed the proportions of glucose, fructose, and sucrose by paper chromatography in the nectar and fruit juice of 525 tropical and subtropical plant species to test whether sugar chemistry was correlated with volant vertebrate pollinator or fruit disperser classes. Samples were taken from Old World and New World species and the calculations kept separate. Kruskal-Wallis tests of family means showed significant deviations in the percent sucrose content among pollinator/disperser classes. Mann-Whitney U-tests showed significant differences among nectars of all pollinator classes but fruit juices differed only due to the high sucrose content of megachiropteran dispersed fruits. In addition, sign tests of samples occurring within families showed significant correlations between percentage sucrose content and pollinator/disperser classes. Passerine nectars had low sucrose content. In striking contrast, the nectar of hummingbird flowers had very high sucrose content. The Microchiroptera nectars showed hexose richness with a sucrose content somewhat greater than that of passerine flowers. Megachiroptera flowers showed sucrose-rich nectars. The results for fruits were comparable to those for nectars. Passerine fruits were hexose dominated, microchiropteran fruits had a sucrose content similar to passerine fruits, and megachiropteran fruits were sucrose-rich. We speculate on the evolutionary sequence of changes in nectar and fruit juice sugar composition and suggest that future investigations consider the chemistry of other food sources such as pollen and leaves. Only with these additions and other ecological studies can the full interplay of such plant-animal interactions be anticipated.
4132945|Aerodynamic theory predicts that migrant fliers should reduce their speed of flight as endogenous energy reserves are gradually consumed. This prediction was tested for Urania fulgens (Walker) moths migrating through central Panama in 1987 and again in 1998. Direct airspeed measurements together with chloroform:methanol extractions of abdominal lipids were used to determine that, contrary to theoretical predictions, the speed of flight among individuals was independent of both body mass and abdominal lipid mass.
27742841|Leaf-cutting ants (LCAs) profoundly benefit from edge creation in Neotropical forests, where they act as a keystone species and disturbance agent. In view of their poorly explored population dynamics, the question arises whether high densities of LCAs are a transitional or a persisting phenomenon. We studied the temporal variation of LCA colony densities at the edge of the Brazilian Atlantic forest. At physically stable edges of an old forest fragment, densities of Atta cephalotes and Atta sexdens (11 and five times higher in a 50 m edge zone in comparison with the forest interior) persisted over a 4-yr interval (20012005) with no significant difference in densities between years. Species-specific per colony growth rates ranged from 12 to 5 percent/yr, suggesting that populations were approximately at equilibrium. High rates of colony turnover (little less than 50% in 4 yr) indicated an average colony life span of about 7 yra life expectancy considerably lower than previous estimates for Atta colonies. Stable, hyper-abundant populations of LCAs accord with the constantly high availability of palatable pioneer vegetation (the preferred food source of LCAs) at forest edges and are expected to persist in time as long as forests are characterized by high edge to interior ratios, with potentially long-lasting consequences for the ecosystem.
10.2307/2388704|Fleshy fruits, which are apparently adapted for consumption by vertebrate seed-dispersal agents, are very common (often >70% of the species) in most tropical and subtropical rain forests, despite the taxonomic, historical, and ecological differences among regions. Fleshy fruits are moderately common in some north-temperate forests (up to 50% of the species) and some south-temperate moist forests (N.Z. 27-60%, Chile 45-70%). Less than 30 percent of the species of most Australian sclerophyll woodlands, heaths, and alpine communities have fleshy fruits. Wooded vegetation types in New Zealand average 19 to 56 percent of species with fleshy fruits. Shrublands in many regions vary greatly, and grasslands commonly have low frequencies of fleshy fruited species. Fruits suitable for consumption by volant dispersers are much more common than those suited for nonvolant dispersers in North American, Chilean, Queensland, and South African forests; in Neotropical forests fruits carried by flying vertebrates are somewhat more common than others, and in Gabon, fruits consumed by nonvolant dispersers outnumber those eaten by flying dispersal agents. The proportion of species with fleshy fruits frequently correlates with moisture availability, but correlations with other ecological factors (latitude, soil nutrients, succession) also have been reported. Fleshy fruits are about as common on trees as on smaller woody plants in wet tropical forests. Fleshy fruits are more commonly produced by shrubs, sometimes vines, than by trees or herbs in North American forests, some European forests and scrublands, and drier tropical forests. Thus, some patterns are beginning to emerge, but they represent only a starting place in our understanding of variation in the frequencies of fleshy fruited species in different floras and vegetation types. Most bird-dispersed fruits appear red or black (to human eyes); yellow or blue are occasionally common in the floras so far examined. Mammal-dispersed fruits are often brown, green, orange, or yellow. Large fleshy fruits of Queensland trees that are morphologically suited for dispersal by cassowaries and mammals are commonly red, orange/yellow, black, or green/brown and thus span the range of colors of typical bird or mammal fruits. However, in two samples of fruits in actual cassowary diets, red, black, and orange/yellow predominated. Few ecological correlates of fruit color spectra have yet emerged.
4132955| Phenological studies were carried out in gallery and montane forests along the Lenis River in the Chapada Diamantina mountains, state of Bahia, Brazil, between January 1993 and March 1998. Leaf flush, leaf fall, flowering, and fruiting were followed in 54 tree species (N = 243 trees tagged along trails following the river margin and the valley sides). Both gallery and montane forests exhibited a moderate peak in leaf fall during the dry season (August-October), as well as increased leaf flushing in the rainy season (December-April). Three basic modes of leafing activity were noted, although most trees in the gallery forest and in the montane forest were evergreen (82.3 and 57.8% relative frequency, respectively). In both forest types, flowering and fruiting modes were annual, with peaks of activity during the rainy season. The predominantly evergreen mode of leaf fall and leaf flush found in this study was most similar to that seen in tropical wet forests, while the flowering and fruiting modes were more similar to that of dry forests. 
30045391|Thigmomorphogenesis includes the effects of mechanical perturbation on plant growth. To test whether thigmomorphogenesis is evident at different scales within plants, we investigated the effect of wind on allometric relationships between specific plant parts. We chose two species from the elfin cloud forest of Puerto Rico that have contrasting growth habits, the shrub Clibadiun erosum (Asteraceae) and the palm Prestoea acuminata var. montana (Arecaceae), and subjected them to barrier-protected and wind-exposed treatments. For C. erosum, we compared the allometry of stems and branches against three allometric models that predict that plant height or branch length increases at the 1, 2/3, and 1/2 power of stem diameter. Only the geometric similarity model (scaling exponent of 1) seemed to hold when plants were exposed to the wind. We found relatively fewer leaves per number of branches produced and fewer leaves per increment of branch diameter in the plants of C. erosum exposed to the wind. Mean petiole length ratios (petiole length/basal radius) of P. acuminata were higher on leaves of barrier-protected plants for both simple and compound leaves, indicating that petioles were stouter and mechanically safer in the wind-exposed plants. We suggest that alteration of the allometric relationships of plant parts, organs, or plant modules (stems and branches of erosum and leaves of P. acuminata) and alteration of the number of plant parts (leaves and branches of C. erosum) are adaptive responses resulting from the mechanical perturbation induced by wind in the elfin forest.
2389141|The pattern of canopy distribution and some water relations characteristics of the epiphytic cacti Epiphyllum phyllanthus and Rhipsalis baccifera and the epiphytic ferns Polypodium crassifolium and Polypodium phyllitidis were examined in the tropical forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. The epiphytic cacti were 6-fold more succulent than the epiphytic ferns, which had a 9-fold higher root shoot ratio. The four species, especially the cacti, were more abundant on the deciduous trees Ceiba pentandra, Platypodium elegans, and Tabebuia guayacan than on the evergreen Anacardium excelsum. The water-holding capacity of the bark was 2-fold higher for A. excelsum and T. guayacan than for C. pentandra and P. elegans; the main crotches of the latter species intercepted 2-fold more rainfall than those of the former. Well-watered plants of all epiphytic species showed similar total daily transpiration. After 2 weeks of drought, daily transpiration decreased an average of 48 percent for the cacti and 73 percent for the ferns. After 4 weeks of drought, daily transpiration decreased 80 percent for the cacti and was eliminated for the ferns; succulence then decreased an average of 29 percent for the cacti and 98 percent for the ferns, but all species recovered fully within 2 d after rewetting. The epiphytic ferns had a low relative capacitance (0.16 M/Pa), causing these presumably C
10.2307/2388543|We examined nest site differences among four bird species nesting in acacia (Acacia collinsi) trees with ants that may deter nest predators at Palo Verde, Costa Rica. Rufous-naped Wrens (Campylorhynchus rufinucha) showed a non-random preference for nesting in trees with unusually active ant colonies. They nested most commonly in trees with the most active ant species (Pseudomyrmex spinicola and P. nigrocinctus); and, when they nested in trees with a less active species of ant (P. flavicornis), these trees usually contained colonies that were more active than the average for their species. Other bird species (Streak-backed Oriole, Icterus sclateri; Yellow-olive Flycatcher, Tolmomyias sulphurescens; Great Kiskadee, Pitangus sulphuratus) used trees for nests at random with respect to ant species and consequently these ants were much less active than ants on Rufous-naped Wren nest trees. We found no differences among bird species in tree size, local acacia density, or degree of nest isolation. Nest predation on eggs in artificial nests was higher in acacia than non-acacias due to pecking by Rufous-naped Wrens, suggesting that wrens may be inhibiting other bird species from nesting in the most protected nest sites.
30043031|In the tropical montane cloud forest of Veracruz, Mexico, most canopy trees are deciduous, whereas the understory is composed of small broadleaved evergreen trees and shrubs. In this study, I tested the hypotheses that (1) leafing and flowering in the understory occur when the canopy is most open; and (2) a shift in phenological patterns occurs in plants growing at the forest edge. In two microhabitats (interior and edge) at each of three study sites, foliar and reproductive phenologies were recorded in five shrub species (Eugenia xalapensis, Miconia glaberrima, Moussonia deppeana, Ocotea psychotrioides, and Palicourea padifolid), and canopy openness and photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) were measured monthly for 36 months. Canopy openness was greatest from November through February; however, PAR was highest during January-March. Leaf drop of the shrubs was continuous during the year. Leafing occurred throughout the year for Miconia, Moussonia, and Palicourea; leafing coincided with maximum PAR for Ocotea, but occurred during March-April for Eugenia. Flowering peaked from December to May, but Miconia, Moussonia, and Ocotea peaks coincided with levels of maximal PAR and were displaced by one month with respect to maximal canopy openness; the Palicourea flowering peak was negatively correlated with canopy openness. Fruiting was extended from March to October, coinciding with tree canopy fruiting. The results indicated that leafing and flowering in the understory started earlier than in the forest canopy. Leafing and flowering were synchronous in the interior and forest edge, but there was a weak trend for reduced peaks at the edge. The hypotheses were not supported: phenological patterns were temporally displaced between forest strata, but only three shrub species produced leaves and flowers during maximum PAR in the understory; there were no differences in phenological patterns between forest interior and edge. /// En el bosque de niebla de Veracruz, Mxico, la mayora de los rboles del dosel son caducifolios y los rboles pequeos y arbustos del sotobosque son perennifolios. Las hiptesis fueron que (1) la produccin de hojas y flores ocurre cuando la abertura del dosel es mayor y (2) hay un cambio en patrones fenolgicos en el borde del bosque. En dos microhbitats (interior y borde) en tres sitio, se determinaron: fenologa foliar y reproductiva en Eugenia xalapensis, Miconia glaberrima, Moussonia deppeana, Ocotea psychotrioides, y Palicourea padifolia, y abertura del dosel y luz fotosintticamente activa (PAR) por 36 meses. La abertura del dosel fue mayor en noviembre-febrero y PAR fue mxima en enero-marzo. La cada de hojas fue continua durante el ao. La foliacin fue tambin continua para Miconia, Moussonia, y Palicourea; Ocotea present un pico que coincidi con mxima PAR; Eugenia tuvo un pico en marzo-abril. La floracin ocurri en diciembre-mayo, pero los picos para Miconia, Moussonia, y Ocotea coincidieron con niveles mximos de PAR y estuvieron desplazados un mes respecto a la mxima abertura del dosel, y el pico de Palicourea estuvo correlacionado negativamente con abertura del dosel. La fructificacin se extendi de marzo a octubre y coincidi con fructificacin del dosel. Los resultados indican que foliacin y floracin comienzan en el sotobosque antes que en el dosel. La produccin de hojas y flores ocurri sincrnicamente en los microhbitats, pero con tendencia dbil a picos menores en el borde. Las hiptesis no se sostienen debido a que los patrones fenolgicos estuvieron desplazados entre estratos, pero solo tres especies de arbustos produjeron hojas y frutos durante el periodo de mxima PAR en el sotobosque, y no hubo diferencias en patrones fenolgicos entre interior y borde de bosque.
10.2307/2388102|Boat-billed herons (Cochlearius c. ridgwayi) were observed with a night vision device as they fed nocturnally in a Pacific Guatemalan marsh. They used two basic heron/egret feeding techniques previously described for other species. No specialized feeding behaviors were observed that could be related uniquely to the expanded bill. Food taken by boat-bills was similar to that of black-crowned and yellow-crowned night herons (Nycticorax nycticorax and Nyctanassa violacea) feeding in the same marsh. Because of the limited information on Cochlearius, none of the existing hypotheses are adequate to explain the shape of the bill as a feeding adaptation, and only a previous observation of the bill as a display character provides a plausible explanation.
2663761|Temporal and spatial changes in floristic composition over a 15-year period in an Atlantic tropical forest in Brazil were analyzed. The data were recorded in five 0.5-ha (50 x 100 m) plots within a 22,000-ha forest reserve. In each plot, all stems 10 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) were repeatedly inventoried. The overall number of species among all plots was steady over time but changed within a given plot. In all plots, the proportion for the disappearance of species was 7 percent and that for immigration of new species into the plots was 9.5 percent. Approximately 65 percent of the disappearance occurred between 1986 and 1989, and 74 percent of the immigration happened after 1986. The observed changes in composition evidently were due to natural disturbance and climatic events, such as an unusual four-month drought. Disappearance of species from the plots did not denote regional extinction of those species, because they persisted elsewhere in the forest reserve. The changes in species composition within the plots and persistence outside them, however, indicated that large areas are required for in situ conservation of tropical tree species. These areas must be large enough for population changes to occur without negative effects on genetic and demographic structures of tree species.
41058547|Through their role as 'ecosystem engineers', termites provide a range of ecosystem services including decomposition, and carbon and nitrogen cycling. Although termite diversity levels differ between regions as a result of variation in regional species pool size, in general, termite diversity is thought to decline with elevation. This study (1) investigated how termite species density, abundance, functional group diversity and termite attack on dead wood vary with altitude along an Amazon-Andes altitudinal gradient in Peru; (2) identified likely environmental causes of this pattern; and (3) explored the implications of termite presence for ecosystem functioning (notably for decomposition). Termites were sampled with a standardized 100 x 2m straight-belt transect at five undisturbed forest sites along a gradient 190 to 3025m, as were environmental variables and termite and fungus attack on dead wood. Termite diversity was similar to that found at comparable sites in South America, and there was little turnover of assemblage composition with elevation suggesting that montane specialists are not present. Termite diversity declined with increased elevation, though the upper distribution limit for termites was at a lower elevation than anticipated. We suggest that key drivers of this elevation pattern are reduced temperature with altitude and midelevation peaks in soil water content. Also, attack on dead wood diminished with decreasing termite indirea absolute abundance, while the depth of the soil humic layer increased. We hypothesize that termite abundance is a major accelerant of decomposition rates (and associated mineralization) in Amazonian forests.
10.2307/2389236|Predation by rodents on seeds of Scheelea zonensis was studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, during the latter half of this palm's fruiting season. The number of Scheelea bearing fruit declined steadily during this period. The proportion of both intact and bruchid-infested seeds among those accumulated under fruiting Scheelea declined, while the proportion of gnawed seeds increased. By early October, 87 percent of the Scheelea seeds sampled had been gnawed by rodents, and few intact or bruchid-infested seeds remained below parent palms. From August through October, agoutis, Dasyprocta punctata, visited Scheelea less and less frequently, while visits by squirrels, Sciurus granatensis, did not decline. To learn the fate of late-falling Scheelea seeds, we placed small piles of thread-marked seeds, each similar to a small Scheelea fruit crop, in the forest during three successive months, a total of 400 seed each month. Of these 1200 thread-marked seeds, 57.2 percent were retrieved within 20 m of their piles 7 days after placement. Of the retrieved seeds, 22.2 percent were gnawed within 1 m of their pile, 70.6 percent were carried between 1 and 20 m before gnawing, and 7.2 percent were cached (not gnawed, but buried in the ground or covered with litter). More seeds were gnawed, and fewer cached, in September and October than in August. On Barro Colorado Island, intense seed predation by rodents on Scheelea correlates with a previously documented forestwide low in availability of fruits of all kinds, and with a decline in egg laying by bruchids.
27742812|Most of the world's population that derives their livelihoods or part of their livelihoods from forests are out of the information loop. Exclusion of public users of natural resources from access to scientific research results is not an oversight; it is a systemic problem that has costly ramifications for conservation and development. Results of a survey of 268 researchers from 29 countries indicate that institutional incentives support the linear, top-down communication of results through peer-reviewed journal articles, which often guarantees positive performance measurement. While the largest percentage of respondents (34%) ranked scientists as the most important audience for their work, only 15 percent of respondents considered peer-reviewed journals effective in promoting conservation and/or development. Respondents perceived that local initiatives (27%) and training (16%) were likely to lead to success in conservation and development; but few scientists invest in these activities. Engagement with the media (5%), production of training and educational materials (4%) and popular publications (5%) as outlets for scientific findings was perceived as inconsequential (&lt; 14%) in measuring scientific performance. Less than 3 percent of respondents ranked corporate actors as an important audience for their work. To ensure science is shared with those who need it, a shift in incentive structures is needed that rewards actual impact rather than only 'high-impact' journals. Widely used approaches and theoretical underpinnings from the social sciences, which underlie popular education and communication for social change, could enhance communication by linking knowledge and action in conservation biology.
10.2307/2388630|The ways by which light gaps in the canopy are formed and the importance of buried seeds in treefall gap regeneration were studied in lowland forest in Pasoh Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia. In the top 10 cm of soil under the mature forest canopy were 131 seeds/m$^2$, as determined by germinating seeds from the soil. This estimate of the buried seed population in Pasoh Forest Reserve is similar to estimates from several other Paleotropical forests but is lower than most buried seed population estimates reported for Neotropical forests. The density of buried seeds was significantly lower in 2- to 5-year-old treefall gaps than under the canopy of mature forest. Flats of sterilized soil and flats of soil containing a natural complement of buried seeds were set out in recent treefall gaps to compare the rates of seedling emergence from buried seeds and from seeds that arrived after the gaps were formed. Although less abundant than in many other tropical forests, buried seeds give rise to seven times more seedlings during the first nine months than freshly dispersed seeds. Pioneer trees contributed a smaller fraction of the buried seeds (29%) than observed in other lowland tropical rain forests. We believe this results from the relative scarcity of pioneer trees in Pasoh Forest Reserve and the relatively large size of their seeds compared, for example, with seeds of pioneer trees in the mature forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. The number of pioneer trees is relatively low at least in part because most canopy trees in Pasoh Forest Reserve have small crowns and because many of the trees that die remain standing (45%); trees with small crowns and trees that die standing open small canopy gaps when they fall.
30043275|Annual variation in the diet of adult spiny-tailed iguanas was studied by analyzing feces collected at 38 known iguana refuges in the desert of the southern Baja California peninsula. Iguanas consumed mostly plants, a small percentage of arthropods, their own skin, and remains from conspecifics. They consumed at least 22 of 83 plant species known to be present in the area. Leaves of three perennial Leguminosae species formed the year-round basis of their diet. Iguanas atte flowers and fruit when available. We propose that iguanas could be efficient seed dispersers for Cactaceae, but that they crush many of the seeds of leafy tree species. No significant differences in food consumption pattern were found between dry and rainy seasons. Iguanas apparently moved to neighboring trees only when searching for food. We propose that predation risk could have more influence than the nutritional value of plants on the species' foraging behavior and microhabitat selection in this area.
3593192|I describe the fruit characteristics of species closely associated with black lemur seed dispersal (i.e., species that are often dispersed by the black lemur and only dispersed by the black lemur in the Lokobe Forest). A black lemur group was habituated and observed during the day and night for all months of the year (total 1272 h). When fruits were eaten, the plant species was identified, the maturity of the fruit and treatment of the seeds noted, and the fruit described in terms of ripe fruit color, husk thickness, fruit length, and seed length and width. Black lemur feces were searched for seeds; these were identified and signs of damage noted. Other potential dispersers feeding on the fruits of species eaten by the black lemur were also noted. The black lemurs were seen eating the fruits of 70 species. Of these, 51 species were defined as closely associated with black lemur dispersal and 16 species had seeds that were either often preyed upon or wasted by the black lemur, or were seen being eaten by other potential seed dispersers. Fruits of species in the former group were often dull colored (94% of species); rarely less than 1 cm long (6%); rarely had seeds less than 0.1 cm long or less than 0.1 cm wide (2 and 4%, respectively); never had seeds more than 4 cm long or greater than 2 cm wide; and quite often had either thick husks (49%) or thin husks (51%). In contrast, the fruits of the latter group were often brightly colored (75% of species) and nearly always had a thin husk (94%). Also, this latter group included more small and very large fruits and seeds than the former group. Fruit characteristics significantly associated with the former group were: dull color, thick husk, fruit length greater than 2 cm, seed length 1-4 cm, and seed width 1-2 cm. The extent to which these traits are the result of coevolution between plants and the guild of lemur dispersers that includes the black lemur is not clear, but a coevolved lemur-fruit syndrome remains a possibility.
10.2307/2388028|When and where crickets call during a night should have important consequences for their reproductive success, yet little is known of individual calling behavior under natural conditions. This is particularly true in the tropics, where high temperatures throughout the night increase the opportunities for complex adaptations. Collectively males of A. muticus at Fort Sherman, Panama, called throughout the night; however, individual males seldom called more than three hours. Some males called close to their burrows and retreated into them when approached; others called on the ground away from any burrow and usually moved 1-6 m at intervals during their calling period. Males remained faithful to type of calling site on consecutive nights, and burrow-calling males used approximately the same calling periods. Individualized specialization as to time of calling may result from calling being energy costly and receptive females flying during most of the night.
30044017|We evaluated the temporal and spatial patterns of abundance and the amount of damage caused by gall-inducing insects (GII) in deciduous and riparian habitats in a seasonal tropical dry forest in Mexico. Plants occurring in these habitats differ in their phenology and moisture availability. Deciduous habitats are seasonal and xeric, while riparian habitats are aseasonal and mesic. We found 37 GII species and each one was associated with a specific plant species. In total, 19 species (51.3%) were present in deciduous habitats, 13 species (35.2%) in riparian habitats, and only 5 species (13.5%) occurred in both. Abundance and leaf damage by GII were greater in deciduous than in riparian habitats during the wet season. For each GII species that occurred in both habitats, host plant species supported greater abundance and leaf damage by GII in deciduous habitats during the wet season. These results indicate a greater association of GII species with host plants in deciduous than in riparian habitats during the wet season. In riparian habitats, 11 plant species (61.1%) had greater density of GII in the dry than in the wet season. Similarly, leaf damage by GII was significantly greater in the dry than in the wet season in riparian habitats for 12 plant species (66.7%). Dry forest plants of riparian habitats presented two peaks of leaf-flushing: GII colonized leaves produced in the first peak at the beginning of the wet season, and accumulated or recolonized leaves in the second peak at the beginning of the dry season. The levels of leaf damage by GII detected in this study in the rainy season were considerably higher than those obtained for folivorous insects in other neotropical forests, suggesting that this GII guild might have an important impact on their host plant species in this tropical community. /// Se evaluaron los patrones temporales y espaciales de la abundancia y cantidad de dao foliar causado por insectos inductores de agallas (IIA) en hbitats deciduos y riparios en un bosque tropical seco de Mxico. Las plantas que ocurren en estos hbitats difieren en sus patrones fenolgicos foliares y en la disponibilidad de agua. Los hbitats deciduos son estacionales y secos, mientras que los hbitats riparios son no estacionales y hmedos. Se encontraron 39 especies de IIA, donde cada una estuvo asociada a una especie particular de planta hospedera. En total, 19 especies (51.3%) estuvieron presentes en hbitats deciduos, 13 especies (35.2%) en riparios y solo 5 especies (13.5%) ocurrieron en ambos hbitats. La abundancia y la cantidad de dao foliar por IIA fue mayor en hbitats deciduos que en riparios durante la estacin hmeda. En cada especie que ocurri en ambos hbitats, se encontr una mayor abundancia y cantidad de dao foliar en hbitats deciduos durante la estacin hmeda. Estos resultados indican una mayor asociacin de especies de IIA sobre plantas hospederas en hbitats deciduos que en riparios durante la estacin hmeda. En hbitats riparios, 11 especies de plantas (61.1%) tuvieron una mayor densidad de IIA en la estacin seca que durante la estacin hmeda. Igualmente, el dao foliar por IIA fue significativamente mayor en la estacin seca que en la hmeda en hbitats riparios para 12 especies de plantas (66.7%). Estos resultados indican que plantas de hbitats riparios presentan dos picos de produccin masiva de hojas, los IIA colonizan hojas producidas en el primer pico al inicio de la estacin hmeda y se acumulan o recolonizan hojas producidas en el segundo pico al inicio de la estacin seca. Los niveles de dao foliar por IIA detectados en este estudio (promedio 14.9  3.9%) en la estacin hmeda: (rango 1.57-97.7%) fueron considerablemente mayores que los obtenidos con insectos folvoros en otros bosques Neotropicales sugiriendo que este gremio de IIA puede tener un importante impacto sobre sus plantas hospederas en esta comunidad tropical.
10.2307/2388082|In a study of plant succession during and following slash-and-burn agriculture near the town of San Carlos de Rio Negro in southern Venezuela we found that: 1. Weeds established just as readily in plots with Manihot esculenta (the principal crop plant of the region) present as in plots with M. esculenta removed. 2. Repeated farm-plot weedings caused woody plants to decline in numbers and biomass and herbaceous plants to increase. 3. Forbs and grasses dominated immediately following farm site abandonment, but by one year these had begun to senesce and fast-growing successional woody species (particularly Vismia spp.) were common. Standing crop biomass at one year was 773 grams dry weight m
10.2307/2388617|A comparison between forest structure and use of forest by Brachyteles at Fazenda Montes Claros and Fazenda Esmeralda in Minas Gerais, Brazil indicated differences in the proportion of large trees available at the two sites. However, despite these differences in forest structure, Brachyteles at both sites showed similar preferences for feeding in trees greater than 25 cm in DBH. The results of this study suggest that forest structure, as well as forest species composition, must be evaluated before initiating efforts to translocate threatened populations of this endangered primate.
10.2307/2388203|Predispersal seed predation is a widespread phenomenon in tropical forests. However, few studies have quantified predator impact on seed crops during this critical stage of a plant's life cycle. Here I report on a tight plant-animal interaction between brown capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) and an emergent Lecythidaceae, Cariniana micrantha. The very hard and thick pericarps of this species are morphological adaptations to protect their fatty and proteinrich seeds from predispersal predators. However, brown capuchins are behaviorally adept at overcoming the seed protection mechanisms. Based on direct observations and a sample of 7328 fruits from exhaustive counts of 10 focal C. micrantha trees, I estimate that 69.5% of the entire anemochorous, winged-seeded crop was destroyed because of direct predation. Another 30.1 percent of the seed crop also became inviable, but in a different manner: its single dispersal opportunity was disrupted because seeds remained trapped inside indehisced fruits which had been discarded to the ground by the monkeys.
30043136|We quantified predation pressure on first instar nymphs of a stick insect in predator-exclusion experiments in the forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panam. After considering intrinsic mortality (19%) and potential emigration (negligible), we estimated that 54 percent of the nymphs died due to predation in a two-week period. Predation on nymphs was highest at night and may explain the low abundance of Metriophasma diocles in the understory.
30043089|Hurricanes are important disturbance events in many forested ecosystems. They can have strong effects on both forest structure and animal populations, and yet few studies have considered the impacts on plantanimal interactions. Reduction of canopy cover by severe winds increases light availability to understory plants, providing an opportunity for increased growth. An increase in light availability should cause an increase in annual production of leaves and a more even production throughout the year (i.e., less seasonality in production). This change will affect the availability of food resources to folivorous insects that feed primarily on young leaves; outbreaks of these insects could nullify the temporary advantage of increased understory light levels. On 21 September 1998, Hurricane Georges struck Puerto Rico, providing an excellent opportunity to determine the effect of the hurricane on leaf production and herbivory in the forest understory by comparing post-hurricane data with data obtained from a previous study conducted at the same site. Eight species were analyzed at El Verde Field Station, a wet forest site in eastern Puerto Rico. For the eight species combined, there was an increase in number of leaves produced after the hurricane and a more even seasonal pattern of leaf production, as predicted. Levels of herbivory were much lower (2.03%) after the hurricane compared with pre hurricane conditions (16.05%), indicating that increased light availability to understory plants was not offset by increased herbivory. Lower levels of herbivory were possibly due to herbivore satiation, changes in leaf chemistry, changes in herbivore populations, changes in herbivore predator populations, or a combination of two or more of these factors. /// Los huracanes son perturbaciones importantes en muchos ecosistemas forestales. Estos pueden tener fuertes efectos en la estructura de los bosques y en las poblaciones de animales, sin embargo pocos estudios han considerado su impacto en las interacciones planta-animal. La reduccin de la cobertura del dosel, dada por fuertes vientos, aumenta la disponibilidad de luz para las plantas del sotobosque, dando una oportunidad de crecimiento para stas. Un aumento en la disponibilidad de luz, podra causar un aumento en la produccin anual de hojas al igual que una produccin ms continua a travs del ao. Este cambio afectara la disponibilidad de alimento para insectos folvoros, que se alimentan principalmente de hojas jvenes. Si el aumento en recursos se traduce en un gran aumento en las poblacionales de folvoros, esto podra anular la ventaja temporal dada por incrementos en niveles de luz. En 21 septiembre de 1998, el Huracn Georges azot Puerto Rico, dando una oportunidad excelente para determinar el efecto de un huracn en la produccin de hojas y herbivora en el sotobosque, por medio de comparaciones con datos obtenidos antes del huracn. Ocho especies se analizaron en la Estacin Biolgica del Verde, en la parte Este de Puerto Rico. Para las ocho especies combinadas hubo un aumento en produccin de hojas despus del huracn, y un patrn de produccin uniforme a lo largo del ao. Los niveles de herbivora fueron mucho menores (2.03%) despus del huracn, comparados con las condiciones pre huracn (16.05%), indicando que el aumento en la disponibilidad de luz para las plantas del sotobosque no fue afectada por aumentos de herbivora. Los bajos niveles de herbivora pudieron darse posiblemente porque los herbvoros fueron saciados, cambios en la qumica de las hojas, cambios en las poblaciones de herbvoros, cambios en las poblaciones de depredadores de herbvoros o por la combinacin de dos o ms de estos factores.
10.2307/2989819|A comparison of fecal pellets among the Cuban species of Capromys is presented. Size, shape, color, and texture of pel lets are proposed to have taxonomic value. A table of measurements and a chart illustrating outstanding characteristics are included. There is also information on the ecology and ethology of the Cuban species of Capromys.
2663907|The behavior and physiology of two parapatric sibling species, Heliconius erato cyrbia Godt. and H. himera Hew., were investigated to assess if environmental adaptation enabled stable morphological, genetic, and ecological differences to exist in the face of hybridization. Morning and evening activity, egg production, and larval development time of H. himera and H. erato in insectaries were recorded; individuals were collected in allopatry and in sympatry from a hybrid zone in which the species overlapped. Studies were performed at ambient conditions within the natural range of H. himera. H. himera was considerably more active than H. erato, flying earlier in the morning and later in the evening, even when both species were collected in sympatry. Similarly, H. himera laid more eggs, and the hatched larvae developed more rapidly. The results suggest that physiological constraints are an important selective force that may have been important in speciation and counteracts hybridization in the maintenance of the H. himera/H. erato contact zone. Ecological selection, arising from adaptation to low temperatures, may help explain the competitive exclusion of H. erato by H. himera in the drier, cooler montane habitat favored by the latter species.
10.2307/2388688|The skin secretions of two neotropical salamanders, Bolitoglossa rostrata and B. subpalmata, adversely affect snakes of the genus Thamnophis, which commonly prey on amphibians. The secretion causes the snake to pause during ingestion, paralyzes the mouth, and may render the snake incapable of moving or responding to external stimuli. Snakes often died after attempting to eat the toxic B. rostrata.
30045389|Seasonal patterns of tree growth are often related to rainfall, temperature, and relative moisture regimes. We asked whether diameter growth of mangrove trees in Micronesia, where seasonal changes are minimal, is continuous throughout a year or conforms to an annual cycle. We installed dendrometer bands on Sonneratia alba and Bruguiera gymnorrhiza trees growing naturally within mangrove swamps on the islands of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia (FSM), Pohnpei, FSM, and Butaritari, Republic of Kiribati, in the eastern Caroline Islands of the western Pacific Ocean. Trees were remeasured monthly or quarterly for as long as 6 yr. Annual mean individual tree basal area increments ranged from 7.0 to 79.6 cm2 /yr for all S. alba trees and from 4.8 to 27.4 cm2 /yr for all B. gymnorrhiza trees from Micronesian high islands. Diameter increment for S. alba on Butaritari Atoll was lower at 7.8 cm2/yr for the one year measured. Growth rates differed significantly by hydrogeomorphic zone. Riverine and interior zones maintained up to seven times the annual diameter growth rate of fringe forests, though not on Pohnpei, where basal area increments for both S. alba and B. gymnorrhiza were approximately 1.5 times greater in the fringe zone than in the interior zone. Time-series modeling indicated that there were no consistent and statistically significant annual diameter growth patterns. Although rainfall has some seasonality in some years on Kosrae and Pohnpei and overall growth of mangroves was sometimes related positively to quarterly rainfall depths, seasonal diameter growth patterns were not distinctive. A reduced chance of moisture-related stress in high-rainfall, wetland environments may serve to buffer growth of Micronesian mangroves from climatic extremes.
10.2307/2388899|The mangrove community of the Neotropics shows a progressive increase in diversity through the Cenozoic. Palynofloras from the early Eocene 50 Ma (million years ago) indicate that brackish-water coastal areas were occupied by four principal genera-Acrostichum, the extinct Brevitricolpites variabilis. Nypa, and Pelliceria (Pellicera). Avicennia is first reported in the late Miocene 10 Ma. Extinctions, introductions, and adaptations varied the composition and increased net diversity to six mangrove and three associated genera by the middle Pliocene (3.5 Ma)-Acrostichum, Avicennia, Crenea, Laguncularia, Pelliceria, Rhizophora; Acacia, Hampea/Hibiscus, and Pachira. Modernization continued in the Quaternary with the first microfossils of Conocarpus, and with the addition of eight possible associates, for a total of 15 genera. Twelve others, unknown as fossils, were added during the Cenozoic to constitute the present-day community of 27 genera of mangroves and associates. The fossil record identifies a trend of increasing diversity that can be assessed as new assemblages are studied, and provides a first quantitative estimate of Neotropical history through the Cenozoic Era.
3593171|Between January and December 1996, the food habits of a relict population of jaguars were studied in
10.2307/2389187|Five species of Anolis lizards of the Luquillo forest, Puerto Rico were surveyed for infection with malarial parasites. Two species of parasite, Plasmodium floridense and P azurophilum. commonly infect Anolis gundlachi. P. azurophilum also very rarely infects A. stratulus, A. krugi. A. evermanni, and A. cristatellus. For A. gundlachi, males are more often infected, and percent of animals infected increases with body size, but percent infected decreases for the very largest body size class in males. P azurophilum is far more common than P floridense, and the two parasite species appear to associate randomly into mixed infections with no evidence for interspecific competition between malaria species. Infected A. gundlachi have a greater prevalence of injured tails. The five anole species differ by body size (three large and two small species) and habitat used (shady cool places vs sunny warmer locations). A. gundlachi and A. evermanni are the only species that are similar in size that are often found in the same locations. Malarial infection may mediate competition between these two species of lizards.
10.2307/2388627|We observed larvae of the fly Notochaeta bufonivora (Sarcophagidae) feeding on harlequin frogs, Atelopus varius (Bufonidae), along a gallery forest stream in montane Costa Rica during the dry season. Harlequin frogs tended to aggregate in areas containing waterfall spray, and in these areas an individual's probability of attack by Notochaeta was greater than in areas lacking waterfall spray zones. To ascertain whether this increased risk to a frog resulted from its choosing an area with a waterfall spray zone or from being in an area of high frog density, we manipulated the density of frogs in a series of quadrats. The results of this experiment suggest that the increased risk of attack in the environs of waterfalls was a hazard associated with patch choice by the frogs rather than with aggregation per se.
10.2307/2388683|Phenology, floral biology, the reproductive system, and pollination of the macauba palm, Acrocomia aculeata were studied in Central Brazil. The species is arborescent, single-stemmed, and reaches heights of up to 16 m. Flowering occurs between August and December, peaking between October and November. Fruit fall (harvest) is between June and March, with a peak in November. Inflorescences are androgynous with marked protogyny. The basic pollination syndrome is by beetles, with wind playing a secondary role. The principal pollinators are Andranthobius sp. (Curculionidae), Mystrops cf mexicana (Nitidulidae) and Cyclocephala forsteri (Scarabaeidae). Cross-pollination between different individuals (xenogamy) accounts for most of the reproductive system. However, the species is self-compatible, with geitonogamy accounting for a significant percentage of fruit set. The combination of two pollination strategies (wind and insects) with a flexible reproductive system (cross- and self-pollination) suggests that A. aculeata can be highly successful in the colonization of new areas, as is evidenced by the ample distribution of species in the Neotropics.
10.2307/2387905|This paper seeks to elucidate causal factors in the temporal organization of blooming patterns, both within and between years, of a coadapted group of plants sharing a group of pollinators: the hummingbird flowers of Finca La Selva, Costa Rica. Quantitative data on flowering of 42 species over a four-year period are presented, with supplementary data on an additional 17 species. Peaks of flower availability for hummingbirds occur in the dry and early wet seasons; a severe and predictable flower shortage occurs in November and December, the wettest months of the year. This pattern is repeated in several other tropical areas, among hummingbird foodplants and the plant communities in general. A severe drought in March-April 1973 severely affected flowering of many species for up to four months thereafter; some species were noticeably affected as much as a year later. Hummingbird foodplants of large light gaps and second growth have longer peak blooming periods than do those of forest understory; vines bloom for shorter periods than do other growth forms. Mean year-to-year variation in various temporal parameters of flowering was about two months among La Selva hummingbird flowers, and about one month among those of a California locality. If, as in other groups of organisms, the action of photoperiod is to define the time span within which plants may be stimulated to flower by other factors like rainfall, then La Selva plants respond to a daylength change about half as great as do California plants. Two mechanisms may help maintain a regular sequence of blooming peaks from year to year in the face of annual variations in rainfall: displacement of the entire sequence, and opposite and compensating responses of individual plant species. In California and probably in tropical dry forest, the first mechanism predominates; at La Selva, both mechanisms may be important.
10.2307/2387738|Cottontail rabbits Sylvilagus floridanus continentis and S. f. valenciae were collected in the states of Falcon (Paraguana Peninsula) and Guarico (near Palenque), Venezuela, from November 1978 to December 1979. Sex ratios in neither area differed significantly from 50:50. Individuals in the 1- to 8-month age classes were apparently under-represented in the shot sample. Breeding began at about 2.5 months of age and thereafter continued year-round. Mean litter size was 2.64 (107 litters) in 13 monthly collections from Paraguana, and 2.38 (13 litters) in two monthly collections from Palenque; pregnancy rates among adults averaged 89 and 81 percent, respectively. Monthly litter size in Paraguana, an arid region, was significantly correlated with total rainfall two months earlier. Total prenatal mortality was 17 percent at Paraguana and 20 percent at Palenque, with no evidence of loss of entire litters in utero. A preliminary life-table analysis estimated survival rate at only 0.6-0.7 monthly. Such low survival would reduce the mean number of young born per adult female from about 22 (potential natality) to five (realized natality) annually. The small litters and low survival of these tropical cottontails, compared to populations further north, tend to be compensated by their year-round breeding and earlier sexual maturity.
10.2307/2388315|Height growth rates and age-height relationships are reported for the abundant arborescent geonomoid palm Welfia georgii growing in tropical wet forest at La Selva, Costa Rica. Height increments over the 10-yr period range from 0.3 to 9.9 m, with a modal value of 2-3 m/10 yr. The data were analyzed using growth simulation, a stochastic bootstrapping technique that projects growth trajectories from periodic increment data. The number of years needed to attain the maximum height of 20 m from an initial height of 2.3 m ranges from 31 at the fastest growth rate to 80 at the slowest. The median value is 68 yr. Welfia palms appear to grow more or less continuously once they have reached 2.3 m. The wide variation in canopy conditions under which the present sample of surviving Welfia is growing indicates that the species tolerates a considerable range of light regimes.
2663882|Beetles were collected on 64 trees of four species (Cynometra alexandri C. H. Wright, Rinorea beniensis (Welwitsch ex Olivier) Kuntze, Teclea nobilis Delile, and Trichilia rubescens Olivier) in Budongo Forest, Uganda, using an insecticidal fogging technique. Selected tree species were abundant, taxonomically not closely related, and different in the shape of leaves, growth form, and size, with heights between 7 and 35 m. Trees were fogged in an old primary forest stand, in an area of secondary forest where selective logging was performed, and in a swamp forest. Eight conspecific trees per forest type were fogged. A total of 29,736 beetles were collected from all trees that could be assigned to 1433 (morpho)-species; 41.6 percent were singletons and 89.6 percent of species were found with less than ten individuals. Abundant beetle taxa included Latridiidae (N = 4093), Chrysomelidae (3952), Staphylinidae (2931), Apioninae (2621), and Curculionidae (2457). Most species-rich groups were Staphylinidae (N = 196 spp.), Curculionidae (189), and Chrysomelidae (148). Abundance increased in the order: primary < secondary < swamp forest. Due to the relatively high dominance of some species in the secondary forest, species richness increased in the order: secondary < primary < swamp forest. Beta diversity measures and factor analysis showed distinct differences among forest types but higher similarity of beetle communities on different tree species within one forest type. The taxonomic distribution of beetles in the secondary forest was more heterogeneous than in the primary forest. Analyses of the data revealed low host specificity even for phytophagous beetles, underlining the importance of habitat structure and chance effects on the spatial distribution of beetles in the canopy of Budongo Forest.
10.2307/2388956|In four hectares of primary montane wet forest in Monteverde, Costa Rica, 1403 live trees (>10 cm diameter at breast height) were censused for major damage and mortality during a four-year period. Overall tree damage and mortality after four years was 15.9 trees ha
30043241|Workers of the genus Cheliomyrmex are unique among the New world army ants (subfamily Ecitoninae) in that their mandibles are armed with elongate, spine-like teeth. We present the first prey records for this genus. Cheliomyrmex andicola. prey on large-bodied ground dwelling invertebrates and, possibly, on vertebrates. Unlike other army ants, C. andicola workers use their sting during prey capture. The workers' unusual mandibles and potent stings may be adapted for piercing and gripping the integument of nonarthropod prey animals, and for rapidly subduing large-bodied prey, respectively. The genus Cheliomyrmex may be the sister taxon to other Neotropical army ants (Ecitoninae), and Cheliomyrmex shares features of mandibular morphology and prey selection with Old World driver ants in the genus Dory lus. Mass cooperative foraging, an important element of army ant behavior, may have arisen in part as an adaptation for exploiting large-bodied prey. /// Las obreras del gnero Cheliomyrmex son nicas entre las hormigas cazadoras del Nuevo Mundo (subfamilia Ecitoninae) por tener las mandbulas dotadas de dientes alargados y aciculares. Presentamos la primera documentacin registros de presa para este gnero. Cheliomyrmex andicola depreda invertebrados terrestres de tamao grande, y posiblemente vertebrados. En contraste con otras hormigas cazadoras, las obreras del andicola utilizan su aguijn durante la captura de su presa. Las mandbulas inusuales y las picaduras potentes de las obreras pueden ser adaptaciones para perforar y sujetar la piel de presa no-artrpoda, y para someter presa grande rpidamente. El gnero Cheliomyrmex podra ser el taxn hermano de las dems hormigas cazadoras Neotropicales (Ecitoninae), y comparte caractersticas de morfologa mandibular y seleccin de presa con las hormigas cazadoras del Viejo Mundo del gnero Dorylus. El forrajeo cooperativo en masa, un elemento importante del comportamiento de estas hormigas cazadoras, pudo haberse presentado en parte como una adaptacin para aprovechar presa grande.
27742858|Shifting cultivators depend forest biomass inputs to nourish their crops. For them, forest resilience has an immediate impact: it affects crop productivity. A decline in the rate of recovery following shifting cultivation would ultimately affect local, regional and global carbon budgets, with feedbacks to climate. Yet the long-term impacts of shifting cultivation have been quantified in only six locations. In this study, we reanalyze data from these locations to determine whether the rate of biomass recovery is the same from cycle to cycle. Further, using case studies in Southern Yucatan, Mexico and West Kalimantan, Indonesia, we investigate the ecological and socioeconomic factors that affect forest resilience and thus determine whether or not shifting cultivation is sustainable. The reanalysis links aboveground biomass recovery following shifting cultivation to site productivity, forest age, fallow length, history of cultivation, and soil texture. Across locations, biomass accumulation rate declines by 9.3 percent with each cycle of shifting cultivation. Per cycle change in biomass accumulation rate is significantly more negative in younger forests and forests that experience a shorter fallow period. However, more detailed analyses for two case studies suggest that a purely ecological framework is of limited effectiveness in explaining variability in the effect of repeated shifting cultivation. Rather, socioeconomic factors such as migration, subsidies, roads, and settlement history can alter the outcome of shifting cultivation by limiting the accumulation and use of local knowledge.
10.2307/2663970|The Phenology of principal fruits consumed by the endangered Great Pied Hornbill (Buceros bicornis) was monitored for two years in a wet forest habitat in southern India. Lipid-rich fruits, produced by several interior forest trees mainly of the family Lauracea, were highly seasonal in their availability, and their production in the dry, hot season coincided with the breeding of the hornbill. Sugary fruits, produced mainly by several species of Ficus, were available year-round due to aseasonal fruiting patterns. Because Ficus fruited even at times of low fruit resource availability, and was heavily utilized by hornbills and other frugivores, it played a keystone role in the maintenance of the avian frugivore community. Overall fruit production was scarce between July and January during the south-west and northeast monsoon seasons. Vitex altissima produced berries abundantly during much of this time (September-December) and thus was another important fruit resource for avian frugivores. To safeguard the fruit resource base for the Great Pied Hornbill, we recommend: (1) The protection of Ficus and Vitex trees from overexploitation, and (2) the conservation of forest integrity to maintain compositions and densities of the lipid-rich fruit tree species utilized by the hornbill.
30043034|We conducted experimental manipulations and field observations to determine the role of members of a nectarivorous guild (pollinators and robbers) on nectar production and pollen deposition in Hamelia patens at the La Selva Biological Station (Costa Rica). Seven pollinators (hummingbirds) and four robbers (1 hummingbird and 3 perching birds) comprised the avian nectarivorous guild visiting H. patens during March 1997. In addition, two florivorous birds were observed visiting H. patens during the study. Pollinators accounted for 85.6 percent of the visits, robbers for 12.4 percent, and florivores for 2 percent of the visits. Visitation by pollinators and robbers was greatest when floral nectar was highest. No aggressive interactions between pollinators and robbers were observed during the study. Pollinators differed in their ability to carry and deposit pollen on the stigma. Territorial hummingbirds were the least effective pollinators but the most frequent visitors. Flowers were frequently robbed (71%) during the study. Flowers experimentally robbed did not increase nectar production compared to control flowers; therefore, robbery may not involve an extra energy investment in terms of nectar production. The number of pollen grains deposited on artificially robbed flowers was significantly less than the number found in flowers with extra nectar (nectar added) but did not differ from the number found in non-manipulated flowers, indicating that nectar robbers may not affect the foraging behavior of hummingbirds, and therefore pollen deposition. /// Realizamos una serie de observaciones y manipulaciones experimentales para determinar el papel que desempean los miembros del gremio de nectarvoros (polinizadores y robadores) en la produccin de nctar y la deposicin de polen en Hamelia patens, en la Estacin Biolgica La Selva (Costa Rica). El gremio de aves nectarvoras que visit las flores de H. patens, estuvo compuesto por siete polinizadores (colibres) y cuatro robadores de nctar (1 colibr y 3 aves de percha) en marzo de 1997. Adicionalmente, se observaron dos especies de aves consumidoras de corolas de H. patens. Los polinizadores realizaron el 85.6 por ciento del total de las visitas a las flores, mientras que los robadores de nctar realizaron el 12.4 por ciento y las aves florvoras el 2 por ciento. La actividad de los polinizadores y robadores aument durante las horas de mayor disponibilidad de nctar en las flores sin que ocurrieran interacciones agresivas entre ambos gremios. Los polinizadores mostraron diferencias en su capacidad de transportar y depositar polen en el estigma: las especies de colibres territoriales fueron los visitantes ms frecuentes y menos efectivos. Las flores de H. patens presentaron una alta frecuencia de robos (71%) durante el estudio. Las flores robadas experimentalmente no mostraron un aumento en la produccin de nctar en comparacin con las flores control, lo que sugiere que el robo no representa una inversin extra de energa en trminos de produccin de nctar para esta planta. El nmero de granos de polen depositado en las flores robadas artificialmente fue significativamente menor al encontrado en flores a las que se les agreg nctar; sin embargo, result similar al nmero encontrado en flores no manipuladas. Este resultado indica que los robadores de nctar no afectan el comportamiento de forrajeo de los colibres ni la deposicin de polen.
30045496|The common vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus, feeds on mammalian blood and is a major agricultural pest in Latin America. One way to prevent bats from biting livestock is to understand how the bats locate the livestock. We confirmed the role of olfaction in foraging with a modified cafeteria trial. Bats significantly favored blood meals associated with scent (fur, feces) over meals lacking these olfactory cues. These results confirm earlier observations on the role of olfaction during prey location by this species, and have potential to facilitate eradication measures without extensive loss of other bat species. /// El vampiro comn, Desmodus rotundus, se alimenta del sangre de los mamferos y es una de las plagas agrcolas ms destructivas en Amrica Latina. Para mejor prevenir los murcilagos de mordiendo ganado, debemos comprender mejor cmo los vampiros localizan ganado. Confirmamos el rol de olfaccin en forrajeo con una modificacin de una prueba "cafetera". Los murcilagos se favorecen las comidas de sangre asociados con olor de vacas (pelos, fecas) sobre las que no tienen estos olores. Estos resultados se confirman observaciones anteriores sobre el rol de olfaccin durante la deteccin de presas por estas especies, y tienen la posibilidad de facilitar medidas de control de vampiros sin la perdida extensiva de otras especies de murcilagos.
10.2307/2389016|Leaves are especially vulnerable to herbivores during the ephemeral period of leaf expansion, and thus, aspects of leaf phenology may influence herbivore damage. Plants that produce leaves when insect abundance is low may temporally escape herbivores, and plants that produce leaves in synchronous flushes may satiate herbivores. In response to a dry season rain, individuals of Hybanthus prunifolius (Violaceae) produce flowers and leaves in synchrony The relationship between dry season leaf production and herbivory was determined by comparing leaf damage among leaf cohorts produced during natural flushes (dry season) and experimentally delayed flushes (wet season). Herbivore damage of natural leaf cohorts (6%) was significantly lower than leaf cohorts that were produced in the wet season (18%). Dry season leaf production by H. prunifolius avoids the peak period of herbivore abundance at the beginning of the wet season.
27742806|To assess the contributions of rustic shade cacao plantations to vascular epiphyte conservation, we compared epiphyte species richness, abundance, composition, and vertical distributions on shade trees and in the understories of six plantations and adjacent natural forests. On three phorophytes and three 10  10 m understory plots in each of the agroforestry plantations and natural forests, 54 and 77 species were observed, respectively. Individual-based rarefaction curves revealed that epiphyte species richness was significantly higher on forest phorophytes than on cacao farm shade trees; detailed analyses showed that the differences were confined to the inner and outer crown zones of the phorophytes. No differences in epiphyte species richness were found in understories. Araceae, Piperaceae, and Pteridophyta were less species-rich in plantations than in forests, while there were no differences in Orchidaceae and Bromeliaceae. Regression analysis revealed that epiphyte species richness on trunks varied with canopy cover, while abundance was more closely related to soil pH, canopy cover, and phorophyte height. For crown epiphytes, phorophyte diameter at breast height (dbh) explained much of the variation in species richness and abundance. There were also pronounced downward shifts in the vertical distributions of epiphyte species in agroforests relative to natural forests. The results confirm that epiphyte diversity, composition, and vertical distributions are useful indicators of human disturbance and showed that while the studied plantations serve to preserve portions of epiphyte diversity in the landscape, their presence does not fully compensate for the loss of forests.
2663863|We examined characteristics of roosting sites utilized by two flying fox species (Pteropus tonganus and P. samoensis) in American Samoa. The colonial roosting sites of P. tonganus were observed over a ten-year period, including two years when severe hurricanes devastated bat populations and destroyed roost trees. Prior to the hurricanes, roosts were located on cliff faces above the ocean or steep mountainsides, locations that were either inaccessible to people or in protected areas where hunting was not allowed. In the years immediately following the hurricanes, P. tonganus colonies split into smaller groups that moved frequently to different locations. Four years after the second hurricane, colonies had coalesced and returned to many of the traditional roosting sites used before the hurricanes. Common tree species in upland and coastal forest were selected as roosts. The isolated locations selected for P. tonganus roosts were apparently the result of hunting pressure on the colonies. The solitary roosts of P. samoensis were observed during 29 months. Roosting bats were well concealed and hard to detect within the forest; even bats on exposed branches were cryptic. Mature primary forest was favored as roosting habitat. Individual bats used specific branches or trees as roosts and returned to them for up to 29 months. Unlike P. tonganus, people did not alarm roosting P. samoensis easily and some roosts were located near houses and along roads.
10.2307/2387678|A distributional study of 65 grass species in seven habitats of Costa Rica was done to determine the differential distribution of C
10.2307/2387920|Fungus cultivation by ants is interpreted as arising from exploitation of mycorrhizae encountered coincidentally in hypogeic nests. Characteristics of attines and their fungi are reviewed in this light. The hypothesis suggests new approaches to research on both attine behavior and physiology of fungal symbionts.
27742796|Folivory may indirectly impact plant reproduction through changes in sexual expression (i.e., number or proportion of male and female flowers produced), which influence plantpollinator interactions via changes in pollinator preference or efficiency. This study is an experimental evaluation of the effect that defoliation has on sex expression in the monoecious shrub Cnidoscolus aconitifolius, how such effect varies across sites, as well as how such changes indirectly affect pollinator visitation rates. The present study used three populations of C. aconitifolius, each one located in a different site in Yucatn (Mxico): pasture, deciduous forest and subdeciduous medium height forest and three levels of defoliation: 50 percent, 100 percent, and a control (no damage). Results showed that defoliation reduced significantly the total number of male flowers produced in two of the sites. Defoliation did not impact female flower production or the proportion of female flowers produced. Finally, floral visit rates were not affected by defoliation via changes in sexual expression and neither by site or by the interaction site  defoliation. Findings showed that defoliation had an effect on sex expression in C. aconitifolius, although apparently this change did not affect the plantpollinator interactions.
20492484|The phenological behavior of many tropical plant species is highly dependent on rainfall, but these plants may also respond to changes in photoperiod. Without a better knowledge of the proportion of species responding to different factors, it is difficult to predict how global climate change may affect natural ecosystem processes. The aim of this study was to describe flowering patterns for more than 100 species in Tinigua Park, Colombia, and to propose which factors may trigger flower production (e.g., rainfall, temperature, cloud cover, and photoperiod). Data gathered in 5.6 km of phenological transects during 4 yr and complementary information indicated that the vast majority of species showed intraspecific synchronization, and annual production was the most common pattern, followed by episodic frequency. The annual patterns were common in tree species, while episodic patterns were common in lianas. Simple and multiple regression analyses suggested several aspects of photoperiod as the most likely triggers for flowering in most species. However, the fact that many of these species produce flowers in different periods each year, suggests that the proportion of species responding to photoperiodic cues is less that 23 percent in this community. The flowering times of taxonomically related species seldom showed significantly staggered distributions; however they do not necessarily occur at the same time, suggesting that flowering patterns are not strongly constrained by phylogeny.
10.2307/2388989|We examined natural abundances of
30044059|We compared the effects of ant presence at extrafloral nectaries of Lafoensia pacari St. Hil. on herbivore damage and silicon accumulation. Plants that were accessible to ants experienced lower herbivory levels over the first 3 mo of the experiment. After 3 mo, most leaves were fully expanded with inactive extrafloral nectaries; by 6 mo there was no effect of ant access on herbivore damage. Along with experiencing higher herbivory, plants in the ant-exclusion treatment had significantly higher silicon levels in their leaves, suggesting that silicon serves as an induced defense in this ant-plant-herbivore interaction. /// Foi analisado o efeito da presena de formigas visitantes sobre a herbivoria e acmulo de silcio em Lafoensia pacari St. Hil. Nas plantas com formigas observamos menores nveis de herbivoria com trs meses de experimento. Depois de trs meses a maior parte das folhas estavam completamente expandidas e com nectrios inativos e aos seis meses a presena de formigas no teve influncia sobre a herbivoria. Juntamente com uma maior herbivoria, as plantas apresentaram significativamente maiores concentraes de silcio nas folhas, sugerindo que silcio sirva como defesa induzida nesta interao formiga-planta-herbvoros.
10.2307/2387725|A Malaise trap erected at the interface of grassland and forest in the Nairobi National Park was used to monitor insect abundance during a five-year period. Annual rainfall patterns during the study were extremely variable and included periods of major drought. Increases in insect density that followed the rains were largely due to an increase in the number of individuals per species, but the number of species also increased as much as threefold. The timing of peak seasonal abundance of phytophagous insects (grasshoppers and leafhoppers) and parasitic Hymenoptera was variable from year to year, thus suggesting dependence on environmental variables such as rainfall or host density. By contrast, several insect groups less dependent upon plants showed distinct seasonal peaks of abundance that were quite consistent each year. One annual peak of abundance was observed among Chrysopidae, Psocidae, Tabanidae, and Sarcophagidae. Two peaks were recorded for Asilidae and Satyridae.
2389149|The selection of optimal basking perches to achieve preferred body temperatures and avoid predation risks is one of the most important behavioral decisions that a lizard makes. We studied perch selection by the spiny-tailed Iguana (Ctenosaura hemilopha) in Baja California Sur where they bask on elevated cacti. The more important factor determining cardon selection by iguanas was the presence of old woodpecker holes which could be used as refuges within the top 50 cm of a branch. Other factors are the height of the cardon, the presence of some other holes and the number of branches of the plant. These data suggest that predation risk is the strongest factor affecting the selection of certain cardons as basking structures by spiny-tailed iguanas. Because the holes are mainly old woodpecker nests, the choice of a cardon as a refuge-perching site has to be related to a prior selection by woodpeckers.
10.2307/2388271|On 14 September 1988 Hurricane Gilbert, the strongest tropical storm ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere, passed through an area of tropical forest in Quintana Roo, Mexico, where I had been studying winter bird populations since 1984. The hurricane defoliated the forest, and created a nearly impenetrable tangle of fallen branches and vines at ground level. Point counts and mist-netting conducted 5-6 mo after the storm revealed an influx of field- and shrub-associated bird species. Most previously common insectivores and feeding generalists were present in February-March 1989, but many had declined significantly in abundance. Resident frugivores and nectarivores were especially scarce after the hurricane. Wildfires that swept through northeastern Quintana Roo in the summer of 1989 had a greater effect on birds than did the storm itself. By late winter 1990 the bird community within unburned forest was clearly converging toward its prehurricane composition. In contrast, the bird community in burned forest resembled that associated with recently abandoned agricultural fields and pastures. As a group, overwintering nearctic migrants appeared to be more resilient than year-round residents to the effects of both the hurricane and the associated fires.
4132901|The effectiveness of a seed disperser depends on the quantity and quality of dispersal. The quality of dispersal depends in large part on factors that affect the post-dispersal fate of seeds, and yet this aspect of dispersal quality is rarely assessed. In the particular case of seed dispersal through endozoochory, the defecation pattern produced has the potential of affecting the fate of dispersed seeds and consequently, dispersal quality and effectiveness. In this study, I assessed the effects of dung presence and dung/seed densities on seed predation by rodents and secondary dispersal by dung beedes. In particular, I compared seed fates in clumped defecation patterns, as those produced by howler monkeys, with seed fates in scattered defecation patterns, as those produced by other frugivores. I also determined the prevalence of red howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) as seed dispersers at the plant community level in Central Amazonia by determining the number of species they dispersed in a 25-month period. I found that dung presence and amount affected rodent and dung beetle behavior. Seed predation rates were higher when dung was present, and when it was in higher densities. The same number of seeds was buried by dung beetles, in clumped versus scattered defecation patterns, but more seeds were buried when they were inside large dung-piles versus small piles. Seed density had no effect on rodent or dung beede behavior. Results indicate that caution should be taken when categorizing an animal as a high or low quality seed disperser before carefully examining the factors that affect the fate of dispersed seeds. Red howler monkeys dispersed the seeds of 137 species during the study period, which is the highest yet reported number for an Alouatta species, and should thus be considered highly prevalent seed dispersers at the plant community level in Central Amazonian terra firme rain forests.
40645542|We tested the hypothesis that dispersal periods of recalcitrant seeded species were coincident with the wet season in a seasonal tropical forest in Australia. Unlike similar forests, we found no support for this pattern. Intensification of seasonal aridity may increase mortality in desiccation-sensitive seeds.
10.2307/2387869|The high-mountain flora at Itatiaia, Brasil, consists of graminoid plants intermingled with evergreen shrubs with xeromorphic leaves which at first glance look all rather similar. Leaf characteristics such as leaf size, degree of hairiness, maximal potential hydration level, leaf-area development, degree of sclerophylly, and degree of succulence were determined for 30 common species. Xeromorphic features, though clearly developed in the flora, are not extreme. Leaves are small, varying from nanophyllous to mesophyllous; leaf-area development values and sclerophylly values are fairly high, and succulence values rather low. Four strategy types in the leaves of the Itatiaia species can be identified, and are discussed in terms of the cost-income model of leaves presented by Orians and Solbrig (1977). Maximal potential hydration levels are rather constant during the course of the relatively dry winter season, thus suggesting that the plants are predominantly hydrostable. For two species, variability in leaf parameters of plants occurring on sites with contrasting water conditions are discussed and interpreted in terms of their ecological amplitude.
10.2307/2388718|The cactophilic fly, Drosophila starmeri. exploits the necroses of the columnar cactus Pilosocereus lanuginosus in Venezuela. The fly is the most abundant Diptera in the tissues of the cactus, and it is a food for other arthropods. We show that ants (Pseudomyrmex sp., Zacryptocera sp.) and Staphylinid coleoptera prey upon D. starmeri and potentially regulate D. starmeri's population in the wild.
10.2307/2388788|This research quantified the number of ant-plant associations mediated by liquid/energy food sources and the intensity of their use by ants. Thirty ant species and 102 plant species were related in 312 associations. The Leguminosae (23 species) was the family of plants most visited by ants. Camponotus planatus was the ant using the most plant species (72) as food source. Ant-plant specificity was very low Food resources most used by ants were nectar from reproductive structures, homopteran honeydew, floral nectar, and extrafloral nectar. Extrafloral nectaries are associated with leaves and most species in tropical dry forests flush new leaves after the onset of the annual rainy season. Both ant-extrafloral nectar and ant-homopteran associations show a significant increase after the start of the rainy season, decreasing abruptly once the dry season begins. In contrast, associations between ants and both floral nectar and other reproductive structures reach their peak during the dry season. There is a significant negative ant-floral nectar and ant-homopteran relationship at any given season; this may reflect the use of alternative (dry season/wet season) resources (floral nectar/honeydew) with similar nutritional value.
10.2307/2388462|The floral biology of P. ellipticum and the foraging patterns of its visitors were studied near Tlayacapan, Morelos, Mexico (at 1950 m altitude). P. ellipticum (Bombacaceae) presents big flowers (red or white) that produce nectar during the night and the following morning. At night three species of bats (L. sanborm, C. mexicana, and G. leachii, Family Phyllostomidae) visited the flowers rapidly and always carried mixed pollen loads (of P. ellipticum and Ipomoea sp.). During the day the flowers were visited by three oriole species (I. waglert, I. pustulatus, and I. galbula bullocki), two hummingbird species (A. violiceps and C. sordidus), and by four species of bees. The foraging patterns of the birds are affected by the total amount of available nectar and by inter- and intraspecific agonistic interactions, whereas the foraging patterns of the bees depend on the availability of pollen. The visitors can be classified in three categories: main pollinators (bats), minor pollinators (orioles), and parasites (hummingbirds and bees). Bees play a very important negative role by reducing oriole pollination.
30043037|Tropical stream food webs are thought to be based primarily on terrestrial resources (leaf litter) in small forested headwater streams and algal resources in larger, wider streams. In tropical island streams, the dominant consumers are often omnivorous freshwater shrimps that consume algae, leaf litter, insects, and other shrimps. We used stable isotope analysis to examine (1) the relative importance of terrestrial and algal-based food resources to shrimps and other consumers and determine (2) if the relative importance of these food resources changed along the stream continuum. We examined 815N and 813C signatures of leaves, algae, macrophytes, biofilm, insects, snails, fishes, and shrimps at three sites (300, 90, and 10 m elev.) along the Ro Espritu Santo, which drains the Caribbean National Forest, Puerto Rico. Isotope signatures of basal resources were distinct at all sites. Results of two-source 813C mixing models suggest that shrimps relied more on algal-based carbon resources than terrestrially derived resources at all three sites along the continuum. This study supports other recent findings in tropical streams, demonstrating that algal-based resources are very important to stream consumers, even in small forested headwater streams. This study also demonstrates the importance of doing assimilation-based analysis (i.e., stable isotope or trophic basis of production) when studying food webs.
10.2307/2388957|The goal of this study is to report on tree species for which uprooting is the starting point for the development of sprouts. One hundred uprooted trees were evaluated in order to investigate the sprouting ability of different species and size classes, and to determine the extent of contribution of sprouting to gap closure. The large proportion (82%) of sampled trees with live sprouts indicates that uprooting need not be associated with the death of the tree. The occurrence of sprouting, while independent of the diameter of the fallen trunk, varied greatly among species. Al the sampled trees found with sprouts fit the definition of non-pioneer species. This study suggests that sprouts may compete successfully with pioneer trees in the process of gap closure.
27742799|The abundance of large vertebrates is rapidly declining, particularly in the tropics where over-hunting has left many forests structurally intact but devoid of large animals. An urgent question then, is whether these 'empty' forests can sustain their biodiversity without large vertebrates. Here we examine the role of forest elephant (Loxodonta africana cyclotis) seed dispersal in maintaining the community structure of trees in the Ndoki Forest, northern Congo. Analysis of 855 elephant dung piles suggested that forest elephants disperse more intact seeds than any other species or genus of large vertebrate in African forests, while GPS telemetry data showed that forest elephants regularly disperse seeds over unprecedented distances compared to other dispersers. Our analysis of the spatial distribution of trees from a sample of 5667 individuals showed that dispersal mechanism was tightly correlated with the scale of spatial aggregation. Increasing amounts of elephant seed dispersal was associated with decreasing aggregation. At distances of &lt; 200 m, trees whose seeds are dispersed only by elephants were less aggregated than the random expectation, suggesting JanzenConnell effects on seed/seedling mortality. At the landscape scale, seed dispersal mode predicted the rate at which local tree community similarity decayed in space. Our results suggest that the loss of forest elephants (and other large-bodied dispersers) may lead to a wave of recruitment failure among animal-dispersed tree species, and favor regeneration of the species-poor abiotically dispersed guild of trees.
30043248|Xishuangbanna of southern Yunnan is biogeographically located at a transitional zone from tropical Southeast (SE) Asia to subtropical East Asia, and is at the junction of the Indian and Burmese plates of Gondwana and the Eurasian plate of Laurasia. The flora of the region consists of a recorded 3336 native seed plant species, belonging to 1140 genera in 197 families, among which 83.5 percent are tropical genera and 32.8 percent are endemic to tropical Asia, suggesting a strong affinity to tropical Asian flora. The vegetation of Xishuangbanna is organized into four forest types: tropical rain forest, tropical seasonal moist forest, tropical montane evergreen broad-leaved forest, and tropical monsoon forest. The tropical rain forest in Xishuangbanna has the same floristic composition of families and genera as some lowland equatorial rain forests in SE Asia, and is dominated (with a few exceptions) by the same families both in species richness and stem dominance. The exceptions include some deciduous trees in the canopy layer, fewer megaphanerophytes and epiphytes, and a higher abundance of lianas and microphyllic plants. We consider the tropical rain forest of Xishuangbanna as a type of tropical Asian rain forest, based on their conspicuous similarities in ecological and floristic characteristics.
30045393|Understanding phenology in plant populations requires distinction between proximate mechanisms and ultimate (evolutionary) causation. Leaf production and abscission, flower production, and herbivory were monitored for 2 yr in a population of the stem succulent tree, Plumera alba L. in the Gunica State Forest in southwest Puerto Rico. Dependence of phenological events on abiotic (rainfall and day length) and biotic factors (herbivore abundance/ damage) was quantified to discern potential relationships. Leaf flush and flowering were not associated with periods of highest rainfall as might be expected in a dry tropical forest. Rather, these events were highly correlated with day length. We observed that most leaf flush began in March and April, which was several months before the wettest period of the year (August to November). This result is consistent with other studies that show that leaf flush in Plumera is under photoperiodic control and that the plants initiate growth and reproduction when cloudiness is low and seasonal light availability is greatest. Herbivore damage by caterpillars of the sphinx moth Pseudosphinx tetrio is restricted primarily to the wettest season, consistent with the hypothesis that early leaf flush and reproduction has been selected to avoid herbivory. It is not clear whether photoperiodic control of leaf flush and reproduction serves to maximize seasonal light availability, minimize the impact of herbivores, or both. However, it is clear that peak rainfall is not likely to have been the sole selective factor determining leaf flush and flowering in P. alba.
30045460|Mutualisms involve the exchange of resources and these resources attract exploiters and predators. Because predators may have a stronger effect either on mutualists or on exploiters, their net effect on the mutualism may be positive or negative. Ants and Ficus-associated wasps are a potential example. These wasps could represent sufficient food to ensure a permanent presence of predators. If this is the case then we may expect divergent selection (dependent on fig species) on traits facilitating or impeding ant predatory activity. Dioecious Ficus species in Brunei present the opportunity to determine whether presence of fig wasps on a tree ensures increased presence of ants because: (1) wasps are mainly present on male trees, thus allowing study of the effect of wasp abundance on ant presence; and (2) preliminary observations showed that ants present on trees were mainly predatory species that do not tend hemipterans. We show here, for several dioecious Ficus species, that many more ants were present on male trees than on female trees. Furthermore, these ants were mainly dominant predatory taxa that often nested in the male trees. Hence, wasps on male trees provide a sufficient resource in terms of quantity and reliability to ensure the continuous presence of dominant ants on the trees. Abstract in Indonesian is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
27742818|Tropical biologists are exploring ways to expand their role as researchers through knowledge exchange with local stakeholders. Graduate students are well positioned for this broader role, particularly when supported by graduate programs. We ask: (1) how can graduate students effectively engage in knowledge exchange during their research; and (2) how can university programs prepare young scientists to take on this partnership role? We present a conceptual framework with three levels at which graduate students can exchange knowledge with stakeholders (information sharing, skill building, and knowledge generation) and discuss limitations of each. Examples of these strategies included disseminating preliminary research results to southern African villages, building research skills of Brazilian undergraduate students through semester-long internships, and jointly developing and implementing a forest ecology research and training program with one community in the Amazon estuary. Students chose strategies based on stakeholders' interests, research goals, and a realistic evaluation of student capacity and skill set. As strategies became more complex, time invested, skills mobilized, and strength of relationships between students and stakeholders increased. Graduate programs can prepare students for knowledge exchange with partners by developing specialized skills training, nurturing external networks, offering funding, maximizing strengths of universities in developed and developing regions through partnership, and evaluating knowledge exchange experiences. While balancing the needs of academia with those of stakeholders is challenging, the benefits of enhancing local scientific capacity and generating more locally relevant research for improved conservation may be worth the risks associated with implementing this type of graduate training model.
10.2307/2989825|This report concerns seven species of sand wasps (Sphecidae: Nyssoninae) studied in Argentina and Colombia during January and February 1972. Three of these species are predators on Hemiptera: Hoplisoides semipunctatus (Tasch.), Bembecinus bicinctus (Tasch.), and Bicyrtes cingulata Burmeister. The remaining four are predators on Diptera: Stictia punctata (Fabr.), S. lineata (Fabr.), Selman notata (Tasch.), and Bembix citripes Tach. Notes are presented on the species of prey utilized, as well as on nest structure, details of nest construction and closure, and other aspects of behavior.
10.2307/2388610|We studied fifteen species of vascular epiphytes in a 1200 m$^2$ sample of seasonally inundated forest (tintal) near Cancun, Mexico. The community of epiphytes occupied 14 species of host tree. While certain species of host tree tended to accommodate more epiphytes than others, no host tree specificity was exhibited by any of the epiphyte species. There was some evidence of canopy partitioning by branch size among the more common epiphytes (8 species with >10 individuals in the sample area). Four species of Tillandsia (Bromeliaceae) tended to occupy the smallest diameter supports (mostly <1 cm in diameter), while four species of orchid were found only on supports >2.5 cm. However, within these two groups, and particularly among the orchids, support diameter preferences were remarkably similar.
30043256|The availability of exactly dated tree-ring chronologies is limited in tropical regions. However, these chronologies could contribute widely to studies of the influence of natural and human-induced factors on tropical forests. We examine the potential for building a chronology based on three sites in the miombo woodland of western Zambia. Brachystegia spiciformis Benth., a dominant species from this vegetation type, is used. Response of the chronology to several climatic factors is examined. All specimens showed very clear growth rings, and cross-dating between radii of a tree was successful for all trees. Site chronologies could be constructed after cross-dating of growth ring series of individual trees. The mean growth ring curves of the three sites were significantly similar, allowing for the construction of a regional chronology. Correlation function analysis between the tree-ring chronology and regional climatic variables revealed that climate at the core of the rainy season, in December and January, has an explicit influence on tree growth. Where precipitation and relative humidity in these months influence tree growth positively, temperature correlates in a negative way. Some 20 percent of the variance in the B. spiciformis tree-ring chronology is accounted for by wet season rainfall. The successful cross-dating and correlation between a tree-ring chronology and climate demonstrated in this study indicate annual ring formation in B. spiciformis trees and sensitivity to climatic conditions.
30044018|Hong Kong (22N) is on the northern margins of the Asian tropics and has a native fig flora of 24 species. A total of 3.4 km2 of the urban area on Hong Kong Island was surveyed for spontaneous and planted fig plants of reproductive size. The 1124 individuals included 14 species in four subgenera: seven native species (F. fistulosa, F. hirta, F. hispida, F. microcarpa, F. pumila, F. subpisocarpa, and F. variegata), four of which were sometimes planted, one probably native (F. virens), one naturalizing species (F. religiosa), and five exotic species that occurred only in cultivation, two of which (F. altissima, F. rumphii) are pollinated and produce viable seeds. The native species in the two most common subgenera form distinct ecological guilds: those in subgenus Sycomorus bear large, many-seeded, green or yellow figs and are bat-dispersed pioneers on exposed soil; those in subgenus Urostigma bear small, few-seeded, dark-purple figs and are largely bird-dispersed and epilithic. The density of potentially fruiting fig plants in the study area (2.3/ha) was within the range reported for tropical forests and between them they were visited by the entire urban frugivore fauna. This study shows the importance of the urban fig flora to urban wildlife and also highlights the risk of cultivated Ficus species becoming invasive, despite their obligate species-specific pollinator mutualisms.
10.2307/2389012|Computer-assisted image processing of hemispherical photographs of the forest canopy was used to study the light environment of a mature lowland moist tropical forest in the Republic of Panama. Wet and dry-season measurements were made in 1983 and 1984 near ground level at 2.5 m intervals along two 1-km long transects: additional measurements were made at a single site at 5 heights from forest floor to above-canopy, and in 10 experimentally produced treefall gaps in which understory herb responses to gap formation were also monitored. Mean daily global radiation along the transects showed no distinct dichotomy corresponding to "gap" versus "understory" habitats. Light measurements showed the effect of seasonality in rainfall, and year-to-year correlation was low, indicating the need for frequent assessment of the light environment for long-term studies of plant responses. Various measures of total irradiance (e.g., canopy openness, minutes of potential sunflecks, total solar energy) were highly correlated. However, the correlation of canopy openness in the eastern and western octants of the hemispherical images was low, indicating that the time of day in which direct sunlight occurs may differentiate microsites with similar daily total light levels. In treefall gaps, the light environment was more heterogeneous one year after treefalls; but, two years after the treefall, light levels were both lower and more homogeneous. Both spatial and temporal complexity in the light environment suggest that "gap" versus "understory" characterizations are too simplistic.
10.2307/2387737|Parallel measurements of nitrogen fixation using acetylene reduction assays and loss of denitrified nitrogen using acetylene inhibition assays have been made upon detrital material from two tropical Kenyan lakes. The mean range of N
10.2307/2387890|Several dominant, shallow-water seaweeds from the Caribbean are physiologically capable of transiting the freshwater of the Panama Canal, surviving both the marked salinity changes and the required time spent in freshwater. Some of these species are known to settle and grow on boat bottoms, thus providing a direct method for transport through the canal. However, they are rare or absent on the Pacific coast. The primary barrier to the successful transport and establishment of these species appears to be herbivore activity and the lack of reef-generated refuge areas on the Pacific coast, not the salinity of the Panama Canal.
40863743|Wasp nests range from simple to complex structures made of paper or mud. Here, we show that a Neotropical wasp of the genus Nitela builds its nest entirely by weaving endophytic fungal hyphae and spider silk harvested from the leaves growing in the understory of the rain forest in French Guiana.
30043158|We studied temporal and spatial dynamics of extremely diverse moth ensembles (Lepidoptera: Pyraloidea) along a gradient of forest disturbance ranging from undisturbed primary tropical rain forest to different kinds of modified forest and open cultivated land at the margin of Mount Kinabalu National Park (Sabah, East Malaysia). We sampled moths by light trapping during two periods (March-May and August-September 1997). We collected a total of 7724 individuals representing 680 species during 78 light-trapping nights at six study sites. Species diversity (Fisher's a) of ensembles in undisturbed primary forest was distinctly higher than in disturbed or secondary forest. More pyraloid moths were attracted in undisturbed primary forest. Samples from disturbed primary or old-growth secondary forest were statistically indistinguishable from the undisturbed primary forest ensemble in regard to species composition. Thus, pyraloid ensembles from disturbed forest with tall trees remaining appeared to represent impoverished subsets of the undisturbed primary forest community. The more heavily disturbed sites had a distinct fauna and showed a stronger faunal differentiation among each other. Four species of the genus Eoophyla, in which aquatic larvae feed on algae in fast-running streams benefited prominently from forest disturbance. Temporal variation of ensembles was remarkably concordant across the disturbance gradient. Relative abundance variation of the commonest species was identical at all sites. Overall, pyraloid moths responded more sensitively to anthropogenic habitat alteration than most other moth taxa studied thus far in tropical regions and allowed for an analysis of diversity patterns at a high temporal resolution.
10.2307/2989669|The roots, stems, and twigs of Jacquinia pungens were found to lose as much as one-half of their stored carbohydrate reserves when leafless during the rainy season. This finding implies that dormancy can be an expensive way to avoid an inimical environment.
10.2307/2388100|Hymenaea courbaril, a widely distributed tropical leguminous tree, was used in two experiments to compare the effects of photoperiod on vegetative growth and leaf resin chemistry and to examine the role of photoperiod in ecotypic differentiation. Seedlings grown from seeds collected in five different populations which span the latitudinal range of the tropics were used in both experiments. In experiment 1, using natural light in the greenhouse, seedlings grown for one year under long photoperiod treatments (LP) had an average stem length twice that of seedlings grown under an eight-hour photoperiod treatment (SP). In experiment 2, seedlings were grown under four photoperiods of nine hours of daylight in the greenhouse plus 50 ft-c light extensions. Average total stem lengths were nearly identical for plants in all treatments. In LP plants growth nearly ceased during the winter but resumed in the spring. A LP/SP ratio based on average stem length for each population was correlated with latitude of seed origin suggesting ecotypic differentiation. Leaf resin composition was unaffected by photoperiod. Ecological implications of these responses are discussed. Also because the importance of photoperiodism in tropical plants generally has tended to be dismissed in reviews and textbooks, a literature review emphasizing physiological mechanisms of response and ecological roles under tropical conditions is included.
2389123|The distribution patterns of Adiantum species were inventoried at twelve noninundated rain forest (tierra firme) sites in Amazonian Peru and Ecuador. Six species belonging to the genus were found, and four of these were abundant at some of the sites. At six of the sites none of the species was particularly abundant. Both the occurrence and the abundance of the species varied among sites with regard to soil texture and concentration of exchangeable bases and within sites with regard to topography. Adiantum tomentosum Klotzsch was restricted to loamy soils with intermediate to low content of extractable bases and was locally most abundant in the well drained parts of slopes and ridge tops. Adiantum terminatum Kunze ex Miq. and A. humile Kunze occurred at sites with intermediate to high content of extractable bases, but their relative abundances differed among and within sites. Adiantum pulverulentum L. was restricted to soils with relatively high base concentration. Ecological differences among the species obviously explained many of the differences in their distribution patterns at the local and regional scales, and may be important for the understanding of such patterns at biogeographical scales as well.
10.2307/2387727|The genus Gunnera has had a long history, from the Upper Cretaceous to the present. Its geographic distribution has, however, been progressively reduced, probably as a result of decreased rainfall and increased seasonality in areas of former distribution. The frequent and abundant occurrence of Gunnera pollen in the Maastrichtian of the western interior of North America supports the proposition that this region once experienced moderate to heavy rainfall and low seasonality.
10.2307/2388719|Tree species from upper Rio Negro rain forests (tierra firme, tall Amazon caatinga, and bana) can be classified morphologically as sclerophylls. In some cases, as for Clusia spp., the structural characteristics fit the pachyphyll leaf type of Grubb. Nutrient content, specific leaf area, and leaf thickness of the species studied are comparable to those of sclerophylls from Mediterranean climates. In spite of their sclerophyllous structure, leaves of the species studied are relatively drought intolerant. During rainless periods leaf stomatal conductance decreases markedly avoiding development of large negative xylem pressures. Overheating is prevented by most species through pronounced leaf surface inclination. It is concluded that sclerophyllous structure is not necessarily an adaptation to drought, but is probably selected in nutrient poor environments. This conclusion supports evidence provided by several authors indicating that sclerophylls may gain predominance in P deficient soils in both humid and semi-arid areas.
10.2307/2989770|Chlorophyll-bearing spores occur in only a few unrelated families and genera in the Pteridophyta, including Equisetaceae, Osmundaceae, Grammitidaceae, Hymenophyllaceae, Blechnum (B. nudum), Lomariopsis sorbifolia, and all species of Christiopteris, Marginariopsis, Matteuccia. Onoclea, and Onocleopsis. These spores germinate in less than three days (mean=1.46 days) and have viability lengths of one year or less (mean=48 days). Non-chlorophyll-bearing spores occur in the majority of ferns, require longer periods for germination (4-210 days; mean=9.5 days), and have longer viabilities (mean=1045 days). Gametophytes from green spores also appear to develop more rapidly than those from non-green spores. It is suggested that rapid germination and relatively short viability of green spores is due to their constant respiration and apparent lack of dormancy. Species with green spores occur consistently in wet mesophytic habitats, and it is suggested that lack of selective pressure for dormancy has maintained this condition in Equisetaceae and Osmundaceae. In the other groups of ferns, the condition is most likely derived.
10.2307/2387723|We used mist nets, ultrasonic sensors, light tags, and analysis of feces to examine habitat use, activity patterns, and prey selection of some insectivorous bats during the dry season at the Sengwa Wild Life Research Area (18
27742865|This study investigates whether it is possible to simplify the complex influence of numerous species on leaf litter decomposition in a diverse tropical forest using functional classifications to predict litter quality, decomposition rate, and nutrient dynamics during decomposition, over a 2-yr period. Thirty-three lowland tropical forest plant species from contrasting growth forms (canopy trees, pioneer trees, lianas, palms, herbs) were studied. Twelve of 18 indices of litter quality varied significantly among growth forms, with canopy trees and palms showing lower litter quality than pioneer trees and herbs. Canopy leaves decomposed more slowly than understory leaves. Decomposition rate and mass loss trended greater (P&lt;0.1) in herbs and pioneer trees compared with other growth forms. There were no significant differences between monocots and dicots, and no phylogenetic signal for decomposition was observed. Significant correlations between continuous litter quality variables and decomposition rate were observed with correlation coefficients up to 0.72. Litter lignin:Mg, P concentration, and lignin:K, were the litter quality variables most related to decomposition rate. All elements showed significant negative correlations between initial litter concentration and percent remaining, but many elements showed significant correlation between percent element remaining and initial concentrations of other elements, indicating a stoichiometric balance between these elements during decomposition. The results show that although classification by growth form and canopy position are helpful for considering the ecosystem implications of changing community composition, litter quality traits provide additional predictive power for estimating the effects of species change on decomposition.
10.2307/2388103|In a lower montane moist forest of southeastern Brazil, leaf-fall was maximal (1.8-2.9 g/m
4132933| A yearlong arboreal baiting survey of ants was conducted during 1983 on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Because of a severe E1 Nio event, the 1983 dry season in Panama was exceptionally long and dry with a distinct boundary between the dry and wet seasons. Baits, located on tree trunks, attracted both terrestrial and arboreal ants, allowing comparisons between the two groups. Species composition at baits changed dramatically with season. Baits were primarily occupied by arboreal species during the dry season, while wet season baits were occupied mostly by terrestrial species. Arboreal and terrestrial ants differed markedly in their preferences for proteinor carbohydrate-based baits; arboreal ants preferred protein-based baits and terrestrial ants preferred carbohydrate-based baits. Foraging preference for protein suggests that protein resources were limiting for arboreal ants, particularly during the dry season, and that carbohydrate resources were limiting for terrestrial ants. Fundamental differences in arboreal and terrestrial habitats may promote the differences in foraging strategies observed during an annual cycle in a seasonal tropical forest. 
41057994|A current key issue in ecology is the role of spatial effects on population and community dynamics. In this paper, we test several hypotheses related to spatial structures and coexistence of epiphytic tropical orchid species with special emphasis on the endemic species Broughtonia cubensis. More specifically, we explored the spatial structure of orchid-host plant communities at three different levels of organization (occupied vs. nonoccupied host trees, trees with B. cubensis vs. other orchids, and reproductive vs. nonreproductive B. cubensis plants). We mapped all potential host trees and orchids at three 20  20 m plots and applied techniques of spatial point pattern analysis such as mark connection and mark correlation functions to evaluate departures from randomized communities. We found spatial aggregation of trees with epiphytic orchids and segregation between trees with and without epiphytic orchids, and that there was an intraspecific spatial aggregation of B. cubensis in relation to the other seven epiphytic orchid species. Furthermore, we found spatial aggregation of reproductive B. cubensis individuals and segregation between reproductive and nonreproductive individuals on their phorophytes. Thus, orchid-host plant communities show hierarchical spatial structuring with aggregation and segregation at different levels of organization. Our results point to an enhancement of local species in the coexistence of tropical epiphytic orchid communities, by reducing competition through niche differentiation.
30045488|We present evidence that differences in soil seedbank persistence among pioneer plants in the cloud forest of Monteverde, Costa Rica, are influenced by differences in seed chemical defense. We used extracted seed chemicals from Bocconia frutescens (Papaveraceae), Guettarda poasana (Rubiaceae), Phytohcca rivinoides (Phytolaccaceae), Urera ehta (Urticaceae), Cecropia polyphlebia (Cecropiaceae), and Witheringia meiantha (Solanaceae) to assess seed chemical defense in two ways: (1) a plant pathogen inhibition assay using Pythium irreguhre; and (2) a brine shrimp toxicity assay using Artemia salina. The combined performance of each species in the two assays positively correlated with seedbank persistence. In the pathogen assay, mycelium growth was reduced when Pythium was cultured on media containing seed extracts from the three species with the greatest seed longevity in the soil (i.e., Bocconia, Guettarda, and Phytohcca). Bocconia, the most persistent species, was the only species that contained chemicals toxic to brine shrimp, an indication of defense against arthropods. We focused on Bocconia defense by isolating the chemicals toxic to brine shrimp and identified them as dihydrosanguinarine, dihydrochelirubine, and dihydrochelerthrine. We found these alkaloids in Bocconia seeds at much higher concentrations (~50 mg/g seed material) than in leaves. These chemicals are likely responsible for the exceptional longevity of Bocconia seeds in the soil. Phytolacca and Guettarda seeds also remain viable in the soil for long periods probably due to antipathogen chemicals detected in our analyses. In contrast, the species that do not persist (i.e., Urera, Cecropia, and Witheringia) lacked seed defensive chemicals in our assays. /// En este trabajo presentamos evidencia que sugiere que la diferencia en la persistencia de las semillas de plantas pioneras en el suelo del bosque nublado de Monteverde (Costa Rica), se debe a que contienen distintas defensas qumicas. Para caracterizar estas defensas qumicas, extrajimos los qumicos de las semillas de Bocconia frutescens (Papaveraceae), Guettarda poasana (Rubiaceae), Phytolacca rivinoides (Phytolaccaceae), Urera elata (Urticaceae), Cecropia polyphlebia (Cecropiaceae), y Witheringia meiantha (Solanaceae), e hicimos dos tipos de ensayos: 1. inhibicin de crecimiento de patgenos, usando Pithium irregulare, y 2. ensayo de toxicidad con el camarn de agua salada Artemia salina. El patgeno Pithium creci menos en medios de cultivo que contenan los extractos qumicos de las semillas ms persistentes en el suelo (i.e. Bocconia, Guettarda y Phytolacca). Ms an, los extractos de las semillas de Bocconia fueron los nicos que resultaron altamente txicos para los camarones. Los resultados de estos dos tipos de ensayos fueron combinados en un solo ndice de defensa qumica para cada especie que correlacion positivamente con la persistencia de las semillas en el suelo. Adicionalmente, estudiamos ms a fondo la defensa de Bocconia, la especie ms persistente, e identificamos los alcaloides de sus semillas como deshidrosanguinarina, deshidroquelirubina, y deshidroquelertrina; las concentraciones de estos alcaloides son mucho ms altas en las semillas (~50 mg/g material de semilla) que en las hojas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la excepcional longevidad de estas semillas en el suelo se debe a su composicin qumica. De la misma manera, es probable que los qumicos de las semillas de Guettarda y Phytolacca sean los responsables de su prolongada viabilidad en el suelo por inhibir patgenos. A diferencia de estas especies, las semillas que no persisten por largo tiempo en el suelo (i.e., Urera, Cecropia, y Witheringia) no mostraron evidencia de defensas qumicas en nuestros ensayos.
10.2307/2388689|Using radiotelemetry, we studied the foraging behavior of 12 Megaderma lyra from 9 March to 5 April 1988 in South India. Tagged bats used individual but nonexclusive areas of ca 0.1 km$^2$ located from <500 m to 4 km from their day roost and 41 percent of the foraging activity of tagged individuals occurred $\leq$500 m from the roost. They spent the night away from the day roost alternating between flights of <1 min to 45 min and perching bouts of <1 min to 274 min. Females flew for up to 174 min nightly and males up to 306 min. Most flights (69.7% for males and 72.5% for females) recorded by telemetry lasted > 1 min and fourteen of 16 prey captures (85%) that we observed visually, involved search flights of 10-200 m. Prey taken included insects (Orthoptera, Coleoptera), and small vertebrates (Amphibia, Reptilia). From these data we infer that M. lyra are flexible in their foraging strategies and catch prey from the ground.
20492529|Understory herbs are an important and species-rich component of tropical forests, but little is known about factors limiting recruitment of these herbs. In a Peruvian flood plain forest, we studied seedling recruitment of the widespread clonal herb Heliconia metallica. We analyzed natural recruitment and experimentally added seeds, excluded predators and removed the understory vegetation at occupied and unoccupied sites to test whether seed limitation, predation, disturbance, and the presence of mature conspecific plants influence seedling recruitment. The number of naturally recruited seedlings was higher at flooded sites and close to flowering H. metallica ramets. Predation caused considerable seed loss shortly after sowing. Seed survival strongly increased with the openness of a site, but was not affected by the presence of mature conspecifics. Seed addition increased the number of seedlings at both occupied and unoccupied sites. Two years after sowing, the number of established seedlings and their size increased with light availability at a site. In experimentally disturbed plots, light availability, seedling establishment, and survival were higher. The effect of disturbance on seedling survival was stronger at occupied sites, probably due to strong light competition from mature H. metallica plants. Herbivore damage on leaves of seedlings was lower at occupied sites, but seedlings grew faster at unoccupied sites. We conclude that seedling recruitment of H. metallica depends on natural disturbance and is limited by both seed availability and the presence of mature conspecific plants.
4132938|Host specialization in highly diverse tropical forests may be limited by the low local abundance of suitable hosts. To address whether or not fungi in a low-diversity tropical forest were released from this restriction, fruiting bodies of polypore basidiomycete fungi were collected from three species of mangroves (Avicennia germinans, Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle) in a Caribbean mangrove forest in Panama. Unlike other tropical forests, the polypore assemblage in this mangrove forest was strongly dominated by a few host-specialized species. Three fungal species, each with strong preference for a different mangrove host species, comprised 88 percent of all fungi collected.
2389159|Top-predator (fourth-trophic-level) controlled trophic cascades are thought to be uncommon in terrestrial systems, but actual quantitative tests and comparisons of bottom-up and top-down forces in systems with more than three linear trophic levels are rare. Here, we describe the density patterns of the arthropod community associated with Piper ant-plants in Costa Rican wet forests. Consumers in this community comprise a complex, interacting web of herbivores, predaceous ants, and predators of ants. Although the hollow stems and petioles of the Piper plants provide some protection to resident ants from predation, specialized Dipoena spiders and Phyllobaenus beetles exploit Pheidole ants inhabiting Piper plants. We report abundance patterns of plants, ants and predators in four forests. These patterns of abundance are consistent with predictions of top-down cascades across four trophic levels when the top predators are effective (beetles). We discuss how top-down and bottom-up forces may interact in systems with less effective top predators (spiders).
2663810|Canopy-top leaves of the dominant tree species from two 0.96-ha plots in Brunei, northern Borneo, were sampled for structural and chemical analysis. Thirteen species from the mixed dipterocarp forest at Andulau and 14 from the lowland heath forest at Badas were studied. The heath-forest species had significantly thicker leaves and were lower in nitrogen and ash concentration than those from the mixed dipterocarp forest. There were no significant differences between the two species groups in leaf mass per unit area (LMA), leaf fracture toughness, carbon concentration, 
30045483|The stoichiometry of resources may explain bottom-up regulation of higher trophic levels. We tested the effects of soil and litter nutrient stoichiometry on the invertebrate litter fauna of a Costa Rican tropical rain forest. Animal densities were estimated from 15 sites across a phosphorus gradient. The density of the invertebrate litter fauna varied considerably, and was strongly tied to soil and litter phosphorus concentrations. An increase in phosphorus concentrations corresponded with an equally proportionate increase in animal densities. Natural variation in nutrient levels can thus serve as a predictor of density in a highly diverse tropical animal community.
10.2307/2388122|Nitrogen-to-protein conversion factors were calculated for leaf, fruit, and flower samples taken from eight tropical wood species and one tropical vine. Resulting values showed that proteins in these samples averaged 19 percent nitrogen, and an average of 20 percent of the total nitrogen in these samples appeared to be nonproteinaceous. These results indicate that the traditional protein conversion factor of 6.25, originally derived from studies of animal protein composition, is not valid for estimating the protein content of tropical plant parts. Data suggest that a conversion factor of 4.4 provides a more accurate estimate of the protein content of the collected specimens.
10.2307/2388066|Mouriri myrtilloides subsp. parvifolia (Bentham) Morley, a neotropical melastome, was observed on Barro Colorado Island in Panama, and found to be buzz-pollinated by female bees (Euglossa spp., Paratetrapedia sp.) and pollen-scavenged by other bees (Trigona spp.). The intrafloral behavior was examined for all bees, and floral visitations were timed. Mouriri has long, exserted stamens and bears a concave oil gland. The secretory nature of this gland was confirmed by light and electron microscopy. The oil secretion was field-collected and its components analyzed by gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy and found to contain: at least 13 fatty acids (including methyl stearate and 12-methyltetradecanoate, glucose, amino acids (proline, alanine, glycine), carotenoids, a phenolic glycoside, and possibly unidentified saponins). Females of the bee Paratetrapedia calcarata were observed to vibrate the anthers for pollen and to scrape at the elaiophors with modified fore-tarsal setae to collect the lipoidal mixture. Presumably, the floral oils are collected and used admixed with pollen as proteinaceous food in larval provisions, as has been demonstrated for the genus Centris. On the basis of the presence of anther elaiophors in Mouriri, Votomita, and Memecylon, it is suggested that the entire tribe Memecyleae should now be considered true oil-producing flowers. This is the first record of floral oil production and utilization by bees in the plant family Melastomataceae. The syndrome of oil flowers and oil-collecting bees is also briefly reviewed.
30045458|Fire is considered the main cause for the patchy distribution of high-montane tropical forests growing below the upper limit of tree growth, but there are little quantitative data on the impacts of burning on the respective tree populations. This study compares adult tree survival as well as sapling (0.05-1.3 m) and seedling (>0.05 m) recruitment of Polylepis incana, and the coexisting Gynoxis acostae in burned and unburned forest stands in the Pramo de Guaman, central Ecuador. In P. incana, adult survival after burning was low, whereas all G acostae individuals survived through resprouting. Two years after fire, the density of 7? incana seedlings and saplings was higher than that of G. acostae, but still not sufficient for forest recovery. A sowing experiment revealed a significantly lower seedling emergence of both species in the burned than in the unburned plots. Seedling emergence was comparable to laboratory studies performed under optimal conditions, suggesting there was no evidence for climate constraining emergence at the given altitude. Interactions between seedling survival and burning for P. incana indicate higher seedling survival after burning, which could not be shown for G acostae. Our data imply that single fire events strongly decrease adult and seedling population sizes in P. incana and thus may be the main reason for the discontinuous forest distribution below the upper distribution limit of the species. In contrast, the high resprouting potential of G. acostae explains its relatively high percentage in the remaining Ecuadorian P. incana stands. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388183|Day-flying insects were sampled in treefall gaps and closed understory within the semideciduous, lowland forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, from April (late dry season) to August (mid wet season) in 1980. Transparent strips of plastic coated with tanglefoot were suspended above ground at 5 treefall and 5 understory sites. Traps were "run" from early morning to late afternoon for 4-day periods at approximately 2-wk intervals. For most taxa, the numbers of individuals captured were relatively low during the first sampling period (prior to the onset of heavy rains), increased to peak levels between mid-May and mid-June, and then declined slightly in July and August. Statistically significant differences in abundance between gap and understory sites were noted only for Formicidae, Coleoptera, and Psocoptera. In all 3 cases, greater numbers of individuals were trapped at understory sites. Size frequency distributions were similar between treefall gaps and understory for all taxa.
40863786|The United Nations declared 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity. Despite the magnitude of the global crisis of biodiversity loss, its far-reaching consequences to human health remain largely unappreciated. The legacy of the natural world to medicine is profound and its potential to yield new therapeutics and advancements in biomedical science undervalued. The enormity of the global crisis underscores a fundamental truth, one that is seemingly obvious but has been tragically overlooked: Our species does not exist in isolation from the biosphere. Rather, our fate depends on it.
30045518|We assessed the capacity of three species of disturbance-sensitive understory birds to traverse a highway (50-75 m width) and large farm clearing (250 m width), by radio-tracking translocated individuals in central Amazonia, Brazil. Most individuals translocated across the highway (eight of nine birds) or moved within continuous forest (five of seven birds) returned to their home ranges, whereas none of five birds moved across the large clearing returned. Our results suggest that large clearings (>250 m width) can significantly reduce the movements of some understory rainforest birds. /// Avaliamos a capacidade de trs espcies de pssaros de sub-bosque, sensveis  perturbaes, para atravessar uma estrada pavimentada (50-75 m de largura) e uma grande rea desmatada de uma fazenda (250 m de largura) ambas na Amazonia central brasileira. Para tal, os indivduos destas espcies foram rastreados atravs do uso de rdio transmissor. A maioria dos indivduos que se translocaram atravs da estrada (eight de nine pssaros) ou que se moveram dentro da floresta contnua (five de seven pssaros) retornaram para suas respectivas reas de vida, ao passo que nenhum dos cinco pssaros que se moveram atravs da rea desmatada da fazenda regressaram. Nossos resultados sugerem ento que grandes reas desmatadas (>250 m) podem significantemente reduzir os movimentos de alguns pssaros de sub-bosque que habitam a floresta tropical mida.
41058000|One of the five most important global biodiversity hotspots, the Neotropical Atlantic forest supports a diverse community of birds that nest in tree cavities. Cavitynesting birds may be particularly sensitive to forestry and agricultural practices that remove potential nest trees; however, there have been few efforts to determine what constitutes a potential nest tree in Neotropical forests. We aimed to determine the characteristics of trees and cavities used in nesting by excavators (species that excavate their own nest cavity) and secondary cavity-nesters (species that rely on existing cavities), and to identify the characteristics of trees most likely to contain suitable cavities in the Atlantic forest of Argentina. We used univariate analyses and conditional logistic regression models to compare characteristics of nest trees paired with unused trees found over three breeding seasons (2006-2008). Excavators selected dead or unhealthy trees. Secondary cavity-nesters primarily selected cavities that were deep and high on the tree, using live and dead cavity-bearing trees in proportion to their availability. Nonexcavated cavities suitable for birds occurred primarily in live trees. They were most likely to develop in large-diameter trees, especially graph Apuleia leiocarpa and trees in co-dominant or suppressed crown classes. To conserve cavity-nesting birds of the Atlantic forest, we recommend a combination of policies, economic assistance, environmental education, and technical support for forest managers and small-scale farmers, to maintain large healthy and unhealthy trees in commercial logging operations and on farms.
10.2307/2388427|Changes with leaf age in diffusive resistance (r$_1$) and xylem pressure potential (P$_D$) were monitored in leaves of five tropical tree species. In all species, very young, expanding leaves had high r$_1$ and P$_D$ in situ and wilted soon after being excised. Among fully expanded leaves, stomatal control declined with increasing age, especially in the deciduous species. In Tabebuia rosea, intact older leaves had lower r$_1$ and greater water deficits than younger leaves. In T. rosea and Cordia glabra, excised older leaves had higher transpiration rates and wilted sooner than younger leaves. Also, old T. rosea (but not C. glabra) leaves had lower r$_1$ at night than younger leaves. In Licania arborea, Anacardium excelsium, and Mangifera indica, intact older leaves had higher r$_1$ and a smaller range of r$_1$ than younger leaves and displayed less stomatal closure following excision. The observed differences in water relations between species were related to their ecological characteristics. M. indica and L. arborea leaves had the most sensitive stomatal response and the best control of water loss, even when detached. Trees of these two species remained evergreen and continued to grow even during seasonal drought. In contrast, stomatal control of water loss was poorest in T. rosea, which is leafless 4 to 6 months each year. Considering the generally long life span of tropical tree leaves, age-related changes in stomatal behavior and differences between species could have important ecological implications.
10.2307/2388390|Dilute geothermal springs of the sodium-chloride-bicarbonate type modify the chemistry of receiving streams draining La Selva Biological Reserve in the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica. Streams receiving geothermal waters are solute-rich and co-occur with solute-poor streams that do not receive geothermal inputs. Geothermal waters contain significantly greater concentrations of Ca, Fe, Mg, Na, Si, Cl, SO$_4$, soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP), and total phosphorus (TP) than waters unmodified by geothermal inputs. Streams that do not receive geothermal inputs are solute-poor, typically containing <10 percent relative concentration of each of the solutes mentioned above. Most geothermal waters that have been identified to date issue near the terminus of the youngest lava flow known for La Selva. The two major rivers of La Selva, the Salto and Sura, are both modified by inputs of geothermal waters and their main channels follow the lateral margins of the youngest lava flow, where it overlies older flows. Discharge points of geothermal seepages appear to be determined by the shape and hydrogeological properties of the lava flows and possible faulting. The lower watershed of the Salto River exhibits a large spatial variability in phosphorus concentration (5-250 $\mu$ g L$^{-1}$ SRP) and conductivity (25-440 $\mu$ S cm$^{-1}$) that reflects the heterogeneous location of geothermal seepages. Geothermal processes introduce natural chemical discontinuities into stream continua that can affect nutrient limitation of algal growth and potentially primary production. In addition, geothermal upwellings represent a source of variation in soil phosphorus levels that is relatively independent of the composition of parent material in the surficial catchment and may potentially influence plant growth and demography
27742816|There is a well-acknowledged communication or knowledge gap between scientists and decision-makers. Many scientists who take on the challenge of narrowing this gap operate on the understanding that their role is to communicate their findings in a one-way flow of information: from science to decision-makers. However, to be effective scientists must engage in an ongoing social learning process with decision-makers, and regard themselves as facilitators, and also as one among many stakeholders who have valid and important ecological knowledge. The developing world poses some particular challenges in this regard, specifically in terms of the large number of local level subsistence resources users who are important de facto decision-makers. We examine four natural resource management case studies from South Africa that differ in spatial scale and complexity, ranging from a single village to a whole biome. We distil seven lessons to help guide development of social learning processes and organizations in similar situations relating to natural resource planning and management. The lessons pertain to: maintaining 'key individuals' within social learning processes; the role of researchers; the formulation of research questions that social learning processes require adaptive long-term funding and capacity support; that local resource users are key decision-makers in developing countries; some perspectives on knowledge; and the need to measure research success.
27742844|Plant resins are used by stingless bees for nest construction and maintenance. To reveal factors that influence the bees' decision about where and when to collect resin, resin collection was studied in ten stingless bee species (Apidae, Meliponini) collecting resin at natural and artificially induced wounds of nine tree species in Borneo. Artificially induced wounds were found by bees within 12d. The number of foragers at artificial wounds increased during the subsequent 5 d until resin secretion stopped or the resin hardened. At natural resin wounds, species identity and number of foragers remained constant during the observation period. Bees collected resin from some trees and ignored others. Agathis borneensis (Araucariaceae) was the most attractive resin source. The bees' visitation rate did not correlate significantly with resin wound size. Inter-and intraspecific aggression occurred at ten resin wounds. In Tetragonilla collina and Tetragonula melanocephala, we additionally recorded resin intake at colony entrances. The proportion of workers retuning with resin varied considerably between colonies. We observed attacks by ants at three of our eight focal colonies, which resulted in a significant increase in resin intake while the nest was under attack and until 12 d after the attack had stopped. The increase in resin collection triggered by ant attacks was even stronger than the increase following a manual destruction of the nest entrance tube.
20492494|Here, we used radiotelemetry to determine home range and movement patterns of the frugivorous bat Sturnira lilium in a naturally fragmented landscape in Beni, Bolivia. Four females were monitored for up to 7 d. Based on 575 radiotelemetry positions, kernel home ranges were between 36.5 and 90.7 ha. During each night, bats visited most of their home range, which included forest islands and continuous forest; however activity was concentrated in core-use areas representing 6-12 percent of the home ranges. There was moderate overlap in home range and core-use areas among the four females. The mean long axis across the kernel home ranges was 1324 m. The results reported here show that S. lilium is able to move freely among forest elements in the landscape while crossing a savanna matrix. Hence, S. lilium may contribute to maintain connectivity and ecological processes in a fragmented landscape.
4132903|Across a wide range of temperatures established in the laboratory, we tape-recorded the advertisement calls of 76 freshly caught Hyla labialis males from three elevationally separated populations in the Eastern Andes of Colombia. Each male was tested once at a single temperature and returned to his capture site after measurement of his snoutvent length. We measured and averaged three characteristics of five to ten successive calls for each individual: number of pulses per call, pulse repetition rate, and call duration. We found that calling activity occurred within temperature ranges that overlapped among frogs from different elevations, but widened and shifted downward with increasing altitude of origin. Males from all sites called at temperatures higher, but not lower, than those naturally occurring during their nightly activity period. No decline in vocal performance was apparent when frogs extended their calling activity into the range of high temperatures selected for basking. Both snout-vent length and temperature affected pulse repetition rate and call duration, while the number of pulses per call was temperature-independent. Compared to the smaller males from lower elevations, the larger, high-mountain males had calls with significantly more pulses, a lower pulse repetition rate, and longer duration. Within each population, rising temperatures caused pulse repetition rate to increase and call duration to decrease significantly, whereas the number of pulses per call remained unchanged. Pulse repetition rate of highland males was the factor least affected by temperature, and it was less sensitive to night temperatures than to day temperatures. This, together with their capacity to call at low temperatures, suggests that highland frog calls are cold adapted.
10.2307/2387715|Assays of the roots and leaves of nine leafy and three "shootless" orchids indicated that the roots of the latter, as well as those of leafy Kingidium taeniale, engaged in CAM metabolism and possessed relatively high chlorophyll contents. All leaves were similar on both counts. Except for those of K. taeniale, the roots of the leafy orchids assayed were pale green and incapable of exhibiting a net carbon gain during day or night runs. A labeling experiment with leafy Encyclia tampensis indicated that its green roots did fix small quantities of carbon dioxide and that some of the product was translocated to the shoot. This species, like epiphytic Tillandsia circinnata of Bromeliaceae, used proportionally large amounts of several of its mineral elements to support high fecundity. Given these and other findings discussed in this report, we propose that the reduced "shootless" state in epiphytic Orchidaceae and the "rootless" condition in Tillandsia have evolved primarily to enhance nutrient economy. This economy is achieved by reducing the cost of the vegetative body, thus freeing material resources for the purpose of supporting a high regenerative capacity in the form of a strong sexual effort. Great nutrient economy and substantial fecundity are mandated by the combination of high abiotic stress (particularly scarcities of N, P, and K), habitat patchiness, and disturbance characteristic of the driest portions of the epiphytic biotope.
10.2307/2388666|Between the mid dry season and the early wet season nine vine species representing diverse root-, stem-, and leaf-habits and phenological patterns, showed more differences among plant parts in their contents of non-structural carbohydrate, water, and nitrogen, than within the parts. Most seasonal changes occurred in distal stems, while none occurred in roots. Carbohydrates differed least between seasons, despite reserves of 3-15 percent in stems and up to 50 percent in roots.
27742833|The complexity of factors driving tropical deforestation demand integrated approaches from concerned researchers and policy makers. Strict protection is sometimes the most appropriate mode of conservation, but conservation through management is often the better option. In either case, this essay highlights the importance of considering the social/cultural, economic, and political contexts in which these forests are threatened. By attempting to understand the cultural settings, institutional architectures and dynamics, and local expectations, and then by combining the concepts and tools of a range of disciplines, researchers will be more likely to forge lasting partnerships and increase their potential for sustained improvement in resource management and overall forest conservation.
2663785|This study reports results from the first explicit test of the ectomycorrhizal hypothesis for tropical monodominance in the Ituri Forest of the Democratic Republic of Congo (formerly Zaire), where the canopy tree Gilbertiodendron dewevrei forms large, monospecific stands. To test the hypothesis that ectomycorrhizae are important to the success of dominant species, we surveyed the mycorrhizal status of dominant species, as well as other common, but not dominant, species in the forest. The survey reveals that two dominant species, Gilbertiodendron dewevrei and Julbernardia seretii, form ectomycorrhizae and vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae, while Cynometra alexandri, another dominant, forms only vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae. These results, along with those of other species in this and other forests, are discussed within the context of the ectomycorrhizal hypothesis for tropical mondominance. This study demonstrates that the relationship between EM and tropical monodominance is more complex than has been previously recognized.
10.2307/2388304|Apocephalus paraponerae (Diptera: Phoridae) is a parasitoid of injured workers of Paraponera clavata. Both male and female flies are attracted to prospective hosts, the males to feed and the females to feed and oviposit. Flies were attracted to extracts of crushed workers, the first definitive evidence for an olfactory mode of attraction in parasitic phorid flies. Increasing the number of injured workers increased the number of parasitoids attracted. A. paraponerae showed a strong attraction to P. clavata workers in comparison to other ant species, suggesting host specificity. A continuous supply of injured ants is furnished by frequent inter-colony aggressive encounters in P. clavata, which can yield many maimed workers. High local populations of A. paraponerae relative to other ant parasitoids is probably due to multiple parasitism of host workers and ready host availability. We suggest that phorid parasites that use olfactory cues to locate hosts may play a role in the evolution and maintenance of pheromone diversity in ants.
27742795|Growth-survival trade-offs play an important role in niche differentiation of tropical tree species in relation to light-gradient partitioning. However, the mechanisms that determine differential species performance in response to light and soil resource availability are poorly understood. To examine responses to light and soil nutrient availability, we grew seedlings of five tropical tree species for 12 mo at &lt; 2 and 18 percent full sunlight and in two soil types representing natural contrasts in nutrient availability within a lowland dipterocarp forest in North Borneo. We chose two specialists of nutrient-rich and nutrient-poor soils, respectively, and one habitat generalist. Across all species, growth was higher in high than low light and on more nutrient rich soil. Although species differed in growth rates, the ranking of species, in terms of growth, was consistent across the four treatments. Nutrient-rich soils improved seedling survival and increased growth of three species even under low light. Slower-growing species increased root allocation and reduced specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf area ratio (LAR) in response to decreased nutrient supply. All species increased LAR in response to low light. Maximum growth rates were negatively correlated with survival in the most resource-limited environment. Nutrient-poor soil specialists had low maximum growth rates but high survival at low resource availability. Specialists of nutrient-rich soils, plus the habitat generalist, had the opposite suite of traits. Fitness component trade-offs may be driven by both light and belowground resource availability. These trade-offs contribute to differentiation of tropical tree species among habitats defined by edaphic variation.
2663851|How important is ecotypic differentiation along elevational gradients in the tropics? Reciprocal transplants of two shrubs, Clibadium erosum (Asteraceae) and Psychotria berteriana (Rubiaceae), and a palm, Prestoea acuminata var. montana (Palmaceae), were used to test for the effect of environment and population origin on growth and physiology in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico. Two sites were used, one at Pico del Este (1000 m in cloud forest) and one at El Verde (350 m in lower montane rain forest). At the cloud forest site, plastic barriers were erected around a subset of the plants to examine if protection from wind affected survival or biomass accumulation. Survival of C. erosum and P. berteriana was not affected by site, population origin, or the presence of barriers. For P. acuminata var. montana, survival was higher for plants with barriers, but not affected by site and population origin. Plants of C. erosum and P. berteriana at El Verde grew larger than at Pico del Este, but there was no effect of population origin or barrier treatment on biomass accumulation for these species. For P. acuminata var. montana, there was no effect of environment, population origin, or barrier treatment on biomass accumulation. Light-saturated photosynthetic rate (A
2389158|One common class of ant-plant mutualism involves ants that defend plants from natural enemies in return for food and sometimes shelter. Studies of these interactions have played a major role in shaping our broad understanding of mutualism. Their central contribution has come via their development of approaches to measuring the benefits, costs, and net outcomes of mutualism, and their explicit consideration of variability in all of these phenomena. Current research on these interactions is suggesting ecological and evolutionary hypotheses that may be applicable to many other forms of mutualism. It is also generating comparative data for testing the few general theories about mutualism that currently exist.
20492485|It has been suggested that flowers of some plants are specialized for pollination by two unrelated species (or functional groups) of pollinators. However, evidence for 'bimodal pollination systems' has been extremely limited. Studies of the milkweed Xysmalobium undulatum in South Africa showed that its flowers are visited by a range of different insects (representing 18 families), but only two groups, represented by the chafer beetle Atrichelaphinis tigrina and pompilid wasps in the genus Hemipepsis, effect pollination. Experiments showed that both these pollinator groups are effective in removing and inserting pollinia. Pollinia are attached to clypeal hairs and mouthparts on the wasps and tarsal hairs and spines on the beetles. Although considerably less abundant than the beetles, Hemipepsis spp. wasps move more quickly among flowers and appeared to be more effective pollinators overall. Experimental hand-pollinations conducted in the field showed that X. undulatum is genetically self-incompatible and thus completely reliant on pollinators for reproduction. We conclude that X. undulatum has a bimodal pollination system, specialized for pollination by Hemipepsis pompilid wasps and the chafer beetle A. tigrina.
10.2307/2387648|The behavioral organization of territoriality in the green tree ant (Oecophylla smaragdina) was studied in the field of North Queensland, Australia. The establishment and maintenance of territories in O. smaragdina is based on a complex behavioral communication repertory which appears to be almost identical to that of its only living congeneric species, the African weaver ant O. longinoda. In our study areas, individual territories sometimes covered an area of up to 1500 m
10.2307/2388410|We studied temporal and spatial relationships among hummingbirds and their food flowers in a tropical dry forest on the western coast of Mexico. From June 1985 to July 1986 we recorded flowering phenology, nectar production, and hummingbird visits to flowers, and made morphological measurements of hummingbirds and plants. Twenty-three species of plants were studied, and ten of them were pollinated exclusively by hummingbirds. Out of the six hummingbird species we found, only two were permanent residents (Amazilia rutila and Cynanthus latirostris), two were altitudinal wanderers (Chlorostilbon canivetii and Heliomaster constantii), and two were winter visitors (Archilochus colubris and A. alexandri). The most abundant resident was A. rutila. It used clumped flowers and defended feeding territories around them. The other species in the area, subordinates to A. rutila, used less plentiful resources without the establishment of territories.
10.2307/2388152|Neotropical forest dynamics are reviewed by focusing on four questions: (1) What is a mature neotropical forest? (2) How long does it take to attain maturity? (3) How important are gaps to species regeneration? and (4) What are the important equilibrium processes in neotropical forest dynamics? The absence of regeneration of dominants has often been used as a distinguishing feature of late secondary forest; however, the abundance of shade-intolerant species in mature forest suggests that local absence of regeneration is an inadequate criterion for distinguishing between late secondary and mature forest. Recent studies estimate forest turnover rates of 75-150 years, indicating tropical forests are much more dynamic than thought previously. The dependence on gaps by almost half of the 320 tree species in a Costa Rican wet forest for successful regeneration illustrates the importance of gaps in tropical forest dynamics. Factors important in determining which species successfully colonize a gap are: time of gap occurrence; proximity and dispersal of seeds; size of gap; substrate conditions; and plant-herbivore interactions.
10.2307/2388437|To evaluate the effect of foliage type on decomposition, we monitored the decay of a representative mix of autochthonous leaves in each of three vegetation types: 2-yr-old successional vegetation; an investigator-designed community that mimicked the physiognomy and species richness of the successional vegetation; and a young plantation of the tree, Cordia alliodora. To evaluate the effect of environmental differences among vegetation types on decomposition, we monitored the decay of a uniform substrate (leaves of C. alliodora) in those same three stands as well as in a vegetation-free plot. Foliage of the imitation of succession decayed most rapidly, losing half of its mass, N, P, K, Ca, Mg, and S in 1 to 3 weeks. Foliage of the successional vegetation decayed somewhat more slowly, losing half of its initial mass and initial contents of all elements except N and S in 2 to 6 weeks. Leaves of the tree grown in monoculture, C. alliodora, decomposed very slowly, losing only 22$\tt\%$ of their mass, and less than 50%$ of all elements monitored except K and P, during the 15 weeks over which decomposition was measured. Mass loss and loss of N, Ca, and Mg (but not P, K, or S) were significantly faster in the bare plot than in vegetated plots, but differences in decay among foliage types were much greater than differences among ecosystems. Sustained nutrition of the successional mimic may depend heavily on rapid uptake of mineralized nutrients, whereas recalcitrant litter may slow recycling in plantations of C. alliodora.
10.2307/2387677|Geographical, ecological, morphological, and cytological observations indicate that the peculiar Central American fern, Pleuroderris michleriana (D. C. Eaton) Maxon arises by hybridization between Tectaria incisa Cav. and Dictyoxiphium panamense Hooker where they occur together or near each other. Although crossing is well known among ferns, Pleuroderris is singular among hybrids because of the very profound differences in leaf and soral structures between its parents. In spite of being known from seven localities, in some of which it is rather common, Pleuroderris is sexually sterile with irregular meiosis. The chromosomes show unexpectedly extensive pairing.
30043631|Leaffall phenology is an important periodical event in forests, contributing to mobilization of organic matter from primary producers to soil. For seasonal forests, leaffall periodicity has been related to rainfall regime and dry season length. In weakly seasonal forests, where there is no marked dry season, other climatic factors could trigger leaf shed. In this study, we aimed to determine if other climatic variables (wind speed, solar radiation, photosynthetic photon flux density [PPFD], day length, temperature, and relative humidity) could be better correlated with patterns of litter and leaffall in a weakly seasonal subtropical wet forest in Puerto Rico. Leaffall patterns were correlated mainly with solar radiation, PPFD, day length, and temperature; and secondarily with rainfall. Two main peaks of leaffall were observed: April-June and August-September, coinciding with the periods of major solar radiation at this latitude. Community leaffall patterns were the result of overlapping peaks of individual species. Of the 32 species analyzed, 21 showed phenological patterns, either unimodal (16 species), bimodal (three species), or multimodal (two species). Lianas also presented leaffall seasonality, suggesting that they are subject to the same constraints and triggering factors affecting trees. In addition to solar radiation as a main determinant of leaffall timing in tropical forests, our findings highlight the importance of interannual variation and asynchrony, suggesting that leaffall is the result of a complex interaction between environmental and physiological factors. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
30044907|We examined whether the experimental exclusion of large mammalian and small rodent seed predators had differing effects on seedling recruitment under natural seed rain conditions. In both primary and late-successional secondary forested areas, exclosure experiments using natural seed densities were designed to assess seedling recruitment. To assess the differences in seedling recruitment, we monitored three exclosure treatments (1.2 m radius/1.5 m height) in two forest types (primary vs. late-successional secondary forest): (1) fenced exclosures that excluded large mammals; (2) fenced exclosures that excluded both large and small mammals; and (3) open controls. Within each exclosure treatment, we marked and identified all seedlings at the beginning of the experiment (February 2001), followed the marked seedlings' fate for a year, and then marked and identified all new seedlings after a year. Two preliminary findings were generated from these data: for some tree species, small rodents and large mammals have differential effects on seedling recruitment, and the effect of excluding mammals did not differ with habitat type (primary vs. late-successional secondary forest). These preliminary results highlight the need to examine further how the effects of small rodent and large mammal exclusion may affect species-specific seed predation and seedling recruitment in a variety of habitat/land use types (e.g., primary forest, late-successional forest, and early-successional forest). /// Nuestra investigacin compar los efectos de roedores pequeos y de mamferos grandes en la regeneracin de plntulas en bosques primarios y secundarios. Nuestros experimentos utilizaron las densidades naturales de la semilla para entender la regeneracin de plntulas. Para medir las diferencias en la regeneracin de plntulas, controlamos tres reas de exclusin (1.2 radio M alta) en dos tipos de bosque (primario contra el bosque secundario): (1) jaulas cercadas que excluyeron mamferos grandes; (2) jaulas cercadas que excluyeron ambos mamferos grandes y pequeos; y (3) los controles abiertos. Dentro de cada rea de exclusin, marcamos e identificamos todas las plntulas al principio del experimento (febrero 2001), seguimos el destino de las plntulas marcadas por un ao, y al final marcamos e identificamos todos las plntulas nuevas despus de un ao. Esta investigacin produjo dos hallazgos preliminares: para algunas especies de rboles, roedores pequeos y mamferos grandes tienen efectos diferentes en la regeneracin de plntulas; y no hubo diferencias entre el efecto de exclusin de mamferos en los dos tipos de bosque (bosque primario y bosque secundario). Estos resultados preliminares indican que ms estudios sobre los efectos de la exclusin de roedores pequeos y mamferos grandes en la regeneracin de plantas/rboles dentro de los bosques primarios y los bosques secundarios.
30044051|Fundamental to our understanding of the ecology of animal communities in the tropics is knowledge of the effect of seasonal changes in the abundance of food sources in consumer diets. We determined stable-isotope composition (
30044037|We evaluated the impacts of the use of French climbing spikes on the growth rate and survival of trees during an interval of 14-28 mo. No climbed tree died during this interval and the growth rates of the climbed trees were not different from those trees that were not climbed. We recommend that users always record when a tree is climbed using spikes, especially in permanent plots. /// Avahamos os impactos do uso de garras para escalada em rvores no crescimento e na sobrevivncia destas, durante um intervalo de 14-28 meses. Nenhuma rvore escalada com garras morreu no intervalo de estudo e a taxa de crescimento de rvores escaladas com garras no diferiu da taxa de rvores nao escaladas. Recomendamos o registro de todas as rvores escaladas com garras, principalmente em parcelas permanentes.
10.2307/2989769|Males of Latiblattella angustifrons. L. azteca, and, possibly, L. vitrea are attracted into the vicinity of their respective females by volatile female pheromones. After initial antennal contact males and females of L. azteca and L. vitrea push sideways against one another and, facing in opposite directions, follow each other in tight circles for a few turns. Males of all three species after female contact may rock rapidly from side to side by alternately flexing muscles in opposed legs. Contact with an attractive female induces receptive males of all three species to raise their wings high, thus exposing the tergal gland that exudes male pheromone. Males complete their courtship display by turning until the posterior end of the abdomen is directed toward the female's head. Attraction now shifts to the male. A responsive female, attracted by the male pheromone, moves forward until she can palpate the male's tergal gland. The female continues to move forward straddling the male's abdomen with her legs and rubbing his terga with her mouthparts. When the female's head reaches the base of the male's raised wings, the male is in a position beneath the female from which he can clasp her gemtalia. If genital connection is secured, the insects swing apart until they face opposite directions. Mating pairs copulate for an hour or more during which time the male forms and transfers a spermatophore. Females of all three species engage in an uncommon parasexual behavior. The female tilts her thorax forward and lowers the posterior end of her abdomen exposing her abdominal terga. No tergal gland is visible. Males are attracted to such calling females and frequently palpate the female's exposed abdomen. Calling may be a behavior by which sexually active females disperse their pheromone. All insects died before this phenomenon could be analyzed completely. Male and female interactions and male tergal glands are illustrated.
27742792|Although elephants are commonly cited as an example of ecosystem engineering, cases involving Asian elephants are missing in the literature. In a dry environment of southeastern Sri Lanka, I examined 290 elephant dung piles and found a total of six frogs from three different species in 1.7 percent (N=5) of the dung piles. This suggests a facilitative role of elephants by providing habitat for amphibians.
10.2307/2388297|This study examined the effects of vegetation cover, growth form, fire disturbance, and competition on the distributional limits of two species of Puya in the Ecuadorian paramos. Puya clava-herculis and Puya hamata are widely distributed giant rosette plants that occupy nonoverlapping elevational ranges (3700-4100 m and 3300-3700 m, respectively) and each shows a patchy local distribution. Under natural conditions, the lower elevational limits of P clava-herculis is primarily determined by competition with shrubs. In areas near human habitation, the lower limit of P. clava-herculis and P hamata is largely determined by constant burning. Above the distribution of P. clava-herculis, bare ground or cushion and mat plants predominate. On bare ground, solifluction, low temperatures, and moisture stress reduce the probability of Puya establishment. In areas dominated by cushion and mat plants, either species of Puya is outcompeted or seedling safe sites are absent. Seedlings of P clava-herculis showed a stronger than expected association with grass tussocks, indicating the importance of tussock edges as seedling safe sites. The amount and type of ground cover, as well as the distance to and growth form of nearest neighbors, are important factors determining the local patchy distribution of P clava-herculis.
41057997|Although species specificity between fig trees and their pollinators has been considered a classic example of obligate mutualism, increasing exceptions to the one-to-one relationship suggest that multiple pollinator species per fig host species may be a pervasive phenomenon. Based on both mitochondrial DNA and microsatellite analyses, we found three putative pollinator species (Ceratosolen spp.) associated with Ficus spetica in southern Taiwan, two of which, that differ in color, routinely coexist within single figs. These three pollinators are substantially divergent from the pollinator of F. spetica in New Guinea, implying that wasp diversity may be highly underestimated when the one-to-one rule is assumed. Our findings not only provide the first case of coexistence of pollinators within single figs on a shared dioecious Ficus host, but also an ideal system to investigate interspecific competition and sex allocation, especially when coexisting pollinators are visually distinguishable by their colors.
27742820|In 1966 Eugene P. Odum delivered a speech before the Ecological Society of America that transformed the way ecologists looked at succession. His comparison of mature and successional systems lead ecologists to place secondary forests in an inferior position relative to mature ones to the point that today, prominent tropical biologists argue for and against the conservation value of secondary forests. Nevertheless, we live in the era of secondary forests that is rapidly giving way to a new era of novel tropical forests. Research in Puerto Rico documents the emergence of novel forests, which are different in terms of species composition, dominance, and relative importance of species from forests that were present before the island was deforested. These novel forests emerged without assistance. They are a natural response to the new environmental conditions created by human activity. Natural processes have remixed or reassembled native and introduced plant and animal species into novel communities adapted to anthropogenic environmental conditions. Novel forests are expected to protect soils, cycle nutrients, support wildlife, store carbon, maintain watershed functions, and mitigate species extinctions. The dawn of the age of tropical novel forests is upon us and must not be ignored.
2663925|I present a comparative analysis of the cave fauna composition for two karst areas in the Atlantic tropical rain forest: the extensively studied Ribeira Valley, southeastern Brazil, and the small and poorly known Rio Pardo region, southern Bahia state, northeastern Brazil. These regions also are compared to other Brazilian karst areas. The cave fauna from Rio Pardo appears to be more similar to the fauna of other tropical caves in the Caatinga and Cerrado domains than to the cave fauna of the subtropical Ribeira Valley. Ecological data, including probable trophic relationships, are presented, and special conservation problems related to karst areas, with examples from the Atlantic rain forest cave taxa, are discussed.
30044007|We investigated ecophysiological and morphological traits affecting light and water use of four commercially important pendant epiphytic bryophyte species in a montane oak-bamboo forest in Costa Rica. Predictions based mostly on ecophysiological studies of temperate bryophytes and vascular plants were experimentally tested on tropical montane bryophyte species ranked on the basis of their distributions in the canopy from the most protected (1) to the most exposed sites (4): (1) Phyllogonium viscosum; (2) Pilotrichella flexilis; (3) Dendropogonella rufescens; and (4) Frullania convoluta. As predicted, highly exposed species tended to have higher light saturation and compensation points, higher dark respiration rates, more chlorophyll, higher chlorophyll a:b ratios, and higher nitrogen concentrations. Contrary to predicted trends, exposed-site species had lower water contents at full saturation; there were no detectable differences among species in the rate of water loss. Rates of carbon gain in all species reached asymptotes with increasing water content, but the moisture compensation point for carbon uptake of the moss D. rufescens was substantially higher than in the other species. Observed patterns result from interactions among processes related to water storage and transport operating at different scales and are determined by various morphological traits including the density, size, and disposition of phylloids, as well as by whole-clump architecture. /// Se investigaron caractersticas ecofisiolgicas y morfolgicas relacionadas con la disponibilidad de agua y luz en cuatro especies de brifitas epfitas con valor comercial del robledal de altura en Costa Rica. Las especies se organizaron en orden ascendente de acuerdo con la preferencia por sitios ms hasta menos protegidos del dosel de acuerdo con su distribucin: (1) Phyllogonium viscosum; (2) Pilotrichella flexilis; (3) Dendropogonella rufescens; y (4) Frullania convoluta. Conforme con aspectos ecofisiolgicos encontrados en brifitas de las zonas templadas como en plantas vasculares, las especies ms abundantes en microambientes ms expuestos presentaron valores altos de saturacin de luz para fotosntesis, punto de compensacion de fotosntesis, tasas de respiracin en la oscuridad, as como mayores concentraciones de nitrgeno y clorofila por unidad de masa y clorofila a/b. Sin embargo, las especies no difirieron sustancialmente en la tasa de prdida de agua, y las especies de sitios ms expuestos tuvieron valores menores de agua en plena saturacin en comparacin con aquellas especies de micrositios ms protegidos del dosel. Las tasas fotosintticas aumentaron asintticamente con el incremento del contenido de agua en todas las especies, y la especie D. rufescens present el valor ms alto. Las diferencias interespecificas encontradas reflejan la influencia de caractersticas morfolgicas incluyendo la densidad, tamao y organizacin de las pequeas hojas, as como caractersticas arquitectnicas de cada especie, aspectos que pueden influenciar los procesos de almacenamiento y transporte de agua en diferentes escalas.
2663849|As a part of the surveillance effort to monitor the ecological status of Omo Biosphere Reserve in the southwestern region of Nigeria, the aerobic heterotrophic bacterial and fungal communities of the topsoil were investigated in March 1995 and April 1996, before the onset of the rainy season. Four distinct wood-tree plantations, a core strict nature reserve (SNR) area, and a buffer zone were sampled. The topsoil samples (7.5 cm depth), including the litter, were taken with an auger (8 cm diameter) and transported to the laboratory in polyethylene bags. One-gram dry weight equivalent of sample was suspended in 10 ml sterile water, and serial dilutions from it were used for the estimation of bacterial and fungal densities. The bacterial and fungal densities ranged in the order of 10
10.2307/2388104|Observations in a second-growth rain forest showed a direct correlation between perching height and size in small (<10 mm) dung beetles, with smaller species perching nearer the ground than larger ones. Larger species (>10 mm) tended to fly rather than perch.
41057991|The Amazon Basin, representing the largest expanse of intact tropical rain forest on the planet, harbors the largest diversity of amphibians and reptiles in the world. Limited elevation and climate differences across the Basin belie one major division of upland forests-geomorphological soil age and induced nutrient levels. We hypothesized that secondary consumers in the leaf litter herpetofauna community on ancient soils of Central Amazonia would exhibit reduced biomass compared with those found on younger soils of Western Amazonia, and that population densities on ancient soils could be driven below viable thresholds, reducing species richness. We found overall herpetofauna abundance, biomass and richness on young soils in Ecuador were significantly greater than those on ancient soils in the Brazilian Amazon. Separately, amphibians were only slightly more abundant, but their biomass on younger soils was twice that on ancient soils. Even more impressive was the variation exhibited by lizards: abundance was not significantly different, but biomass was five times greater on younger soils. Diversity of both taxa was greater on young soils. The most important driver of differences in herpetofauna biomass, abundance and possibly diversity across Amazonia may be the underlying gomorphologie differences. Reduced primary productivity on ancient soils appears to reverberate up the food chain, leaving fewer resources for higher trophic levels. We suggest that conservation initiatives must compensate for reduced biomass on ancient soils through increased reserve size, especially as forest fragmentation escalates. This study highlights the importance of including biomass as a standard measure in herpetofauna sampling.
30043107|The soil microbial biomass is largely responsible for the transformation of organic matter and the associated mineralization of important nutrients that regulate plant productivity. While the controls on soil microbial biomass and activity in temperate ecosystems have been well investigated, there is a paucity of such information from tropical rain forest ecosystems. Hence, we used a natural soil gradient (nutrient-poor oxisols and nutrient-rich mollisols) to investigate seasonal changes in the size and activity of the soil microbial community in two primary tropical rain forest sites in southwestern Costa Rica. In a nutrient-poor oxisol, microbial biomass ranged from 952 g/g in the dry season (February) to 1967 g/g in the wet season (June). The greater microbial biomass estimates corresponded to greater rates of microbial activity in the oxisol forest; however, the active fraction of the soil microbial biomass remained consistently low, regardless of soil C availability. In addition, while there was very little seasonal variability in microbial C:N ratios, we found extreme variations in seasonal microbial C:P ratios, with the highest microbial C:P ratio occurring when microbial biomass C was at a maximum. Our results suggest the importance of P availability in regulating soil microbial processes and that decomposition during the wet season (of litter accumulated in the previous dry season) may play an important role in driving seasonal changes in microbial biomass and activity. /// Las comunidades microbianas del suelo influencian en gran medida la descomposicin de materia orgnica y la mineralizacin de los nutrientes necesarios para la produccin primaria de plantas. Aunque los factores que gobiernan la actividad microbiana de suelos en la zona templada han sido investigados extensamente, carecemos de informacin sobre bosques tropicales hmedos. En este estudio, usamos sitios de fertilidades variables con el fin de investigar efectos estacionales en el tamao y la actividad de las comunidades microbianas del suelo en dos bosques tropicales hmedos en el sudoeste de Costa Rica (Pennsula de Osa). En los suelos infrtiles (oxisoles), el tamao de la comunidad microbiana se extendi de 952 g/g en la estacin seca (febrero) a 1967 g/g en la estacin lluviosa (junio). Adems, las mayores estimaciones de la comunidad microbiana correspondieron a mayores tazas de cambio de la actividad microbiana. Sin embargo, la fraccin microbiana activa se mantuvo siempre baja independientemente de la cantidad de carbono en el suelo. Adems, aunque no hubo mucha variabilidad en las proporciones de carbono (C) y nitrgeno (N) en la masa microbiana con la estacin del ao, encontramos grandes cambios en las proporciones de de fsforo (P). En particular, observamos una proporcin mas grande de (sobre P) cuando el tamao de la comunidad microbiana fue mximo. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la disponibilidad de P regula el tamao y la actividad microbiana en este ecosistema, y que la descomposicin de hojascara en la estacin lluviosa (de hojas que se cayeron en la estacin seca anterior) influencia en gran medida el tamao y la actividad microbiana entre las estaciones del ao.
10.2307/2989685| Sweep samples of insects at 200, 1600, 3550, and 3600 m elevation in secondary vegetation in the Venezuelan Andes near Mrida show that the greatest number of insect species and dry weight occurs at the intermediate elevation, that the species richness of Diptera and parasitic Hymenoptera is not as proportionately reduced by elevation as is the species richness of other insect groups, that at higher elevations there are a reduced number of species and an increasingly unequal distribution of the individuals among the species, and that large insects are much less abundant at high than low elevations. These results confirm trends first indicated in an earlier elevational transect of Costa Rican insects. 
2663835|The main objective was to evaluate the effects of seasonal variations in air temperature, soil water content, and irradiation on the net rate of CO
41419472|This study examines the seed dispersal spectrum of the tropical dry forests of Southern Ecuador, in an effort to contribute to the knowledge of the complex dynamics of tropical dry forests. Seed dispersal spectrum was described for a total number of 160 species. Relationships of dispersal syndromes with plant growth form and climatic seasonality were explored. For a subset of 97 species, we determined whether dispersal spectrum changes when species abundance, in addition to species number, is taken into account. The same subset was used to relate dispersal syndromes with the environmental conditions. Zoochorous species dominated in the studied community. When considering the individual abundance of each species, however, anemochory was the prevalent dispersal syndrome. We found a significant difference in the frequency of dispersal syndromes among plant growth forms, with epizoochory only occurring in shrub species. The dispersal spectrum was dependent on climatic seasonality. The largest proportion of anemochorous species fructified during the dry season, while zoochorous diaspores dominated during the rainy season. A fourthcorner analysis indicated that the seed dispersal spectrum of Southern Ecuador dry forests is controlled by environmental conditions such as annual precipitation, annual temperature range or topography. Our results suggest that spatio-temporal changes in the environmental conditions may affect important ecological processes for dispersal. Thus, the predominance of one syndrome or another may depend on the spatial variation of environmental conditions.
30043192|The density and floristic composition of the soil seed bank was assessed in six cloud forest fragments with different levels of human disturbance in central Veracruz, Mexico. A total of 8416 seeds germinated in 60 soil samples, at 5-cm depth, corresponding to 107 species, 85 genera, and 48 families. Significant differences were found among study sites in seed densities with values ranging from 873 to 3632/m2. Tree species contributed 20 percent of the total soil seed bank in four sites and herbs accounted for the majority of the species in each site. Among tree species, Trema micrantha displayed the highest seed density, accounting for 84 percent of the germinated seeds. In general, the tree species composition of the soil seed bank did not closely reflect the composition of the tree community. Results suggest that disturbance produced by human activities (trail use, selective cutting of trees, livestock) may influence the size and composition of the soil seed bank in forest fragments. Sites where human activity has been reduced showed the highest proportion of dormant seeds. /// La densidad composicin florstica del banco de semillas del suelo se determin en seis fragmentos de bosque de niebla con distinto nivel de alteracin humana, en Veracruz, Mxico. Un total de 8416 semillas germinaron en 60 muestras de suelo, correspondientes a 107 especies, 85 gneros y 48 familias. Se encontraron diferencias significativas entre los sitios de estudio, con valores desde 873 a 3632 semillas/m2. La mayora de las especies fueron hierbas y en cuatro de los sitios las especies arbreas contribuyeron un 20 por ciento al total de semillas del banco del suelo. Entre las especies arbreas, Trema micrantha (L.) Blume (Ulmaceae) present la mayor densidad de semillas (84% de las semillas germinadas). En general, la composicin de especies arbreas en el banco del suelo no reflej la composicin de la comunidad de rboles en cada sitio. Los resultados sugieren que la alteracin causada por actividad humana (uso de senderos, tala selectiva y pastoreo) puede influir en el tamao y composicin del banco de semillas del suelo en fragmentos de bosque. Los sitios donde la actividad humana es reducida tienen la mayor proporcin de semillas latentes.
10.2307/2388026|A large-scale ecological experiment is underway on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos, where an introduced ant (Wasmannia auropunctata) is devastating all sympatric ants. Collecting, observation, and experiments were used to study the extent and mechanisms of Wasmannia's success. Seventeen taxa of ants were collected, of which four were endemic, and most of the rest were well-known tropical tramp species. Current distribution of all species was determined. Greatest species diversity occurred in the arid zone, which was also the area of lowest Wasmannia density. Systematic collecting-transects showed that Wasmannia either exterminates or reduces to very low density all sympatric species on Santa Cruz. In many areas the ant fauna composition changes from 100 percent Wasmannia to 0 percent Wasmannia within 100 m. Experiments with artificial baits arranged in transects perpendicular to sharp boundaries showed that Wasmannia mobilized the greatest number of workers, was very successful in replacing other species, and remained the longest time at baits. Wasmannia ate primarily invertebrates, honeydew, and, in the hot season, plants parts. It was active 24 hr/day during three 24-hour periods. There were no central, intraspecifically defended nests. Nests were small and numerous. No intraspecific aggression was ever observed, either under natural conditions or at bait stations. Wasmannia density increased with altitude up to near the summit of the island. The species is not presently found in either the driest or wettest parts of Santa Cruz. Currently no ant species occurs on Santa Cruz which can coexist with Wasmannia in zones of high Wasmannia density. Because Wasmannia occurs in high density and consumes a variety of invertebrate prey, it is probably causing major ecosystem changes in invertebrate diversity and density.
10.2307/2989827|In wet tropical regions of Peru and the Panama Canal Zone, saltatorial Orthoptera were found to visit flowers of certain species of Commelinaceae, Compositae, Gramineae, and Euphorbiaceae. Tettigoniids, especially Conocephalus, were the commonest visitors, though representatives of Tridactylidae, Gryllidae, and Acrididae were also seen on the flowers. Most were nymphs. In the Commelinaceae, the principal family studied, most of the visitors fed only on the anthers, and some were observed to walk from flower to flower. This behavior suggests that they may effect some pollination. However, their destruction of the anthers, which reduces a flower's potential for more efficient bee pollination, would probably make the orthopterans' net effect on the plant deleterious.
41241932|We discuss a recent press release calling on wealthy countries to do more to combat climate change and protect their biodiversity. We examine some further examples of how questionable views are imposed unilaterally on conservation problems. Until we better engage with local perspectives we shall be less credible and less effective as conservationists.
30045398|Aggregation patterns of plants vary according to spatial scale and developmental stage, and are dependent on vegetation dynamics and species composition. We describe the aggregation patterns of the epiphytic orchid Psychilis monensis from two sites with different vegetation structure and composition on Mona Island, Puerto Rico. We analyzed spatial variation for seedlings, juveniles, and adults using the density-independent, standardized Morisita index (IMS) We censused a total of 879 plants. Strong preferences for some phorophyte species were evident, including dead trees, but association with bark roughness was equivocal. The highest densities occurred in the site with the lowest fruit and seed production, suggesting that the best sites for pollination and seedling establishment were not the same. Seedlings at one site were significantly aggregated, but all other stages were indistinguishable from a random distribution. Nevertheless, adults at both sites had the lowest IMS values indicating that they tend to be the least aggregated of the three life history stages. The abundance and age structure of P. monensis were clearly affected by the frequency of their preferred hosts, but site-specific factors affecting seedling survival probably play a major role in site differences.
10.2307/2388336|Results of a survey of nitrogen-fixing blue-green algal epi- and endophytes growing in the cloud-shroud climate on the tropical volcano La Soufriere (Guadeloupe, French West Indies) are reported. Microepiphyllac on Clusia mangle leaves increased with leaf age, and rates of C$_2$H$_2$ reduction were 47 times higher during cloud-shroud conditions than during solar shocks. Phyllosphere rates of C$_2$H$_2$ reduction for Norantea were about 0.76-2.22 $\eta$ moles/cm$^2$/hr for the oldest leaves, and epicaulous rates of C$_2$H$_2$ reduction for Tibouchina were the highest measured in plants tested. The Hapalosiphon flexuosus rate of C$_2$H$_2$ reduction was 1.26 $\eta$ moles/gdw/hr at pH 4.5 on Sphagnum. Endophytic blue-green algae in the lichens Stereocaulon ramulosum and Cora pavonia were 37.6 and 3966 $\eta$ moles/gdw/hr, respectively.
10.2307/2388181|A 12-month field investigation was conducted on the diet and foraging activities of moustached (Saguinus mystax) and saddle-back (Saguinus fuscicollis) tamarin monkeys in the Amazon Basin of northeastern Peru. Throughout most of the year insects, fruits, and plant exudates are the primary components of the tamarin diet. However, during the dry season months of July and August, nectar from Symphonia globulifera (Guttiferae) accounted for 22-31 percent of tamarin feeding time. These primates are highly destructive in their nectar-feeding activities: a single adult tamarin may destroy 6-14 Symphonia flowers per feeding minute. Foraging activities associated with nectar feeding are reminiscent of traplining behavior and characterized by goal-directed travel to particular feeding trees. S. mystax and S. fuscicollis appear to be aware of the distribution and location of flowering Symphonia trees in their home range and select nectar sites largely on the basis of proximity. In 86 percent of all cases, the nectar tree nearest the previous feeding tree was also visited. The mean distance between these feeding sites was 107 m. Expectations regarding the amount and variance of the food reward were also important factors in tamarin foraging decisions. It is argued that by minimizing random foraging movements and bypassing trees with limited food rewards, these small-bodied primates are able to exploit widely scattered but predictable resources.
4132959|Since the discovery of Drosophila pseudoobscura in the tropical highlands of the Colombian Andes during the 1960s, this population has been studied by many evolutionary biologists because of its geographical isolation from the main North American range of this species. We used five highly variable microsatellite loci (DPSX001, DPS2001, DPS3001, DPS3002, and DPS4001) to analyze the genetic structure of three Colombian populations and the genetic relationships with four North American populations. We found that the average heterozygosity was consistent among the three tropical Colombian populations (H = 0.665-0.675), but they had less variability than their North American counterparts. Nonetheless, the genie diversity found in the Colombian populations was higher than that found previously using other genetic markers. The average genie heterogeneity estimate among the Colombian populations (
10.2307/2388248|Hurricane Hugo caused low to moderate damage to a flood plain forest that was partially protected by its topographic position. Treefalls and the location of damage suggested N to NW wind direction during the storm. Thirty percent of the trees, or 693 trees/ha, had some damage and 84 percent of the damage was to the canopy Most of the damage to trees was caused by direct wind impact (83%) as opposed to secondary effects (16%). Over 80 percent of the snapped, leaning, and uprooted trees were dicotyledonous. Tree mortality was only 1 percent, and most of the damage to the sierra palm Prestoea montana (R. Grah.) Nichols was loss of leaves. Rapid refoliation, epicormic branching, adventitious root production, resprouting, and regeneration from seed in open areas were observed nine months after the event. Ten percent of the aboveground biomass and 12-16 percent of the nutrient stocks (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) were transferred to the forest floor, mostly in the form of woody biomass and nutrient-rich leaves. Palm leaves were the dominant leaf component of necromass. Instantaneous in situ fine and coarse necromass production was 10 and 9.2 Mg/ha, respectively. Net changes in aboveground mass, N, P, K, Ca, and Mg (in percent of prehurricane value) were 8, 3, 0, 3, 12, and 1, respectively, in spite of a high rate of loss by export. The source of additional mass and nutrients were boles from upland forests that fell into and remained inside the flood plain.
2388822|Forest closure on the three original Krakatau Islands (Panjang, Rakata, and Sertung) took place ca 1930, about 50 yr after the apparent sterilization of the islands due to volcanic eruptions. Two permanent forest plots were established on each of these islands in 1989. A full enumeration of these plots, of two additional Rakata plots, and of two "mainland" plots from the Ujung Kulon National Park, West Java, was undertaken in 1992. These data provide the first estimates of aboveground biomass from Krakatau. The values reported for Krakatau are below the local West Javan figures, with considerable variation occurring within the islands. In 1992, the fourth Krakatau island, Anak Krakatau, began an eruption sequence which continued through the study period, depositing ash on the study sites of Panjang and Sertung. A further partial survey of these plots in 1994-1995 revealed a significant increase in mortality since the volcanic activity recommenced, with an increase in deaths of larger stems. Although Rakata has not been influenced directly by volcanism, three sites surveyed on Rakata in 1994-1995 have experienced increased tree mortality, in two cases as a consequence of storm damage and in particular, of lightning strikes. Stand dynamics on Krakatau thus appear to be strongly influenced by episodic environmental disturbance with varying degrees of dependence on the volcanic activity of Anak Krakatau.
10.2307/2989702|Estimations of number of individuals and survival rate for Parides anchises and P. neophilus have been made in an area in the Northern Range, Trinidad, West Indies, where the insects are particularly common. The change in numbers observed reflects the onset of the wet season, during which the species become most abundant. The estimated survival rate is 0.84 per day, indicating an expectation of life of between 5 and 10 days. This is much shorter than the possible duration of life known from observation of specimens in insectaries, and is similar to the values obtained for a variety of Lepidoptera in temperate regions. It is suggested that one factor contributing to low survival is the very heavy rain showers that were experienced.
10.2307/2387713|The arthropods of umbels of papyrus (Cyperus papyrus L.) were collected from three sites in the Upemba Swamp region of the Zaire River. Abundance and diversity of arthropods increased with age of umbel and with the purity and vigor of the papyrus stand. Herbivores predominated in the early age classes, predators and detritivores in the later ones. Ants were numerically important and spiders both abundant and diverse. The papyrus ecosystem appears to combine very high primary productivity with very low diversity.
30044931|To determine the spatial dynamics of Neotropical lotic insect species, specimens were collected from 41 streams on the eastern and western flanks of the Andes Mountains in Ecuador. We examined the manner in which taxonomic richness and composition differed with elevation, latitude, and versant. Statistical analyses were limited to 5 families (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae, Leptohyphidae, Oligoneuriidae; Heteroptera: Naucoridae; Coleoptera: Elmidae), comprising 32 genera and 85 species, for which identifications or morphospecies assignments were reliable. Assessment of taxonomic diversity was based on the richness of genera and species at each site. In addition, each site was characterized by species richness within each of 4 families with more than 10 species. The effects of versant and transect on composition and structure were family-specific. Mean site differences between versants in elmid richness at generic and specific levels depended on transect. Only baetid richness was affected by versant and transect in a consistent manner. Variation among sites in composition based on all genera and species was captured using multidimensional scaling (MDS). Subsequent MANOVAs based on scores from MDS axes revealed that differences between versants were much stronger in the southern transect, although transects differed from each other at specific and generic levels. A Jaccards similarity matrix was computed for each family to reflect the spatial organization of taxonomic composition. Mesogeographic patterns of species composition for each of the four families were correlated (Mantel analysis) at both the regional level and at the level of the entire study area. At the regional level, the only pair of families to exhibit correlated patterns of species composition was elmids and naucorids in the southwestern region. The pattern of species composition for each family was correlated with the patterns for one or more other families at the level of the entire study area. Thus, spatial dynamics of species composition was similar for the families examined, suggesting that the Andes exert a consistent influence on species distributions within families, regardless of ordinal affiliation. At a local scale, however, the way in which taxonomic composition changed with latitude and versant was family-specific. Mayflies, the most vaglie of the taxa studied, had the highest percentage of species overlap between versants. Of three genera of Naucoridae collected, species of Ambrysus, of probable Mexican origin, were found only on the eastern versant, corroborating other evidence that the genus is recent in South America. Moreover, dispersion by Ambrysus across the Andes Mountains may not have occurred, as it has for Cryphocricos and Limnocoris, which are of probable South American origin.
2663942|We studied the bee fauna visiting a plant community of 10 species of flowering aquatic plants in an inundated savanna region in Bolivia. In total we observed 36 bee species in 17 genera at the flowers. Cluster analysis of the similarities among the plant species in terms of their visitor spectra showed a division into two groups: plants with inflorescence heights shorter than the grass height and plants with inflorescences projecting out of the surrounding vegetation. Larger bees of the genera Apis, Melipona, Bombus, and Xylocopa were observed only at flowers above the surrounding vegetation. Smaller, mainly solitary bees (e.g., Augochlorella, Ancyloscelis) visited flowers in the dense vegetation near the water surface. Analyses of the pollen loads revealed that most individuals were highly flower constant. When bees carried different pollen types, it was generally pollen from flowers within a single stratum. We discuss specialization, flower constancy, competition, and different foraging strategies as possible reasons for stratum fidelity.
30043292|In the Janzen-Connell hypothesis, host-specific natural enemies enhance species diversity and influence the structure of plant communities. This study tests the explicit assumption of host specificity for soil pathogens of the genus Pythium that cause damping-off disease of germinating seeds and seedlings. We isolated Pythium spp. from soil of a tropical forest in Panama. Then, in an inoculation experiment, we determined the pathogenicity of 75 tropical isolates of unknown pathogenicity and seven pathogenic temperate isolates of Pythium on seeds and/or seedlings of eight tropical tree species. Only three tropical isolates, one identified as  ultimum and two as  aphanidermatum, were pathogenic. Tropical pathogenic isolates were pathogenic on 4-6 of eight tree species. Temperate isolates were pathogenic on 0-4 of eight species, indicating that some tropical tree species are susceptible to novel isolates of Pythium. No tree species was susceptible to all isolates and two species were not susceptible to any isolate. Collectively, these results indicate that these Pythium isolates vary widely in their pathogenicity, causing differential mortality of potential host species; likewise, the tree species vary in their susceptibility to a given Pythium isolate. These differences in pathogenicity and susceptibility indicate some support for the Janzen-Connell assumption of host specificity. While they are not restricted to a single species, their intermediate level of specificity suggests that Pythium spp. have the potential to have some effect on forest community structure and diversity.
2663786|Vegetation, seed rain, seed germination, microclimate, and soil physical and chemical parameters were measured in a recently abandoned pasture and adjacent primary rain forest in southern Costa Rica. The goal of this study was to assess the importance of these factors in limiting forest regeneration in abandoned pastures. Seed rain of animal dispersed species decreased dramatically in the pasture >5 m from the forest/pasture edge; fewer wind dispersed seeds fell in the pasture than in the forest, but the difference was much less than for animal dispersed seeds. Percent seed germination of most species studied was similar in the forest and in pasture with grasses; seed germination was lower during the dry season in areas of pasture cleared of grasses. Air temperature, vapor pressure deficit (VPD), and photon flux density (PFD) were much higher in the pasture than in the forest at 1 m above the ground. VPD and PFD at ground level and soil temperature were similar in the pasture and the forest, indicating that pasture grasses strongly modify microclimatic conditions near the soil surface. The lowest gravimetric water content recorded in the pasture during the dry season was 0.5 and leaf relative water contents of the two species measured in the forest and pasture were identical, suggesting that plants in the pasture were not water stressed. Levels of most soil nutrients were lower in the pasture as compared to the forest; however, aboveground and root biomass for seedlings grown in pasture and forest soils did not differ significantly. Although a number of factors impede forest recovery in abandoned pastures, these results suggest that the most important limitation is lack of seed dispersal.
40645553|When assessing fragmentation effects on species, not only habitat preferences on the landscape scale, but also microhabitat selection is an important factor to consider, as microhabitat is also affected by habitat disturbance, but nevertheless essential for species for foraging, nesting and sheltering. In the Atlantic Rainforest of Brazil we examined microhabitat selection of six Pyriglena leucoptera (white-shouldered fire-eye), 10 Sclerurus scansor (rufous-breasted leaftosser), and 30 Chiroxiphia caudata (blue manakin). We radio-tracked the individuals between May 2004 and February 2005 to gain home ranges based on individual fixed kernels. Vegetation structures in core plots and fringe plots were compared. In C. caudata, we additionally assessed the influence of behavioural traits on microhabitat selection. Further, we compared microhabitat structures in the fragmented forest with those in the contiguous, and contrasted the results with the birds' preferences. Pyriglena leucoptera preferred liana tangles that were more common in the fragmented forest, whereas S. scansor preferred woody debris, open forest floor (up to 0.5 m), and a thin closed leaf litter cover which all occurred significantly more often in the contiguous forest. Significant differences were detected in C. caudata for vegetation densities in the different strata; the distance of core plots to the nearest lek site was significantly influenced by sex and age. However, core sites of C. caudata in fragmented and contiguous forests showed no significant differences in structure. Exploring microhabitat selection and behavior may greatly support the understanding of habitat selection of species and their susceptibility to fragmentation on the landscape scale.
10.2307/2989624|The process of cation leaching in a tropical soil was investigated at Finca La Selva, Costa Rica. It was concluded that carbonic acid is the agent responsible for most cation leaching in this soil, just as it is in a temperate Douglas-fir forest soil in western Washington. Calculated carbon dioxide pressures in the tropical soil are approximately an order of magnitude greater than those in the temperate soil; thus it is presumed that the greater soil carbon dioxide production in the tropical soil has played a major role in depleting the reserve of exchangeable cations therein. Carbon dioxide evolution studies conducted at the site indicate that probably less than half the total soil carbon dioxide evolved comes from initial litter decomposition. Consequently, high decomposition rates cannot necessarily be directly related to high soil-leaching potential. Other aspects of mineral transfer in solution are discussed with special reference to storm duration, storm intensity, and uptake by vegetation.
10.2307/2387878|The Arescini and Cephaloliini are two closely related tribes of hispine chrysomelid beetles, parasitic upon Zingiberales in the New World tropics. These "rolled-leaf hispinae" live in and feed from the scroll-like immature leaves of Zingiberales. Adults are flat and less spiny or sculptured than most other Hispinae, tropical or temperate. Larvae are grossly flattened and morphologically suited for life between the appressed host plant surfaces. Larvae do not burrow into the plant tissues but live and feed from the surface of host organs, as do adults, by reciprocal scraping with the mandibles. Host species specificity varies from monophagous to polyphagous within Zingiberales families for both larvae and adults. Some species change host species geographically. It is rare for one beetle species to attack plants in more than one Zingiberales family. Species richness of beetles is correlated with host-species range, size, and diversity.
2389218|Patterns and levels of allozyme variation among populations of Amazonian frogs were used to test the riverine barrier hypothesis of species differentiation. Two frog species were sampled from each of the two main forest habitats on both banks of the Jurua River in the southwestern Brazilian Amazon Basin at various points along its course to contrast different barrier strengths. Scarthyla ostinodactyla and Scinax rubra were sampled from flooded forest (varzea), and Physalaemus petersi and Epipedobates femoralis from non-flooded forest (terra firme). All species showed high levels of within-population genetic variation. Average Nei's (1978) and Rogers' (1972) genetic distances between sampled sites for all species were high indicating substantial among-population differentiation. The observation of low gene flow between sampled sites within species was further substantiated with Slatkin's (1993) M analyses. Randomization tests suggested that there was some population structure at a few assayed polymorphic loci that was consistent with the riverine barrier hypothesis. However, it was apparent from the raw allozyme frequency data that these results were largely driven by substantial differentiation at one or a few collecting localities rather than by basin-wide patterns of riverine differentiation. Phenograms using genetic distance matrices supported this interpretation. Patterns of geographic variation are probably more consistent with the idea of this region being a zone of secondary contact.
2663870|To determine if there were consistent differences in growth, mortality, and recruitment on slopes and ridge crests in tropical montane forests, which could explain the (frequent but not universal) low stature of trees in the ridgetop forests, we analyzed data from long-term plots in Jamaica (1990-1994; sixteen 200-m
10.2307/2388647|In a sample of fruits of 57 cultivated species (25 temperate and 32 tropical/subtropical) we found that sugar concentrations did not significantly differ. Furthermore, percentages of disaccharides did not significantly differ between the New World and Old World groups in either the tropical/subtropical or temperate samples. The tropical/subtropical species, however, produce fruits significantly higher in disaccharides (and consequently lower in hexoses) than fruits of temperate species.
40863748|We describe the mesoscale floristic patterns in the central Western Ghats of Karnataka, India, through combined analysis of woody species abundance and stand structure data from a network of ninety-six 1-ha sampling plots spread across 22,000 km. A total of 61,906 individuals (> 10 cm gbh) comprising 400 plant species from 254 genera and 75 families were recorded. Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, Lauraceae and Moraceae families constituted 23.5 percent of the total number of species encountered. The relative dominance of species was skewed with Poecilonueron indicum, Xylia xylocarpa, Terminalia tomentosa and Anogeissus latifolia being dominant in some plots. Correspondence analysis (CA) and a nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) of plots by species abundances data showed similar arching patterns, with significant correlation between the first axis of CA and NMDS (r=0.77). Hierarchical clustering of plot scores along the three first CA axes resulted in splitting the plots into five different categories that broadly reflect the major bioclimatic features of the region. A multiscale bootstrapping test indicated that categorization of the wettest (wet evergreen group 1 and 2) and driest (dry deciduous) groups were robust (P < 0.05 with 1000 bootstraps), while the remaining two transitional groups were uncertain (P= 0.12 and 0.26 for moist deciduous and semi-evergreen group, respectively). Principal component analysis revealed that plots with similar floristic composition can encompass contrastingly different physiognomic structures (canopy cover, canopy height and mean tree diameter) probably in relation to their levels of disturbance. Observed patterns in the floristic composition have been discussed in the light of the complex interaction between the bioclimatic and disturbance regimes that characterize the region.
10.2307/2388902|Owing to differences in morphology and growth rates among tree species, monospecific tree stands may differ in their ability to suppress the growth of understory plants through shading and root competition. I assessed relative understory suppression and intensity of root competition in year-old stands of Cordia alliodora, Hyeronima alchorneoides, and Cedrela odorata by measuring the growth of seedlings of the pioneer tree Piper auritum and cuttings of the shade-tolerant shrub P phytolaccaefolium that were planted into trenched and untrenched sites under the trees. After 5 mo, growth of P auritum was significantly less under Cordia and Hyeronima than under Cedrela or in the open. The most severe growth reductions occurred under Hyeronima, the species with the highest leaf area index (LAI). Lack of a significant trenching response under Hyperonima suggests the competitive effects of this species were largely the result of shading. In contrast, the competitive effects of Cordia, a species with relatively high fine root density and open canopy, were almost entirely below ground. Nonetheless, the effects of Cordia and Hyeronima on the growth of P auritum seedlings were equivalent when compared on a per-unit of tree canopy LAI basis. Lack of P auritum growth suppression under Cedrela is likely the result of the open canopies and relatively low fine root densities of the Cedrela stands. In contrast to the growth of P auritum. P. phytolaccaefolium growth did not differ among tree overstories. These results suggest that, among tree species, differences in morphology can lead to differences in understory suppression, but these differences depend upon the understory species.
30043105|Animals, especially insects, are principal pollen vectors of tropical trees and have behavior patterns that affect gene dispersal. Here, we explore complex pollination systems using a new simulation model Eco-Gene and considering, among other factors, flowering synchrony, spatial distribution of trees, degree of selfing, population densities, pollinator flight distances, pollen deposition, and pollinator response to floral display size. Sensitivity analyses using two contrasting tree data sets (Jacaranda copaia and Dipteryx odorata) determined the importance of each parameter on three response variables: the proportion of seeds from self-pollination, effective population size, and pollen dispersai. Spatial considerations and attractiveness of floral displays were prominent features determining the population genetic result of pollinators, and some biological implications of the results are discussed. /// Animales, insectos en particular, son los vectores principales del polen de los arboles tropicales y como consecuencia su comportamiento afecta dispersin gentica. Aqu se examina sistemas de la polinizacin en su totalidad, aplicando un nuevo programa de simulacro Eco-Gene, que se toma en cuenta, entre otros factores, sincronicidad de floracin, distribucin de arboles, grado de auto-fecundacin, densidad poblacional, distancia de vuelo, polen deposicin, y respuesta comportamiental de polenizadores al tamao del anuncio floral. Sensitivity anlisis con datos contrastantes de dos arboles (Jacaranda copaia y Dipteryx odorata) evalu la importancia de cada parmetro y su resultado respeto a: la proporcin de semillas producidas por autofecundacin, tamao poblacional efectivo, y distancia de dispersin del polen. Las cualidades espaciales de poblaciones, y la atractividad del anuncio floral determinaban fuertemente las consecuencias de polinizacion, y se considera implicaciones biolgicas y genticas de los resultados.
2663808|Forest succession on degraded tropical lands often is slowed by impoverished seed banks and low rates of seed dispersal. Within degraded landscapes, remnant forests are potential seed sources that could enhance nearby forest succession. The spatial extent that forest can influence succession, however, remains largely unstudied. In abandoned agricultural lands in Kibale National Park, Uganda, recurrent fires have helped perpetuate the dominance of tall (2-3 m) grasses. We examined the effects of distance from forest and grassland vegetation structure on succession in a grassland having several years of fire exclusion. At 10 and 25 m from forest edge, we quantified vegetation patterns, seed predation, and survival of planted tree seedlings. Natural vegetation was similar at both distances, as was seed (eight species) and seedling (six species) survival; however, distance may be important at spatial or temporal scales not examined in this study. Our results offer insight into forest succession on degraded tropical grasslands following fire exclusion. Naturally recruited trees and tree seedlings were scarce, and seed survival was low (20% after 7 mo). While seedling survival was high (95% after 6 to 8 mo), seedling shoot growth was very slow (x = 0.5 cm/100 d), suggesting that survivorship eventually may decline. Recurrent fires often impede forest succession in degraded tropical grasslands; however, even with fire exclusion, our study suggests that forest succession can be very slow, even in close proximity to forest.
10.2307/2989650| In the Galapagos Islands, the Opuntia cactus is represented by a large number of endemic species and varieties displaying different vegetative and reproductive characteristics on each island. To determine the adaptive significance of this variation in relation to the conditions on each island, studies of Opuntia populations and individuals growing on three islands were carried out; relationships between the dimensions of tree height, trunk diameter, pad numbers and fruit numbers were determined, and seed-fruit energetics were measured for Opuntia trees on Santa Cruz, Santa F, and Pinzon Islands. Additional seed collections and analysis of variation in Opuntia from other islands are included. Interisland differences in height-diameter growth, pad production, and reproductive effort of Opuntia are related to the amount of competition for light with other woody plants and possibly to wind intensity. The prolonged and asynchronous dropping of fruit by Opuntia may act both to increase assurance of seed dispersal by iguanas and tortoises and to decrease chances of seed predation by finches. The interisland variation in seed-coat thickness may be affected by predation pressure as determined by the numbers of alternative plant food sources on an island. 
10.2307/2989796|Chromosome numbers and karyotypic observations are reported for 27 species of neotropical Lepidoptera in 8 families (Satyridae, Ithomiidae, Nymphalidae, Papilionidae, Pieridae, Lycaenidae, Riodinidae, and Hesperiidae) Characteristic haploid numbers for certain genera are found: Parides (N=30 or 31), Phoebis (N=31), Eurema (N=28, 29, 30, or 31). Dynamine (N=29 or 30), Mestra (N=31 or 33), Anartia (N=31) and Agraulis (N=31). Two genera showing widely varying chromosome numbers are Heliconius (N=19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 38, and 56) and Mechanitis with (N=16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 24). The butterflies in these genera are involved in extensive mimicry complexes. The occurrence of fragmentation in Heliconius and Mechanitis may play a role in promoting ease of genetic recombination, which in turn could increase the diversity of phenotypes in the population and influence effects of natural selection.
30044006|Plant establishment and growth on rocky outcrops in the Itatiaia massif (2400 m a.s.l.), southeastern Brazil, are limited by lack of soil and by freezing temperatures in winter nights. Mat-forming species of different sizes and shapes on bare rock provide substrate for other plants to establish. The habitat preference of two geophytes, Stevia camporum (Asteraceae) and Alstroemeria foliosa (Alstroemeriaceae), was compared with regard to their association with the type of mat species and distinct rock topographies. The habitat preference of the mat species in regard to topography was also assessed. We found 1706 ramets of S. camporum and 1317 of A. foliosa in 253 vegetation islands ranging in size from 0.005 to 18.097 m. Mat species in these islands were Fernseea itatiaiae, Vriesea itatiaiae (both Bromeliaceae), Pleurostima gounelleana (Velloziaceae) and/or Campylopuspilifer (Dicranaceae) and other mosses. Mat species were segregated by topography. Geophytes were similarly distributed across types of topography but showed negative interspecific association. S. camporum occurred mostly on the moss-dominated islands, whereas A. foliosa was more common in P. gounelleana islands. We found geophyte co-occurrence in larger vegetation islands containing both P. gounelleana and mosses as mat species. Thus, the effect of topography on geophyte segregation was indirect, since topography affects mat species distribution, and the geophyte preference for distinct mat species as substrate resulted in their segregation. /// O estabelecimento e crescimento de plantas nos afloramentos rochosos do macio do Itatiaia (2400 m s.n.m.) so limitados por fatores como falta de solo e temperaturas congelantes nas noites de inverno. Plantas que formam tapetes sobre a rocha nua (espcies-tapete), de diferentes tamanhos e formas, provm substrato para outras plantas se estabelecerem. A preferncia de habitat de duas gefitas, Stevia camporum (Asteraceae) and Alstroemeria foliosa (Alstroemeriaceae) foi comparada em relao ao tipo de espcie-tapete e s diferentes topografias. A preferncia de habitat das espcies-tapete em relao s classes de topografia tambm foi avaliada. No total foram encontrados 1706 ramos de S. camporum e 1317 at A. foliosa em 253 ilhas de vegetao, variando em tamanho de 0.005 a 18.097 m. As espcies-tapete foram Fernseea itatiaiae, Vriesea itatiaiae (ambas Bromeliaceae), Pleurostima gounelleana (Velloziaceae) e/ou Campylopus pilifer (Dicranaceae) e outras brifitas. As espcies-tapete segregaram-se em relao s topografias. As gefitas distriburam-se de maneira similar entre as classes de topografia, mas mostraram associao interespecfica negativa, S. camporum ocorreu mais em ilhas dominadas por brifitas, A. foliosa foi mais comum nas ilhas de P. gounelleana. A co-ocorrncia das duas espcies se deu em ilhas grandes onde brifitas e P. gounelleana eram as espcies-tapete. Portanto, o efeito da topografia na segregao das gefitas foi indireto, pois esta afetou a segregao das espcies-tapete. A preferncia das gefitas por distintas espcies-tapete como substrato resultou em sua segregao espacial.
30043294|Ant predation is widely believed to play an important role in life history and evolution of tropical social wasps. While army ants are known to cause high rates of nest loss in swarm-founding social wasps, no studies have quantified the impact of predation by non-army ants on colony success. In this study we recorded survivorship of colonies of the swarm-founding wasp, Polybia occidentalis, in Costa Rica at a site where we suspected that scouting-and-recruiting ants cause nest abandonment. We found that scouting-and-recruiting ants prey upon active nests of P. occidentalis, and conclude that predation by these ants is an important brood mortality factor in the life history of P. occidentalis colonies at our field site.
10.2307/2387693|During much of the year, foraging slit-faced bats (Nycteris thebaica) in Natal, South Africa, preyed mainly on Orthoptera, especially katydids, crickets, and cockroaches. At times, substantial quantities of Lepidoptera, Isoptera, Homoptera, and Coleoptera were also taken. Slit-faced bats seem to prefer those insects characterized by large body size, abundance, and ease of location and capture. Many of these are captured while stationary, or at least when at rest rather than in flight.
40863794|Although fire is frequent in African savanna ecosystems and may cause considerable loss of nitrogen (N), N-fixing herbaceous legumes which could be expected to benefit from low N conditions are usually not abundant. To investigate possible reasons for this scarcity, we conducted a pot experiment using two common plants of humid African savannas as model species, the legume Cassia mimosoides and the C grass Hyperthelia dissoluta. These species were grown at different levels of water, N and phosphorus (P), both in monoculture and in competition with each other. In the monocultures, yields were significantly increased by the combined addition of N and P in pots receiving high water supply. In pots with interspecific competition, the legume grew poorly unless P was added. Foliar N values of legume plants grown in mixtures were considerably lower than those in monocultures, suggesting that rates of symbiotic N-fixation were higher in the presence of the grass. Grass N values, however, were also lower in mixtures, while N concentrations were higher, indicating a rapid transfer of N from the legume to the grass. We conclude that the main reason for the low abundance of C. mimosoides is not low P availability as such, but a greater ability of H. dissoluta to compete for soil N and P, and a much higher N-use efficiency. If other C grasses have a similar competitive advantage, it could explain why herbaceous legumes are generally sparse in African savannas. We encourage others to test these findings using species from other types of savanna vegetation.
10.2307/2989768|The general ecology of the understory shrub Jacqumia pungens is described, with special reference to its behavior of bearing leaves during the dry season (when the overhead forest canopy is deciduous) and being deciduous during the rainy season. The bush is restricted to those stages of lowland deciduous forest succession ranging from 10 to 50 years of age; it appears to starve to death or be competitively excluded from habitats where it is continuously insolated, and from older or wetter forest where it does not receive enough sunlight owing to light obstruction by the deep canopy during the dry season. As expected for a plant that is vegetatively active during the dry season, the plant is especially well protected from herbivores by needle-tipped leaves and toxic compounds in the foliage. Effectively. J pungens has invaded a seasonally available prairie and has the bush life form characteristic of woody plants in such well-insolated habitats.
10.2307/2389198|The distribution of vascular epiphytes was analyzed on three emergent trees (Hura crepitans, Ceiba pentandra, and Couratari stellata). A total number of 77 species, including 46 orchids, in 17 families was recorded. Number of species was highest in the center of the tree crowns while cover was highest in the middle third of the crown or equally distributed. This leads to the assumption that succession does not always reach equilibrium on old branches towards crown center. Distribution patterns of single species do not necessarily correspond to that of the total epiphyte mass. The entire epiphyte cover is highest on the top of branches while certain species, that could be discussed as specialists on the basis of particular life-form characteristics, are equally abundant on the bottom. There was no clear distribution pattern with respect to branch inclination. Distribution patterns are partly explained by the life-form of the plants.
40891356|Protected areas (PAs) on tropical mountains undergo greater forest destruction in their lower altitudes. We compared the extent of forested, nonforested, and fragmented areas between lowland (< 1000 m asl) and montane zones of the Blue Mountains inside the Blue and John Crow Mountains National Park established in Jamaica in 1993. We found that in 2008, inside the montane zone, only 4 percent of forest was cleared, and forest fragmentation was minimal. In the lowland zone, however, the percentage of forest cleared was seven times as high, and the density of fragments was 11-fold higher. We established twenty-five 0.04 ha lowland plots; ordination of tree species composition in these plots reflected a rainfall gradient, showing that plots on the wetter northern side of the Blue Mountains were floristically different from those on the drier southern side. The conservation value of the remaining lowland forest is high because of its high endemism (18% of species in our plots) and beta diversity. In addition, IUCN Red List data show that about 71 percent of threatened tree species in the Blue Mountains grow in the lowland region, 92 percent of which are endemic. From these findings, we identify a 'protected area hotspot zone', which lies between the PA boundary and the core high-altitude zone, and which should be instituted in IUCN categories I and II PAs.
10.2307/2989774|The species of continental tropical American ferns are concentrated in three primary geographic areas, the Mexican, the Andean and the Brazilian, and two secondary areas, the Central American and Guayanan. These regional centers contain about 90 percent of the continental fern flora, and about 60 percent of these species are endemics. The intervening areas between the centers are relatively poor in species and especially in endemics. The regional centers are distinctive floristic-geographic regions. Their location and environmental history have had a major role in the development of the tropical American fern flora by the processes of geographic speciation: regional isolation, long-distance migration, and peripheral divergence. The spores of ferns have a high dispersal capacity, but geographic isolation may be effective at distances within the dispersal range especially if enforced by ecological isolation. Speciation by peripheral divergence has been especially important in the development of the high numbers of species and endemics that characterize the primary regional centers.
10.2307/2388125|This paper describes a distinctive vegetation type occurring on white-sand soils which are scattered throughout the Amazon region. Although essentially homologous throughout Amazonia, white-sand vegetation is known locally by various terms: to avoid confusion, exclusive use of the single term "Amazon caatinga" is proposed. The Amazon caatinga is distinguished from other regional vegetation types by its white-sand soil, scleromorphic physiognomy, and unusual floristic composition. Possible origins of the white-sand soil include: in-situ weathering, alluvial deposition, or podzolization. The scleromorphic physiognomy of the caatinga indicates a lack of nutrients and/or periodic water deficiencies in the soil. Extreme edaphic conditions and the insularity of these sites have probably acted as powerful selective forces, generating a biota characteristically low in diversity and high in endemism. Numerous endemic species may currently face extinction due to wide-spread burning of caatinga vegetation. Repeated fires on white-sand sites result in the effective arrest of succession; subsequent mining of these sites for sand eliminates any possibility of vegetational reestablishment. Alternative benefits of the Amazon caatinga in its intact state are considered.
30044952|Lianas impose intense resource competition for light in the upper forest canopy by displaying dense foliage on top of tree crowns. Using repeated access with a construction crane, we studied the patterns of canopy colonization of the lianas Combretum fruticosum and Bonamia trichantha in a Neotropical dry forest in Panama. Combretum fruticosum flushed leaves just before the rainy season, and its standing leaf area quickly reached a peak in the early rainy season (May-June). In contrast, B. trichantha built up foliage area continuously throughout the rainy season and reached a peak in the late rainy season (November). Both species displayed the majority of leaves in full sun on the canopy surface, but fruticosum displayed a greater proportion of leaves (26%) in more shaded microsites than B. trichantha (12%). Self-shading within patches of liana leaves within the uppermost 40-50 cm of the canopy reduced light levels measured with photodiodes placed directly on leaves to 4-9 percent of light levels received by sun leaves. Many leaves of C. fruticosum acclimated to shade within a month following the strongly synchronized leaf flushing and persisted in deep shade. In contrast, B. trichantha produced short-lived leaves opportunistically in the sunniest locations. Species differences in degree of shade acclimation were also evident in terms of structural (leaf mass per area, and leaf toughness) and physiological characters (nitrogen content, leaf life span, and light compensation point). Contrasting leaf phenologies reflect differences in light exploitation and canopy colonization strategies of these two liana species. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388029|On Barro Colorado Island, Panama, conflict occasionally occurs between Turkey Vultures and Howler Monkeys, apparently for choice early-morning sunning sites. Vultures have previously been documented to require early-morning solar radiation to facilitate feather-drying and/or elevation of body temperatures. No such mechanisms have been documented as necessary for Howler Monkeys. A hypothesis is presented suggesting that behavioral thermoregulation in howlers is a required part of the general strategy of utilizing an energy-poor diet. Heat obtained from solar radiation may reduce demands on metabolic energy for maintaining proper body temperatures and increase the efficiency of digestive fermentation.
20492490|In SE Asian rain forests, general flowering, a community-wide synchronous flowering, occurs at irregular and supra-annual intervals. During general flowering periods (GFP), most Dipterocarpaceae and many other trees flower profusely, while flowering plants are scant between GFP. During flowerless periods, anthophilous animals that depend on floral resources for food may suffer food shortages and subsequently decrease in abundance. Flower-visiting chrysomelid adults are major pollinators for some canopy tree species that flower during GFP. Although such chrysomelids feed on flower petals, the means by which they survive flowerless periods remains unknown. We determined the abundance of flower-visiting chrysomelids in GFP and non-GFP through light trap samples and examined the effects of the presence of young leaves and flowers of dipterocarps on local abundance, and feeding preferences of flower-visiting chrysomelids. We found no clear tendency that the chrysomelid species number and the abundance during GFP were consistently higher than those during non-GFP. Chrysomelid adults were more abundant on trees with many young leaves or flowers than on trees lacking young leaves and flowers. At least a few flower-visiting chrysomelids were observed feeding on young dipterocarp leaves and visiting young leaves and flowers of non-dipterocarps in the canopy during non-GFP. All results consistently suggest that chrysomelids are able to survive flowerless periods by feeding on the young leaves of dipterocarps and on the young leaves and flowers of non-dipterocarps; through this alternate feeding, chrysomelid populations are maintained at sufficient levels to function as effective pollinators of trees that flower during GFP.
10.2307/2989795|Most coral-reef asteroids of Guam, at least 24 species in total, represent those which are widely distributed in the Indo-West Pacific. The diversity of asteroid fauna in Micronesia and its surrounding region follows a general trend of a faunal center in the rich Indo-Malayan Archipelago area with the number of species diminishing eastward in the scattered and remote oceanic islands. Larval development in many common reef asteroids is oriented toward dispersion by producing planktotrophic and surface-floating larvae which stay in the pelagic environment for three weeks or longer. The major oceanic surface currents flow westward, driven by steady trade winds in the area surrounding Guam and most of the Micronesian Islands. It is argued that local recruitment of asteroid populations might be hazardous under such circumstances where coastal water masses would hardly conserve larval populations inshore. Juvenile populations of reef asteroids have been rarely located in the field, in spite of conspicuous adult populations. Feeding habits, life histories, and other aspects of natural histories of reef asteroids are discussed.
10.2307/2388863|We examined the hypothesis that tropical rain forest tree species differ significantly in the degree to which their regeneration is associated with treefall gaps. Using static and dynamic analyses, we evaluated crown light environments and forest structure around 0.5-5 m tall saplings (N = 424) of two pioneer and seven nonpioneer tree species in old growth tropical wet forest at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Canopy photographs were taken with a fisheye lens directly above all individuals. Each photograph was analyzed to calculate a Global Site Factor (GSF), which is analogous to the percentage of photosynthetically active radiation reaching a site relative to a totally open site. The amount and directionality of crown illumination were also estimated visually using a crown position index (Dawkins & Field 1978, Clark & Clark 1992). Forest structure around each individual, a reflection of local disturbance history, was categorized as gap, building, or mature. Saplings of all nine species were found in relatively dark sites (x Global Site Factors 1.9-10.8%). The two pioneer species (Cecropia) were found in higher light microsites than the other species and were significantly different from each other. There were no significant differences in GSF among nonpioneer species. Results were similar for the direct and diffuse components of GSF, and for the crown position index. In contrast, forest structure around saplings varied significantly among nonpioneer species but not between Cecropia species. For six of the nine species short-term height or diameter growth was correlated with GSF or its direct or diffuse components. GSF was weakly but significantly correlated with sapling height and crown position. Analyses over time showed that all nine species had progressively lower crown illumination and fewer individuals in gap/building sites for 2-8 yr after initial encounter. Particularly steep decreases for Hyeronima and Pithecellobium saplings indicate that these species establish under canopy openings that subsequently fill in. Canopy photography, crown position index, and the forest structure index all provided ecologically interpretable information. Only canopy photography distinguished between microsites of the two Cecropia species. Forest structure and crown position indices are rapid and inexpensive methods for obtaining long-term information on microhabitats around individual trees. We found significant interspecific differentiation in microhabitat occupancy along a light gradient of only 0-25 percent of full sun. A crude 3-point index of forest structure revealed even further resolution. This study focused on only three microsite variables and a restricted size range of saplings. Comprehensive understanding of tropical tree regeneration will require long-term concurrent measurements of individual performance and associated environmental variables for all size classes of a broad range of species.
10.2307/2388668|Long-term studies were conducted in French Guiana on the recruitment pattern of a large-seeded (47.6 g fresh weight) tree species: Eperua grandiflora (Caesalpiniaceae). Fruiting, seed dispersal by gravity, seed predation and seedling damages, and early seedling survival were analyzed from 1987 through 1988 (20-month period) at one tree standing on a slope. Most seeds land within 10-20 m of the parent, and a small fraction (5%) appeared to be secondarily dispersed by scatterhoarding rodents. As predicted by the Janzen-Connell model, clumped seeds and seedlings below the parent suffered post-dispersal predation and damages, respectively, by several families of insects, ants, and mammals. But because of large seed reserves, young seedlings were able to renew leaves or terminal meristems after defoliation or stem damage. Whether early seedling survival (7 months) was distance-dependent, mortality was nowhere near complete, and seedling survival during the next 12-month period (19-months post-germination) was independent of distance. Thus, juveniles persisted in a clumped population under parent tree. Dynamics of juveniles were studied from 1984 through 1989 and two 2500 m$^2$ plots; an understory-environment (mature parent) and a gap-environment (dead parent). The proportion of juveniles greater than 100 cm tall was higher in the gap plot than in the understory plot. Although juveniles were very tolerant of understory conditions, they grew more rapidly in the gap. Occurence of young trees in the closed vicinity of parent trees is likely to result from poor dispersal of seeds, high survival beneath parents and high understory-tolerance of juveniles.
40863783|Several prominent articles have recently revived the debate on how to advance and reconcile two pressing global issues: conservation of biodiversity, and food production for an increasing human population. These discussions contrast a 'land-sparing/intensive agriculture' strategy with a 'biodiversity-friendly' agriculture approach. We propose that swidden or shifting cultivation should be an important component of the latter approach in the tropics because many swidden systems maintain very high levels of biodiversity while providing livelihood for populations in tropical forest areas worldwide. We suggest further that when many swidden systems are viewed without prejudice and in broader spatial and longer temporal perspectives, the conservationist aspects of the systems become evident.
2388884|The phenology of 19 species of plants was followed for two years at Serra Talhada, Pernambuco State, Northeastern Brazil. Ten plants of each species were monitored biweekly. All plants had a complete canopy cover from February (well established rainy season) until May-June (just after rains ceased), and all but a few individuals, belonging to six species, were leafless in October-November (peak of the dry season). Leaf fall and flush, flowering, and fruiting were almost continuous in the community throughout both the years, but they peaked at different periods. The peak of leaf flush preceded the rainy season, spurred by occasional rains, followed by flowering early in the rainy season, and then fruiting. Leaf fall became more pronounced after the rainy season. The species covered a whole range of deciduousness, from those which retained their leaves throughout both years to those which were leafless during 6-7 months each year. This was mostly due to the capacity of leaf retention after the onset of the dry season. Autochoric and zoochoric species produced fruits mostly during the rainy season and anemochoric species during the dry period. The patterns of flowering and fruiting were complex. One species did not produce flowers or fruits in either year; five produced flowers and fruits in one year only and two others produced flowers in both years but fruits in only one. Most of the other species had high intraspecific synchrony and produced flowers for a shorter period than fruits.
4132898|Studies were conducted at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica and in a greenhouse in California to determine the factors accounting for the nonrandom distribution of the riparian fig tree Ficus insipida Willd. along streams in the La Selva Biological Reserve and adjacent deforested lands. We also evaluated the potential seed dispersers of this tree relative to the role of the fruit-eating fish Brycon guatemalensis that previously was proposed to be an important disperser of F. insipida seeds in this system. At La Selva, we recorded the fig-foraging activities of vertebrates at fruiting F. insipida trees, surveyed for the presence or absence of F. insipida along streams of different sizes, and determined the fate of fig seedlings transplanted in different riparian habitats. In the greenhouse, we measured seed germination and seedling survival and growth under different light and soil pH conditions mimicking natural conditions. The findings provided evidence that (1) the tree occurs along the larger streams running through forest habitat and only along smaller streams with relatively high light availability; (2) bats (Artibeus spp.) and fish are the major dispersers of F. insipida seeds; (3) the seedlings are subject to mortality not only from low light conditions but also from treefalls, frequent flooding, and bank erosion; and (4) high light levels and near neutral soil pH result in relatively better seed germination, faster growth, and higher survival rates of seedlings. Overall, our results suggest that this fig tree is dispersed mainly by bats and fish and is more establishment-limited than disperser-limited in its local distribution in the La Selva rain forest habitat.
10.2307/2389052|Leaf decomposition in five common species was studied in the Los Tuxtlas tropical rain forest, Veracruz state, Mexico. The species were: Nectandra ambigens (Blake) C. K. Allen, Pseudolmedia oxyphyllaria Donn. Sm, Dussia mexicana (Standl.) Harms, Ficus yoponensis Desvaux and Poulsenia armata (Miq.) Standl. Two experimental studies were done using litter bags, one comparing flat and slope conditions, and the second one in closed canopy and gap conditions. In addition, decomposition was compared between the dry and rainy season. There were significant differences in decomposition rates between species and seasons, but not between zones (flat and gentle slope, and closed forest and gap conditions). The highest decomposition rates were observed for species with high nutrient contents, and also during the rainy season. The data were fitted to three mathematical models derived from the negative simple exponential; the double exponential model for decay was significant. Also, the negative, simple, exponential model which assumes that k is not constant, turned out to be significant for the experiment in closed canopy and gap conditions.
20492550|Spiders that are abundant along streams may depend on energy subsidies across land-water ecotones, but the effects of season and habitat structure on this trophic linkage remain poorly understood in the tropics. We carried out surveys and a manipulative experiment to investigate the effects of season and substrate availability on the distribution of riparian orb-web spiders in Hong Kong, southern China. In the surveys, spider abundance, prey, substrate use, and web orientation were recorded. The experiment involved installation of in-stream artificial substrates (ropes and bamboo poles) to increase substrate availability for web attachment. We found no seasonal difference in web abundance, but seasonal differences were observed for the prey on webs: aquatic insects (mostly Ephemeroptera and chironomid midges) contributed 69 percent of total prey collected during the wet season, but only 38 percent during the dry season. Most webs (50-80%) were &lt; 0.5 m above the water and 45-51 percent of them tended to be orientated horizontally to the water surface and supported by overhanging vegetation and boulders. The addition of artificial substrates resulted in a 23-34 percent increase in the number of webs at the four treatment sites compared to controls, indicating that availability of web-building substrates is a critical determinant of the spider distribution. Our results suggest that riparian zones are potential 'hotspots' of food availability for spiders, and that the aquatic insect subsidy allows this habitat to support increased densities of spiders when the constraint of substrate availability is relaxed.
10.2307/2388420|Eight surface soils from lowland tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, were evaluated for: (1) NH$_4^+$-N, NO$_3^-$-N, PO$_4^{3-}$-P, and SO$_4^{2-}$-S concentrations in 10-mM CaCl$_2$ extractions; (2) N, P, and S mineralization potentials in laboratory incubations; and (3) total N, P, and S concentrations. Concentrations of NH$_4^+$-N, NO$_3^-$-N, and PO$_4^{3-}$-P prior to incubation were similar among the soils despite significant differences in total C, N, and P concentrations. Initial concentrations of SO$_4$$^{2-}$-S generally were greater in basalt-derived soils than in sediment-derived soils, although a similar pattern in total S concentrations among these sites was not observed. The net mineralization potentials of the eight soil types had three characteristics in common: (1) most of the mineralized N was nitrified, and NO$_3^-$-N accumulated at an approximately linear rate over a 32-day incubation period; (2) PO$_4^{3-}$-P decreased between days 0 and 16, then increased more than ten times between days 16 and 32; and (3) SO$_4^{2-}$-S did not change over time. The striking consistency in the patterns of net mineralization among the eight soils was unexpected because of differences in the total element contents of the soils and in the parent materials, vegetation on the site, and history of disturbance to the vegetation.
30045420|Six microsatellite loci were used to compare the mating system and gene flow in two consecutive years of a natural, unlogged population of Symphonia globulifera in a 500 ha experimental plot in the Brazilian Amazon (Fiona Tapajs). The species had a low density of reproductive trees per hectare (d = 0.46 trees/ha). We analyzed 205 trees and 261 and 487 open-pollinated seeds from 26 and 30 mother-trees in the years 2002 and 2003, respectively. A significant spatial genetic structure was detected for the adult trees for distances up to 100 m. We observed only small interannual differences in multilocus outcrossing rate (
10.2307/2388223|Black hornbills (Anthracoceros malayanus) appear to be the principal long-distance seed dispersers of Aglaia sp. (Meliaceae) at Pasoh Forest Reserve in Peninsular Malaysia. The squirrel Callosciurus prevostii removed some of the large seeds at least as far as adjacent crowns and sometimes dropped them after consuming only the orange, oily sarcotesta. It chased other squirrel species, which are probably seed predators, and hornbills out of the fruiting crown. Seeds on the ground beneath the parent crown were removed more rapidly than those farther away by rodent and (possibly) phasianid seed predators. Sitophilus sp. (Curculionidae) was also an Aglaia seed predator or parasite. Aglaia juveniles grew slowly under closed canopy, and small ones (< 50 cm in height) had only 9.7 percent mortality per year during a 4-year period. Seedling survival was positively size dependent. For unknown reasons, small seedlings near the parent had a higher death rate than those at a greater distance; this was apparently a long-term pattern, because large seedlings and saplings did not occur within 10 and 35 m, respectively, of the parent tree's base. For this species an advantage of seed dispersal is avoidance of disproportionate seed and seedling mortality near the parent. Although Aglaia grows much faster in gaps than under closed canopy, it may require several episodes of growth in successive gaps before becoming reproductively mature.
30043628|Translocation experiments showed that a woodcreeper bird species is able to move between isolated forest fragments, but this ability is limited by increasing interpatch distances. Larger distances (> 100 m) were overcome by using small stepping-stones (isolated trees), which enhance connectivity and are useful for the species conservation in fragmented landscapes. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2989692| Cerro Autana is one of the smallest of all the sandstone table mountains of the Guayana Highland. It appears to represent a fragmented portion of the nearby Cerro Sipapo (Paraque) in Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela. One hundred and thirty-two species of plants are now known from the summit, of which seven are new to science, four new to Venezuela, one new to the flora of the Guayana Highland, and sixteen newly recorded for the flora of Territorio Federal Amazonas. The majority of the species found on the sumit prove to be either generally distributed ones common to other mountains of the Guayana Highland or to certain mountains of the Territorio Federal Amazonas or Estado Bolvar. An obvious relationship is shown with the nearby Cerro Sipapo. Of significance is the fair proportion of species represented on the summit of Cerro Autana and elsewhere found commonly in lowland portions of the Venezuelan Guayana, indicating a former geological connection allowing for past migrations and interchange of floras between lowland and summit. It is postulated that this migration of floras has proceeded from top to bottom. 
10.2307/2388232|Gap dynamics in a tropical cloud forest in Tamaulipas, Mexico were studied by describing the treefall regime and by measuring the temporal and spatial occurrence of gaps (1-yr-old lightgaps produced by treefalls) and patches (older lightgaps). The study plots comprised protected (4 ha) and exposed (2 ha) zones, where the frequency of gap and patch size per unit area was determined. The number of trunks on the forest floor was counted and their length and diameter were recorded. The causes of treefalls were determined. Fallen tree species were identified and a comparison of the specific composition between fallen and standing trees was made for the community. The results suggest that gaps play an important role in determining an environmental mosaic within the tropical cloud forest. Species-producing gaps are those dominating the canopy layer in approximately 80 percent of the treefalls. An average of 19 patches ha$^{-1}$ was registered, comprising 25 percent of the study site. The mean patch size as fitted to a lognormal distribution was estimated as 4.71 $\pm$ 0.6. Turnover rates were estimated as 158 yr for areas disturbed by natural causes and 90 yr for areas disturbed by joint causes (i.e., natural plus man-induced). The natural and the actual (natural plus man-induced) gap production rates were 0.5 and 0.63 gap ha$^{-1}$ yr$^{-1}$ This means that an average of 1.27 percent of the forest area is disturbed every year by natural causes and that 2.22 percent of the area is disturbed by joint causes.
10.2307/2389080|We studied the mountain tapir Tapirus pinchaque in the Parque Natural Regional Ucumari and Parque Nacional Natural Los Nevados in the Central Cordillera of the Andes of Colombia. Direct and indirect observations as well as interviews with local people (11 families), were used to gather information. In approximately 40 km of tapirtrails in the Valle de los Venados region, foot prints of Tapirus pinchaque indicated a single family composed of a female (17 cm), male (16 cm), subadult (14 cm) and infant (6 cm). Along the tapir-trails there were three eating grounds (tree fall gaps in different succesional stages), five sleeping places (four inside the root systems of a large tree and one inside a Chusquea thicket), five scratching places and three sites with accumulation of feces. Tapirus pinchaque is a large herbivore that eats between 23 and 46 plant species and uses salt licks. Currently there are records of 32 Tapirus pinchaque in Colombia, with 24 along the Central Cordillera, where the habitats of the mountain tapir (upper montane rain forest [2500-3200 m] and paramo vegetation [>3200 m]) are most threatened by deforestation. The effective protection of these habitats within the limits of the Parks is the first step toward the conservation of this rare and large mammal in danger of extinction.
40863755|Dry forests are among the most endangered natural communities in the Hawaiian Islands. Most have been reduced to isolated trees and small forest fragments in which native tree species reproduce poorly. The replacement of native birds by introduced generalists may be contributing to dry forest decline through modification of seed dispersal patterns. To document seed dispersal by introduced birds, we conducted foraging observations on fleshy-fruited trees and measured seed rain under trees and in adjacent open areas for 1 year in a dry forest dominated by native trees. Although trees covered only 15.2 percent of the study area, 96.9 percent of the bird-dispersed seeds were deposited beneath them. The Japanese white-eye (Zosterops japonicus) was the principal dispersal agent. Among bird-dispersed seeds, those of the invasive tree Bocconiafrutescens accounted for 75 percent of all seeds collected beneath trees (14.8 seeds/m/yr) and the invasive shrub Lantana camara accounted for 17 percent. Although nearly 60 percent of the reserve's native woody species possess fleshy fruits, introduced birds rarely disperse their seeds. Native trees accounted for < 8 percent of all bird-dispersed seeds and are consequently experiencing dispersal failure by falling directly under parent trees. Smaller-seeded non-native plants, in contrast, may be benefiting from dispersal by introduced birds. Current dispersal patterns suggest that these readily disseminated non-native plants may eventually replace the remaining native flora.
30043054|Given current accelerated trends of tropical land conversion, forest fragments are being incorporated into many conservation programs. For investing in fragments to be a viable conservation strategy, forest fragments must maintain their ecological integrity over the long term. Based on fieldwork in 22 forest fragments in the crater lakes region of western Uganda and in the continuous forest of Kibale National Park, we examined (1) seed predation on experimentally dispersed seeds, (2) abundance and composition of the dung beetle community that may play a major role in removing seeds from sites of high seed predation, and (3) compared the fragments' seedling community composition to adult tree community composition and the seedling community in continuous forest. First, the rate of seed removal at experimental stations was lower in forest fragments (85% remaining after 1 day) than at stations in the continuous forest (79% remaining) and the probability of stations being discovered by seed predators was lower in fragments (23%) than in the intact forest (41%). Second, there was a 62 percent decline in fragment dung beetle abundance. The magnitude of this decline varied among dung beetle guilds that process dung and seeds in different fashions. The abundance of large rollers that move large seeds away from sites of defecation did not differ, but medium and smaller rollers and burying beetles that process small and medium-sized seeds were less common in the fragments than in the intact forest. Finally, we compared the seedling community composition relative to adult tree community composition by identifying all adult trees in each fragment and by sampling the composition of the seedling community. We found some evidence to suggest that there was movement of seeds among forest fragments by large-bodied dispersers, particularly chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and hornbills (Ceratogymna subcylindricus).
10.2307/2388254|Effects of Hurricane Hugo on forest ecosystem processes in Puerto Rico and South Carolina are summarized from six research papers presented in this issue. Hurricanes are major catastrophic disturbances capable of altering ecosystem-level processes in both the short and the long term. The high intensity, broad scale, and relatively high frequency of these storms makes them a major agent of catastrophic disturbance in the Caribbean and the Atlantic seaboard of the U.S.A. (Scatena & Larsen 1991). Although the return frequency of hurricanes for any given area is low (on the order of years or decades; Fig. 2 in Walker et al. 1991) relative to the lifespan of an individual investigator or a typical research project, the return time is shorter than the life span of a canopy tree or a forest ecosystem. Hurricanes have struck the Caribbean repeatedly within recorded history (Scatena & Larsen 1991, Walker et al. 1991), and have surely played a role in shaping plant population dynamics (e.g., Lugo et al. 1983), soil development (Scatena & Larsen 1991) and nutrient cycling (Sanford et al. 1991) over evolutionary time scales (thousands of years) in much of the Caribbean. Our paper summarizes the six preceding research papers in this issue, and focuses on the short-term changes in nutrient cycling induced by Hurricane Hugo, as well as the possible long-term consequences of such disturbances on tropical forests. Data on biomass and nutrient fluxes caused by Hurricane Gilbert in Quintana Roo, Mexico (Whigham et al. 1991, Plant Section, this issue) are included, but the discussion is primarily focused on two Long-Term Ecological Research sites funded by the National Science Foundation: the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) in Puerto Rico and the North Inlet site in South Carolina. The processes summarized below are: hurricane litterfall and associated nutrient fluxes and exports; salinization of coastal soils from storm surge and associated changes in soil chemistry; fine root dynamics after disturbance; changes in soil nutrient pools and fertility; and, hurricane-induced changes in nitrogen (N) transformations and fluxes.
30045446|The role of Pheidole praeses, a twig-nesting ant inhabiting the floor of the Brazilian Atlantic forest, as potential secondary seed disperser was investigated. A total of 901 seeds (20 morphospecies) were retrieved from 50 nests, most of them intact and able to germinate. Considering the abundance of Pheidole species and the evidence pointing to their potential as seed dispersers, these ants may be important determinants of the recruitment of small-seeded plants in tropical forests.
10.2307/2663967|We investigate the ant fauna associated with the Neotropical treehopper, Guayaquila xiphias, on shrubs of Didymopanax vinosum in the cerrado (savanna) of SE Brazil. Treehoppers infested plants at the border of the cerrado almost exclusively and preferably fed near the apical meristem. During the reproductive phase of the host plant, however, the vast majority of the treehoppers aggregated on the inflorescences. We found 21 ant species harvesting honeydew at G. xiphias aggregations, the most frequent being Camponotus rufipes, Ectatomma edentatum, C. crassus, and C. renggeri. Such a taxonomic diversity of ants tending G. xiphias aggregations in the cerrado is far greater than that reported for any other ant-homopteran system. Daily turnover of ant species at a given treehopper aggregation was observed on 29 percent (64 out of 222) of the G. xiphias aggregations recorded on D. vinosum shrubs. Species replacements probably reflect distinct humidity and temperature ranges tolerated by the species, and may ultimately reduce inter-specific competition at homopteran aggregations. Since predation and parasitism on G. xiphias can be severe, and tending ants protect the homopterans against predators and parasitoids, the round-the-clock activity by ants at G. xiphias aggregations is regarded as crucial for the survival of these treehoppers in the cerrado.
27742801|Very little is known about the diversity of arthropods in the fast-disappearing fragments of natural forests in sub-Saharan Africa. This study investigated: (1) the influence of forest fragment characteristics on dung beetle species richness, composition, abundance, and diversity; and (2) the relationship between dung beetle assemblages and rainfall pattern. Beetles were sampled through 12 mo using dung baited pitfall traps. A total of 18,073 dung beetles belonging to three subfamilies and 45 species were captured. The subfamily Scarabaeinae was the most abundant (99%) and species rich (89%). Fast-burying tunnellers (paracoprids) were the most dominant functional group. Catharsius sesostris, Copris nepos, and Heliocopris punctiventris were the three most abundant species, and had the highest contributions to dissimilarities between forests. With few exceptions, dung beetle abundance, species richness, and diversity were generally higher in larger forest fragments (100150 ha) than in smaller ones (1050 ha) and the nature reserve (1042 ha). Forest fragment size had a highly significant positive relationship with beetle abundance, but only when the nature reserve is excluded in the analysis. Dung beetle abundance and species richness showed direct weak relationships with litter depth (positive) and groundcover (negative) but not tree density, tree species richness, and fragment isolation distance. Dung beetle abundance and species richness were strongly correlated with monthly changes in rainfall. Results of this study indicate that forest fragments on agricultural lands in the Budongo landscape, especially medium-sized (100150 ha) ones, represent important conservation areas for dung beetles.
10.2307/2388539|In a neotropical cloud forest of Costa Rica, we compared the density and composition of macro- and mesoinvertebrates in organic matter found within the canopy to that found in the upper soil horizons on the forest floor. We used a Winkler sifting apparatus to extract invertebrates from accumulated litter and humus. The numerically dominant invertebrate groups in both canopy humus and forest floor leaf litter were mites, adult beetles, holometabolous insect larvae, ants, collembola, amphipods, and isopods. Relative abundances of these major taxa were the same in canopy and on the forest floor, indicating that canopy organic matter shares a fundamentally similar invertebrate community with forest floor. All of these groups except ants had significantly higher densities in the canopy, with a mean density 2.6 times greater on the ground than in the canopy. Ant density was similar in both microhabitats.
10.2307/2389014|Fecundity and seed dispersal of Lophopetalum wightianum. Wight (Celastraceae), a wind dispersed canopy tree species, were studied in the rain forests of the Western Ghats, India. The effects of fruit crop size, seed characteristics, tree height, and wind speed on seedfall and dispersal distances were investigated. Fruiting was synchronous and fruits were produced between February and April. Smaller fruits suffered more predispersal predation. The majority of seeds, described as rolling autogyros were dispersed near the parent. The rate of descent of seeds was related to the square root of wing-loading. However, wind speed significantly decreased the rate of descent and increased dispersal distances. Taller trees dispersed seeds more evenly. Large trees had a significant dispersal advantage since they were more fecund and dispersed seeds further away and more evenly, thereby decreasing the probability of mortality due to density and distance dependent predation. These results show that there is convergence in dispersal strategies of Lophopetalum wightianum with wind dispersed trees studied in the neotropics.
40863776|In the tropics rainfall can vary by hundreds of millimeters from month to month, while mean temperatures fluctuate by only a few degrees. Nevertheless, during this 7-year study, we observed 35-52 percent declines in litter nitrogen concentrations in response to small increases in minimum temperature, with no response to the larger oscillations in rainfall.
10.2307/2989794|The herbivore pressure on the understory of two types of Costa Rican forest was measured and compared during the dry season. Leaves were collected from plants, classified as old and new and categorized according to the amount of herbivore damage present. There was no significant difference between the number of new leaves being produced in the understory of each forest. There was a significant difference in the number of individual plants producing new leaves in each forest-a large number of riparian plants produced a small number of new leaves, and a small number of the dry forest plants produced a large number of new leaves. Old leaves from the riparian forest had sustained significantly less damage than old dry forest leaves. Old leaves from both forests showed significantly more damage than young leaves. These results are discussed in terms of two strategies. Because of year-long predation by insects, it was reasoned that the riparian forest species should spend more energy producing insect-resistant leaves; dry forest species should spend less energy producing insect-resistant foliage because they lose their leaves annually.
20492573|Dry season den use by the pygmy spotted skunk Spilogale pygmaea, an endemic and threatened species of western Mexico, was evaluated at the micro and macrohabitat level, in the tropical deciduous forest of Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico. During the dry seasons of 1997, 1998, and 2000, 79 skunk den sites (29 for females and 50 males) were located using Radiotelemetry. Dens were underground excavations with one to five access points, located mostly on open ground or under live or dead trees. Skunks exhibited a continued reuse of dens but evidence of simultaneous occupation by two or more skunks was not found. Microhabitat den-site analysis showed that skunks showed flexibility and individual variation in usage of the microhabitat surrounding den sites inside the forest. Macrohabitat den-site analysis showed that skunks were not selecting either tropical deciduous or tropical semideciduous forest; however, no dens were located outside the forest in transformed habitats, strengthening the hypothesis of the association of this species with the tropical deciduous forests on the Pacific coast of Mexico. The current deforestation rates of the tropical deciduous forest in the coast of Jalisco could be reducing the potential den sites for pygmy spotted skunks and exposing them to adverse environmental conditions and predation.
30045505|Many arborescent palms develop a stilt root cone that provides increased mechanical support on steep hillsides, better root aeration under waterlogged conditions, resprouting after mechanical damage, and rapid stem elongation. However, for most species the role of stilt roots is not well understood. We determined how palm size and slope inclination affected the structure of stilt roots in the neotropical palms Iriartea deltoidea and Socratea exorrhiza. We expected palm height to be lower on steep slopes because the effectiveness of root support could decrease as slope inclination increases, and thus, the structure of the root cone would vary mostly with slope. Alternatively, if stilt root development is determined by palm size, their production should match stem height, with taller palms having larger cones. We measured the stilt root cone of 31 Iriartea and 36 Socratea palms in San Ramn Biological Reserve and Golfito Wildlife Refuge, Costa Rica. We divided the cone into five variables (horizontal projections of the cone base and stilt root height up and down the slope, and width of the cone base), from which we extracted the first two principal components and used them to measure the effects of slope and palm size on stilt root structure. We found stilt roots to be determined by palm size, not by slope conditions. Stilt roots matched palm size, with larger palms having taller and larger cones, maintaining stability under diverse slope conditions. /// Muchas palmas arborescentes desarrollan un cono de races flcreas el cual provee mayor apoyo mecnico sobre pendientes pronunciadas, mejor aereacin de races bajo condiciones de anegacin, facilitan la capacidad de retoar ante daos mecnicos, y favorecen una rpida elongacin del tallo. Sin embargo, en la mayora de las especies la funcin de las races flcreas no est bien comprendida. Determinamos cmo el tamao de la palma y la inclinacin de la pendiente afectaron la estructura de las races flcreas en las palmas Neotropicales Iriartea deltoidea y Socratea exorrhiza. Esperbamos que la altura de la palma fuera menor en mayor pendiente, ya que la efectividad del soporte de la raz podra disminuir con el aumento de la inclinacin de la pendiente, y por lo tanto, la estructura del cono de la raz podra variar principalmente con la pendiente. Alternativamente, si el desarrollo de las races flcreas est determinado por el tamao de la palma, su produccin debera igualar la altura del tallo, con las palmas ms altas teniendo mayores conos. Medimos el cono de las races flcreas en 31 palmas de Iriartea y 36 de Socratea en la Reserva Biolgica de San Ramn y en el Refugio de Vida Silvestre Golfito, Costa Rica. Dividimos el cono en cinco variables (proyecciones horizontales de la base del cono y altura de las races flcreas a favor y en contra de la pendiente, y ancho de la base del cono), a partir de las cuales obtuvimos los dos primeros componentes principales, y los usamos para medir los efectos de la pendiente y el tamao de la palma sobre la estructura del cono. Encontramos que la estructura de las races flcreas est determinada por el tamao de la palma y no por las condiciones de la pendiente. Las races flcreas compensaron el tamao de la palma, ya que palmas de gran tamao presentaron conos ms grandes, manteniendo la estabilidad bajo diversas condiciones de pendiente.
41241881|Seeds from Pachira brevipes from white-sand forest and Pachira insignis from clay forest were placed in a reciprocal transplant experiment that manipulated herbivore presence. Pachira insignis experienced 80 percent leaf loss in both habitats from herbivores, causing 79 percent mortality in white-sand compared with 47 percent in clay in just 3 mo. Pachira brevipes suffered pathogen attack in both habitats that killed 90 percent of its establishing seedlings. Natural enemies thus strongly influence seedling recruitment of these two Pachira species in these forests and appear to have the largest impact within the seedlings' first few months.
10.2307/2989784|Although few mountains of the Antilles are over 5000 ft, some of them do possess a distinctive type of vegetation near the summit. Mountains such as Mt. Pelee, the Soufriere of Guadeloupe, or the Soufriere of St. Vincent have been active volcanoes in the present century, and the reduced scanty or restricted vegetation there may be due to past and present volcanic fumes or rapid percolation of water on ashy substrata. The reduced elfin vegetation of other mountains has been attributed to effects of persistent wind, persistent cloud cover, colder temperatures, or saturated soils. Studies of the elfin forest on Pico del Oeste (3050 ft) in Puerto Rico have supplied information on both the environment of the mountain top and the composition of the forest type. After a full year of study it was shown that the rainfall was 453 cm; that clouds enveloped the peak 100 percent of the nighttime hours and 60 percent of daylight hours with the average relative humidity 98.5 percent. Clouds supplied an additional 10 percent to the total rainfall. Wind speed ranged from 8 to 11.1 knots. The average mean temperature was 174 degrees C and the soil 18.3 degrees C. Growth patterns of individual plants showed an abundance of long shoot-short shoot stems; dichotomous branching and pagoda branching. Insect damage to leaves was high, reducing the photosynthetic potential of the forest. Fertility was very low as recorded in pollen viability and seed set.
10.2307/2388347|In a study of 450 Amazonian anurans, we isolated Mycobacterium chelonei abscessus, Mycobacterium fortuitum fortuitum, and Mycobacterium fortuitum peregrinum from the viscera of 21 animals (Bufo marinus, Bufo granulosus. Hyla geographica. Hyla lanciformes, Hyla sp., Leptodactylus pentadactylus, and Leptodactylus sp.). We also detected M. chelonei abscessus, Mycobacterium chelonei chelonei. and M. fortuitum peregrinum in the soil and water samples of the anuran breeding ground. Adult toads (B. marinus) that had been force-fed a mycobacterial suspension retained and later excreted the microorganisms into their environment. Tadpoles of tree frogs (H. geographica) also ingested and retained mycobacteria that had been experimentally introduced into their milieu. Our findings indicated that the Amazonian anurans could play the role of a facultative intermediate host and dispersal agent for M. chelonei and M. fortuitum in nature.
10.2307/2989718|Censuses of the lepidopteran pollinators of two sympatric, tropical shrubs, Lantana camara and L. trifolia, demonstrated that pollinator species were generally specific to one or the other plant species. Large butterfly species were predominant at camara and small species at trifolia. This specificity is probably a result of divergence in floral characters which differentially affects the foraging efficiency of large and small butterflies. Significant differences between trifolia and camara in inflorescence diameter, number of nectar flowers per inflorescence, and corolla length are discussed in relation to their role in partitioning the pollinator fauna.
20492482|We studied the growth of seedlings of native and invasive tree species from secondary tropical forests on Mah (Seychelles). We were interested in whether native or invasive species are more drought-tolerant, and therefore conducted a garden (pot) experiment comparing the growth of seedlings of five native and five invasive tree species under different light (7% and 60% transmittance) and water (natural and repeated drought stress) conditions. Differences in the responses of native and invasive species to these treatments were small. In both groups, mean relative growth rates were reduced only slightly by intermittent drought that caused wilting of leaves. However, invasive species produced clearly thinner leaves (high specific leaf area, SLA) and more root biomass than native species under high light, while these differences were small under low light. Native species performed better than invasive species under low light with low water availability. It appears that high phenotypic plasticity allows some fast-growing invasive species to cope with water stress by adjusting the relative allocation of resources to aboveground and belowground structures under high light, while this strategy is not effective when both light and water resources are limiting. We conclude that water stress may reduce the invasibility of shaded habitats by fast-growing invasive species, while water stress in unshaded habitats may have less effect on invasive species than previously recognized.
2663985|The relationship between canopy gaps and topography was examined in 12 ha of wet rain forest in lowland western Ecuador. Canopy gap and topographical data were recorded on a 10- x 5-m grid system. Each grid point was categorized as belonging to a low canopy gap (5 m height), a high canopy gap (5-10 m height), or the non-gap forest (>10 m height). Slope position, altitude, slope, and surface rock all influenced proportional gap area. The gap relationship with slope position and slope angle varied with altitude. Proportional gap area was not related to drainage. Irrespective of altitude, the plateaus had the greatest proportion of low canopy gap followed by the valleys and upper slopes. The mid-slopes and ridges had the lowest proportion of low canopy gap. The proportions of high canopy gap had an almost converse relationship. As altitude decreased, the proportion of low canopy gap increased in the valleys and on the plateaus, but decreased on the ridges and upper slopes. The relationship of slope to the two gap types also varied with altitude, although no clear trend was evident. The processes controlling the observed topographical relationship of gaps are complex, and among other factors, may be linked to the distribution of live and dead treefalls. Topographic differences in the incidence of canopy gaps can potentially influence local species' distributions.
10.2307/2388654|The Malesian stingless bee, Trigona (Trigonella) moorei Schwarz, is obligatorily myrmecophilous. All 67 nests collected in the Province of Sumatera Barat, Indonesia, were found within active arboreal carton nests of Crematogaster ants. Nest architecture is characterized by a slender, sticky entrance tube; brood cells arranged as separate, U-shaped horizontal combs; queen cells that often form a cluster isolated from combs; and a brood area encircled with pillars or thin single-layered involucrum. From three observations of incipient nests and comparison with previous records, the process of nest founding is presumed to be as follows: deposition of resin on vegetation near the target ant nest and preparation of entrance initiation on the ant nest surface; preparation of a sticky entrance tube on the ant nest and its extension into the ant nest as an inner tunnel; preparation of an ant-free area in the ant nest and a primordial nest cavity wall, covered by resin; further extension of the nest cavity by continuous replacement of the cavity wall, even after the end of swarming and start of queen oviposition; and thickening of the cavity wall after the nest cavity has reached full size.
2388826|In southwestern Mexico, the number of new cladodes on Opuntia excelsa was a skewed bell-shaped function of size ("size" being the number of cladodes persisting from previous years). Fruit number was a sigmoidal function of size, but the number of seeds per fruit was independent of number of fruits per plant. The curves for production of new cladodes and of fruits both showed maximum increase for plants with 150-350 cladodes, when the crowns were reaching or in the canopy. New cladode production declined at about the size where reproduction plateaued; we suggest this was due to limitation of crown dimensions by mechanical and physiological factors.
10.2307/2387818|Quantitative and qualitative samples of amphibian and lizard faunas were taken from forest litter in Costa Rica and compared with similar samples collected in Borneo, the Philippines, and Panama. Animal abundance is about ten times greater in Costa Rican lowland wet forest than in Borneo. Radically different routes and rates of energy flow are postulated to account for the difference. In a series of upland (1010-1425 m) samples in the Philippines, the number of litter lizards and frogs increases with elevation. A single upland (1200 m) Costa Rican sample contains about three times as many animals per 100 m
30045468|We assessed the effectiveness of repopulating the inner canopy and middle canopy of oak trees with seeds and seedlings of the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsia eizii. Canopy germination was 4.7 percent, considerably lower than in vitro (92%). Of the tree-germinated seedlings, only 1.5 percent survived 6 mo. In contrast, 9.3 percent of transplanted laboratory seedlings survived 15 mo. To repopulate trees, we recommend transplanting laboratory-grown seedlings, as large as practically possible, to branches in the middle canopy. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2389201|Allozyme and morphological variation among populations of an Amazonian frog were analyzed to test for a riverine effect on population differentiation. High levels of genetic diversity within populations and genetic diversification among populations were found. Although correlations between genetic and geographic distances of population pairs were positive, they were not significant and indicated that sites that were close geographically were not genetically more similar. Only one of the 15 polymorphic loci showed any variation in allozyme frequency attributable to the presence of the river, but none of the overall among-population component of allozyme frequency variation (F
10.2307/2388296|Tree dispersion was evaluated in a Trachypogon savanna by measuring the distance from individual trees to their nearest conspecific neighbor. The vegetation is a closed bush island savanna with coexistent isolated trees and small patches of semideciduous forest. The isolated trees were in clumps similar to trees growing in savannas and tropical forests. In our study, adults were less clumped compared to juveniles. Environmental and biotic differences related to edaphic heterogeneity, life history, and reproductive strategy could account for the clumped pattern. Different spatial patterns emerged for stems in groves. Thus, uniform spatial distribution was evident in the individuals of the fire resistant species (Curatella americana, Byrsonima crassifolia and Bowdichia virgilioides) and a gap filling species (Casearia decandra). Changes in the demographic components between different age groups provide evidence for density-dependent mortality. A hypothesis mainly based on two scales of disturbance (human impact and gap formation) acting synergetically with a large scale factor (substrate patchiness) is put forward to explain the dynamics of tree invasion and the maintenance of the Trachypogon savanna.
10.2307/2389230|Vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae can be indispensable for establishment and growth of tree seedlings in infertile lowland wet tropical soils. Persistence of mycorrhizal fungi after disturbance, however, is problematic to assess. We used a greenhouse bioassay employing Psidium guajava L. and Allium cepa L. to estimate the most probable number of mycorrhizal fungus propagules in two Costa Rican soils (Oxic Dystropepts) with different vegetation histories. We collected soils at the La Selva Biological Station from sites in secondary forest, abandoned pasture, and plots kept bare of vegetation for four and six years. Both bioassay hosts yielded positively correlated estimates of mycorrhiza propagule numbers. Median propagule estimates per 100 gm dry soil for the pasture site are 57 and 63; these estimates significantly exceed those for the other sites which range from 0.2 to 10 for bare plots and were estimated to be 0.6 and 10 for secondary forest. These bioassay estimates are positively correlated (Pearson r = 0.66 and 0.72) with counts of whole spores in these soils, but not with counts of sporocarps, spore clusters, or the most numerous, spores apparently empty of cytoplasmic contents or parasitized. Growth of both bioassay hosts in pasture soil significantly exceeded growth in soils from the other three sites in accord with the bioassays and whole spore counts.
2663987|Isoprene (2-methyl-1,3-butadiene), a volatile organic compound produced by many plants, is the principal source of photochemically active reduced compounds in the troposphere. Emission from tropical forest trees accounts for > 70 percent of the annual global flux of isoprene, and under certain environmental conditions, trees may lose a large fraction of their fixed carbon to isoprene production. It is not known, however, if the production and emission of isoprene serve an adaptive role, or are factors that control isoprene emission from tropical trees well understood. We present results from a study investigating patterns of variability in isoprene emission and photosynthesis in two tropical wet forest tree species, Brosimum utile (H. B. K.) Pitt (Moraceae) and Dussia munda (Leguminosae/Fabaceae). We used leaf-level measurements to investigate the within- and among-individual variability in isoprene emission and photosynthetic rates, and looked at how these rates changed with light intensity. Leaves of both species showed similar responses to increases in light intensity, with photosynthesis appearing closer to saturation than isoprene emission at high light intensities. There was a large difference in both the photosynthetic and isoprene emission patterns of canopy and subcanopy leaves, with canopy leaves consistently showing much greater isoprene flux and photosynthetic rates than subcanopy leaves. This difference was smaller, although still discernible, when differences in specific leaf weight (SLW) were considered. These results suggest that tropical trees exhibit biochemical as well as structural responses to canopy position, with patterns of vertical variability that resemble those seen in temperate trees. These data have important implications for understanding the possible functional significance of isoprene emission and for creating accurate canopy-level isoprene flux models.
10.2307/2388455|Soil organic matter content and loose litter were studied in secondary forests of the subtropical moist- and wet-forest life zones of Puerto Rico to observe patterns due to life zone (climate), type of forest cover, soil group, and topography. Soil organic matter content in the top 23 cm ranged from 8.99 kg/m$^2$ in the moist-forest life zone to 7 30 kg/m$^2$ in the wet-forest life zone, a highly significant difference. Greater amounts of soil organic matter were found under higher timber volumes, but the trend was less pronounced in the wet forest. Significant interactions with life zone were found for organic matter among soil groups (deep volcanic, shallow volcanic, granitic, and limestone) and among forest classes (young secondary, late secondary, abandoned coffee, and active coffee shade). In secondary forests on granitic soils, highly significant differences of 12.98 and 7 32 kg/m$^2$ of organic matter were found in wet and moist forests, respectively. Moreover, highly significant differences were observed by landform and slope in active coffee shade in wet forests, with the lowest values on convex land forms and slopes >45 percent. Mean loose litter storages in moist and wet forests were not significantly different, nor was there a significant interaction with life zone. Significant differences, however, were detected by timber volume class, soil group, and forest class. Within these highly disturbed wet and moist forests, greater timber volumes tended to be associated with greater loose litter accumulation.
10.2307/2388205|For 11 sets of interacting species near Madang, Papua New Guinea, coccoids attended by relatively inoffensive ants were more heavily parasitized than those attended by more aggressive ants. This has not been demonstrated previously. Ant exclusion experiments for four of these sets showed that this correlation was due to active protection of the coccoids from both predation and parasitization, though the precise form and effectiveness of this protection differed between different sets of interacting species.
20492504|Spatial and temporal variation in the below-canopy light environment of tropical forests is not well known and its measurement is technically challenging. Distributions of gap and understory areas in forests are likewise little known because of the resource requirements of forest structural censuses and a lack of consensus over how gaps should be defined. A basic model of forest structure, based on tree allometries from the 50 ha Forest Dynamics Plot on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama, and a solar positioning algorithm were used to predict spatial and temporal variation in the distribution of direct light at the forest floor. Predicted duration of direct sunlight was then compared with the distribution of gap and understory areas, delimited according to four standard gap definitions, giving predictions for the correspondence between direct light regimes and forest structure. At least 36 percent of the areas of gaps of all sizes was predicted to receive &lt; 1 h of direct sunlight per day, and the understory to receive direct sunlight for  1 h per day in up to 15 percent of its area, even when not in proximity to gaps. The predicted distribution of light changed over the course of the year with the greatest spread of light throughout the forest floor coinciding with the months when maximum daily solar elevation peaked. These predictions suggest a partial decoupling of light regimes from canopy structure, with implications for gap definitions, patch models of forest development and current understanding of tree seedling recruitment patterns.
30044947|In Neotropical forests, large fruit-eating primates play important ecological roles as dispersal agents of large seeds. Bushmeat hunting threatens to disrupt populations of primates and large-seeded trees. We test the hypothesis that otherwise intact Neotropical forests with depressed populations of large primates experience decline in recruitment of large-seeded trees. We quantify the proportion of small juveniles (> 0.5 m tall-1 cm diameter at breast height, DBH) of large primate-dispersed tree species found underneath heterospecifc trees that are also dispersed by large primates at two protected sites in Manu National Park and one hunted site outside Manu N.P. in southeastern Peru. The forests are comparable in edaphic and climatic qualities, successional stage, and adult tree species composition. We found that hunting locally exterminates populations of large primates, and reduced primates of intermediate body size (hereafter "medium primates") by 80 percent. Moreover, tree species richness was 55 percent lower and density of species dispersed by large and medium-bodied primates 60 percent lower in hunted than in protected sites. In addition, richness and density of abiotically dispersed species and plants dispersed by non-game animals are greater in hunted sites. Overhunting threatens to disrupt the ecological interactions between primates and the plants that rely on them for seed dispersal and recruitment. Sustainable wildlife management plans are urgently needed, because protected areas are at risk of becoming "island" parks if buffer zones become empty of animals and have impoverished flora. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-syncrgy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2387967|Jaguar on two small ranches in southwestern Brazil had a density of about one animal per 25 sq km. Females ranged over at least 25-38 sq km and males over twice that much terrain. The ranges of females overlapped, and the range of a resident male included the ranges of several females. Jaguar and puma ranges also overlapped, but each species favored parts not much used by the other. Day-and-night radio tracking revealed precise travel and activity patterns of two female jaguar. The social system of jaguar is in most respects similar to that of other large solitary cats such as puma, leopard, and tiger.
10.2307/2387676|Black-and-white colobus monkeys, Colobus guereza, were frequently observed coming to the ground in a swamp and eating water plants at a site in western Uganda. Normally, guereza intergroup relationships were antagonistic, but many groups shared the swamp pools. Analysis of water-plant samples indicated high levels of sodium, iron, manganese, and zinc compared with other items of the guereza's leaf-dominated diet. There was also evidence of clay consumption by guerezas at a stream bank in the same area. Analysis of the clay showed it to contain considerably more magnesium, iron, and copper than neighboring soils. A comparison of estimated mineral intakes and requirements suggests that the dry-land diet of the guereza population may be deficient in sodium, and perhaps barely sufficient in copper, manganese, and zinc. Water-plant consumption may remedy mineral deficiencies, but clay may be consumed for other reasons: to adsorb plant toxins or to adjust the pH of the forestomach.
2663927|Muriquis (Brachyteles arachnoides) are endemic to the Atlantic Forest of southeastern Brazil, where an estimated 1200 individuals are distributed unevenly among only 19 populations. Despite the fact that over two-thirds of all muriquis live at low densities in large and protected, undisturbed forests, virtually nothing is known about the demography of these populations. Consideration of the mechanisms underlying the low extinction probabilities simulated for muriquis inhabiting the small, disturbed forest at the Estacao Biologica de Caratinga (EBC), Minas Gerais, where long-term demographic and behavioral studies have been conducted, provides disturbing predictions about the viability of other populations living at lower densities. Local resource competition may be responsible for the female-biased infant sex ratio documented at the EBC under the female-biased dispersal regime exhibited by muriquis. At lower population densities, however, release from competition may lead to male-biased infant sex ratios, and correspondingly slower population growth rates. High densities at the EBC also result in frequent intergroup encounters, permitting muriquis there to avoid close inbreeding through extra-group copulations; but at low densities, opportunities to avoid inbreeding may be more limited. Finally, habitat heterogeneity at the EBC, particularly the greater dietary diversity supported by secondary and regenerating vegetation in disturbed forests, not only may support higher muriqui densities but also provide greater dietary buffers against catastrophic fruit scarcities compared to undisturbed forests. Comparative demographic data on muriqui populations inhabiting undisturbed forests are critically needed to evaluate these predictions and to develop informed management plans for this endangered primate.
2388939|We examined the effects of species, habitat type (open pasture, forest, and beneath isolated pasture trees), and distance from the forest/pasture edge (25 m and 250 m) on post-dispersal seed predation of ten animal-dispersed species near the Las Alturas Biological Station in southern Costa Rica. We also compared the amount of seed predation due to vertebrate and insect predators. Levels of seed predation were extremely species-specific, ranging from 20-100 percent of seeds consumed during the 30 day study period. However, the proportion of seeds remaining was not correlated with seed size. Overall, seed mortality did not differ between the forest and open pasture habitats, but was significantly lower under isolated pasture trees. Individual species differed in which habitat they suffered the highest levels of predation. For eight of ten species studied, levels of seed predation did not vary significantly with distance from the forest/pasture edge in any habitat. The majority of the post-dispersal seed predation was due to mammalian predators. The results of this and other studies suggest that post-dispersal seed predation may influence patterns of forest regeneration in disturbed areas.
20492470|All howler monkey species (Alouatta spp.) have a folivorous-frugivorous diet. Howler monkeys are reported to be seed dispersers in several areas, including black howlers (Alouatta caraya), which are important seed dispersers in northern Argentinean forests. The goal of this work was to study the three-way interaction between insects, seeds, and black howlers, and assess the functional significance of this tri-trophic interaction for seed dispersal. I determined through direct observation that fruits of species with a high proportion of insect infestation were important components of howler monkey diet. Ocotea diospyrifolia seeds from fresh faeces of black howlers contained dead larvae, but seeds were still able to germinate. Seeds in which larvae had reached an advanced stage of development did not germinate. Larvae of infested Eugenia punicifolia fruits were killed by digestion when they occurred in the pulp early in the fruiting season, but were dispersed alive with seeds later in the season. Banara arguta fruits contained both healthy and infested seeds; infested seeds were destroyed during digestion, while healthy seeds were dispersed. Black howlers' ingestion of infested fruits could result in the: (1) killing of larvae and dispersion of healthy seeds; (2) spread of larvae; or (3) destruction of infested seeds. This will depend on the relationship between the time at which fruit is consumed by black howlers, the time at which insect infestation occurs, and also probably on the hardness of the seed coat and the seed-insect size ratio.
40891341|Neutral ecological theory comes in two flavorsa two-stage model with space implicit and a spatially explicit version. Reconciliation of the two flavors has proven problematic. Panmixis, an implicit assumption of the two-stage model, is neither realistic for nor supported by tropical forest trees. However, in spatially explicit versions, stochastic species input in local communities is still necessary to retain high species richness. A unified theory of biodiversity must include both stochasticity and relevant ecological mechanisms.
10.2307/2388214|Twenty-eight worldwide reports of massive mangrove tree mortalities are reviewed. Massive mortality is defined as tree mortalities that occur in response to rapid environmental change and affect all size classes. Massive mortality occurs in addition to normal tree mortality. Normal tree mortality was described using structural data from 114 mangrove stands. This mortality is density dependent, follows orderly time dependent patterns dictated by stand maturation (related to average tree diameter), and usually occurs in the smaller diameter size classes. Disease and other biotic factors do not appear to be primary causes of massive mangrove mortalities. Instead, these factors appear to attack forests weakened by changes in the physical environment. Mangrove environments are dynamic and cyclical and mangrove associations adapt to such environments by both growing and dying fast. Mangrove species' characteristics such as the capacity to produce large quantities of propagules that take advantage of dispersal agents, sharp species zonations, and even-aged populations contribute to the rapid growth-mortality cycles in mangroves. Humans may tilt the balance towards higher mortality rates by introducing chronic stressors that inhibit regeneration mechanisms.
2663935|Plants that hyperaccumulate Ni contain > 1000 ppm (dry wt.) in their tissues. Variation of Ni content within hyperaccumulating plant species is poorly explored. Using the Ni-hyperaccumulating shrub Psychotria douarrei, we documented variation of leaf Ni levels within individual shrubs, and variation with respect to plant size and leaf age. Plant size did not correlate significantly with leaf Ni content, and leaf Ni content did not correlate significantly with soil Ni content. Older leaves contained twice as much Ni as younger leaves. Older leaves also contained greater concentrations of Ca, Fe, and Cr but less K, P, and Cu. Five elements (Zn, Pb, Co, Mn, Mg) showed no significant variation due to leaf age. We also examined the effect of leaf age on epiphyll cover, finding increased epiphyll cover on the upper surface of older leaves. The dominant leafy liverwort epiphyll had a relatively high Ni content (400 ppm), suggesting that epiphylls of Ni hyperaccumulators obtain some Ni from host leaves. Individual shrubs differed in mean leaf Ni content almost two-fold (14,900-27,700 ppm). Variation among branches within individuals also ranged widely; however, this intraplant variability was not strongly correlated with the mean leaf Ni content of an individual shrub. We concluded that Ni contents in leaves of P. douarrei vary considerably due to leaf age, among individual shrubs, and among branches within a shrub.
10.2307/2388121|Climaciella brunnea is a polymorphic mantispid studied in Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. Five distinct color morphs were sampled, each being a presumed Batesian mimic of a different polistine wasp. The proportion of morphs varied between three separate localities and presumably reflected the differential abundance and aggressiveness of models at each site. Mark-release-recapture studies did not reveal any significant difference in mortality rates between morphs. Frequency-dependent selection via differential predation is probably responsible for the evolution of the polymorphism and would maintain different morph frequencies at different sites.
30043093|In the highly fragmented landscape of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, we studied seed rain, seed bank, and vegetation established beneath the canopies of five fig trees (Ficus spp.) isolated in pastures. The area beneath the canopy of each fig tree was enclosed with a barbed wire fence to exclude cattle, and weeding with machete and herbicide spraying were stopped. Annual seed rain beneath the canopy of the five trees was 20,936 seeds (1066 seeds/m2) belonging to 149 species. Seed rain was dominated by woody species dispersed by frugivorous birds and bats. Most captured seeds (94%) were small (seed diam < 3 mm). A total of 6290 individuals from 78 species germinated from the seed bank (1258 seeds/m2). Ruderal herbs dominated the seed bank (52% of spp. and 77% of seeds). After three years of exclusion, a dense, 45 m tall understory comprised of woody plants developed beneath the canopy of the five fig trees. A total of 621 plants (4.6 plants/m2) from 95 species were recorded along 15 transects placed beneath the canopy of the fenced trees. Primary forest and pioneer tree and shrub species dominated species richness (55%) and abundance (37%) of established vegetation, but secondary and pioneer species had higher overall biomass. Most of the established plants (68%) had relatively large seeds (>3 mm). When cattle was excluded and management practices were stopped, remnant trees in Los Tuxtlas pastures effectively favored the early establishment of late successional species, including large-seeded canopy and subcanopy trees. /// En el paisaje fragmentado en Los Tuxtlas, Mxico, se describe la lluvia de semillas, el contenido de semillas del suelo y la vegetacin establecida bajo la copa de cinco rboles de Ficus spp. aislados en potreros. El rea bajo la copa de estos rboles fue cercada con el fin de excluir el ganado, el corte con machete y la aspersin de herbicidas. Durante un ao se colectaron 20,936 semillas (1066 semillas/m2) pertenecientes a 149 especies. La lluvia de semillas estuvo dominada por especies leosas que son dispersadas por aves y murcilagos frugvoros. La mayora de las semillas (94%) tuvieron un dimetro menor a 3 mm. De las muestras de suelo germinaron 6290 semillas de 78 especies. El contenido de semillas del suelo estuvo dominado por hierbas ruderales (52% de las especies y 77% de las semillas). Despus de tres aos de exclusin, bajo la copa de los rboles estudiados, se desarroll un denso sotobosque de 45 m de altura, compuesto por plantas leosas. Se registr un total de 621 plantas (4.6 plantas/m2) pertenecientes a 95 especies. Esta vegetacin bajo la copa estuvo dominada tanto en nmero de especies (55%) como en abundancia (37%) por plantas de la selva. Sin embargo, las especies secundarias y pioneras alcanzaron los valores de biomasa ms altos. La mayora de las plantas establecidas bajo la copa de los rboles poseen semillas grandes (>3 mm de dimetro). Cuando el ganado y las prcticas de manejo son eliminados, se favorece bajo la copa de los rboles aislados en potreros de Los Tuxtlas, el establecimiento de plantas de especies sucesionales tardas, que forman parte del dosel y subdosel de la selva.
10.2307/2388282|The pollination ecology of tropical shrubland was studied in the Venezuelan Guayana Highlands. Most flowers are white or pink. Flower length is less than 0.5 cm for 45.4 percent of plant species (N = 55). The diameter has a similar distribution. Of the 62 visiting agents recorded on 55 plant species, 80.6 percent are pollinators and 19 4 percent are visitors only. Four families of bees are represented. Pollen is normally carried on only one location, frequently ventral, although it can also be carried on the head or legs. Pollen transportation by wasps (four families) is frequently ventral on the body and legs. Lepidopterans (three families) carry pollen grains on their proboscis. Coleopterans are represented by two species of Scarabaeidae which transport pollen ventrally. They as well as the dipterans visit only one plant species. Three bird species visit plant species in the shrubland. Politmus milleri (Trochilidae) pollinates seven plant species and the pollen is transported on the beak and head feathers.
10.2307/2989666| The unpalatable butterfly Heliconius numata is polymorphic over most of its range in South America, with as many as seven recognizably different mimetic morphs occurring in a single population. This widespread polymorphism, unexpected in a Mllerian mimic, appears to be maintained in part by the heterogeneous distribution in space and time of much more abundant ithomiine butterflies, which are distasteful sympatric co-mimics of the various numata forms. Thus, under certain environmental conditions; polymorphism, which is typical of palatable Batesian mimics, can also be selectively advantageous in relatively uncommon species of unpalatable Mllerian mimics. 
10.2307/2389058|The diet and feeding habits of the Resplendent Quetzal (Pharomachrus m. mocinno) were studied in the cloud forest of the "El Triunfo" Biosphere Reserve, Chiapas, Mexico. Adults fed on fruits of 15 plant species, six of which (40%) are members of the family Lauraceae; 63 percent of the fruit items consumed were from these species. Other fruit items consumed were from species belong to the families Theaceae (8.3%) and, with 4.2 percent each: Myrsinaceae, Araliaceae, Verbenaceae, Solanaceae, Myrtaceae, Melasomataccae, Moraceae and Clusiaceae. Quetzals took fruits on the wing from distal branches of trees. Feeding activity was highest in the late afternoon hours. Average sex ratio in feeding groups was 1.1. The diet of chicks consisted of fruits (24%) and insects and small vertebrates (76%) during their first 10 d, and 72 percent fruits and 28 percent animal food from then until fledging. Large fruits increased and soft bodied animals decreased significantly in the chick's diet between these two periods. Of the plant species fed to the chick 37.5 percent belonged to the family Lauraceae. Of the total fruit items, 50 percent belonged to this family, in contrast to higher proportions reported for P. m. costaricensis. In the overall chick's diet, Lauraceous fruit made up 19 percent, close to that reported for P. m. costaricensis. Other bird species that took fruit from the same trees as the quetzals fed from the inner branches while perching and fed mainly on non-lauraceous fruits, with small seeds. Our results support the view that the quetzal is a specialized frugivore, feeding mainly on fruits of the family Lauraceae. Quetzals may play an important role as seed dispersal agents especially during the non-breeding season, when they move up to 3 km/d, adding up to several dozen km in a season.
10.2307/2388180|A comparative study of litter decomposition in a tropical lowland rain forest and an adjacent fernland using leaf litter from a dominant forest tree species, Cullenia ceylanica (Bombacaceae), and frond litter of the most abundant fernland species, Dicranopteris linearis (Gleicheniaceae), revealed significant differences in percentage mass lost between the two litter types and between the two sites: C. ceylanica leaf litter was reduced by 63 percent in one year in the forest vs 41.7 percent in the fernland, whereas D. linearis frond litter was reduced by 24.6 percent during the same period in the forest vs 15.7 percent in the fernland. A positive correlation with the amount of rainfall was observed for the mass loss of C. ceylanica litter in both sites; litter of D. linearis showed no such correlation with rainfall. Nutrient changes examined over one year indicated immobilization of nitrogen in both litter types in both sites and that of phosphorus only in D. linearis. Concentration and mass of K, Mg, and Ca decreased with decomposition in all four experimental treatments. A relatively slow rate of decomposition and an accumulation of organic matter in the fernland contribute to the conservation of nutrients in this aggrading ecosystem.
2663930|The Atlantic Forest region (wide sense) includes very complex tropical environments, increasingly threatened by extensive anthropogenic conversion (>90%). Ecologically specialized, short-generation insects (butterflies) are evaluated here as indicators for monitoring community richness, landscape integrity, and sustainable resource use in the region. The > 2100 butterfly species in the Atlantic Forest region have been censused in many sites over 35 years, giving comparable daily, weekly, monthly, and long-term site lists. The 21 most thoroughly studied sites include 218-914 species, of which half can be censused in a week or less. The butterfly communities are divided into six relatively distinct faunal regions, centered in the northeast, the central coastal tablelands, the southeast coastal plain, the mountains plus interior of the southeastern states, the central plateau, and the southern states. Species richness shows the highest values in coastal mountains from 15 to 23
10.2307/2989721|Exomalopsis globosa (F) was more numerous during the winter, whereas E. similis Cresson was more so during the spring. These differences were explained from comparison of the bees' daily foraging activities and flight ranges with the seasonal and daily rainfall patterns. The types of pollen collected by the two species during the year did not account for the seasonal changes in the numbers of bees.
30043028|We used the Hedley sequential extraction procedure to measure nine different organic and inorganic soil phosphorus fractions in forest soils of the Bragantina region of Para, Brazil. We compared the labile fractions (resin-extractable P + HCO3-extractable inorganic and organic P) in Oxisols from three secondary forests (10, 20, and 40 years old) and a primary forest. These stands were located in an area that has supported shifting agriculture for approximately a century. After agricultural use, total P and labile P in soils of young secondary forests are diminished compared to the amounts present in the primary forest soil. Within each stand, organic carbon content was a good predictor of labile organic and inorganic P, consistent with the large body of research indicating that mineralization of organic matter is important to plant nutrition in tropical ecosystems. During the reorganization of P pools during forest development, the pool of labile organic P (HCO3-extractable) diminishes more than the other labile fractions, suggesting that it is directly or indirectly an important source of P for the regrowing forest vegetation. Across the four age classes of forest, the soil reservoir of labile P was equal to or greater than the total amount of P in the vegetation. If labile P measured by this method adequately represents P available to plants in the short term (as suggested by the current consensus), we would conclude that plant-available P is reasonably abundant, and that the effects of agriculture on available P pools are detectable but not sufficient to compromise forest regrowth in this area.
30045495|Hunting often impacts rain forest mammal communities but little is known about its indirect effects on other taxa. We examined dung beetle assemblages using pitfall and flight-intercept traps at six rain forest sites in Panama that ranged in hunting intensity. Heavily hunted sites showed altered community composition, significantly fewer species (based on rarefaction), and lower abundances of dung beetles than did sites with little hunting. Our results suggest that intensive hunting affects nontarget forest taxa and is potentially altering ecosystem functioning. /// La cacera generalmente tiene impactos sobre las comunidades de mamferos en bosques tropicales, sin embargo poco se sabe sobre los efectos indirectos sobre otros taxa. Examinamos los ensamblajes de escarabajos coprfagos usando trampas de cada y de intercepcin de vuelo en seis sitios en Panam que varan en su intensidad de cacera. Sitios con mucha cacera mostraron alteracin en la composicin de especies, significativamente menos especies (basado en rarefaccin), y menores abundancias de escarabajos coprfagos, que sitios con poca cacera. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la cacera intensa de mamferos est afectando a otros taxa indirectamente, con potenciales consecuencias para el funcionamiento del ecosistema.
10.2307/2388505|This six-month study examined percent germination, days until germination, and early seedling survival of Gustavia superba (Lecythidaceae) through field experiments in a tropical moist forest in Panama. The study had three goals: (1) to examine whether germination is a factor determining density of seedlings at three forest sites with different ages; (2) to test whether burial of seeds affects germination; and (3) to test if microsite conditions associated with light gap, gap-edge, or forest understory influence germination. The experiment, which was designed to fit a three-way ANOVA model, used three study sites, three microsites, two burial treatments, four replicates and 25 seeds in each replicate (1800 seeds total). Although seedling densities of G. superba at the forest sites varied inversely with age of forest, there was no evidence that germination success contributes to this pattern. Results indicated that this species germinates readily under most conditions: the overall mean was 85.4 percent and only six of 72 plots had less than 70 percent germination. Germination percent was reduced and mean number of days until germination was increased in the largest light gap. However, percent germination and days until germination did not differ among sites when only seeds in the understory microsite were compared. Burial of seeds and microsite conditions had minor effects on germination. Seedling mortality occurring soon after germination was not large (5.7%). It is concluded that G. superba is not a tropical species whose seeds germinate in response to a light gap but its seeds do germinate successfully under a range of microsite conditions.
40645552|A population of the poorly known riparian frog Eleutherodactylus cuneatus was studied for 1 yr along a mountain stream in eastern Cuba. We examined population structure, seasonal and daily activity, growth, and habitat use using mark-recapture and call-point counts. Juveniles were observed during all survey periods with a spike in March. Higher numbers of adults were present in May-July, associated with longer day length, warmer temperatures, and the onset of the rainy season. This was coincident with higher calling activity away from the stream, suggesting an increase in both reproductive and nonreproductive activity in the warmer months between May and September. The number of individuals peaked at 2000-2200 h, but high numbers of individuals were visible throughout the night. Lower activity levels were observed throughout the day. Population size estimates were 84-131 adults and 124-304 juveniles, with averages of 110 and 236 individuals, survival rates were high but capture probabilities were low for a 5-d period in March 2004. Growth rate was negatively related to the size of recaptured individuals, although decreases in growth rate were slight. Frogs were found either in the water (49.7%), or in the banks and on the ground adjacent to the stream where most individuals were found on the ground under the cover of rocks, leaf litter, or large palm fronds. These results provide baseline knowledge of E. cuneatus population dynamics and ecology needed for a rapid detection of any decline this population may undergo in the future.
30045375|Camponotus mirabilis (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) is a highly specialized resident of live Guadua bamboo in western Amazonia. Workers in established colonies open and invade young, unlignified culms, and mature polydomous colonies occupy several-to-many adjacent stems. Multistoried carton shelves support brood inside culms, and larvae are nourished by honeydew of coccids (Cryptostigma guadua). Constructing a system of stem holes and wicks, mirabilis modifies occupied stems in ways that produce passive water evacuation. Nocturnally foraging workers gather both prey and wood fiber, a component of wicks. Diurnally, they boil aggressively from agitated stems, and are attacked by parasitic phorid flies (Diptera: Phoridae). Culms housing C. mirabilis are stouter and more erect than are unoccupied stems but are opened regularly by capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) searching for brood and perhaps reproductive castes. Damaged by monkeys, weak-walled Guadua stems frequently collapse and are abandoned by ants. Breakdown of brood shelves leaves nutrient-rich carton suspended in water within basal internodes, but isotopie analyses fail to show that occupied culms utilize either nitrogen from carton or carbon respired by ants or decomposing debris. Lower foliar nitrogen concentration in occupied than in control stems suggests that coccids and ants parasitize host resources. A prior experimental survey of bamboo ants may have missed mirabilis because females found new colonies in culms occupied by another bamboo specialist, and established colonies invade only young bamboo growth. /// La hormiga (Camponotus mirabilis [Hymenoptera: Formicidae]) es un residente muy especializado de guadua (Guadua spp. [Poaceae]) un bamb nativo del oeste de la Amazonia. Las hormigas obreras de mirabilis establecidas en colonias abren e invaden los tallos jvenes no lignificados de guadua. Colonias maduras y poldomas ocupan de varios a muchos de los tallos adyacentes. Dentro del tallo, numerosas estantes de cartn soportan las cras, y las larvas se alimentan de exudados dulces del cccido (Cryptostigma guadua). La construccin de un sistema de orificios y hebras en el tallo de guadua por C. mirabilis permite una evacuacin pasiva del agua. Forrajeando de noche, las obreras recolectan presas y fibra de madera muerta, el cual es un componente de las hebras. Diurnamente, las hormigas salen agresivamente al agitar los tallos, estas son atacadas por parsitos (Diptera: Phoridae). Los tallos habitados por mirabilis son ms gruesos y ms erectos que los inhabitadas, pero estos son regularmente abiertos por los monos (Cebus apella) para alimentarse de las crias y tal vez de las castas reproductivas. Los tallos de Guadua spp. daados por los monos frecuentemente se caen y luego son abandonados por las hormigas. La destruccin de los estantes de cartn por mirabilis deja residuos rico en nutrientes, los cuales quedan suspendidos en el agua dentro de las bases de los entrenudos. Anlisis isotpicos de los residuos no indican que las plantas utilizan el nitrgeno en los residuos o el carbono respirado por las hormigas o en la descomposicin de desechos. La concentracin del nitrgeno foliar es ms baja en los tallos ocupados que en los de control; esto sugiere que los cccidos y las hormigas parasitan a sus huspedes. Las hembras de mirabilis no fueron incluidas en estudios previos debido a que estas reinas se establecen en colonias nuevas de tallos ocupados por otro especialista del bamb, mientras que las colonias establecidas invaden solo tallos jvenes.
2663939|As with other plants having a relatively simple morphology, solitary palms are useful biological models for studying the life histories of long-lived plants. In the first study to investigate the life history of Borassus aethiopum, a widespread dioecious palm growing in African savannas, we found that: (1) the number of leaves increased up to reproductive maturity and then decreased during the reproductive period, while height increased throughout life; (2) female fecundity, measured as the number of seedlings within a few meters under the female canopies, decreased markedly in old individuals with few leaves; and (3) height distribution was strongly bimodal. This bimodality was due to variations in the stem elongation rate during the life of the palm and the accumulation of adults with low mortality rates in the taller height classes. The observed pattern of fecundity and number of leaves in relation to height clearly suggests a senescence period that began just after sexual maturity and appeared to be protracted. Comparisons between the life history of B. aethiopum and the life histories of some forest palms showed that environmental conditions cannot in themselves explain the various palm life histories.
2389214|We investigated the relation between temporally varying resources, diet composition, and seed-handling behaviors in a group of blue monkeys (Cercopithecus mitis doggetti) in a tropical montane forest of Rwanda. Changes in diet composition were related to concurrent phenological studies of fruit-producing trees, and density and abundance of tree resources within the monkey's home range. Fruit composed nearly 50 percent of the diet. Over 50 percent of the fruits eaten had juicy fleshy pulp. Observations of seed handling behavior provided insights into the role of these animals as potential seed dispersal agents. The monkeys moved the seeds of 29 species out of parent canopies by defecating seeds intact and by potentially carrying seeds in cheek pouches and dropping them later. Seeds of 18 species were found intact in fecal piles. Our study showed community-level phenology patterns did not indicate a decrease in fruit availability during the study period, but an analysis of the preferred fruits consumed by the monkeys showed distinct periods of low fruit availability. The study period included two dry seasons; only one of these produced a period of fruit scarcity for the animals. The animals employed different strategies during times of preferred fruit scarcity. They increased consumption of leaves and other fleshy fruits, and diet diversity increased, or became mainly seed predators and diet diversity decreased. The variable responses of these monkeys to changes in food availability highlights their dietary plasticity and imposes significant variations in their role as potential seed dispersers.
10.2307/2388317|Buttresses are distributed independently of compass direction in Pterocarpus officinalis at a site in western Puerto Rico where prevailing winds blow out of the east-northeast. Buttress length is associated with same-side crown radius. These results contradict findings in studies of other species of trees where buttresses point into the wind and are presumed to function as tension members. No simple explanation of buttress asymmetries emerges from the study. External stresses seem not to contribute significantly to the development of buttresses in this species, and the current conduction hypothesis of Petch (1930) and Richards (1966) is weakened by the evidence that grain is not straight. Nevertheless, buttresses probably are important to the survival of the tree. P. officinalis grows in deep mud, and buttresses provide a broad platform that appears to minimize toppling.
2663795|The faunas of tank bromeliads were sampled over two years in three forest types at different elevations in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico, and the diversity of their animal communities compared. Bromeliad plants behaved as islands in that, within forests, the species richness and abundance of their animal communities were significantly and positively correlated with increase in plant size. The amount of canopy debris they accumulated was similarly correlated with increase in plant size. Overall diversity was lowest in the dwarf forest, where plants were uniformly small. Animal communities were stable from year to year, and could be characterised for each forest type and for compartments within the plant. They showed a pattern of high dominance, which increased with elevation (McNaughton index 37, 54, and 73, respectively, for the tabonuco, palo colorado, and dwarf forest). Alpha-diversity for sites sampled in each year reflected net primary productivity (NPP) of the forest, declining with increasing elevation when animal abundance measures were used (jackknife estimates of Simpson's diversity index 6.54 & 11.04 [tabonuco], 3.53 & 6.22 [palo colorado], and 2.75 & 2.17 [dwarf forest]). Species richness over the two years, however, was highest in the intermediate palo colorado forest (187 species), compared to 146 and 88 in the tabonuco and dwarf forests, respectively. These figures were close to jackknife estimates of maximum species richness. The difference in species richness between tabonuco and palo colorado forests was significant in one year only. In addition to NPP, other factors, such as litter quality and the structural complexity of the habitat in the palo colorado forest, may have influenced species richness. The most abundant species in individual plants were also the most widely occurring, confirming known patterns of abundance and distribution in other functional groups. Diversity within bromeliad microcosms at different elevations supported known relationships between diversity, productivity, and habitat complexity along gradients and was not related to differences in the total bromeliad habitat available for colonization.
10.2307/2388847|Dalhousiea africana S. Moore (Papilionaceae) is a common twining liana in disturbed forests in northeast Gabon. Natural populations are remarkably clustered in comparison with other lianas in these forests and are mainly of clonal origin. Ramets are produced by longitudinal splitting of the stems. The anatomical organisation of D. africana stem (wedges assembled in quarters) predetermines the splitting or cleavage surfaces (at wide unlignified rays in the conducting tissues). Cloning by longitudinal splitting of individuals into strands is interpreted as a good adaptive response to extremely unstable forest conditions. The aerial architecture of the liana, with several small leaf crowns in the canopy, may enhance acceleration of the process.
10.2307/2389094|Anthropogenic alteration of the landscape is a long-term disturbance both in duration and consequences. This study addresses land-cover responses to a history of human land use in northeastern Puerto Rico. Analysis of aerial photographs indicated that the pattern of land use in the municipality of Luquillo changed dramatically between 1936 and 1988. In 1936, sugar cane and pasture were the dominant land uses, occupying about one third of the study area each, while dense forest was rare. Pasture still occupied about a quarter of the area by 1988, but the area of sugar cane had declined to zero. Most sugar cane land was transformed to pasture after abandonment, while much of the pasture at higher elevations reverted to forest. More than half the study area in 1988 was occupied by dense forest, and the degree of forest regeneration was greatest adjacent to the Luquillo Experimental Forest and around patches that were dense forest remnants in 1936. The overall trend was from high-intensity agriculture to dense forest, but urban areas increased more than 2000 percent between 1936 and 1988 and are presently encroaching on forested areas. It is unclear from one study whether the same pattern would hold true at other sites in the tropics, but our study indicates the importance of preserving remnants of mature forest as sources of forest regeneration. In addition, the nature of the patches in the Luquillo landscape has changed as the land use has changed. In 1936, dense forest was highly fragmented, the patches were small and many of them had linear configurations (riparian corridors and hedgerows). By 1988, the average patch size of dense forest had increased greatly, although with one exception the patches were still small relative to other land-cover types.
10.2307/2388405|The New Caledonian endemic Polyscias pancheri (Baill.) Harms (Araliaceae) is functionally dioecious, with males bearing staminate flowers and females bearing morphologically hermaphroditic flowers that have sterile pollen. Dioecism in P. pancheri probably evolved from andromonoecism via gynodioecism. The strong floral protandry of P. pancheri females appears to be a retained ancestral trait, but its adaptive significance is obscure. This is the first report of functional dioecism of this sort in Araliaceae.
27742859|We compared the functional type composition of trees  10 cm dbh in eight secondary forest monitoring plots with logged and unlogged mature forest plots in lowland wet forests of Northeastern Costa Rica. Five plant functional types were delimited based on diameter growth rates and canopy height of 293 tree species. Mature forests had significantly higher relative abundance of understory trees and slow-growing canopy/emergent trees, but lower relative abundance of fast-growing canopy/emergent trees than secondary forests. Fast-growing subcanopy and canopy trees reached peak densities early in succession. Density of fast-growing canopy/emergent trees increased during the first 20 yr of succession, whereas basal area continued to increase beyond 40 yr. We also assigned canopy tree species to one of three colonization groups, based on the presence of seedlings, saplings, and trees in four secondary forest plots. Among 93 species evaluated, 68 percent were classified as regenerating pioneers (both trees and regeneration present), whereas only 6 percent were classified as nonregenerating pioneers (trees only) and 26 percent as forest colonizers (regeneration only). Slow-growing trees composed 72 percent of the seedling and sapling regeneration for forest colonizers, whereas fast-growing trees composed 63 percent of the seedlings and saplings of regenerating pioneers. Tree stature and growth rates capture much of the functional variation that appears to drive successional dynamics. Results further suggest strong linkages between functional types defined based on adult height and growth rates of large trees and abundance of seedling and sapling regeneration during secondary succession.
4132918| Variation in leaf traits of dominant tree species in six montane rain forest communities was analyzed along an elevational gradient ranging from 1220 to 2560 m within a single basin at La Chinantla, Oaxaca, Mxico. Three groups of characters were used: morphological (leaf shape, margin, blade configuration, and phyllotaxy), morphometric (leaf area, leaf mass per area, stomatal density, and blade length/width ratio), and anatomical (thicknesses of blade, palisade [PP], and spongy [SP] parenchymae, PP/SP ratio, and epidermis and cuticle thicknesses). The variation of morphological characteristics was only evident at the highest elevations; in contrast, thickness of leaf blade, PP, SP, as well as leaf mass per area clearly increased along the gradient, whereas leaf area was the only variable that significantly decreased with elevation. Thicknesses of epidermis and of the two cuticles were not significantly correlated with elevation. A classification analysis based on a leaf trait matrix led to the distinction between low and high elevation communities, with an approximate limit between them at ca 2300 to 2400 m. The results are discussed in light of environmental changes occurring along elevational gradients. Leaf characteristics of montane rain forest plants offer important insights about the complex roles of abiotic factors operating in these environments and supplement the traditional physiognomic classification schemes for these communities. 
3593197|We estimated the relative contribution of fruits and insects as sources of dietary protein in two species of Neotropical frugivorous bats (Artibeus jamaicensis and Sturnira lilium) using stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analyses. An insectivorous species (Pteronotus parnellii) was also included for comparison. We found constant patterns in stable carbon and nitrogen isotope composition in blood that separated the two species of frugivorous bats from the insectivorous bat. When we used these isotopic values (combined with those of dietary fruits and insects) to estimate the percent contribution of fruits and insects to the diet of the bats, we obtained different results, depending on assumptions and model adopted. We tested models using both 
30043150|The aims of this study were to investigate the diet and relative abundance of fruit bats in a lowland Malaysian rain forest and to test the hypothesis that the local assemblage structure of fruit bats varies significantly over time in relation to the availability of food. In total, 352 fruit bats of eight species were captured during 72,306 m2 mist-net hours of sampling between February 1996 and September 1999. Three species of fruit bats (Balionycteris maculata, Chironax melanocephalus, and Cynopterus brachyotis) that fed on a wide range of "steady state" and "big bang" food resources were captured continuously throughout the study period, with no significant variation in capture rates over time. In contrast, five species that fed exclusively or almost exclusively on "big bang" food resources were sampled intermittently, with significant temporal variation in the capture rates of two species {Cynopterus horsfieldi and Megaerops ecaudatus). Significant variation in the capture rates of the remaining three species (Dyacopterus spadiceus, Eonycteris spelaea, and Rousettus amplexicaudatus) could not be detected due to small sample sizes. Since ephemeral "big bang" food resources were only sporadically available within the study area and were associated with large canopy trees and strangler figs, these results suggest that food abundance, or the availability of specific food items, may be important factors limiting local fruit bat species diversity in old-growth Paleotropical rain forest. Thus, only three fruit bat species were locally resident within the forest throughout the study period. Therefore, further studies on the ranging behavior and habitat requirements of Malaysian fruit bats are required to assess the adequacy of existing reserves and protected areas.
30045503|Andropogon gayanus (gamba grass) is an introduced pasture grass that threatens Australia's tropical savannas by modifying fire regimes and species composition. To understand the establishment requirements of A. gayanus, we undertook a field experiment to determine the effect of canopy cover and ground layer disturbance on seedling emergence and survival. Seed was sown under three canopy treatments (undisturbed, artificial canopy gap, and natural canopy gap) and under three ground layer treatments (Control, Vegetation disturbed, and Soil disturbed). Results have shown that A. gayanus can establish and survive regardless of canopy cover or ground disturbance, although such site disturbances will increase establishment success. Disturbance of both the overstorey canopy and the ground layer increased A. gayanus emergence, whereas seedling survival to 12 mo after seed sowing was affected by ground layer disturbance alone. Disturbance of the canopy increased light transmission, which may have promoted germination. Ground layer disturbance may also have increased light transmission and suitable sites for establishment, and reduced competition for resources, such as water and nutrients. The ability of A. gayanus to spread along disturbed areas, establish in relatively undisturbed savannas, and resprout after fire within 6 mo after seedling emergence suggests that this species will become increasingly widespread in Australia's tropical savannas. Its control is urgently required.
2663937|A basic tenet of plant ecology is that under high light and limiting nutrient levels, carbon becomes relatively more available for investment in anti-herbivore defense. Rarely considered in discussions of such defense investments, however, is the necessity for plants to defend themselves against oxidative damage caused by light exposure itself. To determine if the ability to respond to elevated levels of light exposure by increasing production of antioxidant compounds is a general characteristic of foliage in tropical plants, we conducted a broad survey of antioxidant content in foliage of 55 species in a tropical forest community by comparing individuals within forest gaps to conspecifics in the closed canopy forest. To do so, we devised a rapid assay to use under field conditions. Of the 41 species of shrubs, trees, and lianas demonstrating a discernible difference in antioxidant content under the two light regimes, 34 (68%) showed higher antioxidant content under high light conditions. In a quantitative laboratory-based study using four of these species, light was associated with a 15 to 45 percent increase in water-soluble antioxidants in three species; one species displayed a 118 percent increase in fat-soluble antioxidants as well. Thus, changes in the chemistry of plant foliage in response to light may reflect plant investments in defense against abiotic stress factors as well as investments in defense against biotic stress factors.
30043252|We studied litter decomposition and nutrient release in a tropical seasonal rain forest of Xishuangbanna, Southwest China. The monthly decay rates (k) of leaf litter ranged from 0.02 to 0.21 /mo, and correlated with rainfall and soil moisture. Annual k values for leaf litter (1.79/yr) averaged 4.2 times of those for coarse wood (2.5-3.5 cm in diameter). The turnover coefficients of forest floor mass (annual litterfall input/mean floor mass) were: 4.11/yr for flowers and fruits, 2.07/yr for leaves, and 1.17/yr for fine wood (2 cm in diameter), with resident time decreasing from fine woods (0.85 yr) to leaves (0.48 yr) and to flower and fruits (0.24 yr). Nutrient residence times in the forest floor mass were ranked as: Ca (1.0 yr) >  (0.92 yr) > Mg (0.64 yr) > N (0.36 yr) > (0.31 yr). Our data suggest that rates of litter decomposition and nutrient release in the seasonal rain forest of Xishuangbanna are slower than those in typical lowland rain forests, but similar to those in tropical semideciduous forests.
2389211|Mass mortality and biomass of mangrove trees are related to soil factors in the Caribbean Coast of Colombia. Soil properties measured were particle size distribution, bulk density, organic matter, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, pH, redox potential, salinity, and extractable nitrogen (NO
10.2307/2388981|Danaea wendlandii Reichenb. (Marattiaceae) is a eusporangiate fern which inhabits the herbaceous layer of neotropical rain forests. Morphology and growth of sporophytes from reproductively mature populations at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica were studied. The presence of four morphologically different leaf types allowed plants to be classified into six life history stages, which in turn corresponded to relative age classes determined by counting nodes. One year's observations indicate that leaves are produced at a rate of 1.6 per year in reproductively mature populations. Approximate ages of sporophytes can be estimated from leaf counts in subadult individuals, and from the leaf length and number of leaflets on the longest sterile leaf in adults. The maximum life span of a sporophyte in reproductively mature populations is estimated to be at least 23 yr. The first vegetative propagules (ramets) from leaf tip buds are produced at an estimated mean plant age of 10 yr. Sexual maturity occurs approximately 3 yr after the first ramet has been produced. Leaf tip ramets become independent within a year after bud expansion and are located at a maximum distance of approximately 21 cm from the parent plant. The reproductively mature population samples studied showed substantial recruitment in the younger age classes.
2663813|Isolating mechanisms are important in maintaining the taxonomic integrity of closely related sympatric taxa. A previous study found strong post-zygotic isolating barriers between two species, Witheringia asterotricha and W. meiantha, of the W. solanacea (Solanaceae) species complex in Costa Rica. This study examines the presence of pre-zygotic barriers between the two species at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Both species offer pollen and nectar as floral rewards and are visited primarily by solitary or semi-social bees, some of which sonicate ("buzz") the anthers to discharge pollen. No evidence was found for phenological differences in flowering time between W. asterotricha and W. meiantha, but pre-zygotic factors, such as ethological isolation and possibly fine-scale ecological or geographic barriers, may be responsible for restricting gene flow between the two species.
30044911|I tested whether terrestrial/understory habits, large body sizes, low tolerance to edge or to matrix habitat, and food/habitat specialization are characteristics of the most vulnerable bird species based on point counts conducted in 14 forest fragments in northern Paran, southern region of the Brazilian Atlantic forest. In addition, the sensitivity level of each bird species to forest fragmentation in northern Paran (high, medium, and low) was compared to the Viosa region, another fragmented landscape of the Atlantic forest. Contrary to expectations, large body size and terrestrial/understory habits were not features clearly related to high sensitivity to forest fragmentation; but species with tolerance to edge did have lower sensitivity. I found also that specialized habitat/food were not good predictors of extinctions; the most specialized guilds, bamboo and vine-tangle insectivores and trunk and twig insectivores, had a high number of species with low sensitivity. Patterns of sensitivity were compared for 75 bird species that occurred in both northern Paran and Viosa; higher incongruence occurred for 14 and 7 species considered as highly sensitive in Viosa but were of medium or low sensitivity, respectively, in northern Paran. These differences may occur because sensitivity to habitat fragmentation may vary from the center to the periphery of a species' geographic range. Geographic variation in patterns of sensitivity to forest fragmentation may be important for conservation planning. /// Neste estudo eu testo se hbitos terrestres/de estrato inferior, tamanhos corporais grandes, baixa tolerncia  borda ou ao hbitat matriz, e especializaes de hbitat/alimento so caractersticas das espcies de aves mais vulnerveis baseado em contagens pontuais realizadas em 14 fragmentos florestais no norte do Paran, regio sul da floresta Atlntica brasileira. Alm disto, o nvel se sensibilidade de cada espcie de ave  fragmentao florestal no norte do Paran (alta, mdia, e baixa)  comparada  da regio de Viosa, uma outra paisagem fragmentada da floresta Atlntica. Contrrio  expectativa, tamanhos corporais grandes e hbitos terrestres/de estrato inferior no foram caractersticas claramente relacionadas  alta sensibilidade  fragmentao florestal; mas espcies com tolerncia  borda foram claramente menos sensveis. Eu encontrei tambm que especializaes de hbitat/alimento no foram bons indicadores de extino; as guildas mais especializadas, insetvoras de bambu e reboleira e insetvoras de tronco e galho, tiveram um alto nmero de espcies com baixa sensibilidade. Padres de sensibilidade foram comparados em 75 espcies de aves que ocorreram tanto no norte do Paran como em Viosa; maior incongruncia ocorreu em 14 e 7 espcies que foram consideradas como de alta sensibilidade em Viosa mas foram de mdia ou baixa sensibilidade, respectivamente, no norte do Paran. Estas diferenas tambm podem ocorrer porque a sensibilidade  fragmentao florestal pode variar do centro para a periferia da distribuio geogrfica da espcie. Variao geogrfica nos padres de sensibilidade  fragmentao florestal pode ser importante para o planejamento em conservao.
40891355|To protect the remaining biodiversity on tropical islands it is important to predict the elevational ranges of non-native species. We evaluated two hypotheses by examining land snail faunas on the eastern (windward) side of the island of Hawaii: (1) the latitude of a species' native region can be used to predict its potential elevational range and (2) non-native temperate species, which experience greater climatic fluctuations in their native range, are more likely to become established at higher elevations and to extend over larger elevational ranges than non-native tropical species. All non-native tropical species were distributed patchily among sites < 500 m and occupied small elevational ranges, whereas species introduced from temperate regions occupied wide elevational ranges and formed a distinct fauna spanning elevations 500-2000 m. Most native land snail species and ecosystems occur > 500 m in areas dominated by temperate non-native snail and slug species. Therefore, knowing the native latitudinal region of a non-native species is important for conservation of tropical island ecosystems because it can be translated into potential elevational range if those species are introduced. Because temperate species will survive in tropical locales particularly at high elevation, on many tropical islands the last refuges of the native species, preventing introduction of temperate species should be a conservation priority.
4132914|Canopy structural data can be used for biomass estimation and studies of carbon cycling, disturbance, energy balance, and hydrological processes in tropical forest ecosystems. Scarce information on canopy dimensions reflects the difficulties associated with measuring crown height, width, depth, and area in tall, humid tropical forests. New field and spaceborne observations provide an opportunity to acquire these measurements, but the accuracy and reliability of the methods are unknown. We used a handheld laser range finder to estimate tree crown height, diameter, and depth in a lowland tropical forest in the eastern Amazon, Brazil, for a sampling of 300 trees stratified by diameter at breast height (DBH). We found significant relationships between DBH and both tree height and crown diameter derived from the laser measurements. We also quantified changes in crown shape between tree height classes, finding a significant but weak positive trend between crown depth and width. We then compared the field-based measurements of crown diameter and area to estimates derived manually from panchromatic 0.8 m spatial resolution IKONOS satellite imagery. Median crown diameter derived from satellite observations was 78 percent greater than that derived from field-based laser measurements. The statistical distribution of crown diameters from IKONOS was biased toward larger trees, probably due to merging of smaller tree crowns, underestimation of understory trees, and overestimation of individual crown dimensions. The median crown area derived from IKONOS was 65 percent higher than the value modeled from field-based measurements. We conclude that manual interpretation of IKONOS satellite data did not accurately estimate distributions of tree crown dimensions in a tall tropical forest of eastern Amazonia. Other methods will be needed to more accurately estimate crown dimensions from high spatial resolution satellite imagery.
10.2307/2989676|The importance of litter in the total energy flow dynamics of a central Amazonian rain forest near Manaus, Brazil, is discussed. The study area is located in the hinterland of Manaus between the Rio Negro and the Amazon. Its substrate is Tertiary sediment. The area receives 1771 mm rainfall per year, and the soil is classified as yellow latosol. The forest comprises 93,780 dicotyledonous trees and palms per hectare reaching 38.10 meters in height. Over 500 species of palms and dicotyledonous trees above 1.5 m. in height are identified for a 2000 sq. m. plot. The estimate for fresh living dicotyledonous tree and palm biomass is 939.5 metric tons per hectare consisting of 1.9% leaves, 49.7% stems, 21.3% branches and twigs, and 27.1% roots. Lianas, vascular epiphytes, and parasites are estimated to comprise 46.2 mt/hectare in the fresh state. At the soil surface there are 59 mt/hectare of fresh litter. Living animal biomass is about 200 kg/hectare of which half is soil fauna. The high proportion of soil fauna, the type of humus, the decomposition of litter, the apparent dependence of soil fauna on fungi, and the low nutrient content of litter are all factors which strongly support a consumer food chain based almost entirely on dead organic matter. The fungi play a decisive role in concentrating the otherwise limited nutrient resources.
2663874|Changes in light or water availability can result in synchronous leaf production, concentrating food availability for herbivores of young leaves to only a few months. To determine the importance of food availability on herbivory, leaf phenology and leaf damage were studied in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) of Puerto Rico. We studied 20 individuals of eight species for two years. Every month, new leaves were marked; the following month, leaf area and area of damage were measured. Over two years, comparison of leaf production and percent herbivory were performed for each species, and for all species taken together. More than 30 percent of the annual leaf production occurred in May and June. Leaf production was associated with an increase in PFD (photon flux density) and was not related to the patterns of rainfall. Although leaf production was synchronous, there were no differences in herbivory between the peak and non-peak periods of leaf production. Possible explanations for the constant levels of herbivory throughout the year are the presence of a generalist herbivore community, the ability of herbivores to track changes in food availability, or high densities of herbivore predators that control herbivore populations.
10.2307/2388518|In order to characterize the organic and isotopic compositions and the origin of the sediment deposited in the Amazon river floodplain, samples from lake bottom, grass cover, and vegetation free sediments were studied. The results obtained showed that after deposition the organic characteristics of these sediments were altered according to their environment. Thus, compared to river-transported fine particulate organic matter (FPOM), samples from the lake bottom sediments showed increases in carbon and nitrogen concentrations, and decreases in $\delta^{13}$C values due to the low isotopic composition of the particulate organic carbon in the lakes. Samples from areas covered by grasses had lower nitrogen and carbon relative to FPOM. The isotopic composition was changed by organic matter produced by the grasses, becoming less negative in $\delta^{13}$C in the downriver direction. In the vegetation-free samples, collected over areas that had been recently drained, the isotopic composition did not change in relation to FPOM, but a decrease in carbon and nitrogen was observed.
10.2307/2389196|Ecological certification of forest products is a rapidly developing market-based incentive for better forest management. Improved forest management can be an important component of tropical conservation and development strategies. To provide a solid biophysical basis for certification programs, however, research is needed on the ecological and silvicultural consequences of different forest management practices. The current criteria for certification are generally based on sustainability of timber harvest volumes, protection of hydrological functions, maintenance of soil productivity and forest structure, and minimization of the deleterious impacts of forest management on non-commercial plants and animals. Some criteria and the field indicators used in their assessment apply equally well to most forests, whereas others are only appropriate for certain forest types, stands, or species. Tropical biologists can contribute to the processes of refining eco-certification criteria and selecting ecologically meaningful indicators of good forest management that can be readily assessed and monitored. Participation of tropical biologists in the design of ecological certification protocols will improve credibility of the process and promote better forest stewardship.
10.2307/2387971|Sympatric tiger beetles in tropical forests comprise one of the few insect assemblages to exhibit patterns of limiting similarity, principally known for vertebrates (Hutchinsonian ratios). On 10 sites in the Old World (Borneo, New Guinea, Gabon) and New World tropics (Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia), the most similar-sized sympatric tiger beetle species had a median mandible length (chord) ratio of 1.35. This ratio was the smallest on sites with more than three ground or undergrowth species (x = 1.26) and largest on sites with only two such species (x = 1.36). It was also small among species on the same site that foraged for insect prey on different substrates (ground, undergrowth leaves, tree trunks, etc.). The observed mandible ratios on sites with only two common species that were both ground-foragers were significantly greater than expected from random matches of tiger beetle species pairs. Populations of species that occurred on more than one site all varied geographically in mandible length but showed consistent mandible ratios ( 1.35) with the most similar-sized congener on each site. Preliminary base resource sampling by sticky traps showed a generally similar abundance and size distribution among sites during the initial part of the rainy season. However, marked seasonal differences in insect abundance and size range from site to site likely influenced the number of tiger beetle species per plot. The number of dry months (<150 mm x monthly rainfall) was shown to be inversely correlated with the number of ground and low foliage foraging tiger beetle species on each plot.
10.2307/2388468|A fragmentary fossil fish skull from the Miocene La Venta fauna, Villavieja Formation, in the upper Magdalena River Valley of Huila Department, Colombia, is determined to be similar and closely related to Arapaima gigas (Arapaimidae), a living species distributed east of the Andes in the large lowland rivers of the Amazon basin and the Guianas. This fossil offers an additional example of a long and conservative history for South American riverine fishes. This discovery corroborates biogeographic and geological evidence for a direct connection of the Magdalena region with the middle Tertiary Amazon watershed and its fauna. The fossil Arapaima and several other fishes from the same area suggest former aquatic communities in the Magdalena region that were once more diverse than the modern fauna. The Magdalena fish fauna was isolated as its watershed formed with Late Miocene uplift of the eastern Cordillera, and this fauna suffered local extinctions presumably as a result of tectonic activity and later Cenozoic climatic change. Older fossils belonging to the Arapaimidae indicate that the Arapaima lineage originated before the Cretaceous Afro-South American drift/vicariance event.
2389035|Whereas ant mosaics have been widely recognized and described in tropical ecosystems, data on space partitioning among arboreal termite colonies are rudimentary. During a long term field study in New Guinea, the distribution of arboreal termite species in coconut plantations as well as the extent and dynamics of competition between them were investigated. The three dominant species, Microcerotermes biroi, Nasutitermes princeps and N. novarumhebridarum, feed on the same items but never exploit the same tree. The resulting distribution pattern is a mosaic with two peculiarities. First, some extended areas around N. princeps colonies appear unexploited, as this species practices interference competition on a wide scale, defending large territories inter- and intra-specifically. Second, interspecific relations are asymmetrical. In some plantations, large colonies of N. princeps expand their territory by destroying colonies of M. biroi, but when the pressure of N. princeps is relaxed, dense populations of colonies of M. biroi can recolonize the trees in a few years' time. Territorial boundaries may thus change relatively fast. N. novarumhebridarum often colonizes dead trees and interferes less with the other species. These facts are consistent with each species' reproductive investment strategy. Hypotheses are proposed to explain how the dominant species can coexist, even in long established plantations.
10.2307/2388299|We investigated variation in the nitrogen content of young leaves and the rate of leaf expansion in tropical shade tolerant species. Both these factors can influence rates of herbivory: low nitrogen content makes leaves less attractive to herbivores, while rapid expansion reduces the time that young leaves are vulnerable to herbivory. Among the 13 study species, nitrogen in young leaves (at 5% of full expansion) ranged from 20 to 71 mg/g DW Most species had higher nitrogen in young leaves compared to mature leaves, but one species showed no change with age. The ratio of nitrogen import relative to dry weight import was low (1-4%) and dropped during expansion. The amount of nitrogen imported daily into the leaf peaked at 70-75 percent of full expansion, though species varied in the percent of final nitrogen that was imported prior to full expansion (67%-93%). There was a significant positive correlation between nitrogen content of young leaves and the rate of leaf expansion. We suggest that the age-specific patterns of nitrogen can best be understood as a trade-off between high palatability to herbivores and escape through rapid expansion.
10.2307/2388421|Forest area change associated with life zones, slope gradients, and transportation networks was examined within the framework of a geographically referenced data base for Costa Rica. Locations of forest boundaries and other landscape attributes were digitized from available map sources. Differential rates of primary forest clearing associated with these variables were derived for four reference periods between 1940 and 1983.Deforestation occurred predominantly in tropical dry and moist life zones during the early reference periods; in intermediate periods, tropical and premontane moist and wet zones were affected. By 1983, only the less accessible high-rainfall zones in rugged terrain retained relatively undisturbed forest. The relationship between total primary forest cleared and slope gradient began as inverse and did not approach linearity until the last reference period, when improved transportation routes had penetrated the northeastern lowland Atlantic region. Road development that provided access to the forest was an important agent of change in all reference periods. By 1977, all major regions of the country had been penetrated by roads, and only high mountain forests were relatively inaccessible. Significant gaps exist in the data base because forest maps represent only broad zones, and locations of regenerating forest were not available. The historical data will be used to direct satellite monitoring toward landscapes of predicted change to quantitatively assess forest change dynamics.
3593169|Although bats are nocturnal, many species emerge from roosts to forage during twilight, despite a presumed high risk of predation at this time. Here, we describe twilight foraging by a maternity colony of Schneider's leafnosed bat (Hipposideros speoris) in the dry zone of Sri Lanka and determine the dietary benefits of such behavior. Bats usually began foraging during dusk, sometimes before sunset, and also foraged during twilight in the morning. Mean use of available twilight by four radio-tagged bats was 75 percent. Twilight foraging made up, on average, 47 percent of the total foraging time of these bats (range = 25-96%), although twilight consisted of only 12 percent of the available time between sunset and sunrise the next morning. Eight species of potential predators (7 birds and 1 mammal) were observed within a 1 km radius of the colony, of which 5 species are predicted to regularly capture bats. Bats took a wide diversity of prey (11 insect orders, including at least 27 families, and spiders) that ranged in wing length from 2.0 to 54.0 mm. Major orders in the diet were Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Diptera. Prey of secondary importance included Hemiptera, Hymenoptera, Isoptera, and Neuroptera. Bats captured large numbers of insects that were only available or had marked peaks in abundance during twilight. These groups included small, swarming insects (especially flies) that have peaks in flight activity at dusk and dawn, large diurnal species (especially dragonflies) that have crepuscular activity, and winged termites that emerge in swarms at dusk. Access to these insects was a clear benefit of twilight foraging.
2389145|Palicourea padifolia is a distylous shrub visited primarily by hummingbirds and bees in mid-elevation rain forests in Costa Rica. At Las Cruces Biological Station, the population of P. padifolia is composed of equal numbers of pin and thrum plants and morphs are randomly distributed. Like the majority of distylous species, P. padifolia exhibits a self- and intramorph-incompatible mating system. The analysis of stigmatic pollen loads obtained from emasculated flowers shows that pollen flow between floral morphs is disassortative, which supports the Darwinian hypothesis concerning the adaptive significance of heterostyly. Pins experience greater disassortative pollination than thrums. Pins also set more seed than thrums, suggesting that the higher frequency of compatible pollen deposited on pin stigmas results in greater fecundity; alternatively, greater seed set in pins could be due to the differential allocation of resources to male and female function between morphs. Overall, seed set for the Las Cruces population of P. padifolia is much lower than the potential maximum. Factors which could contribute to seed set limitation include the frequency and/or spatial pattern of pollinator visits, pollen availability, and resource availability.
2389119|Long-term studies are needed to understand the dynamics of tropical forests, particularly those subject to periodic disturbances such as hurricanes. We studied a flood plain Prestoea montana palm forest in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico over a 15-yr period (1980-1995), which included the passage of Hurricane Hugo in September 1989. The passage of the hurricane caused the dominant species to become more dominant and created low instantaneous tree mortality (1% of stems) and reductions in tree biomass (-16 Mg/ha/yr) and density, although not in basal area. Five years after the hurricane, the palm flood plain forest had exceeded its prehurricane aboveground tree biomass, tree density, and basal area. Aboveground tree biomass accumulated at a rate of 9.2 Mg/ha/yr, 76 percent of which was due to palms. Before the hurricane this rate was on the order of 3 Mg/ha/yr. Forest floor litter decreased to prehurricane levels (6.7 Mg/ha), within 5 yr, mostly due to the disappearance of woody litter. Thirteen tree species not represented in the canopy entered the forest by regeneration, and 2 species suffered almost 20 percent/yr mortality over a 5-yr period after the storm (floodplain average of 2%/yr). Delayed tree mortality was twice as high as instantaneous tree mortality after the storm and affected dicotyledonous trees more than it did palms. Regeneration of dicotyledonous trees, palms, and tree ferns was influenced by a combination of factors including hydroperiod, light, and space. Redundancy Data Analysis showed that the area near the river channel was the most favorable for plant regeneration. Palm regeneration was higher in locations with longer hydroperiods, while regeneration of dicotyledonous trees was higher in areas with low risk of flooding. This study shows how a periodic disturbance provides long-term opportunities for species invasions and long-term ecosystem response at the patch scale of <1 ha.
10.2307/2388284|Variation in choices and preferences for fragrances are examined for a large portion of the euglossine bee assemblages of Barro Colorado Island (BCI) and Cerro Campana, Panama. Census data were obtained from a year-long baiting program utilizing 16 chemical attractants. Inter- and intraspecific variation in fragrance choices occurred. Within sites, fragrance choices of species overlapped considerably, but each species was attracted to a unique set of baits. For some species, choices of infrequently visited chemicals differed among sites. The five baits preferred by most species were the same for both sites. Geographic variation in intraspecific fragrance preferences occurred for seven of eleven species that were abundant at both BCI and Cerro Campana. Seasonal variation in fragrance preferences occurred for 16 of 21 species on BCI. The lack of seasonal shifts was not related to the number of fragrances to which a species was attracted. Indirect evidence exists for age-dependent shifts in chemical preferences by bees. Substantial intraspecific variation in fragrance preferences occurs and is related to some combination of season, age, and geography. The degree to which natural fragrances are available and genetic differences among individuals affect variation in choices and preferences for fragrances remains unknown.
10.2307/2663960|Several species of African grasses brought to Brazil as cattle forage have spread widely, outcompeting native herb species. The open forms of Brazilian savanna ("campo cerrado" and "campo sujo") are the most affected by such invasions, because their structure is open, permitting enough sunlight into the lower strata. The invasion of alien forage grasses occurs in almost every cerrado nature reserve. This study was carried out in the "Cerrado de Emas Biological Reserve", Pirassununga, Sao Paulo State, Brazil, with the following objectives: (a) to compare the abundance of native and alien grass species; (b) to verify the importance of such alien grasses in the community; (c) to identify distribution patterns for the alien grass species in a gradient from the edge (highly disturbed) to the center (less disturbed) of the reserve; and (d) to explore the distribution of native and alien grasses in the search for possible competitive interactions. Using the "point method," a total of 260 points was sampled and 52 species were recorded. The four most frequent species (FA = absolute frequency) were two native (Echinolaena inflexa [Poir.] Chase [FA = 38.85%] and Diandrostachya chrysotrix [Nees] Jacues Felix [FA = 15.38%]) and two alien African species (Melinis minutiflora Beauv. [FA = 33.08%] and Brachiaria decumbens Stapf [FA = 13.85%]). M. minutiflora and E. inflexa had higher values of absolute vigor (67.69 and 59.62%, respectively), relative vigor (28.16 and 24.80%, respectively), and cover (100.77 and 98.47, respectively), indicating higher biomasses and densities and their dominance in the community. B. decumbens presented the highest number of contacts per point, showing the highest stratification. To detect possible edge-center distribution gradients, correspondence analysis was done, initially using all the recorded species and subsequently only the four more frequent grasses, with similar results: (a) the alien grasses, especially M. minutiflora, did not show a distinct distribution gradient from edge to center, but occurred over the whole reserve; (b) no distinct ecotonal band around the reserve (edge-belt) was detected, the whole reserve seeming to be "ecotonal"; and (c) E. inflexa and M. minutiflora showed similar phytosociological patterns, and spatial distribution; association between these two species was statistically significant.
41241920|Hurricanes have dramatic effects on forest vegetation, but their effects on shrublands have rarely been studied. We analyzed the effects of three 2004 hurricanesamong the strongest on record in Floridaon vital rates of 12 rare plant species of pyrogenic interior Florida scrub and sandhill. Tree damage varied by vegetation type (being highest in areas with Pinus clausa) and was associated with debris deposition. Most rare species were minimally impacted by hurricanes. The two most frequently damaged species were the shrubs Prunus genicuLtta (11% of individuals) anaAsimina obovata (7%); both were resilient to damage. Prunus geniculata had little mortality during the hurricane year but damaged plants had a temporary (1-yr) reduction in relative growth rate. Prunus geniculata flowering was unaffected by hurricane damage. Hurricane damage had no effects on vital rates of A. obovata, Eriogonum longifolium var. gnaphalifolium, or Chrysopsis highhndsensis. Other species suffered little or no observable hurricane damage. Of 12 species analyzed, nine had similar annual survival in hurricane and nonhurricane years. Relatively low survival in the hurricane year (compared with other years) was linked to prehurricane drought or prescribed fire in two of three species. Thus, the 2004 hurricanes did not have important effects on populations of interior Florida scrub and sandhill plants, especially herbaceous species. This is in marked contrast to dramatic demographic responses to fire in central Florida and strong effects of hurricanes in coastal Florida, highlighting that these different disturbances may have divergent effects on vegetation and populations over short distances.
10.2307/2388808|We studied feeding guild characteristics of birds in northeastern Venezuela in three adjacent tropical habitats: thorn scrub, thorn woodland, and deciduous forest. We mist-netted and marked birds twice monthly to obtain data on site tenacity We determined diet by examining regurgitated food samples. Species were assigned to feeding guilds by a cluster analysis based on the proportion of the different food types found in their stomachs. Characteristics of each feeding guild from each habitat were submitted to a principal components analysis. Five parameters clearly distinguished feeding guilds: number of species, proportion of transient individuals, amount of seasonal variation in abundance, mean body mass, and estimated biomass. These parameters also appeared to be related to diet characteristics (food types taken, diet diversity) at the species level. Differences among habitats in food availability led to strong between-site differences in the diet of several species, and, accordingly, in their temporal and spatial patterns of abundance.
20492483|The dioecious, tropical palm Mauritia flexuosa has high ecological and economic value, but currently some wild populations are harvested excessively, which is likely to increase. In this study, we investigated the population dynamics of this important palm, the effects of harvesting, and suggested sustainable harvesting regimes. Data were collected from populations in the Ecuadorian Amazon that were assumed to be stable. We used a matrix population model to calculate the density-independent asymptotic population growth rate ( = 1.046) and to evaluate harvesting scenarios. Elasticity analysis showed that survival (particularly in the second and fifth size class) contributes more to the population growth rate, than growth and fecundity. To simulate a stable population at carrying capacity, density dependence was incorporated and applied to the seedling survival and growth parameters in the transition matrix. Harvesting scenarios were simulated with the density-dependent population models to predict sustainable harvesting regimes for the dioecious palm. We simulated the removal of only female palms and showed how both sexes are affected with harvest intensities between 15 and 75 percent and harvest intervals of 1-15 yr. By assuming a minimum female threshold, we demonstrated a continuum of sustainable harvesting schedules for various intensities and frequencies for 100 yr of harvest. Furthermore, by setting the population model's  = 1.00, we found that a harvest of 22.5 percent on a 20 yr frequency for the M. flexuosa population in Ecuador is consistent with a sustainable, viable population over time.
2663789|To clarify the small-scale heterogeneity of light regimes in a rain forest, photosynthetic photon flux density (PFD) was measured at 1-min intervals during six days at 12 microsites in each of two plots, a small gap and an understory in Pasoh Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia. Frequency di stribution of microsite PFD was unimodal with the peak value between 16 and 32 mol/m
10.2307/2388414|Three species of sap-sucking eurymelid bugs, including the economically significant Ipoides melaleucae Evans, form nymphal aggregations tended by ants, Iridomyrmex spp., on saplings of Eucalyptus camaldulensis and Melaleuca viridiflora in tropical northwestern Australia. Experimental exclusion of the ants increased bug mortality rates significantly (P < 0.01), by a factor of approximately 2.5. The increased mortality occurred almost entirely at night: nocturnal mortality rates increased 3-4 times (P < 0.01), whereas diurnal mortality did not increase significantly. Mortality was apparently due to nocturnal predation by small spiders rather than attack by parasitoid wasps or predatory insects. This is the first study to distinguish the effects of diurnal and nocturnal suites of predators and parasitoids on ant-tended Homoptera. It suggests that the role of nocturnal interactions may have been underestimated, at least for tropical Homoptera.
10.2307/2389095|A major cause of tropical deforestation has been the conversion of lowland forest into pastures for cattle grazing. We studied forest structure and species composition following abandonment of cattle pastures in 23 abandoned pastures 9.5-60 yr old and seven forested sites > 60 yr old. Sites were chosen along an elevational gradient from 10-450 m and represented subtropical wet and moist forest life zones. Age since abandonment was the best predictor of stand characteristics. Woody plant density, basal area, species number, and diversity were low 10 yr after abandonment, but increased rapidly after 10 to 15 yr post-abandonment. Although distance to nearest seed source and hurricane exposure are factors that could affect forest recovery, there was little variation among sites and no effects were detected. Elevation and age were significant determinants of species composition. At higher elevations (> 100 m), the shrub Miconia prasina (Melastomataceae) was the dominant pioneer species, but in the low elevation, a larger group of shrubs and small trees colonized abandoned pastures. At higher elevations, the species composition of recovering sites did not include many mature forest species. After 40 yr of recovery, secondary forest stands cannot be distinguished from undisturbed sites in terms of density, basal area, species number, or diversity, but it appears that it will require centuries for these sites to return to a species composition similar to undisturbed forests.
10.2307/2388001|Electropherograms of soluble tuber proteins were found to be of practical use in the identification of yam species and cultivars.
10.2307/2387744|Vertical habitat use by frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus was studied at Monteverde de Punctarenas (five species of four species groups) and Finca La Selva (12 species of six species groups), Costa Rica during June-July 1979. Three patterns of space/time use were recognized: diurnal and ground-active, nocturnal and ground-active, and nocturnal and aboreal. Juveniles and adults of each species characteristically followed similar patterns. At both localities, diurnal frogs were exclusively ground-active, whereas at night all active individuals were arboreal (except for the rugulosus group). This shift may be tied to physiological constraints (humidity) during the day and selection for call sites at night.
30043121|Interest in tropical secondary forests has grown as large areas of agriculture have been abandoned in recent decades; yet, there are few long-term studies of post-agriculture vegetation recovery in the tropics. In this study, we compared the vegetation structure and floristic composition of old-growth and 40-year-old secondary riparian forests in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. Canopy height and stem density of woody plants were similar between forest types, but basal area of trees was 27 percent lower in secondary forests. Introduced tree species comprised 20 percent of the basal area and dominated the understory of secondary forests. Life-form diversity was higher in old-growth forests as arborescent ferns, the palm species, and epiphytic bromeliads, orchids, and bryophytes were much more abundant. The number of species of epiphytic orchids and bromeliads, ground ferns, and herbaceous plants was also significantly higher in old-growth forests. The species density of woody plants and vines, however, was comparable between forest types, and vine abundance was significantly higher in secondary forests. The high importance of introduced tree species and the delayed recovery of several plant life-forms have important implications for the conservation of plant diversity in secondary forests in the tropics. The robust regeneration of woody structure despite the long land tenure (ca 60 yr) by farmers is probably due to the nutrient-rich alluvial soils and low-intensity agriculture. This study revealed the potential for the rapid recovery of woody plant diversity and structure in fertile secondary forests adjacent to mature forest seed sources and the more delayed recovery of nonwoody plant diversity and abundance. /// El inters por los bosques tropicales secundarios ha crecido debido a que grandes extensiones de reas agrcolas han sido abandonadas en las ltimas dcadas. Aun as, en los trpicos hay pocos estudios a largo plazo sobre la recuperacin de la vegetacin de zonas agrcolas abandonadas. En nuestro estudio, comparamos la estructura de la vegetacin y la composicin florstica de bosques ribereos maduros y bosques de 40 aos de edad en la Cordillera Central de Repblica Dominicana. La altura del dosel y la densidad de tallos de plantas leosas fueron similares en los distintos tipos de bosque, pero el rea basal de los rboles fue 27 por ciento ms baja en los bosques secundarios. Las especies arbreas introducidas representaron 20 por ciento del rea basai y dominaron el sotobosque de los bosques secundarios. La diversidad de formas de vida fue ms alta en los bosques maduros, debido a que los helechos arborescentes, las palmas, bromelias, orqudeas, y musgos epfitos fueron mucho ms abundantes. El numero de especies de orqudeas y bromelias epfitas, helechos de tierra y de plantas herbceas fue significativamente ms alta en los bosques maduros. Sin embargo, el nmeros de especies leosas y de bejucos fue comparable en los dos tipos de bosque, mientras que la abundancia de bejucos fue significativamente mayor en los bosques secundarios. La gran importancia de las especies arbreas exticas y la lenta recuperacin de varias formas de vida vegetal, llevan implicaciones importantes para la conservacin de la diversidad de plantas en bosques tropicales secundarios. La regeneracin vigorosa de la estructura leosa, a pesar de la larga ocupacin de estas tierras por los granjeros (ca 60 aos) se debe, probablemente, a la riqueza de nutrientes del suelo en los terrenos aluviales y a la agricultura de baja intensidad que se practicaba en la zona. Este estudio demuestra el potencial para una recuperacion rpida de la diversidad y estructura de la vegetacin leosa en bosques secundarios frtiles que colindan con fuentes de semilla ubicadas en bosques maduros, y la recuperacin ms lenta de la diversidad y abundancia de plantas no leosas.
30045437|Biological corridors connect forest fragments, minimize the isolation of remaining habitats, and reduce the negative impact of fragmentation. Important studies in a corridor include documentation of land cover and the relationships between the plant community and land cover changes. In this study, density, species richness, and species diversity of palms of different life stages and growth forms were documented in forty 10 x 10 m census plots in the San Juan Biological Corridor (SJBC), Costa Rica. Changes in the percent cover of agricultural, partially forested, and forested lands from 1979 to 2001 were quantified based on existing land classifications. Associations between these palm community characteristics and the reduction in forest cover in 200-m and 1000-m annuii surrounding the census plots were investigated. These palm community characteristics were spatially interpolated to examine their distributions in SJBC. The community characteristics of palms of all growth forms varied among census plots. Forested lands in SJBC decreased from 88 percent to 26 percent during 1979-2001, while the percentage cover of agricultural and partially forested lands increased. The annual deforestation rate was 0.8 percent from 1979 to 1992, 4.3 percent from 1992 to 1997, and 7.5 percent from 1997 to 2001. Overall, palm community characteristics of small-canopy palms, dwarf palms, and cotyledonous seedlings had lower values with a lower percentage forest cover. The spatially interpolated palm community characteristics were consistently greatest within or adjacent to protected areas. This study demonstrates the complexity of the landscape and the effect of loss of adjacent forests on the palm community. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2388247|On 18 September 1989 the western part of Hurricane Hugo crossed eastern Puerto Rico and the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF). Storm-facing slopes on the northeastern part of the island that were within 15 km of the eye and received greater than 200 mm of rain were most affected by the storm. In the LEF and nearby area, recurrence intervals associated with Hurricane Hugo were 50 yr for wind velocity, 10 to 31 yr for stream discharge, and 5 yr for rainfall intensity. To compare the magnitudes of the six hurricanes to pass over Puerto Rico since 1899, 3 indices were developed using the standardized values of the product of: the maximum sustained wind speed at San Juan squared and storm duration; the square of the product of the maximum sustained wind velocity at San Juan and the ratio of the distance between the hurricane eye and San Juan to the distance between the eye and percentage of average annual rainfall delivered by the storm. Based on these indices, Hurricane Hugo was of moderate intensity. However, because of the path of Hurricane Hugo, only one of these six storms (the 1932 storm) caused more damage to the LEF than Hurricane Hugo. Hurricanes of Hugo's magnitude are estimated to pass over the LEF once every 50-60 yr, on average.
10.2307/2388702|The natural regeneration of Eperua falcata Aublet (Caesalpiniaceae) a common autochorus species, was studied an a 2500 m$^2$ plot in Guiana. Flowering occurs during the dry season and fruits mature during the humid season. Seeds are dispersed when humidity decreases enough to promote bursting of the pod. Nearly 60 percent of the seeds fall less than 10 m from the parent tree, and the maximum dispersal distance is 30 m. Seeds are slowly eaten, and predation by rodents (the principal predators in the studied area) is not distance-dependent. Desynchronisation of flowering and consequent production of fruits during the dry season is followed by high rates of abortion and seed predation. Seedling mortality is low and their distribution under and around the parent tree is nearly the same as that of the seeds. The incomplete destruction of seeds and seedlings in the vicinity of the parent tree conflicts with the Janzen-Connell model. Seedlings maintain themselves during a long time under closed canopy and a small increase of light intensity permits growth in height of several cm a year. Annual mortality of small seedlings is higher and the growth rate is slower than those of large seedlings. Saplings (> 100 cm in height) are principally located between 10 and 15 m from the nearest parent tree, but outside the limit of the crown. This distance corresponds to half the distance between two adjacent trees, on average. This, in turn, corresponds with the major population recruitment zone of Eperua falcata, maintaining this species at a high density.
41241936|Plant morphological and physiological traits affect the way plants tolerate environmental stresses and therefore play an important role in shaping species distribution patterns in relation to environmental gradients. Despite our growing knowledge on the role of functional traits in structuring plant communities, few studies have tested their importance at large scales in the wet tropics. Here, we describe the distribution patterns of the most important West African rain forest timber species along the regional rainfall gradient and relate them to their functional traits. We found that the distribution patterns of 25 out of the 31 studied species (80%) were significantly related to mean annual rainfall. Shade tolerance and drought resistance were identified as the main strategy axes of variation. Wood density and leaf deciduousness emerged as the best predictor traits of species position along the rainfall gradient, explaining respectively 32 and 15 percent of the variation. Species traits tended to show stronger relationships with estimated optimum annual rainfall for each species than to the extreme rainfall conditions where they occur. The significant role of rainfall in shaping timber species distribution and the strong relationships between species traits and rainfall indicate that changes in climate, especially declining rainfall, could have strong effects on species composition and abundance in these tropical forests.
10.2307/2388757|Recent summaries of the distribution of the Amazonian manatee Trichechus inunguis record specimens from much of the Central Amazon Basin in Brazil, eastern Peru, and extreme southeastern Colombia, but not Ecuador. During October and November of 1983 we searched for manatees in the Rio Aguarico and Rio Cuyabeno systems of Napo Province, eastern Ecuador. Herein we document the existence of Amazonian manatees in Ecuador, provide rough estimates of their current distribution, describe several aspects of their ecology in Ecuador, document use of manatees by indigenous peoples, and document the current commercial harvest of manatees for meat. Manatees were observed by us at several separate localities in the Amazonian lowlands of eastern Ecuador. Additionally, we report several observations by others as well as a published historical record previously overlooked. Our observations of manatees are from blackwater habitats in undisturbed, primary, lowland rainforest in water with a pH of 5.5 to 6.0 and temperature of 25.0 to 30.7$^\circ$C. In the upper Cuyabeno region, the Siona Indians, who have harvested manatees for generations, have a self-imposed ban on manatee hunting to protect the few remaining animals in their waters. Settlers, the military, and a commercial meat hunter continue to actively harvest Amazonian manatees in Ecuador and adjacent Peru. Much of the meat obtained is used by either the Ecuadorian or Peruvian military. We found manatees abundant at only one locality, Laguna Lagarto Cocha. However, this population is being actively hunted, and the meat sold to the local military outposts. We estimate that if the current level of harvest continues unabated, Amazonian manatees will be gone from Ecuador within 10-15 years.
20492527|Although many animal species consume herbaceous vegetation found in African tropical forests, little is known of the temporal and spatial availability of these plants. From September 2004 to August 2005 we conducted a study that quantified the temporal and spatial biomass availability of 20 species of herbs frequently consumed by endangered mountain gorillas at two locations (Buhoma and Ruhija) in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Uganda. In general, the biomass of herbs varied over the study period, but these changes were relatively small. For 12 of 18 and nine of 11 species in Buhoma and Ruhija, respectively, herb biomass differed significantly among habitat types. Of the nine species found in both locations, seven species had a higher biomass at Ruhija, one species had a higher biomass at Buhoma, and one species showed no difference. These results demonstrate that herb biomass varied little temporally but spatial differences in herb biomass were more pronounced. Future studies should investigate the variables that may influence herb phenological patterns such as rainfall, light, soil quality, previous disturbance regimes, and animal foraging and trampling damage.
20492523|This study shows for the first time that terrestrial tank bromeliads from Brazilian restinga can act as natural traps for dispersed palm Euterpe edulis seeds. Such bromeliads, which are shade intolerant, gain benefits by limiting palm recruitment since they hinder canopy formation and, consequently, increase luminosity over its aggregates.
10.2307/2388538|The seeds of the six native species of Lonchocarpus (Leguminosae) trees in the tropical dry forest of Santa Rosa National Park in northwestern Costa Rica are rejected by all species of vertebrate seed predators. Liomys salvini (Heteromyidae) mice, the primary vertebrate seed predators in this habitat, were found to die of starvation rather than eat Lonchocarpus seeds in captivity; in contrast, some of the species of Lonchocarpus seeds are preyed upon by the larvae of host-specific bruchid beetles (Ctenocolum spp.). Lonchocarpus costaricensis seeds were found to be rich in at least four nonprotein amino acids and a polyhydroxypyrrolidine alkaloid. However, when this potentially toxic alkaloid, and thus potential deterrent to the mice, was added to a laboratory chow diet at concentrations approximating that in the seeds, the mice consumed the adulterated chow with no effect or only slight effect. The L. costaricensis seeds also contained seven kinds of flavonoids. When these potentially toxic molecules were added to lab chow as single compounds or in pairs, at concentrations approximating those found in the seeds, the mice readily consumed the adulterated laboratory chow. However, when a mix of flavonoids that represented the entire flavonoid profile of an intact seed in concentration and kind was added to laboratory chow, this diet was absolutely rejected by the mice until death by starvation. The flavonoids, rather than the peculiar small nitrogenous molecules in the L. costaricensis seeds, are at least one basis for seed rejection by (and thus, protection from) the mice. However, there is still the opportunity for other as yet unrecorded secondary compounds in the seed to also be a basis for seed rejection by the mice.
10.2307/2388461|Dalechampia cf. parvifolia is a common vine in parts of northern Tanzania. It is similar in floral morphology and many aspects of pollination ecology to New World species of Dalechampia. The inflorescence "gland" secretes a sticky resin which attracts female Heriades aff. spiniscutis (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae). These bees regularly pollinate the flowers when collecting the resin or pollen. D. cf. parvifolia, like New World species, is self-compatible and capable of self-pollination in the absence of pollinators. The leaves and flowers of D. cf. parvifolia are eaten by several generalist insect herbivores and at least two suspected specialists. Neptidopsis aff. ophione and Byblia aff. acheloin (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). These two butterfly genera appear to be related to the specialist herbivores on Dalechampia in the New World. This observation, together with other circumstantial information, supports the hypothesis that Dalechampia and its associated specialist butterfly herbivores were dispersed together throughout the neotropics and western paleotropics either by continental drift in the Cretaceous or by migration across higher latitudes in the Tertiary. Subsequent extinctions in Africa and more recent dispersal of certain advanced Dalechampia species (including the ancestor of D. cf. parvifolia) may account for the present geographic patterns of distribution and diversity of Dalechampia and its herbivores.
10.2307/2388633|At the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, dendrometer bands were read monthly for a year to monitor the seasonality and rate of girth increment for three common tree species: Pentaclethra macroloba (Mimosaceae), Goethalsia metantha (Tiliaceae), and Carapa guianensis (Meliaceae). Annual diameter increment varied with tree size but was greatest for Goelthalsia (1.26 cm/yr), least for Carapa (0.04-0.34 cm/yr), and intermediate for Pentaclethra (0.20-1.06 cm/yr). Cambial activity for Pentaclethra was greatest during drier months (December to April), the only months when Pentaclethra was not in flower or fruit. In contrast, Goelthalsia and Carapa had less cambial activity during drier months (April and May), the time of leaf flushing for these species. Greater growth during the drier months, a characteristic not shared by relatively common Goelthalsia and Carapa trees, may provide a competitive advantage for Pentaclethra and help explain its abundance at La Selva.
10.2307/2388864|Seed rain was measured in the center (open habitat) and at the edges of two recent landslides and in adjacent subtropical wet forest in eastern Puerto Rico. We trapped seeds for 2 yr after the trees in the forest were severely damaged by Hurricane Hugo. The number of seeds trapped per fortnight did not increase with time. Cumulative numbers of species were highest in the edge habitat during the first year but highest in the forest during the second year. Seeds from shrubs dominated the seed rain and also had the highest germination under shadehouse conditions (shrubs > vines > trees > herbs). The dominance of the seed rain by shrubs was apparently due to increased fruit production of existing understory shrubs in the forest after canopy removal by the hurricane, and to colonizing shrubs on the landslides. Peaks of seed rain coincided with short periods of high seed production by plants in the vicinity of individual traps. Despite large spatial variability, the seed rain did represent the local flora and long distance dispersal was not necessary to explain seed rain dynamics.
10.2307/2388057|Pitfall traps, baited with feces, were used to sample the Scarabaeinae dung beetle fauna in lower montane rainforest in western Panama. Baits of two sizes, 2 ml and 200 ml, were used. These baits captured 22 species each, but there were clear differences in species, numbers and sizes of species, and species dominance and equitability. The evidence shows that dung size is another niche dimension along which species can specialize and reduce competitive interactions.
10.2307/2388233|The genus Luffa comprises five species of tropical vines, four native to the Old World and one, L. operculata, to the New World. Two species, L. aegyptiaca and L. acutangula, include domesticated plants that are now widespread in the tropics. Interspecific hybrids are sterile or nearly so. Intraspecific hybrids within L. acutangula and L. aegyptiaca are fertile, but the hybrid within L. operculata is sterile. Phenetic and cladistic analyses indicate that the species are well differentiated with L. echinata the most distinct. The cladistic analyses further reveal two phyletic lines, one comprised of L. aegyptiaca and L. acutangula and the other of L. echinata, L. graveolens, and L. operculata. It is concluded that L. graveolens. or more likely a species ancestral to it and L. operculata, gave rise to L. operculata. Luffa presents several disjunct distributions, and various possibilities are explored to account for them. Humans may be responsible for the disjunct distribution of feral varieties of L. acutangula. Long-distance transport by water may account for the others. Two new varietal combinations are made, L. acutangula var. forskalii and L. aegyptiaca var. leiocarpa.
10.2307/2388983|The effect of disturbance on land snail density in a montane subtropical wet forest was evaluated during wet (March-April) and dry (June) seasons by collecting specimens from quadrats positioned along transects that bisected treefall gaps in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico. Atmospheric and litter temperature, relative humidity, litter and soil moisture, slope, and substrate type also were measured in each quadrat to determine the effect of these environmental parameters on the spatial distribution of the land snails during two sampling periods in 1989 Of the 34 species of snail known from the forest, only five occurred with sufficient frequency to permit statistical analysis. The abundances of three species (Austrosolenites alticola, Megalomastoma croceum, and Subulina octana) were not significantly different in gap versus nongap areas. In contrast, Nenia tridens and Caracolus caracolla responded to patches created by treefalls. In particular, the abundance of N. tridens was significantly higher in gaps; whereas, that of C. caracolla was significantly higher in the surrounding undisturbed forest. Such differences in distribution may be attributable to factors related to diet and body water loss rates.
10.2307/2387921|A simple technique, which involves hatching successive clutches of eggs found associated with individual spiders, gives measurements of rates of egg production from which rates of prey capture can be calculated in field populations. Assumptions involved in the technique are discussed. Calculated rates of egg synthesis in 12 field populations of six species of tropical spiders are presented. Despite their widely varying habitats of origin, all five small species produced about 5-10 percent of their body weight in eggs daily; the one medium-sized species produced about 3 percent daily. Conservative calculations of prey capture from egg production rates suggest that the small spiders captured 20-40 percent of their own weight daily, while the medium-sized species captured just over 10 percent. Intraspecific variation was high in the rates of egg synthesis; moderate in female weight, clutch size, and interval between clutches; and low in egg weight and female leg size. There was no tendency for later clutches to be smaller. Possible reasons for some of these patterns are given.
10.2307/2388852|Fourteen nests of the ponerine ant Paltothyreus tarsatus were excavated in Kenya and in the Ivory Coast. All colonies contained only one mated queen. The worker population varied markedly between colonies, reaching 2444 adults in one case. Nests consisted of many chambers located 30 cm to more than 150 cm below the surface. The construction and arrangement of the chambers were not particularly elaborate, but the associated horizontal tunnel system (5-15 cm below the surface) was most remarkable. In one nest, over 130 m of shallow subterranean tunnels were uncovered. An area of 1200 m
10.2307/2388407|Growth and survival of tree seedlings were observed in lowland, evergreen, tropical rain forest in Pantai Aceh Forest Reserve, Penang, Peninsular Malaysia. Four natural gaps and two closed-canopy sites were used. In each site twenty 1 m$^2$ plots were laid out at random and all the seedlings in them were identified, tagged, mapped, and measured for height and basal stem diameter, and the number of leaves were counted. After six months four of the sites were revisited, and after 16 months they were all revisited. Hemispherical canopy photographs were taken to calculate diffuse and direct site factors. At the start of the observations 1287 seedlings of 116 species were tagged. Over 16 months 251 (19.5%) seedlings died. Mortality was inversely correlated with seedling height. Potential direct radiation had no affect on seedling mortality. For the five common species the mortalities were: Shorea multiflora 6.2 percent, Hopea pedicellata 6.8 percent, Shorea curtisii 13.4 percent, Hopea beccariana 14.1 percent and Gluta curtisii 22.7 percent. The mortality of recruits from seed was: Shorea multiflora 19.0 percent, Shorea curtisii 29.1 percent and Gluta curtisii 29.5 percent. The seedlings grew very little over the 16 months. Height growth was greater in gap sites. There was a significant relationship between direct site factor and plot maximum height growth (r$_s$ = 0.399, P < 0.01) but its predictive value was poor (r$^2$ = 0.188). Gluta curtisii was the only species to show a significant relationship between direct site factor and height growth. Shorea multiflora and Gluta curtisii showed a significantly greater rate of height growth in the plots with above-median direct site factor compared to plots with below-median values. Shorea multiflora is a very shade tolerant species.
20492471|Although many tropical stream consumers have large effects on resource quantity and quality, little is known about the relative importance of consumption versus bioturbation. We quantified egestion rates of freshwater shrimps (Atya spp. and Xiphocaris elongata) and mayflies (Leptophlebiidae) in two forest streams within the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Consumer body size was a strong predictor of egestion rates, with mass-specific egestion rates declining with body size and per-individual egestion rates increasing with body size. We used these egestion rates, together with published rates of epilithon removal by consumers and epilithon accrual by particle deposition and periphytic growth (i.e., with and without consumer access), to estimate the importance of consumption and bioturbation after storm events and during base-flow conditions. Our estimates suggest that direct consumption of epilithon can only account for a minor proportion (&lt; 5%) of material removed following storm events, with most removal likely resulting from bioturbation. During base-flow conditions, we found that consumers (largely shrimps) may be capable of consuming a significant proportion of the material that would otherwise accrue on benthic substrata, but this result was limited to one high-elevation site. Our study suggests that bioturbation is the dominant process that redistributes and entrains fine particles after storm events, and that a variable fraction of deposited and accrued benthic material may be consumed during base-flow conditions. Our results underscore the importance of tropical stream animals in altering the benthic environment through both consumption and bioturbation, and suggest that consumer-mediated material cycling is likely to be context dependent.
10.2307/2389239|Census results and observations of foraging tactics and diet were compiled for the 35 regularly occurring species of diurnal raptors in an 800-ha section of the lowland Manu National Park of southeastern Peru. Census results show that most forest raptors occurred across a broad array of successional stages. Population densities ranged from a high of one or two territories per 100 ha (e.g., Micrastur forest-falcons, double-toothed kite, Harpagus bidentatus) to lows of much less than one territory in the entire study area (e.g., large eagles). A species replacement apparently occurs in the genus Leucopternis, with the slate-colored hawk L. schistacea occupying flood plain forest and the white-browed hawk L. kuhli occupying upland forest. All other congeners showed substantial overlap in habitat use. Based on observations by 35 researchers of over 400 prey items being carried and over 200 attacks, I divided raptors into several preliminary guilds. Forest raptors include seven species that hunt arthropods and small vertebrates from concealed perches (e.g., Micrastur forest-falcons, gray-headed kite, Leptodon cayanensis); seven species that hunt large birds and mammals either from concealed perches (e.g., ornate hawk-eagle, Spizaetus ornatus) or on long-range attacks on sites where birds or mammals aggregate (e.g., bicolored hawk, Accipiter bicolor); and several species with specialized diets of wasps (red-throated caracara, Daptrius americanus), snails (hook-billed kite, Chondrohierax uncinatus), and snakes (laughing falcon, Herpetotheres cachinnans). Species that hunt on the wing include four that feed mostly on flying insects and small vertebrates (two kites, the short-tailed hawk Buteo brachyurus, and the bat falcon Falco rufigularis), one that dives on perched vertebrates (zone-tailed hawk Buteo albonotatus), and two vultures that search for carrion. Raptors of open rivers, lakes, and marshes include a fish specialist (the osprey Pandion haliaetus), two snail specialist kites, a carrion-eating vulture, a Buteo that dives on arthropods and small vertebrates, and three species with extremely diverse diets (e.g., black-collared hawk, Busarellus nigricollis). Snail specialists tended to occur irregularly during the eleven field seasons of this study. Several raptors are known to influence the population dynamics of their prey species. Large forest-dwelling raptors such as the harpy and crested eagles are likely to require the largest preserves.
10.2307/2388752|An examination of young Casuarina torulosa Ait. populations at two recently burned, wet sclerophyll woodland/savanna sites in North Queensland, Australia, showed that both consisted of a narrowly unimodal height-class structure containing a high proportion of resprouted stems. Stem mortality was virtually complete below modal scorch height in each stand, but decreased in stems above this height. A high proportion of plants with fire-killed stems had resprouted: those below 2 m in height did so by basal tillering, and those above this height did so epicormically. A growth chamber experiment showed little resprout capacity when seedling heights approximated 23 cm, but a much higher potential when heights approximated 42 cm. However, resprout capacity was rapidly lost after two subsequent burns at short intervals. These results suggest that this species maintains even-sized cohorts of young stems within sclerophyll woodland and savanna subject to moderate fire recurrence intervals by repeatedly resprouting basally. Occasional longer fire-free intervals permit passage of these cohorts beyond the fire-sensitive stage to form relatively dense stands of even-sized stems.
10.2307/2387832|Condensed tannins were assayed in the unripe fruit flesh of 37 species collected in Gombe National Park, Tanzania. These fruits are known to be eaten by chimpanzees when ripe, but are rarely or never caten when unripe. The median concentration of condensed tannin was high enough (1.6% wet weight) to suggest that tannins significantly reduce the palatability of many wild unripe fruits. Tannin levels did not vary systematically with plant growth form, fruit morphology or fruit size, but the fruits which were eaten most often when ripe had higher tannin levels when unripe than those less commonly eaten.
30045383|The influence of El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) on rainfall and its possible effect on availability of food for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a tropical dry forest in the Pacific coast of Mexico was studied. From 1977 to 2003 there were three significant El Nio and La Nia events. During El Nio years rainfall decreased during the wet season (June to October) and increased during the dry season (November to May), with the opposite effect during La Nia years. Plant diversity was monitored in permanent plots during the wet and dry seasons of 1989-1993. The results provide evidence that ENSO events affect deer food availability, particularly in the dry season. /// Este trabajo analiza la influencia de los eventos de El Nio/Oscilacin del Sur (ENSO) sobre el patrn de precipitacin y su posible influencia sobre la disponibilidad de alimento para el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) en un bosque tropical seco de la costa Pacfica de Mxico. En el periodo de 1977-2003 se produjo tres eventos claros de El Nio y de La Nia. Durante los aos del El Nio la lluvia en la poca hmeda (junio a octubre) disminuy, y aument durante la poca seca (noviembre a mayo); mientras que durante La Nia se observ un efecto contrario. La diversidad de plantas en el sotobosque fue monitoreada en parcelas permanentes durante las pocas de lluvia y sequa de 1989-1993. Los resultados sugieren que ENSO podra tener un efecto adicional sobre la disponibilidad de alimento para el venado, principalmente en la poca seca.
20492530|Most bamboos are semelparous. Their synchronous masting events occur on a cycle of 3-120 yr and represent an extremely pulsed resource for granivorous birds. Although many bird species feed occasionally on bamboo seeds, there are constraints to specializing on such a fluctuating resource and few bird species are known to specialize on bamboo seeds. Three of these bird species are endemic to the Atlantic forest of South America: the purple-winged ground-dove Claravis godefrida, buff-fronted seedeater Sporophila frontalis, and Temminck's seedeater Sporophila falcirostris. All three species are irregularly recorded in the province of Misiones, Argentina. We compared the temporal and spatial patterns of records of these birds in Misiones to masting events of the five common bamboos: yatev Guadua trinii, takuaruz Guadua chacoensis, takuap Merostachys claussenii, pitinga Chusquea tenella, and takuaremb Chusquea ramosissima. All bird records coincided with times and places where Guadua bamboos (G. trinii and G. chacoensis) were known or estimated to have seeds. None of the bird species occurred during masting events of Merostachys or Chusquea, unless Guadua was also masting. We discuss relevant ecological and morphological features of the birds that might bear on their association with Guadua bamboos and that might be key to their conservation.
30043210|The western Mexican endemic Citreoline Trogon {Trogon citreolus) builds its nest cavities in arboreal termitaria. We studied the reuse of these holes by other organisms after the trogons abandoned them in the tropical dry forest of western Mexico. Of the 24 cavities examined, 19 were occupied (5 by mammals and 14 by arthropods). We found two western Mexico endemic mammals (Marmosa canescens and Xenomys nelsont) using these spaces. Our results suggest that the T. citreolus provides a critical role in creating necessary cavities for many organisms in tropical dry forests. /// La especie Trogon citreolus es un ave endmico de la regin occidental de Mxico, construye sus cavidades para anidar adentro de termiteros arbreos. Investigamos la reutilizacin de estas cavidades por otros organismos despus de ser abandonadas por los tragones en el bosque tropical caducifolio en el occidente de Mxico. De 24 cavidades examinadas, 19 estaban ocupadas (5 por mamferos y 14 por artrpodos). Encontramos dos especies endmicos de mamferos {Marmosa canescens y Xenomys nehon) utilizando las cavidades. Nuestros resultados sugieren que 77 citreolus tiene una funcin muy importante en la creacin de cavidades necesarias para muchos otros organismos en el bosque tropical caducifolio.
30043274|Edge-mediated changes in species composition are known to result in modified species interactions. Because of the crucial trophic position of herbivores and their far-reaching impact on plant communities, it is important to understand how edge influences herbivory. In the present paper, we investigated whether and how leaf-cutting ant foraging is altered in the forest edge, as this habitat is characterized by an increased proportion of pioneer species. We assessed basic foraging data as well as the herbivory rate (i.e., the proportion of the leaf material harvested by a colony in relation to the available leaf area in the foraging area) of Atta cephalotes colonies at the edge versus interior sites of a large remnant of the Atlantic forest in Northeast Brazil. Our results indicated clear edge effects on leaf-cutting ants: equally sized A. cephahtes colonies located at the forest edge removed about twice as much leaf area from their foraging grounds than interior colonies (14.3 vs.7.8%/collyr). This greater colony-level impact within the forest edge zone was a consequence of markedly reduced foraging areas (0.9 vs. 2.3 ha/col/yr) and moderately lower leaf area index in this habitat, whereas harvest rates were the same. Our results suggest that forest edges induce increased leaf-cutting ant herbivory, probably via the release of resource limitation. Together with the increase of leaf-cutting ant populations along forest edges, this may amplify environmental changes induced by habitat fragmentation.
10.2307/2387671|Four species of Ambylomma ticks and a Placobdella leech were found in association with the turtle genus Callopsis. New host records are listed. Differences between attachment sites of the various tick life stages exist, and the ecological significance of these are discussed.
30044942|People have hunted mammals in tropical Asian forests for at least 40,000 yr. This period has seen one confirmed global extinction (the giant pangolin, Manis palaeojavanica) and range restrictions for several large mammals, but there is no strong evidence for unsustainable hunting pressure until the last 2000-3000 yr, when elephants, rhinoceroses, and several other species were progressively eliminated from the large parts of their ranges. Regional declines in most species have occurred largely within the last 50 yr. Recent subsistence hunting has typically focused on pigs and deer (hunted with dogs and spears or with snares), monkeys and other arboreal mammals (often caught with blowpipes), and porcupines and other rodents (smoked or dug out of burrows). Over the last 50 yr, the importance of hunting for subsistence has been increasingly outweighed by hunting for the market. The hunted biomass is dominated by the same species as before, sold mostly for local consumption, but numerous additional species are targeted for the colossal regional trade in wild animals and their parts for food, medicines, raw materials, and pets. Many populations of mammalian dispersers of large seeds and understory browsers have been depleted or eliminated, while seed predators have had a more variable fate. Most of this hunting is now illegal, but the law enforcement is generally weak. However, examples of successful enforcement show that hunting impacts can be greatly reduced where there is sufficient political will. Ending the trade in wild animals and their parts should have the highest regional conservation priority.
27742798|In the tropical forests of SE Asia, only a few studies have dealt with the role animal dispersal plays in early forest succession and rehabilitation, and a comparison of bird and bat dispersal is even rarer. We investigated seed dispersal by birds and bats in a successional area in the lowland dipterocarp forest of the Subic Watershed Forest Reserve (SWFR) in Luzon Island, Philippines. Using pairs of day and night traps, we collected seeds during 3 mo of wet season and 3 mo of dry season in a 1.2-ha study site. Bird-dispersed seeds predominated over those dispersed by bats in terms of both seed abundance and number of seed species. The most abundant endozoochorous seed species were significantly biased toward either bird or bat dispersal. Birds and bats appeared to compete more strongly for fruit resources during the dry season than during the wet season, and bats responded more to changes in the seasons than birds did. GLM analyses showed that the factor that had the strongest influence on overall seed distribution was the number of fleshy-fruited trees surrounding the traps, and that the distribution pattern of day-dispersed seeds was affected by more physical factors (number of trees, size of trees, presence of fleshy-fruited and conspecific trees) in the study site than the pattern of night-dispersed seeds were. Given that birds are the more important dispersers in the study site, restoration efforts in SWFR might benefit by focusing on attracting these dispersers into its degraded habitats.
10.2307/2388413|In mangrove forests on the Atlantic coast of Panama, the arboreal ant Zacryptocerus maculatus was positively associated with territorial ants in the genus Azteca. Systematic sampling showed that this association was not caused by shared preference for the same size or species of tree. Furthermore, Z. maculatus was not forced to live within territories of Azteca by being excluded from the territories of other abundant ants. Instead, the association appeared to be caused by direct interactions between colonies of Azteca and Z. maculatus. When in the presence of A. trigona, colonies of Z. maculatus engaged in an unusual form of social parasitism. Workers followed pheromone trails deposited by scouts of A. trigona in order to locate newly discovered food sources. In effect, Z. maculatus parasitizes the foraging efforts of A. trigona by reading information contained within its recruitment signals. Z. maculatus workers were able to gain access to these resources because of their stealthy approach and unusual body armor. Observations on related ants suggest that this parasitic habit is shared by other species of Zacryptocerus within the subgenus Harnedia.
27742832|The landscape approach is being used for initiatives that have the dual objectives of conserving biodiversity and alleviating poverty. However, working at such landscape scales greatly expands the level of ambition of conservation organizations and requires them to use skills that differ from those that they have traditionally deployed. Influencing landscape change requires major commitments for long periods of time and since there is still little evidence for the success of such approaches they should be used cautiously. Landscape programmes must be based on a comprehensive understanding of landscape dynamics and of the underlying drivers of social, economic and ecological change. Just as in any other investment in conservation it is important to set objectives in clear and measurable terms. Landscape approaches should therefore complement and not replace more conventional biodiversity conservation measures. They should be guided by scenarios agreed by concerned stakeholders, should be constructivist and in most cases their success will require major changes in the behavior of local people.
10.2307/2388908|We review reports of leaf-eating by bats and present new evidence for folivory by leaf fractionation for the neotropical bat Artibeus jamaicensis (Chiroptera: Phyllostomidae). Leaf-eating has been reported for at least 17 species of Old-World Megachiroptera and four species of New World Microchiroptera. Leaves eaten by bats include at least 44 species of plants represented by 23 different families. Plant families which account for the greatest species richness (numbers of species given in parentheses) include the Leguminosae (12), Moraceae (4), and Solanaceae (4). Evidence for folivory by A. jamaicensis is based on captures of bats carrying leaves, and collections of whole and partially chewed leaves and discarded pellets recovered from beneath feeding roosts. Whole leaves carried into caves by A. jamaicensis and partially chewed, but discarded leaves included Erythrina poeppigiana. Ficus sp., and Calophyllum calaba, in decreasing order of frequency. Bats captured while carrying Erythrina leaves were most often mature males. Erythrina poeppigiana leaves are relatively high in protein (> 19% dry-matter content) and low in fat ( 1%). Our observations that A. jamaicensis selects and chews leaves high in protein and rejects protein-poor, fibrous pellets, support the hypothesis that these bats extract liquid fractions which contain a reliable source of dietary protein. Although we have no direct evidence that male or female A. jamaicensis transport leaves to feeding roosts located outside of caves, we suggest that liquid fractions derived from leaves may provide females with an important source of protein, especially during periods of pregnancy and lactation. Folivory, once thought to be rare among plant-visiting bats, may in fact be quite common and widespread, especially among species that feed largely on fruits which are low in protein.
4132953|Mineral soils from a chronosequence of landslide scars ranging in age from 1 to more than 55 years in a subtropical montane rain forest of eastern Puerto Rico were used to determine the rate at which labile P capital recovers during primary succession. Nine organic and inorganic soil P fractions were measured using the Hedley sequential extraction procedure. Deep soil cores (9 m) from a nearby site were also analyzed to determine the distribution of P fractions below the solum. Litterfall P was measured for two years in the landslide scars to estimate allochthonous litter P inputs, and published precipitation data were used to estimate annual atmospheric inputs of P to the recovering forests. In the upper solum (0-10 cm), organic matter increased with landslide age, as did resin-Pi, labile P (defined here as
2388830|Although large seeds might be more attractive and apparent to seed predators, large seed size could enable tolerance of seed predators. If seeds are large enough to sustain damage that would kill smaller seeds yet still produce viable seedlings, investment above the minimum by the maternal plant could be advantageous. I tested this hypothesis by removing 0-80 percent of the cotyledons of four large-seeded (4-180 g) tree species from Papua New Guinea and monitoring germination and seedling growth for eight months. All species showed little negative effect on seedling size with up to 50 percent removal of cotyledons and the larger species showed a less serious effect on growth than smaller-seeded species above 50 percent removal. Large-seeded species clearly have more than the minimum-required cotyledonary reserves. Observations of viable seedlings with heavily damaged cotyledons suggest that these species withstand attack by rodents and beetles by virtue of their large size.
2663833|Postfire vegetation development was studied at two recent mountaintop burns in the Serra do Caparao, Espirito Santo/Minas Gerais, and the Serra dos Orgaos, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Both fires occurred within the paramo-like "campos de altitude", a system of orographic grass- and scrublands restricted to the highest peaks of southeast Brazil. Data collected included pre- and postfire heights and densities of shrubs and trees, and cover of all taxa. Slopes of different aspect and altitude were sampled at each site to evaluate the effects of varying physical environment on regeneration. Rapid vegetative regeneration was common among shrubs and bamboo, with most taxa surviving fire. Regeneration and postfire colonization rates varied among species, and appeared to depend both on physical variables associated with different slopes, aspects and altitudes, and biotic variables. Most plant species in the campos de altitude show some form of evolutionary adaptation to fire. The distribution of species and plant populations across the landscapes of the campos de altitude appears to be largely the result of fire and its interactions with the biota, local topography, and climate. Results suggest that fire is an integral part of the ecology in these humid, seasonally dry ecosystems. Successful management of these unique and highly threatened systems requires a detailed understanding of the fire regime and its role in structuring biotic communities.
10.2307/2388649|Atta nest densities in six undisturbed primary rain forest ecosystems in the Orinoco-Amazon basin have been estimated. The only species encountered was Atta cephalotes which occurred at a maximal density of 0.045 nests per ha. Three possible explanations for these low densities in contrast to those found in disturbed habitats are discussed. The number of clearings in the forest is proposed to be the limiting factor for colonization of new forest sites by A. cephalotes.
10.2307/2387969|The stomach contents of several Trichomycteridae and Cetopsidae were examined from wet-season collections in the Portuguesa River basin, Venezuela. Collections were from piedmont, high llanos, and low llanos habitats. Based on these and other published and unpublished observations the species were classified according to feeding habits. Among the trichomycterids, Trichomycterus kneri and T. meridae feed only on benthic insects, V andellia feeds only on blood of fishes and other vertebrates, and Stegophilinae (Stegophilus, Homodiaetus, and Ochmacanthus) are tentatively classified as scale eaters. The only cetopsid species taken contained terrestrial-winged insects. Cetopsids are also schooling piscivores, but none are confirmed to be parasites. Both cetopsids and trichomycterids bear the common name candiru or carnero, but their feeding habits do not indicate close phylogenetic relationship. Three parasitic species were found in the piedmont and four in the high llanos, but in the low llanos, where the greatest variety of fishes was found, only Ochmacanthus occurred.
10.2307/2989681|The host plant relationships of the lygaeid subfamily Blissinae are analyzed. Members of the subfamily breed only upon monocotyledonous plants. They have been reported from Grammeae, Cyperaceae, Restionaceae, Zingiberaceae, Juncaceae Sparganiaceae, Typhaceae, and Haemodoraceae. The majority of breeding records are from species of Gramineae. Host plant information is given for 21 genera and 111 species of insects. An analysis of all insect-host plant associations is included. Blissine species appear to be restricted to one or a few closely related species of plants, and there is usually no correlation between the utilization of the plant and its relative abundance in a given habitat. In some cases the growth form of the plant may be a factor in its utilization. The host plants utilized by blissine bugs are compared with the plant phylogenies of Hutchinson, Cronquist, Thorne, and Takhtajan and interpretive cladograms of the latter developed. Cronquist's system appears to agree most closely with the feeding habits of the insects, particularly the sister group relationship of the Cyperaceae and Gramineae. An hypothesis is advanced that the Blissinae originated as a group feeding upon the seeds of ancestral Liliales with a subsequent adaptation to sap feeding on species of Restionaceae and subsequent radiation and diversification on Gramineae Cyperaceae, and Zingiberales. Within the Grammeae, species of the chiefly tropical tribes Panicoideae and Eragrostoideae are most extensively utilized as host plants. The predominately temperate festucoid grasses are relatively little utilized. It is suggested that Blissmae diversification and radiation was coincident with the Cretaceous radiation of the angiosperms. A discussion is given of morphological modifications of the insects to the host plants in body shape, body vestiture, head projections, nymphal sclerotization, and fore-leg armature. A classification of Blissinae body shapes is presented. One graph and four tables of grass-blissine relationships, four interpretive cladograms of monocot higher relationships, and 12 figures of morphological modifications of blissines are included.
2389029|Hawaiian forests are subject to the effects of periodic hurricane conditions. Hurricane Iniki struck the island of Kauai, Hawaii on September 11, 1992 with winds exceeding 200 km/h and caused defoliation, felling of trees by snapping and uprooting, and standing tree mortality due excessive limb and leaf loss. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if measured wood mechanical characteristics could be correlated with stem failure of trees under windstorm conditions. A field survey indicated that post-hurricane stem condition (snapped, uprooted, or standing) differed among five common canopy species and was significantly correlated with stem apparent elastic modulus (relative flexibility). Species that tended to snap had significantly higher apparent elastic moduli than those that remained standing or were uprooted. Wood density and stem diameter were not significantly related to stem failure mode. Native trees had a higher percentage per species of standing individuals but also had increased uprooting. Nonnative tree species were more often snapped and fewer were standing after the hurricane. The higher incidence of stem failure for introduced canopy trees may increase the spread of alien understory species following wind disturbance events. These relationships provide a simple means to predict relative differences in stem failure due to high wind conditions and should be considered in planning reforestation efforts on the Hawaiian Islands.
10.2307/2989760| In the laboratory the following oviparous cockroaches from Honduras (Latiblattella angustifrons, L. azteca. and L. vitrea) produced their first othecae an average of 33, 24, and 58 days after becoming adult (all data are listed by species in alphabetical order). Mated females produced successive othecae at average intervals of 6, 4, and 9 days thereafter, depositing an average of 2, 5, and 3 othecae during their lives. The number of eggs per otheca averaged 26, 26, and 28. None of the eggs in othecae produced by virgin females hatched. Embryogenesis lasted on the average 55, 55, and 41 days. Males completed nymphal development in averages of 106, 118, and 110 days, respectively. Females completed development in averages of 112, 123, and 121 days. The sexual difference in developmental time is significant only in L. angustifrons. Mortality during development averaged 31, 47, and 40 per cent. Mated females lived on the average 100, 86, and 113 days. Mated males lived 84, 88, and 36 days. Mated females of both L. angustifrons and L. vitrea lived significantly longer than their mates. Data from a few unmated individuals show simliar trends. Normal and abnormal othecae and othecal structural details are illustrated. 
4132921|The detection of spatial variation in macroinvertebrate drift depends on the spatial scale of investigation in streams of the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Drift samples were taken in a spatially nested design, with two streams, two reaches per stream, two riffles per reach, and four replicate samples per riffle. Drift showed little variation among streams, but varied significantly at the scales of reach and riffle, with variation among samples also high. In addition, sampling took place at two temporal scales: diel and at two different periods that differed in rainfall conditions. Drift diel periodicity was a clear pattern, while only density of individuals varied among sampling periods. This is the first study of macroinvertebrate drift at multiple spatial scales, despite the recognition that multi-scale studies are essential for a more complete understanding of community patterns and processes.
10.2307/2388612|We examined the interaction of ambient freezing temperatures, dew formation on the body surface, and perch height on monarch butterflies' survival. We demonstrate that crawling up on the understory vegetation not only directly lowers freezing mortality by reducing exposure to freezing temperatures, but it also reduces the likelihood of dew formation followed by invasive freezing, that nullifies the monarch's supercooling ability. Monarchs that crawled 30-40 cm above the ground did not suffer freezing mortality, even when wet and exposed to -8.0$^\circ$C. Thus, monarchs that are stranded on the ground when it is too cold for them to fly can greatly reduce freezing mortality by crawling up the understory vegetation.
2389212|The growth phenology of Cyrilla racemiflora L., the dominant tree species of the montane rain forest, (subtropical lower montane rain forest, sensu Holdridge) of the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico was studied intensively during 1989, and then semiannually through mid-1993 to determine the periodicity of changes in xylem structure. Four trees at 770 m were monitored for flowering, branch elongation, leaf litterfall, and xylem cell growth and differentiation in the lower stem, and these events were related to local seasonal patterns of rainfall and temperature. Hurricane Hugo defoliated study trees in September, 1989. Bud-break and branch elongation in March, 1989 were followed by earlywood xylem cell production in the lower stem in April and the onset of flowering in May. Leaf litterfall was greatest between April and June, coinciding with peak branch growth and new leaf formation. Latewood xylem was produced in December. The general phenological pattern was synchronized between trees and over study years. Vessel diameter and density were monitored along with thickness of earlywood and latewood and the former converted to vessel lumen area, a measure of xylem conductance capacity. Annual growth rings were formed with periods of earlywood and latewood production coinciding with traditional summer (rainy) and winter (dry) seasons, respectively, in the Luquillo Mountains. Hurricane defoliation was followed by heavy flowering in 1990, a year of reduced branch elongation and annual xylem ring width, and was associated with maximum vessel lumen area, as was flowering in 1989, prior to the hurricane. Hurricane Hugo provided a perturbation that, through its elicited stress response, allowed for the demonstration of the interplay between flowering, branching, structural growth of xylem, and xylem function.
10.2307/2989670| Espeletia schultzii Wedd. (Compositae), a large caulescent rosette species of the pramo zone of the Venezuelan Andes, has strongly nyctinastic leaves. At night, the rosette leaves close around the apical bud, protecting the bud from freezing temperatures, and also preventing rapid heating of young leaves just after sunrise, when water transport to leaves is probably inefficient. If nyctinastic leaf movement is prevented, leaf wilting and death occur. 
10.2307/2388092|As part of a study of the ecology of aerial feeding birds, a comparison is made between suction trap catches from Malaysia and Scotland. Annual fluctuation in the Scottish samples are far greater than in the Malaysian samples. Peak biomass in late summer in Scotland is 16 times that of the peak in Malaysia. During the avian breeding seasons the Scottish biomass is 10 times that of Malaysia. In the temperate winter a reversal occurs with Malaysia having up to 22 times the aerial insect biomass of Scotland.
20492532|Biscutate swift Streptoprocne biscutata nests are usually built on protected rocky cliff walls. Birds often renest at the same location. Remains of previous nests may offer information about potential nests and quality of nest-sites. Here, we experimentally study nest-site selection to test the hypothesis that information from previous nests is used in current nest-site selection. We placed old nest material at artificial nest-sites to test whether new nest-sites are chosen based on the presence of nesting material. We also tested whether the use of natural nest-sites is influenced by nesting material by creating two types of natural sites: previously used natural nest-sites with vestiges of old nests removed and never used natural nest-sites to which vestiges of old nests were added. In the first experiment, in 139 nest-use opportunities, 16 artificial nest-sites were used, all of which included vestiges. In the second experiment, in 91 nest-use opportunities, four nests were in previously unused but natural locations to which vestiges had been added, 22 nests were in previously used sites without vestiges, and the remaining 65 nests remained unused. Two processes are apparently in action: first, prior experience and memory; second, vestiges indicate where nesting has occurred, possibly useful for first breeding, or for imperfect memory. Previous nesting information may explain why swifts use nesting locations for many years and why new nesting colonies seldom form. This transmission of information suggests that swifts tend to be conservative and nest where previous nesting has occurred.
30043302|The amount of space used by an organism is energetically determined. We utilized a population of ant lion larvae in Costa Rica to test allometric theories concerning the use of space by organisms and how different densities of individuals affect the use of space. The area of ant lion trapping pits scaled with mass to the three-quarters power, supporting allometric theory for sessile organisms. Our analyses also show that larger ant lion larvae show spatial repulsion and facultative density dependent pit-building strategies.
10.2307/2389088|Litterfall (fine and coarse) due to Hurricane Hugo and subsequent fine annual litterfall inputs (1, 2 and 5 yr after Hugo) were determined for two sites (El Verde and Bisley) in the Luquillo Experimental Forest in Puerto Rico. Litter transfers into streams, riparian and upslope areas were determined within each catchment. The recovery rate of aboveground fine litterfall (leaf, fine wood <1 cm diameter, and other miscellaneous inputs) to predisturbance levels were determined 1, 2, and 5 yr after Hurricane Hugo. The amount of total litter transfers and their individual components into the riparian and upslope areas due to Hurricane Hugo varied significantly by catchments within the Luquillo Experimental Forest. At El Verde, 26-39 percent, 31-35 percent, 14-35 percent and 7-12 percent of the total litter transfers were contributed by leaf litter, fine wood, coarse wood and fine roots, respectively. At Bisley, 28-31 percent, 26-29 percent, 33-35 percent and 8-10 percent of the litter transfers were contributed by the same categories. Differential decay rates contributed to the relative importance of fine and coarse litter inputs. The recovery of fine aboveground litterfall to pre-hurricane levels after 5 yr varied by topographic location (streams had the slowest recovery, upslope areas the highest) and catchment (El Verde: 55-77%; Bisley: 39-82% of pre-hurricane values).
2663991|Insect activity often tracks moisture gradients. We studied ant activity, size, and diversity along three moisture gradients in a Panamanian rain forest. Ant activity at baits increased by 25 percent from the dry to the wet season, and > 200 percent on a topographical gradient from a ravine to an exposed plateau. Activity varied little from day to night. Three microhabitats-tree trunk, shrub, and litter-showed different responses to these three gradients. The size distribution of the species pool (N = 63) was right skewed, but the average size of ants at a bait was strongly bimodal. Ants active in moister times and places were not significantly smaller. We suggest that gradients of desiccation risk and food availability were the two most likely causes of these patterns. Two temporal niche axes (daily and seasonal) showed little species specialization, but half of the common species could be categorized as litter or plant microhabitat specialists.
10.2307/2387796|This paper demonstrates that, for at least one species of tropical tree, intraspecific competition occurs between adults and their juveniles. Further it suggests that the spatial distribution generated by the mechanism of differential mortality through the action of competitors can approximate that spatial distribution generated by the effects of seed and seedling predators. In either case large individuals will tend to be regularly distributed and be infrequent.
10.2307/2388365|Food habits of feral cats (Felis catus) were studied on two small uninhabited islands in the central Pacific Ocean. Cat stomach contents, collected on Howland Island in May 1979 and on Jarvis Island during May 1979 and June-July 1982, revealed that sooty terns (Sterna fuscata) were the primary prey species. Other seabirds, lizards, insects and, on Jarvis Island, house mice were also eaten. Fetal cats may have virtually exterminated the wedge-tailed shearwater colony on Jarvis Island.
30043122|We measured changes in insect herbivore intensity and guild structure in two tropical forests of Costa Rica over a three-year period. We estimated herbivory levels using discrete leaf litter samples to account for factors that influence the types of leaves most likely to be preserved in the fossil record. We found that leaf area removed by insect herbivores did not vary significantly between years within the two sampled forests, but differed across years between forests. The lack of variation in herbivore intensity within forests suggests that estimates of herbivore damage from fossil assemblages may reflect levels of herbivore intensity typically experienced by a given forest, at least over a short ecological timescale. The differences in herbivore intensity between similarly categorized forests suggest that simple one-to-one comparisons between fossil and modern sites can be problematic. The distribution of functional feeding groups also differed on an interannual basis both within and between forests. As guild structure can be highly variable, caution should be taken when comparing modern herbivore guild structures with those from fossil assemblages. Studies of herbivory in fossil assemblages have yielded much lower levels of damage than those found in this study as well as those measured from other modern forests. Leaf fossil preservation, environmental differences, and changes in plant-insect associations through time may account for these differences. /// En este estudio medimos durante un perodo de tres aos los cambios en la intensidad de herbivora y la estructura de la comunidad de insectos herbvoros en dos bosques tropicales en Costa Rica. Estimamos los niveles de herbivora usando muestras discretas de hojarasca teniendo en cuenta los factores que influyen sobre el tipo de hojas que tienen una mayor probabilidad de ser preservadas en el registro fsil. El rea de la hoja removida por insectos herbvoros no cambio significativamente entre aos dentro de los bosques muestreados, pero era diferente entre aos entre bosques. La falta de variacin en la intensidad de herbivora dentro de un mismo bosque, sugiere que la estimacin del dao por herbivora en las comunidades fsiles puede reflejar los niveles de intensidad de herbivora que se presentan tpicamente en bosques actuales por lo menos en cortos periodos de tiempo ecolgico. La diferencia en la intensidad de herbivora entre bosques de categora similar sugiere que las comparaciones simples uno a uno entre sitios fsiles y sitios modernos puede llegar a ser problemtica. La distribucin de grupos funcionales difieren ao a ao tanto entre como dentro de bosques. Ya que la estructura de la comunidad puede ser altamente variable, debe tenerse precaucin al comparar las estructuras de la comunidad de herbvoros actuales con la comunidad fsil. Los estudios de herbivora en comunidades fsiles han encontrado niveles de dao mucho menores que las encontradas en nuestro estudio al igual que en otras estudios en bosques actuales. La preservacin de hojas fsiles, las diferencias en el ambiente y cambios en la asociacin de plantas e insectos a travs del tiempo pueden ser la causa de estas diferencias.
10.2307/2387817|Gymnorhamphichthys hypostomus Ellis, one of the weakly electric gymnotoid fishes, inhabits small streams in the Amazon drainage basin. Specimens collected in three principal areas, Belem (Para), Manaus (Amazonas), and Rondonia, reveal that the three geographic populations are distinct from each other in certain morphologic characters. Urumara rondoni A. Miranda Ribeiro should be considered invalid since the type, the only existing specimen, is shown to be an immature individual of Gymnorphamphichthys. Gymnorhamphichthys is active at night and spends the daytime hours buried in sand. The frequency of electric discharge is high during activity (70-100 Hz), but low while resting in the sandy substrate (10-15 Hz). It is a suctorial feeder, specializing on small trichopteran and dipteran larvae. The few data available suggest the species to have a life of two years; at the end of the first year the fish are nearly adult size and enter into a prolonged pre-spawning phase. A noted absence of spawned-out specimens after the end of reproduction would indicate that they apparently die soon after spawning, which occurs near the end of their second year of life. The presence of four distinct size classes of eggs in ripe females suggests four successful spawning bouts during the reproductive season; however, the timing of these bouts is not known, and actual spawning could not be observed. Reproduction seems to take place during the rainy season near Belem (February to April) and Manaus (May to July), but must occur during the dry period in the Rondonia population where it appeared to commence in July.
10.2307/2389200|The processing of leaf litter in temperate streams has been the subject of numerous studies but equivalent tropical ecosystems have received little attention. The decomposition and macroinvertebrate colonisation of leaf litter was investigated using litter bags placed in a first-order rainforest stream over a 48 day period. Changes in leaf chemistry were also studied. Decay of the fresh, mixed-species litter was rapid (2.5 % day
10.2307/2388855|Broad survey census data for mantled howler monkeys, Alouatta palliata, from La Selva Biological Reserve, northeastern Costa Rica, are analyzed with an agglomerative hierarchical clustering method to estimate minimum number of troops. The estimate of 15 troops (7-15 howlers/km
30043157|We studied avian foraging at two shaded coffee plantations in Ciales, Puerto Rico. Both coffee plantations contained patches of second-growth forest but differed in shade types; one was a rustic plantation with a species-diverse shade including many fruiting plant species and the other was a commercial polyculture shaded almost solely by Inga vera. We quantified foraging activity of five fruit-eating bird species (Euphonia musica, Loxigilla portoricensis, Nesospingus speculiferus, Spindalis portoricensis, and Vireo altiloquous) and monthly fruit abundance in the coffee plantation and adjacent second-growth forest habitats at each site. Fruits comprised more than 50 percent of the diets for four of five focal bird species. We found a significant difference in the number of foraging records for focal bird species between coffee and forest habitats in the commercial polyculture but found few differences between these habitats in the rustic coffee farm. Overall, foraging activity was positively correlated with the abundance of fruits across study sites. Bird foraging was concentrated on plant species in the genera Cecropia, Miconia, Schefflera, Phoradendron, and Guarea, which together accounted for over 50 percent of frugivory records. Plant species in such genera fruited over prolonged time periods and provided birds with a fairly constant fruit supply. Our findings underscore the importance of fruiting plant species in making coffee plantations suitable habitat for birds and suggest that native fruiting plants be incorporated in coffee farms for avian conservation. /// Estudiamos el forrajeo de aves frugvoras en dos plantaciones de caf de sombra en Ciales, Puerto Rico. Ambas plantaciones contenan parches de bosque de crecimiento secundario, pero se diferenciaban por el tipo de sombra: una era "rstica" con una gran diversidad de especies de sombra, incluyendo muchas especies de plantas frutales, y la otra era un "policultivo comercial" sombreada casi nicamente por Inga vera. En cada sitio, cuantificamos la actividad de forrajeo de cinco especies de aves frugvoras (Euphonia musica, Loxigilla portoricensis, Nesospingus speculiferus, Spindalis portoricensis, Vireo altiloquous), y la abundancia mensual de frutos en los cafetales y en los bosques adyacentes. Las frutas comprendieron ms del 50 por ciento de la dieta de cuatro de las cinco especies de aves en estudio. Encontramos diferencias significativas en el nmero de registros de forrajeo de especies de aves entre los habitats de caf y bosque en el policultivo comercial, pero encontramos pocas diferencias entre estos habitats en la granja de caf rstico. En general, la actividad de forrajeo estuvo positivamente correlacionada con la abundancia de frutos a travs de los sitios de estudio. El forrajeo de las aves estuvo centrado en especies de plantas de los gneros Cecropia, Guarea, Schefflera, y Phoradendron, que juntas abarcaron por encima del 50 por ciento de los registros de frugivora. Especies de plantas en estos gneros fructificaron por un perodo de tiempo ms prolongado y surtieron constantemente a las aves de frutas. Nuestros hallazgos resaltan la importancia de las especies de plantas frutales en convertir las plantaciones de caf en hbitats adecuados para las aves, y sugiere que las plantas frutales nativas deberian ser incorporadas en las granjas de caf para la conservacin de las aves.
10.2307/2388225|Two adjacent colonies of leaf-cutter ants Atta colombica were studied to examine the influence of resource availability on foraging. A colony located in older, secondary forest used 130 different resource species and had a dietary diversity equal to 30.7 equally-used species. This colony showed a cyclical annual pattern of gradually changing diet on a Bray-Curtis ordination. An adjacent colony in younger, secondary forest used 103 plant species and had a dietary diversity of only 11.8 equally-utilized species. Foraging by this colony was governed by the availability of a small number of high quality resource species. Tree species eliciting a strong recruitment of foragers from the colony were denser in the younger forest suggesting that the colony in the younger forest was specializing in a richer resource environment. Regression analyses indicate that the location of small patches of high quality resources determines the spatial distribution of foraging in the younger forest but much less so in the older forest. A weak correlation between maximum harvest rates and the synchrony of leaf production may indicate that the phenology of leaf production serves as a predator-avoidance mechanism
30043183|Dung beetles are important components of most terrestrial ecosystems. In tropical rain forests, dung beetle communities can be very rich in number of species and individuals, and they are known to be useful bioindicators of habitat disturbance. In contrast, very little is known about the organization of dung beetle communities in tropical dry forests. The aim of this study was to describe in detail the dung beetle community of a Mexican tropical dry forest and to assess the relative importance of rainfall seasonality and forest structure in affecting the temporal and spatial dynamics of this community. Dung beetles were captured with pitfall traps at the beginning of the rainy season, the middle of the rainy season, and the middle of the dry season, in two distinct forest types: deciduous forest (DF) and semideciduous forest (SDF) at the Estacin de Biologa Chamela. Both rainfall seasonality and forest structure affected the community organization of dung beetles. During both rainy periods, 14 species were captured, but only three during the dry season. Dung beetles captured during the dry season were only found in the SDF. When comparing the beginning and the middle of the rainy season, differences in abundance and guild structure were also observed between both periods and between forest types, but these differences were much less pronounced. /// Los escarabajos coprfagos constituyen un componente importante en la mayora de los ecosistemas terrestres. En bosques hmedos tropicales las comunidades de escarabajos coprfagos pueden tener muchas especies e individuos, y sirven como bioindicadores de perturbaciones de hbitat. Por otro lado, se sabe muy poco acerca de las comunidades de estos insectos en bosque tropicales secos. El propsito de este estudio fue describir en detalle la comunidad de escarabajos coprfagos en un bosque seco de Mxico, y determinar la importancia relativa de la estacionalidad pluvial y la estructura del bosque en la dinmica de esta comunidad. Se capturaron escarabajos coprfagos colocando trampas de cada al principio de la poca lluviosa, a mediados de la poca lluviosa, y a mediados de la poca seca, en dos tipos de bosque: bosque deciduo (BD) y bosque semideciduo (BSD) en la Estacin de Biologa Chamela. Tanto la estacionalidad como la estructura del bosque afectaron la organizacin de la comunidad de escarabajos coprfagos. En ambos perodos lluviosos se capturaron 14 especies, pero solamente tres durante la poca seca. Los escarabajos de la poca seca slo se encontraron en el BSD. Al comparar ambos perodos lluviosos, tambin se observaron diferencias en abundancia y estructura de gremios, entre el comienzo y la mitad de la poca lluviosa, as como entre los dos tipos de bosque, pero las diferencias fueron menos pronunciadas.
10.2307/2989754|The vegetation of the southern half of the flat crest of the Serra do Roncador, Mato Grosso, is principally "cerrado" of various densities, a semideciduous, broadleaf, xeromorphic vegetation which occupies the intermediate rainfall region between the Amazon forest and the northeastern Brazil dry caatinga. In the area studied, cerrado occurs as pure grassfields, savannas with scattered woody plants, scrubs, woodlands, and even as low forest. The northern half of the Serra is covered with continuous Amazon forest of the medium-tall, semideciduous type which in general forms a belt between the tall, moist, evergreen Amazon forest region and the cerrado region. Within the cerrado-covered part of the Serra, cerrado occupies the uplands, and gallery forests fringe the brooks and creeks. The gallery forests are bordered by a strip of seasonally marshy grassy campo on the valley sides, which separates them from the cerrados. When examined, the vegetation of the region was all in the virgin condition except for small cleared areas next to the widely scattered houses. The cerrado had been burned repeatedly but infrequently in the past, but occasional fires are part of its natural environment.
10.2307/2663969|Studies focusing on gametophytic competition have focused on differences in pollen performance (e.g., pollen germination rate and pollen tube growth rate) among donors in order to examine genetic sources of variation in siring success among them. Donors that produce the fastest growing pollen tubes are expected to fertilize more ovules relative to donors with slow growing pollen tubes under conditions of gametophytic competition. However, the performance of pollen in the field is known to be influenced by environmental conditions in addition to the genotype of donor plants. This field study of Faramea occidentalis was conducted to: (1) determine the effect of environmental conditions during pollination on pollen performance; (2) measure differences among pollen donors in pollen performance; (3) determine if the pollen of different donors responds differently to a variety of environmental conditions surrounding pollinated flowers; and (4) measure differences among pollen recipients in pollen performance. Single-donor crosses were made between four pollen donors and four pollen recipients under a variety of environmental conditions. Pollen performance was then quantified as the growth rate of the fastest pollen tube, the mean pollen tube growth rate, and by a pollen germination index. Pollination environment (the environment surrounding a pollinated flower) and recipient significantly affected all three measures of pollen performance. Pollen donors did not differ overall in pollen performance. However, there was significant among-donor variation in two of the five pollination environment conditions. Future studies of variation in relative siring success may benefit by considering pollination environment in addition to donor and recipient identity.
10.2307/2389232|In February 1990, tropical cyclone Ofa struck Western Samoa with very strong winds (in excess of 200 km/hr). In December 1991, less than 22 months later, tropical cyclone Val struck the same area with similar intensity. In the moist lowland forest of the Tafua Rain Forest Reserve, Savai'i, Western Samoa, we examined the effects of the two cyclones on forest structure, tree mortality, and interspecific differences in damage. Average mortality of trees was high after both cyclones (28% and 33%, respectively). In one forest area, subject to a fire after the first storm, mortality was more than 90 percent. The frequency of uprooted trees was 31 percent after Ofa, but only 16 percent after Val. Uprooting was significantly more frequent among species lacking buttresses or stilt roots. As a combined effect of the two cyclones, the lowland forest of Tafua suffered a 53 percent tree mortality, with remaining standing trees being severely damaged (topped and with a substantial reduction of main branches). Average tree density dropped from an estimated 476 trees/ha (>5 cm DBH), before Ofa to 225 trees/ha after Val. Existent gap sizes are reflected by the changes in mean canopy cover which decreased from nearly 100 percent before Ofa to 27 percent after Val. Post-cyclone recovery is often observed to be very rapid, but the very large gaps created in the Tafua forest and the simultaneous loss of the whole guild of vertebrate seed dispersers (flying foxes and fruit pigeons) suggests it will be a long time before the upper canopy is once again closed.
30044953|Nitrogen-fixing epiphytes (especially lichens with a cyanobacterial symbiont-cyanolichens) have the potential to contribute significant amounts of nitrogen (N) to montane tropical forests, which are typically low in N-but the factors controlling the abundance and distribution of epiphytic cyanolichens are poorly understood. In long-term fertilization experiments in montane forests on a 4.1 million-yr-old Oxisol on the island of Kau'i and on a 152-yr-old lava flow on the island of Hawai'i, the epiphytic cyanolichen Pseudocyphellaria crocata increased significantly in abundance in canopies of host trees fertilized with phosphorus (P). There was no response to fertilization with N or other essential elements. Nitrogen-fixation rates were also elevated in lichens in P-fertilized plots at both sites. Phosphorus supply to host trees may be an important factor controlling N inputs to montane tropical forests by N-fixing epiphytes.
10.2307/2388786|Hornstedtia scottiana (Zingiberaceae) is a large, rhizomatous, rain forest herb with vegetative aerial shoots and short, lateral inflorescences. The floral characteristics, scarlet corolla, no odor, and copious nectar are typical of ornithophily, but the near ground position of the flowers seemed inappropriate for bird pollination. Also, the nectar of Hornstedtia scyphifera was reported to be largely sucrose, a sugar composition apparently atypical of plants pollinated by paleotropical passerines. The floral biology and pollination of Hornstedtia scottiana were studied in Queensland, Australia. Three species of honeyeaters (Melphagidae) were observed to be the only floral visitors capable of effecting pollination. Similar to Hornstedtia scyphifera. H. scottiana produced sucrose-rich nectar. Flowering was diurnal with anthesis beginning at dawn. Floral visits were most frequent during mid-mornings. By early afternoon, if flowers were not visitor-pollinated, elongation of the corolla tube effected self-pollination. Pollination manipulations determined that outcrossed flowers set significantly more fruit, with significantly heavier seeds, than self-pollinated flowers, suggesting an inbreeding depression. Mean seed mass data from open-pollinated controls suggested that the fruits produced were from a combination of self (65%) and outcrossed (35%) pollinations.
10.2307/2388257|The changes in light availability in the understory of a subtropical wet forest (Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico) were monitored after the passage of Hurricane Hugo on 18 September 1989 Gallium arsenide phosphide sensors were placed 1 m apart along a 32 m transect. Data were collected for periods of 7-10 d in October and December 1989, and in March, July, and November 1990. Daily histograms were generated for observations of photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) taken every two seconds. Mean total daily PPFD was calculated for each sensor in each data set. During the 14 mo after the passage of the hurricane, the PPFD showed a highly skewed distribution with most values <200 $\mu$ mol m$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ The maximum spatial heterogeneity was observed in July 1990 because of the shading of some sensors by the growing pioneer vegetation. Median values of total daily PPFD for ten months after the hurricane ranged from 7.7 to 10.8 mol m$^{-2}$ d$^{-1}$, which is similar to values previously observed for large (>400 m$^2$) treefall gaps. Median total daily PPFD fell to 0.8 mol m$^{-2}$ d$^{-1}$ in November 1990 because of almost complete coverage of the transect by a canopy of Cecropia schreberiana Miq. ex. C. peltata. An analysis of semivariance was used to discern patterns of autocorrelation in total daily PPFD along the transect. Through March 1990 patches of high and low light separated by distances of 10-12 m were detected. By July 1990 the patchiness was replaced by a pattern that showed no autocorrelation at distances of 1 m or greater.
10.2307/2388251|On 21 September 1989 Hurricane Hugo struck the South Carolina Coast, causing a storm surge of 5 to 8 m. At the North Inlet Long-Term Ecological Research site, this salt water surge inundated the forest > 150 m from the marsh edge with over 3 m of salt water. Two days after the storm, water standing on the forest floor had an average salinity of 21 parts per thousand. Significant changes in forest soils occurred. Two weeks prior to the storm, soil total ionic content (TIC) ranged from 1.6 to 3.4 meq/liter. Two days after the storm, TIC was 227 to 778 meq/liter or 2.3 to 12 parts per thousand salinity. Four months after Hugo, TIC remained elevated by 58 to 142 times. Dominant ions (Na$^+$ and Cl$^-$) in soil solution increased in importance in the overall ionic budget. After Hugo, Na$^+$ and Cl$^-$ accounted for >76 to 81 percent (Bh and A horizons, respectively) of the ion balance: in 1986 Na$^+$ and Cl$^-$ accounted for 52 to 72 percent (mineral soil and Bh horizons, respectively). Ammonium and hydrogen ion mobilization accompanied increased ionic strength of soil solutions. Following the storm, ammonium in soil solution from the A horizon increased from <0.1 $\mu eq$/l (annual average for 1986) to a maximum of 178 $\mu eq$/l 5 d after the storm. Increased ammonium concentrations were detected for mineral soil solution (5.6-fold increase) and B horizon soil solution (115-fold increase) over the 1986 concentrations. Ammonium concentrations in water standing on the forest floor reached 1764 $\mu eq$/l with soil solutions in the A horizon (1000 $\mu eq$/l) and Bh horizon (557 $\mu eq$/l) increasing concurrently Maximum mineral soil solution concentrations were detected 2 mo after the storm at 386 $\mu eq$/l. Hurricanes with salt inundation decrease nutrient use efficiency through the rapid loss of leaves without reabsorption of the nitrogen, decrease nitrogen retention through decreased uptake potential by vegetation and microbial immobilization, and decrease physiochemical retention mechanisms (absorption of ammonium ion on exchange sites) by swamping exchange sites with salt cations.
20492511|Sampling oribatid mites in large areas using conventional methods is expensive, time-consuming, and this constrains their use in environmental monitoring programs. We used samples collected in 38 plots of 3.75 ha spread over 30,000 ha in an Amazonian savanna to evaluate the reduction in costs and person-hours in sampling and sorting and to elaborate cost-effective protocols. Ten samples per plot were collected and extracted using a Berlese-Tullgren apparatus. In the laboratory, samples were reduced to 50, 25, 12.5, and 6.25 percent of the initial content. Field-effort reduction was estimated by reducing the number of subsamples per plot. Dissimilarity matrices were generated using Bray-Curtis, Srensen, and Chao-Srensen indices. Correlations between each reduced-effort dissimilarity matrix and 100 or 50 percent sorting were used as an index of how much information was retained in reduced-effort sampling, and could still be used in multivariate analyses. The effects of most predictor variables on mite composition were detected in data based on every level of sample reduction. The intensive sampling was insufficient to reveal the full oribatid-mite fauna in the savanna; as more plots were sampled, more species were recorded. Our data indicate subsampling protocols for biodiversity assessment of oribatid mites in savanna that increase field and laboratory efficiency, and optimize both taxonomic and ecological aspects of the investigation.
2663797|We studied roosting and foraging behavior of two Neotropical gleaning bats, d'Orbigny's round-eared bat, Tonatia silvicola, and the fringe-lipped bat, Trachops cirrhosus (Phyllostomidae). Techniques included radio-tracking in a tropical lowland forest in Panama and analysis of data from long-term studies in Panama and Venezuela. Day roosts of T. silvicola were in arboreal termite nests. T. cirrhosus roosted in a hollow tree. T. silvicola emerged late (ca 60 min after sunset), and foraged close to the roosts (maximum distance 200-500 m). T. cirrhosus emerged early (ca 30 min after local sunset), and foraged farther from its roost (>1.5 km). Both bats used small foraging areas (3-12 ha) in tall, open forest. They foraged in continuous flight (maximum 27-36 min) or in short sally flights (<1 minute) from perches ("hang-and-wait" strategy). The small foraging areas of these bats and their sedentary foraging mode most likely make them vulnerable to habitat fragmentation.
10.2307/2387667|Nine young, hand-reared Turquoise-browed Motmots performed most comfort movements the day they fledged, and most behavior related to exploration and feeding by a week after fledging. The sound of rain itself was sufficient to elicit bathing behavior of young, inexperienced motmots, provided they were on perches. Apparently this species has two kinds of bathing behavior, taking water baths only when perched in trees during rain, and dust baths only on the ground. The birds gave eight major types of vocalization, which are presented as sonograms. They showed two distinct kinds of play behavior, and gave two kinds of displays even in their relatively small cages.
2389165|To investigate long-term effects of land use on the soil seed bank, we compared the abundance/density, species richness, life form distribution, and species composition of seeds stored in the soil of four 15-20 yr-old second-growth stands, two old-growth stands, and two previously selectively-logged stands in the Caribbean lowlands of Costa Rica. Surface soil (10 cm deep, 4.7 cm diameter) was collected at 10 m intervals along three 120-160 m long transects in each stand (44-48 soil cores, 22-24 combined seed bank samples per site). Seed density was highest but variable in second-growth stands (8331-14535 seeds/m
30044012|We studied activity patterns of long-legged bats, Macrophyllum macrophyllum (Phyllostomidae), in the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panam, using radio-telemetry. Activity of four males and five females equipped with radio-transmitters were monitored for 4-7 entire nights each between April and July 2002. Bats exhibited maximum activity around dusk and high activity during the night. Males and females foraged for equal amounts of time in continuous flight (mean: 7 min, maximum 1 h) with interspersed resting phases (mean: 15 min, maximum 3 h). Activity of M. macrophyllum was sensitive to several factors. Time of emergence and return to day roost were correlated with time of sunset and sunrise, respectively. Maximum bat activity coincided with high abundance of aerial insects. Finally, heavy rain caused bats to reduce or cease flight activity. Direct observations and field video recordings support the assumption that M. macrophyllum employs two distinct foraging modes: trawling of insects from and capture of aerial insects at low heights above water. Combination of foraging modes gives M. macrophyllum high flexibility and efficiency in prey search. Activity, foraging mode, and morphology, which are similar to trawling bats from other families, distinguish M. macrophyllum from all other phyllostomid species and grant it access to open habitat above water, a habitat no other phyllostomid bat has conquered. /// Utilizando radio-telemetra investigamos las normas de actividad del murcilago Macrophyllum macrophyllum (Phyllostomidae), en el Monumento Natural Barro Colorado, Panam. Monitoreamos la actividad de cuatro machos y cinco hembras equipados de radio-transmisores durante cuatro a siete noches entre abril y julio 2002. Los murcilagos mostraron mxima actividad al anochecer y mantuvieron un nivel de alta actividad durante la noche. Machos y hembras forrajearon en vuelo continuo por la misma cantidad de tiempo (promedio: 7 min, mximo: 1 h) con fases intermitentes de reposo (promedio: 15 min, mximo: 3 h). Varios factores influyeron en la actividad de M. macrophyllum. Los tiempos de salida y regreso a la percha diurna estaban correlacionados con los tiempos de salida y puesta del sol, respectivamente. La maxima actividad de los murcilagos coincidi con alta abundancia de insectos areos. Finalmente, los murcilagos redujeron o pararon su actividad de vuelo durante lluvia fuerte. Observaciones directas y grabaciones de video en el campo apoyaron la suposicin de que M. macrophyllum emplea dos modos distintos de forrajeo: pescar insectos de la superficie del agua y captura area de insectos a baja altura sobre el agua. La combinacin de modos de forrajeo provee a M. macrophyllum con una alta flexibilidad y eficiencia en la bsqueda de presa. Esta especie se distingue de todos los dems filostmidos por sus normas de actividad, modo de forrajeo, y morfologa, caractersticas que comparten con murcilagos pescadores de otras familias. Estos atributos proveen a M. macrophyllum acceso al hbitat abierto sobre el agua, un rea que ningn otro filostmido ha conquistado.
30043629|The majority of Hawaii's lowland wet forests no longer exist, with many of the last remaining patches found on the eastern, windward sides of the largest islands. To better understand successional patterns and invasion in these native systems, we quantified basal area (BA) and densities of woody species and understory cover at nine sites in the Puna district on the Island of Hawai'i, representing age gradients of native stand development on both 'a' and phoehoe lava flows. On both flow types, BA of native species increased (from 5 to 50 m2/ha) and stem densities decreased (from 3700 to 2600 stems/ha) with increasing stand/flow age. Both native and introduced species compositions diverged between substrate types on older flows. We found that lowland wet native forests remain at least partially intact in several locations, but their functional and compositional integrity is increasingly compromised by invasion of nonnative species, such as Psidium cattleianum and Melastoma candidum, which become more common at sites greater than 300-yr old. This time period may represent a threshold, after which abiotic environmental conditions no longer constrain recruitment of introduced species. On older flows, nonnative stem densities swamped those of native species by an order of magnitude, with nonnative stems (height > 1.3 m) achieving densities as high as 18,000 stems/ha. In addition, all stands lacked recruitment of native woody species in the understory, suggesting that without management, the native componentsof these forests may soon no longer be self-sustaining. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
2389210|To understand the ecological roles of epiphytic bryophytes in the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycles of a tropical montane forest, we used samples in enclosures to estimate rates of growth, net production, and N accumulation by shoots in the canopy, and litterbags, to estimate rates of decomposition and N dynamics of epiphytic bryophyte litter in the canopy and on the forest floor in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Growth of epiphytic bryophytes was estimated at 30.0-49.9 percent/yr, net production at 122-203 g/m
10.2307/2387845|The frequency of dioecy and monoecy and the ecological correlates of each sexual system were examined for the flora of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Of the 2037 species in the total flora, 6.1 percent are dioecious, 10.5 percent are monoecious, 2.4 percent are andromonoecious, 2.0 percent are gynomonoecious and 78.9 percent are hermaphrodites. To test the null hypotheses that there is no relationship between sexual system and 1) endemism, 2) growth habit, or 3) fruit type, the proportionate distribution of dioecious and monoecious taxa (genera and/or species) in each of these categories was compared to that for the entire flora, or for trees and shrubs. Endemics are not disproportionately represented among dioecious or monoecious species. There is no association between monoecy and growth habit, either for genera or species, but dioecy is significantly more common than expected in trees, and less common in herbs, at both generic and species levels. For the entire flora, dioecious genera and species are significantly associated with fleshy fruits, but monoecious taxa are not. For trees and shrubs, dioecious species are significantly associated with fleshy fruits, while monoecious species are significantly associated with dry fruits. On the generic level, there is no association between fruit type and sexual system for trees and shrubs. Dioecious trees and shrubs contain more genera and species with one-seeded, fleshy fruits and fewer genera and species with many-seeded, fleshy fruits than expected. Monoecious trees and shrubs contain fewer genera and species with many-seeded, fleshy fruits and more genera and species with many-seeded, dry fruits than expected. These data are discussed in the context of several theories concerning the evolution of plant sexual systems.
2389172|I studied two aspects of interspecific territoriality in a Costa Rican nectarivorous bird, the rufous-tailed hummingbird (Amazilia tzacatl). First, I examined variation in the response of the territory holder to four species of intruding hummingbirds by quantifying the proportion of intruders chased from the territory. This measure of territory defense varied significantly among species of intruders and was negatively related to the intruding species' body mass, possibly due to potential costs associated with becoming involved in escalated contests with larger individuals. Second, I tested for an effect of resource manipulation on territory defense. I increased the resource value of the territory by injecting extant natural flowers with artificial sucrose solution. While the frequency of territorial intrusions did not change, the proportion of intruders chased by the territory holder increased. Apparently, nectar supplementation changed the territory holder's perception of resource value but had little impact on the intruders' perception.
2663765|Clidemia hirta is a highly invasive shrub in tropical forests throughout the world, but has had little success invading mainland sites and undisturbed forests. In the early 1990s, this plant was found to have invaded an unexpected site, an undisturbed continental tropical forest at Pasoh, Peninsular Malaysia. In 1997, a study was conducted of the C. hirta population at the Pasoh Forest Reserve. A demographic survey of the 50-ha long-term research plot at Pasoh located 1002 C. hirta individuals, 69 of which were reproductive at the time of the study. All but 8 individuals were located in high light gaps or gap edges. Relative growth rates were significantly higher in gaps and gap edges than in the understory, and no reproductive individuals were found in the understory. Mean plant size and dry biomass density increased steadily over the course of the study, while the observed mortality rate was 0 percent over two months. The biomass density of Clidemia at Pasoh was <500 g/ha at the conclusion of this study, but because the population is confined almost exclusively to high light environments, its density in these sites is much higher. The location of C. hirta plants in gaps was significantly correlated with past disturbance by wild pigs, suggesting that soil disturbance and light availability are essential for their establishment. The implication of this study is that by competing with native species in gaps, C. hirta invasion has the potential to alter forest regeneration at Pasoh. Changing land use practices near the reserve have increased the number of wild pigs, and thus the level of disturbance, which may explain the recent success of C. hirta at Pasoh.
3593166|In Amazonian rain forest trees of Vochysia vismiaefolia (Vochysiaceae), ants were found to induce twig structures that resembled classical ant domatia. This phenomenon is novel for ant-plants, which commonly develop domatia without the activity of ants. Eight species of ants were recorded inside the domatia of six individual trees, but domatia were most numerous and characteristic when induced and inhabited by an undescribed species of Pseudomyrmex on two trees. To investigate the mechanism of domatium growth, we drilled holes into young twigs: the expansion of the twig diameter surrounding the holes was significantly accelerated, comparable to domatia formation. Domatia induction is discussed as a putative step in the evolution of ant-plants.
30045394|Tropical cloud forests are functionally important ecosystems, but are severely threatened due to deforestation and fragmentation. Epiphyte mats, accumulations of live vegetation and dead organic matter on tree trunks and branches, are a conspicuous component of cloud forests and harbor diverse assemblages of meso-and microarthropods. We compared the morphospecies richness, composition, and abundance of arthropods in epiphyte mats between primary and secondary forests of Monteverde, Costa Rica, and at two nearby replicate sites. Epiphyte mats were thinner and less structurally diverse in secondary forest. We collected ca 36,000 micro-and mesoarthropods from epiphyte mats in the 2-yr study. Whereas arthropod morphospecies richness did not differ among forest types, arthropod abundance was significantly higher in secondary forest due to larger numbers of ants, especially Solenopsis spp. Arthropod assemblages showed a high degree of taxonomic overlap both within and between primary and secondary forests (Jaccard abundance-based similarity = 0.93-0.96). Although characteristics of the arthropod fauna proved to be similar among sites and between forest types, there was a significant temporal effect: arthropod morphospecies richness in epiphyte mats generally was lower in the dry season (February-May), when many taxa probably became dormant or sought shelter against desiccation in deeper portions of mats.
10.2307/2989731|The genus Platycerium (Polypodiaceae) is poorly understood taxonomically and presents a special problem in its apparent sparsity of taxonomic characters. As live plants of almost all the known species were available for this study, it was possible to obtain all parts in a fresh state for examination and comparison. Fresh material shows many characters which are inconspicuous or absent on herbarium specimens, and over 70 characters were examined and compared. Some characters were not particularly different from species to species, others were difficult to assess, while still others showed definite differences. Particularly useful character differences among the species include complete to incomplete annuli, simple to mixed sporangia, stout three-cell to slender one-cell-thick sporangia stalks, and central meristeles of the stipe absent or present. Other characters, as nongreen or green spores and medial or apical lip cells, are generally not considered of broad phyletic value but might be under special circumstances. Many of the characters seem to be adaptations to drier, more exposed habitats. The evaluation of the characters indicates that the species apparently evolved along three main lines which have been designated as the Javan-Australian line, the Malayan-Asiatic line, and the Afro-American line.
10.2307/2388516|The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS/OET) played an important role in the development of population and community biology during the first 25 years of the organization's existence. The author traces changes in the conceptual framework of community ecology during this period, using examples from his own work with hummingbird flower mites and from the tropical research of others who have been associated with OTS. The principal lesson to be learned from this period is that the same pattern may result from several different processes; there are distinct, valid explanations for different cases of what tropical ecologists used to see as a unitary phenomena.
10.2307/2388685|The foraging behavior of fruit-eating birds influences the reproductive success of the plants whose seeds they disperse. One important aspect of their behavior is the amount of time they spend in fruiting plants. Qualitative models based on a bird's predation risk, diet, and breeding system have been proposed by Howe (1979) and Pratt and Stiles (1983) to explain how much time birds spend in fruiting trees. These models predict that relatively large body size and cryptic plumage should make birds less vulnerable to predation and enable them to spend longer time in fruiting trees. Additionally, they predict that birds that specialize on a narrow fruit diet or have monogamous breeding systems should also spend more time in fruiting plants because they do not have to leave plants to diversify their diet or attend leks or display perches. This study presents data on the behavior of four bird species which were responsible for more than 94 percent of all feeding visits to eight bird-dispersed tree species in the family Lauraceae in the lower montane forests of northwestern Costa Rica. Despite prominent differences in size, coloration, diet, method of foraging for fruits, and breeding system, the birds spent about the same amount of time per foraging visit (median visit lengths = 2.9-4.7 min) and ate about the same number of fruits (1-3) per visit. Differences between sexes within bird species were slight or nonexistent. Single factors such as crypsis, diet, or breeding system were ineffective in predicting how long birds spent in fruiting plants. An analysis of fruit processing times and caloric value in relation to birds' metabolic rates indicates that fruits may not be the "free lunch" they are often reputed to be. Birds may not be able to meet their energetic demands on a pure diet of the large, lipid-rich fruits of the Lauraceae because gut space is limited and it takes so long to process individual fruits.
30043197|Inflorescences of the terrestrial aroid Xanthosoma daguense in the Andes of Colombia are visited by Dinastinae and Nitidulidae beetles. Plants produce one inflorescence at a time, which is pollinated during the first night of opening. Dynastine beetles act as pollinators, whereas Nitidulids lay eggs in the inflorescence and the larvae damage the seeds. We explored the effects of floral offer and distance among inflorescences on the number of pollinator visits, fruit production, and predispersal seed predation. Number of Dynastine visits per inflorescence tended to increase with increasing distances among inflorescences, but fruit predation increased when inflorescences were more clumped. Both pollinator visitation rates and predispersal seed predation were low at high floral offer. Fruit set increased when inflorescences were visited by two or more Dynastines, but the proportion of fruits damaged by Nitidulid larvae was equivalent to the increase in fruit production due to more Dinastine visits. The net result was a similar number of undamaged fruits in all infructescences produced, independent of the number of Dinastine visits. Our results revealed that both pollinators and predators responded to the number of available inflorescences and their spatial distribution, but they had opposing effects on the infructescences. Thus, our study suggests that the interaction of two ecological processes, pollination and predispersal seed predation, may cancel each other s effects under natural conditions. /// Las inflorescencias de la planta terrestre Xanthosoma daguense L. (Araceae) en los Andes de Colombia son visitadas por escarabajos Dinastinae y Nitidulidae. Las plantas producen una inflorescencia que es polinizada durante la primera noche de antesis. Los escarabajos dinstidos son los principales polinizadores, mientras que los nitidlidos ovipositan en las inflorescencias y sus larvas depredan parte de las semillas en desarrollo. Este estudio explora los efectos de la oferta floral y la distancia entre inflorescencias, sobre el nmero de visitas por polinizadores, produccin de frutos y depredacin de semillas. El nmero de visitas de los dinstidos por inflorescencia tuvo una tendencia a aumentar cuando la distancia entre inflorescencias aumento, pero la depredacin de frutos aumento cuando las inflorescencias estaban ms agrupadas. Tanto las tasas de visitas por polinizadores, como las de depredacin de semillas bajaron cuando la oferta floral aument. El nmero de frutos producidos aument cuando las inflorescencias fueron visitadas por dos o ms dinstidos. Los frutos daados por larvas de nitidlidos es proporcional al nmero de infrutescencias. El resultado neto fue un nmero similar de frutos sin dao en todas las infrutescencias, independiente del nmero de visitas de dinstidos. Nuestros resultados indican que tanto los polinizadores como los depredadores de frutos respondieron al nmero de inflorescencias disponibles y a su distribucin espacial. Pero los efectos sobre las infrutescencias producidas fueron opuestos. Por lo tanto, este estudio sugiere que los efectos de dos procesos ecolgicos, polinizacin, y depredacin de frutos en desarrollo, pueden cancelarse mutuamente bajo condiciones naturales.
40645578|We studied the spatial heterogeneity of tree diversity, and of forest structure and productivity in a highly diverse tropical mountain area in southern Ecuador with the aim of understanding the causes of the large variation in these parameters. Two major environmental gradients, elevation and topography, representing a broad range of climatic and edaphic site conditions, were analyzed. We found the highest species richness of trees in valleys < 2100 m. Valleys showed highest values of basal area, leaf area index and tree basal area increment as well. Tree diversity also increased from ridges to valleys, while canopy openness decreased. Significant relationships existed between tree diversity and soil parameters (pH, total contents of Mg, K, Ca, N and P), and between diversity and the spatial variability of pH and Ca and Mg contents suggesting a dependence of tree diversity on both absolute levels and on the small-scale heterogeneity of soil nutrient availability. Tree diversity and basal area increment were positively correlated, partly because both are similarly affected by soil conditions. We conclude that the extraordinarily high tree species richness in the area is primarily caused by three factors: (1) the existence of steep altitudinal and topographic gradients in a rather limited area creating a small-scale mosaic of edaphically different habitats; (2) the intermingling of Amazonian lowland plant species, that reach their upper distribution limits, and of montane forest species; and (3) the geographical position of the study area between the humid eastern Andean slope and the dry interandean forests of South Ecuador.
30045487|Dioecy, the segregation of male and female structures among individuals, is widespread in tropical plants, encompassing 10-30 percent of species in some sites. In many cases, interindividual sex separation is not complete, as individual plants, although nominally dioecious, may produce both types of reproductive structures. A common form of this sexual variation is the production of female structures in otherwise male individuals, commonly referred to as fruiting males. Here we report the existence of fruiting males in the dioecious tropical tree Jacaratia mexicana (Caricaceae). We show that fruiting males can constitute up to 45 percent of all males in some populations of a tropical forest in Southern Mexico. In order to determine the functional significance of fruiting males for the breeding system of J. mexicana, we compared the relative performance of male- and female-borne seeds. Our results show that seeds from fruiting males are three times less likely to germinate and survive than seeds from female trees. Based on relative seed fitness data, and sex ratios in natural populations, we estimate that 6-15 percent of the genes contributed by fruiting males to the next generation are transmitted via ovules, meaning that morphological variation in gender is at least partially accompanied by functional gender variation. Finally, our seed fitness estimates for fruiting males suggest that fruiting males will not replace female plants in natural populations. /// El dioicismo, la distribucin de estructuras masculinas y femeninas en dos tipos de individuos, es un fenmeno ampliamente distribuido en especies tropicales, llegando a abarcar 10-30 por ciento de las especies en algunos sitios. En muchos casos la separacin de los sexos entre individuos no es completa, y un mismo individuo puede producir estructuras reproductivas del sexo opuesto. Una forma comn de esta variacin en el gnero es la produccin de estructuras femeninas en individuos machos, los que comnmente se denominan machos fructferos. En este trabajo describimos la existencia de machos fructferos en el rbol tropical dioico Jacaratia mexicana (Caricaceae). Encontramos que los machos fructferos pueden constituir hasta el 45 por ciento de todos los rboles macho en algunas poblaciones de un bosque tropical en el Sur de Mxico. Con el objeto de determinar el significado funcional de los machos fructferos de J. mexicana, comparamos el desempeo relativo de semillas originadas en individuos macho y hembra. Nuestros resultados muestran que las semillas provenientes de machos fructferos germinan y sobreviven con una probabilidad tres veces menor que las semillas provenientes de rboles hembra. Basados en la adecuacin relativa de las semillas, as como en las proporciones sexuales en poblaciones naturales, estimamos que 6-15 por ciento de los genes contribuidos por los machos fructferos a la siguiente generacin son transmitidos va vulos, lo que significa que al menos parte de la variacin en el gnero a nivel morfolgico es acompaada por variacin a nivel funcional. Finalmente, nuestras estimaciones de la adecuacin de los machos fructferos, va semillas, sugieren que stos no remplazarn a las plantas femeninas en poblaciones naturales.
10.2307/2389048|The tropical dry forest life zone of St. Lucia is largely covered by scrub forest characterized by a short canopy and a large number of small-diameter trees. However, it is unclear whether these short-stature forests result from edaphic properties that limit the development of taller-stature dry forest or result from the repeated harvest of wood. To investigate the influence of edaphic properties on forest composition and structure, we sampled 21 stands within the dry forest life zone of St. Lucia. Mean canopy height in the scrub forest was 4 m and stands contained an average of 39,407 stems ha
30043102|Fruit set is pollen-limited in the self-incompatible tree Heterophragma quadribculare (Bignoniaceae), pollinated by long-distance flying carpenter bees, and in the self-compatible shrub Lasiosiphon eriocephalus (Thymeleaceae), pollinated by weak-flying, sedentary beetles. We studied a single H. quadriloculare population over high and low flowering years and found no difference in bee visitation rates between these years. For H. quadrilocukre, neighborhood floral display did not make a significant contribution to reproductive success. We investigated dense and sparse L. eriocephalus populations in the same year. In the low density L. eriocephalus population, individual floral displays were higher than in the dense population, yet reproductive success was low, indicating that plant isolation was a major factor influencing fruit set. This result was due to the extremely low number of beetles per plant and per flower in this population. In the dense L. eriocephalus population, although the displays of individual neighbors were smaller and plants were closer, neighborhood floral display did not contribute significantly to reproductive success, whereas the effect of individual floral display was ambiguous. Species with self-incompatible rather than self-compatible breeding systems are expected to experience neighborhood effects on reproductive success; however, at the spatial scale and floral display levels of plants in this study, only individual floral display affected fruit set in H. quadrilocuhre, whereas neither individual nor neighborhood display influenced fruit set in L. eriocephalus. Therefore, pollinator type, pollinator behavior, and plant and population isolation, rather than breeding system alone, will determine if neighborhood floral display affects fruit set.
10.2307/2388632|During a 4-yr phenological study of the palm flora of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, palm species displayed substantial variation in reproductive phenology despite a shared uniform growth architecture. Reproduction in the majority of species was distinctly seasonal: most, but not all, initiated flowering sometime during the rainy season. In two species, individuals exhibited multiple flowering episodes. Palm species differed in the degree of within-year flowering synchrony but were relatively predictable in flowering time from year to year. Especially within asynchronously flowering species, fruiting was more synchronous than flowering, in part as a result of the failure of individuals flowering at certain times to produce mature fruit. Levels of flowering within each species were generally high except in the clonal Bactris palms, and it appeared for some species that canopy openness may stimulate flowering. Palm vegetative phenology was also seasonal and appeared more responsive to annual climatic variation than did reproductive phenology. In many species, rates of leaf expansion slowed during the dry season, an effect that was exaggerated during the prolonged El Nino dry season of 1982-1983; however, a species' total annual leaf production was relatively constant from year to year. Leaf production correlated with individual height in some species, but was generally not related to the degree of canopy openness. The underlying significance of the variation in reproductive phenology within this palm flora remains largely unexplored.
10.2307/2388553|We examined position effects on components of fruit mass within infructescences of Phytolacca rivinoides to determine whether distal portions of an infructescence provide fewer resources for developing fruits than basal portions, resulting in a decrease in fruit or seed mass, or seed number per fruit towards the distal end of a raceme. We also sought evidence for yield compensation due to resource limitation by measuring the relationships between reproductive components among individual fruits and among infructescence means. The results of three natural experiments did not show that distal portions of a raceme are consistently at a disadvantage with regard to maternal resources; different fruit characteristics showed different patterns. In general, there were significant declines in total fruit mass and pulp mass from the basal to the distal portions of an infructescence. In contrast, total seed mass, mean individual seed mass, and seed number per fruit showed no significant decline; in some cases these parameters increased distally. In two natural experiments, we controlled for developmental effects on fruit, pulp and seed mass by comparing only fully ripened fruits located at relatively basal and distal positions. The results of these two experiments differed markedly. In one experiment, total seed mass per fruit and mean individual seed mass per fruit increased significantly towards the distal end of the sampled infructescences, while seed number per fruit remained unchanged. In the other experiment, total seed mass and mean individual seed mass per fruit remained constant, while seed number per fruit increased significantly towards distal positions of the infructescences. The relationship between seed mass and seed number per fruit was explored in three ways, but none revealed evidence for maternal resource limitation leading to an inverse relationship (or trade-off) between mass and number. First, a regression of mean seed mass on seed number per fruit indicated that the two traits are independent of each other (N = a total of 500 fruits on 25 infructescences). Second, regressions of mean individual seed mass on seed number among fruits within each of 25 infructescences showed no evidence that seed mass was negatively associated with seed number; in two infructescences, mean individual seed mass and seed number per fruit were positively associated. Finally, among infructescences, mean individual seed mass was independent of mean seed number per fruit. Infructescence length was positively correlated with fruit number but independent of all other measured parameters, indicating that infructescences bearing many fruits did not produce fewer or smaller seeds than those with few fruits. The most surprising outcomes of this study are that we detected no strong position effects on, or inverse relationships between, seed mass and number that indicate that the availability of resources determines seed mass or number per fruit, though this is a phenomenon seen widely within temperate zone species.
2389120|There are a variety of ways to diminish the negative impacts of forest management for timber on biodiversity. A pilot project using a uniform spacing method of selective cutting was recently implemented in the 5340 ha Guarani Reserve, Misiones, Argentina, to design adequate management schemes for the subtropical forests of the region. Uniform spacing involves moderate timber harvesting and careful selection of remnant trees. In this article we compare tree regeneration in forests experimentally cut by diameter limit and uniform spacing methods. Seedlings of five size classes from 10 cm to 3 m in height were sampled using rectangular nested plots. Three years after cutting, an average of 54,330 and 22,270 seedling/ha (all height classes combined) of commercial and non-commercial species were found in the forest cut by uniform spacing and by minimum diameter, respectively. In an adjacent uncut forest there were 34,900 seedlings/ha, and in another forest cut by minimum diameters 30 years ago there were 50,000 seedlings/ha. The forest cut by uniform spacing had the highest number of commercial seedlings/ha, with three times as many as the forest cut by minimum diameter three years ago and twice as many as the forest treated by minimum diameters 30 years ago. The forest cut by uniform spacing and the forest treated by minimum diameters 30 years ago had the highest diversity of understory plants other than trees, as well as heterogeneous canopy cover, while the other two forests had a predominance of bamboo in the understory and more open canopy conditions. Although lack of site replication limits interpretation of the results, these early findings suggest that the uniform spacing method can be an ecologically sound forest management option for the region.
40863744|The presence of charcoal in the soils and fire scars on 8.2 percent of tree stems strongly suggest that one of the best studied Amazonian research localities (the llha de Marac in Roraima, Brazil) has burned. The patterns and images of fire scars that we present here could help researchers explore the burn history of other tropical forests, which has important implications for interpreting their present-day ecology.
10.2307/2388371|I assessed damage caused by a cyclone in November 1978 to a dry evergreen forest in Sri Lanka. Damage included defoliation, breakage of twigs, branches and trunks, tree falls and post-cyclone tree mortality. Within the 3 km$^2$ study area there was a trend for increasing damage with forest height. Tree species in the upper forest layers had significantly more falls and post-cyclone mortality than trees in the more sheltered subcanopy and shrub layers. Mortality was significantly greater among trees which lost 40 percent or more of their branches and trunks than among trees with lesser crown damage. Defoliation and twig loss were extreme in the discontinuous upper layers and probably contributed to the greater tree mortality evident there. Overbrowsing by folivorous primates after the cyclone may have contributed to the demise of some preferred feeding trees. Total tree loss was 46 percent from the upper forest layers, 29 percent from the subcanopy, or 40 percent from all tree layers. Five upper layer tree species were subject to tree losses of 80 to 100 percent representing a virtual elimination of 22 percent of species from the upper layers or 12 percent from the forest. Dry evergreen forest formerly covered 80 percent of the island's land area, and often has been described as "old secondary climax" in recognition of past disturbance. Extrapolations from meterological data indicate that 33 to 44 percent of the range of dry evergreen forest may be subject to cyclone damage per century. The species composition of dry evergreen forest on a local and wider geographical scale typically is fairly uniform in the subcanopy layer, but variable in the upper layers. I suggest that recurrent cyclone damage may be an important factor contributing to succession in dry evergreen forest and to the variation in species composition of the upper layers.
10.2307/2388396|Male euglossine bees were captured monthly for one year in modified McPhail traps baited with cineole, methyl salicylate, and skatole. The traps were operated 90 km north of Manaus, Brazil in continuous terra firme forest and forest fragments of 1, 10, and 100 ha. Of the 16 species of euglossine bees captured, Euglossa chalybeata and Eg. stilbonota accounted for 85 percent. The traps had the advantage of operating unattended, but their capture efficiency was low Bee abundance and species richness were significantly correlated and peaked in the wet season when flowering also peaked. Contrary to a previous study in the same area, bee abundance was greater in 10- and 100-ha fragments than in continuous forest. Fragments of 1 ha had the smallest number of individuals and species. It appears that male euglossine abundance may vary considerably over short distances, making it difficult to characterize a forest by sampling a single site.
10.2307/2387866|Size comparisons are made between the beaked sea snake, Enhydrina schistosa, and its usual prey, an ariid catfish, Tachysurus maculatus. Of 108 catfish found in as many snake stomachs, most were partially digested. Estimates of catfish length, maximum diameter, and weight were made using linear regression relationships between these measures and index measures determined on entire specimens. Maximum prey diameters were one to two times the neck diameters of the snakes. Prey selection is implicated along both the upper and lower limits of prey size. Large snakes take a disproportionately large number of relatively small fish. This may be a function of prey availability alone.
30043293|Fragmentation that alters mutualistic relationships between plants and frugivorous animals may reduce the seed dispersal of trees. We examined the effects of forest fragmentation on the distributions of seeds and seedlings of a Central Amazon endemic tree, Duckeodendron cestroides. In the dry seasons of 2002-2004, seeds and first-year seedlings were counted within wedge-shaped transects centered around Duckeodendron adults in fragments and nearby continuous forests at the Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragmentation Project. Analyses showed that fragmentation reduced seed dispersal quantity and quality. The percent and distance of dispersed seeds were both twice as great in continuous forest as in fragments. The distances of each tree's five furthest dispersed seeds were three times greater in continuous forest than fragments. Over the 3-yr study, 20 times more seeds were dispersed more than 10 m from parent crowns in continuous forest than fragments. A regression analysis showed more dispersed seeds at all distances in continuous forest than fragments. Dispersal differences were strong in 2002 and 2004, years of large fruit crops, but weak or absent in 2003, when fruit production was low. As distance from parent crowns increased, the number of seedlings declined more rapidly in fragments than continuous forest. Distance-dependent mortality between the seed and seedling stages appeared to be more important in continuous forest than fragments. This research provides ample, indirect evidence demonstrating that forest fragmentation can result in the breakdown of a seed dispersal mutualism, potentially jeopardizing the reproduction of a rare, tropical tree.
10.2307/2388508|We describe a new method to observe and map morphological and functional characteristics of soil. Drainage and surface hydromorphy were mapped in eleven plots including 16.8 hectares. In the same plots, all trees over 20 cm DBH were inventoried. Structural data of the vegetation are correlated to soils characteristics as well as the frequencies and densities of 32 taxa
2663898|Syzygium nervosum is a common monsoon rain forest tree. Its habitat in Australia consists of small rain forest patches that are scattered through a savanna matrix. It is a mast flowering canopy species that produces large quantities of fruits fed on by mobile frugivores such as birds and fruit bats. The genetic diversity of this species was investigated, especially in relation to rain forest patch size, geographic isolation, and geographic distribution. Syzygium nervosum was found to have high levels of genetic diversity within populations (H
10.2307/2388305|The African fig tree Ficus sycomorus is host to two species of agaonid fig wasps, Ceratosolen arabicus and C. galili. Our studies of C. galili in southern Africa confirm that it does not actively pollinate the figs of F. sycomorus, although some accidental pollination takes place. The absence of pollination behavior in C. galili raises questions about the reasons why other agaonids pollinate the figs and thereby maintain the fig-fig wasp mutualism. C. galili larvae did not suffer elevated mortality rates when developing in unpollinated flowers and the only potential "cost" of not pollinating that we detected was that adult female C. galili were smaller than those of C. arabicus that developed on the same tree.
10.2307/2387700|The forest of Mauna Kea, Hawaii, was studied from 1973 through 1975 in order to define composition and phenology patterns of the two dominant tree species, and to determine the influence of man and feral mammals upon the ecosystem. There was a significant change in tree species composition across a 150 m elevational gradient; soil characteristics, drainage conditions, past disturbances by man, and browsing pressure by feral mammals are suggested as possible reasons. Although species composition varied with elevation, the tree density did not change. The phenological patterns of Sophora chrysophylla were found more closely tied to the weather pattern than were those of Myoporum sandwicense. Methods of pollination and seed dispersal were different between Sophora and Myoporum, and the spread of the latter is thought to be related to increased seed dispersal by recently introduced avian species, in conjunction with the limitation of Sophora reproduction due to browsing pressure by feral sheep. Because of the changes that are affecting the ecological organization of this community, the forest and its associated fauna need to be carefully examined in terms of present management policies.
30045449|Individual-level diet variation was investigated in Gracilinanus microtarsus, an insectivorous marsupial whose diet is affected by sex and season in the highly seasonal Brazilian Cerrado. To measure individual-level diet variation, the diets of individual males and females were compared to that of their population in the warm-wet and cool-dry seasons using the proportional similarity index (PSi). This index varies from 1 (complete overlap between the individual i's and population's diets) toward 0 (decreasing overlap). Mean PSi values were computed as a measure of the degree of interindividual diet variation (the larger the mean PSi value, the smaller the variation among individuals' diets). Interindividual diet variation among females was similar between seasons, whereas among males it decreased from the warm-wet to the cool-dry season. Diet variation among males is probably reduced in the cool-dry season because of constraints on food consumption generated by interactions between endogenous (physiological needs associated with high rates of body mass growth) and exogenous (food limitation) factors. Abstract in Portuguese is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
27742794|Global warming exacerbates threats to biodiversity as ecological systems shift in response to altered climatic conditions. Yet the long-term survival of populations at direct risk from climate change may also be undermined by local factors such as infectious disease or anthropogenic harvest, which leave smaller and more isolated populations increasingly vulnerable to the rapid pace of global change. We review current and future threats to an exemplar tropical waterfowl species, magpie geese Anseranas semipalmata, and focus on the potential synergies between infectious diseases, harvest, and climate change. We outline viral, bacterial, and fungal pathogens likely to cause disease in geese, and give mention to parasites. Further, we elaborate on a previously developed, spatially explicit population viability model to simulate demographic responses to hunting and novel or enhanced disease outbreaks due to climate change. With no harvest, the simulated disease epizootics only threatened metapopulation viability when both mortality rate was high and outbreaks were regular (a threshold response). However, when contemporary site-specific harvest is included as an additive impact, the response to disease severity and probability was linear. We recommend field research to test these hypotheses linking drivers of waterfowl population decline to diseaseclimate change interactions.
20492512|In tropical forests, light-gaps created from treefalls are a frequent source of habitat heterogeneity. The increase in productivity, through gap formation, can alter food quality, predation and their impact on insect herbivores. We hypothesized that in gaps, herbivores would be less resource-limited and more predator limited, whereas in the understory, we predicted the reverse. In this study, we investigate the combined effects of food quality and predation on the lepidopteran larva Zunacetha annulata feeding on its host plant Hybanthus prunifolius in two habitats; sunny treefall gaps and the shaded understory in Panama. In bioassays, Z. annulata feeding on sun leaves ate 22 percent less leaf area, grew 25 percent faster, and had higher pupal weights than larvae feeding on shade leaves. However, shade leaves had higher nitrogen content and specific leaf area. In gaps, predation was 26.4 percent compared to 13.8 percent in the understory. Larvae on understory plants traveled greater distances and spent more time searching and traveling than larvae on gap plants. These differences in behavior are consistent with lower predation risk and lower quality food in the understory. Using data from bioassays and field experiments we calculated 0.22 percent and 1.02 percent survival to adulthood for larvae in gaps and the understory, respectively. In conclusion, although these habitats were in close proximity, we found that larvae in the understory are more resource-limited and larvae in gaps are more predator limited.
40645590|Most tropical trees produce fleshy fruits that attract frugivores that disperse their seeds. Early demography and distribution for these tree species depend on the effects of frugivores and their behavior. Anthropogenic changes that affect frugivore communities could ultimately result in changes in tree distribution and population demography. We studied the frugivore assemblage at 38 fruiting Elmerrillia tsiampaca, a rain forest canopy tree species in Papua New Guinea. Elmerrillia tsiampaca is an important resource for frugivorous birds at our study site because it produces abundant lipid-rich fruits at a time of low fruit availability. We classified avian frugivores into functional disperser groups and quantified visitation rates and behavior at trees during 56 canopy and 35 ground observation periods. We tested predictions derived from other studies of plant-frugivore interactions with this little-studied frugivore assemblage in an undisturbed rain forest. Elmerrillia tsiampaca fruits were consumed by 26 bird species, but most seeds were removed by eight species. The most important visitors (Columbidae, Paradisaeidae and Rhyticeros plicatus) were of a larger size than predicted based on diaspore size. Columbidae efficiently exploited the structurally protected fruit, which was inconsistent with other studies in New Guinea where structurally protected fruits were predominantly consumed by Paradisaeidae. Birds vulnerable to predation foraged for short time periods, consistent with the hypothesis that predator avoidance enhances seed dispersal. We identified seven functional disperser groups, indicating there is little redundancy in disperser groups among the regular and frequent visitors to this tropical rain forest tree species.
10.2307/2989765|Ferns are especially useful for the study of certain biogeographic problems of migration and speciation because the species have a high and nearly equivalent capacity for spore dispersal by air transport. Dispersal can bring spores of many species to an island from a source area; the ones that become established are not a random assortment of the source species. Island floras have a major element of widely distributed source area species, although these are a minor element in the source area. The endemics on islands are mostly related to narrowly distributed source species, although these are a minor element in the island flora. In an archipelago the endemics are nearly always related to source species rather than to other species of the insular flora. Establishment of a species on an island is an individual, rather than a population, phenomenon because dispersal cannot bring the variability of a source population to the island. Adaptability of the genotype-phenotype of the single spore to a new environment and sensitivity to selection are characteristics that dominate success in migration and evolutionary potential under geographic isolation. Widely and narrowly distributed source species differ in these characteristics, and these differences account for the relative proportions of the two source groups in the insular flora and their relations to insular endemics. Re-immigration can maintain gene-flow between islands and is a deterrent to the evolution of species-flocks in an archipelago.
30045444|Fruiting trees in degraded areas are attractive for frugivorous birds and may become centers of regeneration. However, a number of tree species in degraded areas are exotic species. Thus, the question arises whether these exotic species can also act as foci for forest regeneration. In the farmland adjacent to Kakamega Forest, Kenya, we investigated the frugivore assemblage in, and seed rain and seedling establishment under, 29 fruiting exotic guava trees (Psidium guajava) at different distances to the forest. The results show that 40 frugivorous bird species visited guava trees. All of the seed and 82 percent of the seedling species found under the treecrowns were animal dispersed, 58 and 57 percent of them late-successional species, respectively. Path analysis revealed that the abundance of frugivorous birds, seeds, and seedlings did not decrease up to a distance of 2 km from the forest. Surprisingly, the abundance of frugivorous shrubland birds, animal-dispersed seeds, and late-successional seeds showed an increase with increasing distance from forest. Even though they are exotics, fruiting guava trees may have a positive effect on forest regeneration and might prove valuable for management plans concerning forest restoration.
30043211|Ants limit bird foraging success via interference or exploitative competition. We compared bird foraging (number and duration of visits, bird species visiting) on ant (Azteca instabilis)-infested and ant-free tropical trees (Inga micheliana and Alchornea latifolia). Ants did not affect the number of bird visits or the number of species visiting. Ant presence shortened visit duration (overall and for insectivores) only on A. latifolia where ant activity was higher. Ants may thus hinder bird foraging on some tropical trees potentially shaping how predators affect arthropod communities; yet ant effects depend on bird foraging guild and ant activity. /// Las hormigas limitan el forrajeo exitoso por aves ya sea por interferencia o competencia explotativa. Comparamos la actividad de aves (nmero y duracin de visitas y especies de aves visitadoras) en dos especies de rboles tropicales (Inga micheliana y Alchornea latifolia) con y sin la hormiga Azteca instabilis. Las hormigas no afectaron el nmero de visitas o el nmero de especies de aves visitadoras a estos rboles tropicales, con la excepcin de A. latifolia donde la duracin de visitas se acort (en general y para las especies insectvoras) debido a la alta presencia de hormigas. Conclumos que la presencia de las hormigas disminuyen la actividad forrajera por aves en algunos rboles tropicales, potencialmente influyendo en los efectos de depredadores en comunidades de artrpodos. Sin embargo los efectos de las hormigas dependen del forrajeo de las aves.
30044027|Grasslands created by grass invasions into shrublands or woodlands followed by fire are now a dominant feature of many seasonally dry environments. In Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, introduced perennial grasses dominate grasslands created by fire in grass-invaded woodlands. In a previous study, we found that net primary production in these grasslands is substantially lower than in unburned woodlands. Yet, our estimates of annual net nitrogen (N) mineralization showed higher rates in these savannas than in the unburned woodlands, rates that appear to greatly exceed annual N demand by the vegetation. We therefore hypothesized that N should not be limited to the plants growing in these sites. We tested this hypothesis with a 2-yr fertilization experiment. At peak biomass, we found a 30 percent increase in live biomass in plots with N added and no increase in production with only phosphorus (P) added. N and P together were synergistic, suggesting that co-limitation or P limitation becomes important when N is more available. Plants responded to added N by increasing individual leaf area and shoot length by over 50 percent. Tissue N was higher with added N; hence, biomass N was substantially higher. Tissue P concentrations declined with N addition but were elevated by P addition despite lack of a growth response to P alone. Overall, N limitation exists despite high annual rates of net N mineralization, and co-limitation of production by P may occur when N is abundant. Here, asynchrony between plant nutrient demand and N availability may contribute to N limitation.
30044008|Successional patterns of microfungi on decaying leaves of Ficus pleurocarpa were assessed as part of a study to enumerate microfungi in tropical rain forest leaf litter. Leaves degraded into fragments over a period of 3 mo. Two methods were applied, a direct observational method and a particle filtration protocol. Using a direct method, 104 species were observed, while 53 sporulating taxa and 100 sterile morphotaxa were isolated by particle filtration. Overall patterns of succession were confirmed by both methods, but the relative abundance of species detected differed between the two methods. Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling identified at least four successional stages and suggested that microfungal communities increased in similarity with advancing decay. Data collected by the direct method indicated a slow but steady decline of diversity with advancing decay, whereas an increase in diversity was detected by particle filtration. Synecological succession studies provide a useful tool to identify patterns and generate hypotheses. Understanding the underlying causes of successional patterns will require further autecological studies.
10.2307/2989749|The study of the seeds rejected during a year by a colony of Artibeus jamaicensis Leach in a cave located in Los Tuxtlas Region of Veracruz, Mexico, gave us information concerning the fruit species on which these bats feed, their degree of utilization and bats' preference of some fruits. Information was also obtained on some peculiarities in the reproductive biology of plants, for example, the length of fruiting seasons and the possible role played by bats in the interchange of seeds between primary and secondary vegetation in a tropical humid evergreen forest area.
30044058|Oecophylla ants utilize living leaves when they construct their nests. We investigated how Oecophyila smaragdina nests in southern Thailand affected leaf performance on the mangrove tree Rhizophora mucronata. Leaves used in nests and neighboring leaves showed a higher rate of premature leaf loss compared to control leaves farther from the nests. However, a tree's total cost due to the higher premature leaf loss was estimated to be approximately between 3- and 20-fold lower than the benefit derived from ant protection, detected in a previous study (Offenberg et al. 2004).
10.2307/2388016|Adaptive radiation in the Melastomataceae along an altitudinal gradient is analyzed statistically with a discussion of possible selection pressures. The study sites are the Cordillera Vilcabamba and Cordillera Central of the Peruvian Andes, mountains that offer a broad elevational gradient on a transect that is relatively free of variation in other environmental factors. Several family characteristics of the Melastomataceae ideally suit the group for a study of adaptive radiation. Species collected from seven sample sites along the gradient were utilized for the measurement of the following morphological characteristics: life form, leaf length, leaf width, leaf base, leaf apex, leaf surface, leaf texture, petiole length, and internode length. A multiple regression analysis indicates that pleiotropy is involved: leaf length and/or width was the most important variable entered into the equation for six other characters. The analysis of variance shows that leaf length and width, leaf apex, leaf texture, petiole length, and internode length all change significantly with elevation. The following possible environmental selection pressures are discussed: elevation, wind, rainfall, mineral content of the soil, soil drainage, temperature, sunlight, the intense radiation of high altitudes, cloud cover, and humidity.
30045477|Because of tropical forests' disproportionate importance for world biodiversity and for the global carbon cycle, we urgently need to understand any effects on these ecosystems from the ongoing changes in climate and atmosphere. This review, intended to complement existing data reviews on this topic, focuses on three major classes of challenges that we currently face when trying to detect and interpret directional changes in tropical forests. One is the very limited existing information on the historical context of study sites. Lasting effects from past climate, natural disturbances, and/or human activities could be significantly affecting current-day processes in tropical forests and need to be investigated for all active field sites. Second, while progress has been made in recent years on standardizing and refining research approaches, a number of methods- and data-limitations continue to affect efforts both to detect within-forest changes and to relate them to ongoing environmental change. Important outstanding needs are improved sampling designs, longer time-series of observations, filling key data gaps, and data access. Finally, forest responses to ongoing environmental change are complex. The effects of many simultaneously changing environmental factors are integrated by the plants, and their responses can involve significant lags, carryovers, and non-linearities. Specifying effects of individual environmental changes, however, is required for accurate ecosystem-process models and thus for projecting future impacts on these forests. After discussing these several types of challenges and ways to address them, I conclude with a priority agenda for this critical area of research. /// Debido a la importancia desproporcionada de los bosques tropicales para la biodiversidad mundial y para el ciclo global del carbono, es urgente identificar los impactos sobre estos ecosistemas provocados por los cambios actuales en el clima y en la atmsfera. Este artculo de revisin, escrito con el propsito de complementar otras revisiones recientes, se enfoca en tres principales clases de retos que enfrentamos actualmente en la deteccin e interpretacin de cambios direccionales en los bosques tropicales. Primero es la gran escasez de informacin histrica acerca de los sitios de estudio. Los procesos actuales en los bosques tropicales pueden reflejar los efectos prolongados del pasado climtico, las perturbaciones naturales y/o las actividades humanas, por lo que deben de ser investigados en todos los sitios actuales de estudio. Segundo, a pesar de avances recientes en la estandarizacin y el refinamiento de los mtodos de investigacin, nuestra habilidad para detectar cambios en los bosques y ligarlos a los grandes cambios ambientales sigue siendo limitada. Para garantizar avances en el rea se requiere mejorar los diseos de muestreo, extender las series de observacin en el tiempo a plazos mayores, llenar ciertos vacos claves en el conocimiento, y facilitar el acceso a los datos existentes. Por ltimo, se requiere de enfoques que tomen en cuenta la complejidad de las respuestas de los bosques a los cambios ambientales. Las plantas integran los efectos de cambios simultneos en mltiples factores ambientales, y sus respuestas pueden ser no lineales e incluir efectos de retraso y acarreo. No obstante, es importante tambin especificar los efectos individuales de los diferentes cambios ambientales para afinar los modelos de procesos a nivel del ecosistema, y as poder proyectar los impactos futuros sobre estos bosques. Despus de discutir dichos retos y estrategias para enfrentarlos, concluyo con una agenda de prioridades para esta rea crtica de investigacin.
10.2307/2388339|We compare levels of flowering and fruiting in 55 samples of Neotropical forest understory from 13 sites in 6 countries. Each sample consists of a census of fertile understory plants along a transect. Changes in species richness and density of fertile understory plants are correlated with rainfall and soil fertility. Areas with weak (or no) dry seasons and intermediate to rich soils average 64 fertile plant species and 174 individuals per sample, whereas areas with poor soil and a strong dry season average only 5 fertile species and 8 fertile individuals. Areas with either strong dry seasons and good soils or weak dry seasons and very poor soils have intermediate values. Taxonomic composition of the understory also changes predictably with rainfall and soil fertility. In increasingly stressed forests changes are found in understory structure, with sequential loss of terrestrial herbs, epiphytes, understory shrubs, and lianas. The understory of the poorest soil site consists almost entirely of young trees. The effects of seasonal differences at a given site are small compared with between-site differences. We suggest that the level of understory fertility may provide a simple indicator of overall ecosystem productivity.
30043108|We studied nectar characteristics in 12 species of Neotropical hummingbird-pollinated plants: Aphehndra golfodulcensis, A. sinclairiana, A. storkii, Justicia aurea (Acanthaceae); Heliconia irrasa, H. Utispatha, H. mathiasii (Heliconiaceae); Pavonia dasypetala (Malvaceae) ; Isertia haenkeana, Palicourea guianense, Pentagonia macrophylla (Rubiaceae); and Re-nealmia cernua (Zingiberaceae). The diurnal patterns in sugar content and cumulative volume of nectar were documented in flowers that were protected from flower visitors. Sugar content in these species (mean of all flowers sampled per species ranged from 16 to 28%) was comparable to those reported for other hummingbird-pollinated species. Mean nectar volume per flower spanned an order of magnitude (i.e., 8.8 [Palicourea]-72.7 l [H. latispatha]), indicating that hummingbirds visited flowers with a wide range of reward. We observed low intraspecific variation in sugar content but high variation in nectar volume. Among species, 10-50 percent of the variation in nectar volume was explained by time of day. For a subset of four species (A. sinclairiana, Isertia, Palicourea, and Pentagonia), we studied variation among individuals in nectar volume. With time of day controlled, individual explained as much as 70 percent of the variation in nectar volume (A. sinclairiana) and as little as 20 percent (Pentagonia). We suggest that nectar volume likely has a genetic component in these species, but also that variation may itself be a trait, especially in Palicourea and Pentagonia. In three of the four species for which we had data from individuals, mean nectar volume and standard deviation were not correlated, suggesting that these traits may vary independently (Pentagonia was the exception with mean and standard deviation positively correlated). For two species (Isertia and Palicourea), we found evidence of seasonal variation in nectar production, with more nectar per flower produced early in the flowering season than later. /// Estudiamos las caractersticas del nctar de 12 especies de plantas neotropicales polinizadas por colibres: Aphelandra golfodulcensis, A. sinclairiana, A. storkii, Justicia aurea (Acanthaceae); Heliconia irrasa, H. latispatha, H. mathiasii (Heliconiaceae); Pavonia dasypetala (Malvaceae); Isertia haenkeana, Palicourea guianense, Pentagonia macrophylla (Rubiaceae); y Renealmia cernua (Zingiberaceae). Documentamos los patrones diurnos de contenido de azcares y volumen acumulado de nctar en flores protegidas de visitantes florales. El contenido de azcares de estas especies (promedio para todas las flores muestreadas por especies = 16-28%) es similar al reportado para otras especies polinizadas por colibres. Los volmenes de nctar promedio por flor variaron en un orden de magnitud (8.8 [Palicourea]-72.7 i [Heliconia latispatha]; valores tomados de las horas de muestreo con volmenes mximos) indicando que los colibres visitan flores en un amplio rango de produccin de recompensa. Nuestros resultados tambin indican que hay poca variacin intraespecifica en contenido de azcares, pero una gran variacin en volumen de nctar producido. Entre especies, entre 10-50 por ciento de la variacin en volumen de nctar es explicada por la hora del da. Estudiamos la variacin de volumen de nctar entre individuos en cuatro especies (A. sinclairiana, Isertia, Palicourea, y Pentagonia). Controlando por hora del da (con todos los mustreos llevados a cabo a medioda), los individuos explicaron entre el 70 (A. sinclairiana) y el 20 por ciento (Pentagonia) de la variacin en volumen de nctar. Sugerimos que el volumen de nctar en estas especies posiblemente tenga un componente gentico, pero tambin que la variacin puede ser considerada un carcter por si misma, especialmente en Palicourea y Pentagonia. Para tres de las cuatro especies de las cuales tenemos datos a nivel de individuo, los promedios y las desviaciones estndar del volumen de nectar no estn correlacionados, sugiriendo que estos caracteres pueden variar independientemente (Pentagonia fue la excepcin teniendo su promedio y desviacin estndar correlacionados positivamente). Para dos especies (Isertia y Palicourea), encontramos evidencia de variacin estacional en produccin de nctar, con ms nctar siendo producido por flor al principio de la temporada de floracin.
30043042|Tropical Pacific island streams have poorly understood communities that deserve scientific attention. We examined benthic macroinvertebrates and fishes of the Inem River on Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia. Larval chironomids, lepidopterans, odonates, and freshwater shrimps dominated the benthos and drift. Diel periodicity in drift was not evident. Nine fishes, two shrimps, and one snail species were identified. Kosrae's stream fauna appears even more depauperate than other Pacific high islands, possible due to its extreme isolation.
10.2307/2387846|The coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) is so widely cultivated that the continued survival of a wild form of this palm has been doubted. It is possible to test a theory that describes what a wild-type coconut would look like because it also predicts where wild-type coconut palms might still be growing. On the basis of a 50-year-old translation of an unpublished manuscript written in 1668, a particular locality in the Philippines was visited and coconuts of the anticipated type were found. They have characteristics, particularly of their fruit, that make them unpopular with farmers, and they are in a natural situation where they would not have been planted on purpose. This finding has practical implications for coconut genetic resource conservation, and it may also provide insight on the extent of cadang-cadang disease in the Philippines.
10.2307/2388043|A study was carried out on two similar soil catenas and their associated vegetation from a locality on the forest-savanna boundary in west-central Ghana. Soil samples were analyzed for major plant nutrients and the values obtained related to the vegetation using principal components analysis and analysis of foliar nutrient levels. Vegetation types were found to occupy distinct catenary positions and to be associated with characteristic soil types. Levels of total phosphorus, exchangeable calcium and potassium, water content, and pH in the topsoil were all found to be higher under forest than under savanna, but total nitrogen was not different. The change from savanna woodland to open-tree savanna coincided with decreasing levels of nitrogen and potassium in foliage samples and of potassium in the topsoil. Differences in soil fertility are, however, probably secondary, and it is concluded that the primary factors separating vegetation types relate to effective soil depth, soil texture, and water supply.
10.2307/2387897|In a wooded grassland in central Kenya during the dry season, male and female Chamaeleo dilepis exhibited differences in perch plants, perch heights, general body coloration, and rates of movement. By the end of the rainy season, the first three of these differences were no longer evident. Defoliation of a large proportion of the shrubs and lack of water probably created a dry season resource shortage for this population of chameleons. Thus, this expansion of the total niche may be viewed as ameliorating intraspecific competition, and it may be permitted by the absence of congeners in the habitat.
30045384|The introduction of a predatory flatworm, Platydemus manokwari, has been considered a cause of the decline of endemic land snails on the tropical oceanic islands. To clarify the effect of P. manokwari on land snail survival in the field, we examined survival rates of snails experimentally placed in areas where snails are absent (i.e., P. manokwari is present) on Chichijima, Ogasawara (Bonin) Islands. We found that over 50 and 90 percent of the snails were dead after 3 and 11 d, respectively, and that the main cause of mortality was predation by P. manokwari.
10.2307/2387758|Pearl bodies, single or multicelled leaf emergences, are characterized by a lustrous, pearl-like appearance; a spherical or club-like shape with a basal constriction; ease of detachment from the plant; storage of relatively large quantities of lipid; and a limited size range, usually from 0.5 to 3.0 mm in length. They are broadly distributed in the Dicotyledonae and have been reported in 19 families and 50 genera, all of tropical or subtropical affinity. Several lines of evidence implicate these structures in plant-ant association; these are: at the generic level, the presence of pearl bodies is often associated (48%) with other ant-related features of the plant such as specialized domatia and extrafloral nectaries; when domatia or extrafloral nectaries are present, pearl-body production is parallel in time and space; and ants are known to collect pearl bodies from leaves and return them to their nests. These observations and correlations suggest that pearl bodies play an important role in many tropical plant-ant mutualisms.
10.2307/2388250|Fine root dynamics were evaluated at four sites in a subtropical wet forest in Puerto Rico over a period of 13 months following disturbance by Hurricane Hugo in September 1989 Live fine root standing stocks (to a depth of 10 cm) declined to zero over a three month period after the hurricane and fluctuated greatly thereafter. Maximum fine root biomass (49 g/m$^2$) occurred in June 1990. Dead root standing stocks (mean 423 g/m$^2$) were relatively constant through the study period. Recovery of fine roots following the initial hurricane-related mortality appears to be a slow process, regulated at least initially by environmental factors such as precipitation.
41058541|Taxillus tomentosus is a mistletoe of significant management concern in southern India. This mistletoe affects the productivity of several nontimber forest products, most significantly Amia (Phyllanthus emblica and Phyllanthus indofischert), whose fruits provide an important source of income for indigenous forest communities. Management interventions are required to secure the continued viability of Amia and thereby its role in livelihoods. To enhance the scientific basis for management, we characterized the distribution of T. tomentosus at three scales, examined potential mechanisms underlying this distribution, and compared both with those documented in other habitats. Misdetoes were aggregated at all three scales: on individual trees, within forest plots of 500 m, and at scales of 3-4 km. Seed deposition patterns provide an initial distribution template that largely determines patterns at tree and plot scales. This initial pattern is subsequently altered as variation in host suitability and misdetoe mortality from forest fires influence establishment success and postestablishment survival. Local prevalence of infection contributed most to infection spread, and areas of high infection prevalence are highlighted as appropriate foci for management intervention. Although novel underlying mechanisms and variation in the scale of aggregation have been identified, misdetoe distribution in a tropical forest appears to be shaped by similar forces as those documented previously in temperate systems.
30043087|Even though many forest plants spend all or a significant portion of their lives in the forest understory, few studies have compared understory composition, structure, and resource availability among forests. We used standardized transect-based methods to compare small sapling densities (10-50 cm tall), understory vegetation cover, canopy openness, and nutrient availability in non-gap portions of four lowland Neotropical forests: La Selva, Costa Rica (LS), Barro Colorado Island, Panama (BCI), Cocha Cashu, Peru (CC), and north of Manaus, Brazil (KM41). Sites differed significantly in all variables except canopy openness. LS had high palm and non-fern herb cover and low density of small saplings (0.71.6/m2) compared to other sites. CC had high fern cover, whereas BCI had low cover in all categories of understory vegetation (palms, ferns, and non-fern herbaceous plants). BCI, CC, and KM41 had similar small sapling densities, ranging from 4.87.5/m2. Within each forest, cation (Ca, Mg, and Na) availability was usually higher on more fertile soil orders (Inceptisols, Alfisols, and Entisols) than on more weathered soil types (Ultisols and Oxisols). Extractable  was highest at LS and CC and lowest on BCI (no data for KM41). Spatial autocorrelation was present for some variables in some transects to distances beyond our detection ability (>25 m). Understory palm cover was negatively correlated with small sapling density at fine (1 m2 quadrat) and coarse spatial scales (among forests), although across forests the effect of palms was due entirely to the difference between LS and the other three forests. These results provide cross-site support for the hypothesis that understory cover by palms decreases the density of small saplings that comprise the advance regeneration of the forest. /// Aunque muchas plantas del bosque pasan toda o una porcin significativa de su vida en el sotobosque, pocos estudios han comparado la composicin, la estructura, y la disponibilidad de recursos en el sotobosque entre bosques. Utilizamos los mtodos estandardizados para comparar las densidades de plntulas (1050 cm altura), la cobertura de vegetacin del sotobosque, la abertura de dosel, y la disponibilidad de nutrientes en cuatro bosques Neotropicales de bajura: La Selva, Costa Rica (LS), Isla de Barro Colorado, Panam (BCI), Cocha Cashu, Per (CC), y al norte de Manaus, Brasil (KM41). Los sitios se diferenciaron significativamente en todas variables menos la abertura del dosel. LS present una cobertura de palmas y plantas herbceas relativamente alta y una densidad baja de plntulas (0.71.6/m2) en comparacin con otros sitios. CC present una cobertura alta de helechos, mientras que BCI tuvo una cobertura baja para todas las categoras de vegetacin de sotobosque (palmas, helechos, y otras plantas herbceas). BCI, CC, y KM41 presentaron densidades similares de plntulas, con un rango de 4.8-7.5/m2. Dentro de cada bosque, la disponibilidad de catin (Ca, Mg, Na) fue generalmente ms alta en rdenes de suelos ms frtiles (Inceptisols, Alfisols, y Entisols) que en suelos ms viejos (Ultisols y Oxisols). Fsforo fue ms alto en LS y CC, y menor en BCI (no hubo datos para KM41). Algunas variables presentaron autocorrelacin espacial en algunos transectos a distancias mayores de nuestra habilidad de muestreo (>25 m). La cobertura de palmas en el sotobosque present una correlacin negativa con respecto a la densidad de plntulas a la escala pequea (cuadrantes de 1 m2) y a la escala espacial grande (entre bosques), sin embargo entre bosques el efecto de palmas se debi completamente a la diferencia entre LS y los otros tres sitios. Estos resultados apoyan la hiptesis que la cobertura de palmas en el sotobosque causa disminucin en la densidad de plntulas, las cuales representan la regeneracin avanzada del bosque.
4132925|Typhoon Paka passed over Guam on 16 December 1997, and caused extensive damage to the Cycas micronesica population. Defoliation reduced subsequent stem extension and leaf size, and increased synchrony of flushes. Decapitated plants developed numerous adventitious buds on damaged stems during recovery. Toppled plants were selectively browsed by feral deer and pigs. Epiphytes increased susceptibility to decapitation or toppling. Growth reduction was minimal and ephemeral, indicating that this species is highly resilient to tropical cyclone damage.
10.2307/2387777|For six tropical rainforest species, young leaves produced on rapidly flushing shoots had markedly lower reflectance in the UV-B region than did mature leaves and contained higher levels of anthocyanins and total phenols. Progressive changes in these characteristics provide empirical support for an earlier suggestion that anthocyanins in flushing shoots of tropical trees have adaptive value through their ultraviolet absorption.
40645551|Coffee is a globally important crop that is subject to numerous pest problems, many of which are partially controlled by predatory ants. Yet several studies have proposed that these ecosystem services may be reduced where agricultural systems are more intensively managed. Here we investigate the predatory ability of twignesting ants on the main pest of coffee, the coffee berry borer (Hypothenemus hampei) under different management systems in southwest Chiapas, Mexico. We conducted both laboratory and field experiments to examine which twig-nesting ant species, if any, can prey on free-living borers or can remove borers embedded in coffee fruits and whether the effects of the twig-nesting ant community differ with habitat type. Results indicate that several species of twig-nesting ants are effective predators of both free-living borers and those embedded in coffee fruits. In the lab, Pseudomyrmex ejectus, Pseudomyrmex simplex, and Pseudomyrmex PSW-53 effectively removed free-living and embedded borers. In the field, abundance, but not diversity, of twig-nesting ant colonies was influenced by shade management techniques, with the highest colony abundance present in the sites where shade trees were recently pruned. However, borer removal rates in the field were significant only in the shadiest site, but not in more intensively managed sites. This study provides evidence that twig-nesting ants can act as predators of the coffee berry borer and that the presence of twig-nesting ants may not be strongly linked to shade management intensity, as has been suggested for other arthropod predators of the borer.
4132947| We determined the effect of forest fragmentation on the nectarivorous Colima long-nosed bat (Musonycteris harrisoni) by observing foraging behavior of this species in disturbed and undisturbed forests on the flowers of Ceiba grandiflora (Bombacaceae). The study was conducted in the area of the Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve in Jalisco, Mxico. Musonycteris harrisoni was observed visiting flowers during six nights (88 visits), exclusively in undisturbed forest. This species feeds on the nectar and serves as a pollinator of C. grandiflora. 
10.2307/2388392|Natural history characteristics of a dominant understory bamboo (Chusquea sp.) were examined in relation to a tropical montane rain forest's structure, composition, and regeneration at timberline in north-central Peru. Because of its small size and sun intolerance, this scandent bamboo does not aggressively preempt space aboveground by occupying canopy openings or understory clearings or belowground through rhizome growth. Furthermore, two years of census data on >1100 tagged trees and shrubs suggest that its presence in the understory does not affect the mortality, composition, or regeneration of the arboreal species.
2389030|Hurricane Joan struck the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua in October 1988 causing extensive damage to the lowland rain forest of the zone. Six permanent plots were established in 1990 and the growth rates of all individuals in a total area of 6000 m
10.2307/2388483|Different patterns of biomass allocation were found in altitudinal populations of Acaena cylindrostachya R. and P and Hypericum laricifolium Juess in the paramos of Merida State, Venezuela. Total individual biomass was positively correlated to elevation and plant age in H. laricifolium. In A. cylindrostachya, the environment at both extremes of the gradient negatively affected plant growth. Both species were sensitive to the dry season, although fluctuations in plant biomass allocation were more pronounced in A. cylindrostachya. Reproductive effort was relatively low in both species, but neither responded accordingly to a simple interpretation of r- and K-selection theory.
10.2307/2388237|Gill nets set at three depths at an open-water station in Lake Titicaca during August 1984 captured only two species of endemic killifishes (Orestias ispi and O. mulleri) and an exotic silverside (Basilichthyes bonariensis). These species segregated strongly by depth, with B. bonariensis and O. mulleri occurring only in the surface and bottom sets, respectively, and O. ispi being most abundant in the mid-water set. All three species were feeding on zooplankton, but O. mulleri also included benthic crustaceans in its diet. Copepods were strongly selected by large (>200 mm SL) B. bonariensis, whereas smaller size classes ate mainly cladocerans. Copepods and cladocerans were about equally represented in the average diet of adult O. ispi, but larvae contained only copepods. Analysis of egg size-frequency distributions of gill-netted and seine-netted samples suggested that both Orestias species are fractional spawners. Horizontal trawls, made at depths between 10 m and the bottom, collected mainly Orestias larvae. Echo-sounding traces suggested that the depth distribution of the Titicaca pelagic fish fauna changed little on a diel basis.
2663812|The Witheringia solanacea complex consists of three species, W. asterotricha, W. meiantha, and W. solanacea, native to Central and South America. The three taxa are morphologically similar, and their distinctions and relationships have been the subject of taxonomic controversy. To investigate breeding systems and potential for hybridization among the taxa of the complex, two Costa Rican accessions per species were used in a crossing program. All plants were self-incompatible except for one accession of W. solanacea. Hybrid plants resulted from all crosses among accessions of W. asterotricha and W. solanacea. Most crosses were unsuccessful using W. meiantha in combination with either of the other two taxa. It is suggested that W. meiantha and W. solanacea be recognized as separate taxa, but that W. asterotricha be considered a synonym of W. solanacea.
10.2307/2388098|The concept of the "Biological life of a soil," or the time span over which a soil will support trees, is proposed here and is essential to long-term land use planning. Ecologically sound management requires that we begin to measure the actual terrestrial nutrient losses resulting from various land treatments. A method for measuring nutrient input, storage, and loss for predictions of potential soil nutrient loss is described. The theoretical evolution of the depleted white sands in South America is used as an example of the "Life and Death" of a soil to illustrate the general trend of soil-plant coevolution which appears to occur in many areas. Accelerated nutrient decline and the problems of "nutrient shock" or temporary depletion in younger temperate soils are also discussed.
10.2307/2989736|Reproductive features of eight Cordia species (Boraginaceae) from the seasonally dry Pacific slope of Costa Rica are described. Components of the floral, pollinatory, breeding, and seed-dispersal systems of each species are interactive. Two sets of syndromes are recognized: one consisting of floral, pollinatory, and breeding-system traits; the other composed of growth form, habitat preferences, and seed-dispersal traits. Within the genus, in the Neotropics, there has been a radiation from an ancestor presumably characterized by a basic chromosome number of 8, heterostyly, and fleshy fruitedness. Within the separate lines that have diverged in respect of the second syndrome, episodes of polyploidization have occurred as well as chromosomal loss (aneuploidy) Homostyly and dioecism have appeared several times in Cordia, in different lines. Comparisons with the reproductive characteristics shown by Cordia species in two other neotropical communities reveal no contradictions to the generalizations drawn from the Pacific slope results.
10.2307/2388338|The feral goat (Capra hircus) is an alien herbivore that has wreaked havoc in island ecosystems, including the dry, rugged, and relatively inaccessible montane koa parkland on the islands of Maui and Hawai'i. The objective of the present work was to evaluate the ability of koa parkland on Maui to recover naturally from browsing damage if goats are eliminated. We studied recovery over 7 years by periodically determining percent ground cover, species composition, and woody plant abundance inside and outside a goat exclosure. Initially, plant cover did not differ inside and outside the exclosure; but, after 3 years, plant cover inside was almost twice that outside. Molassesgrass (Melinis minutiflora), an introduced mat-forming species, spread rapidly inside the exclosure and showed no sign of dying out or retreating. Goats exert some control over this species. After 7 years, tree regeneration has occurred only inside the exclosure except for koa (Acacia koa) regeneration, which also occurred outside the exclosure. Heights of koa seedlings indicated that those outside represented recent germinants only, while those inside represented older individuals as well as recent germinants. The results indicated that the aging koa overstory could be replaced by koa regeneration if goats were eliminated and that some native species (Dodonaea, Styphelia, Coprosma) could at least partially recover. Once established, some introduced species (e.g., Melinis minutiflora), are favored by elimination of goats and may severely inhibit recovery of native species.
10.2307/2388255|Hurricane Hugo struck Puerto Rico on 18 September 1989 with maximum sustained winds of over 166 km/hr (Scatena & Larsen 1991) and caused severe defoliation of 56 percent of the trees in study plots at El Verde in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF). Some trees were uprooted (9%) or had trunks that snapped (11%), but overall mortality was low (7%). Damage was patchy on twenty 300 m$^2$ plots with most damage occurring on north-facing sites. Tall trees and trees with large diameters were most likely to be uprooted, but successional status of trees was not a good predictor of the amount of damage the trees sustained. Recovery patterns varied among species but refoliation was rapid. Widespread sprouting and minimal breakage of large branches will probably lead to the recovery of most trees.
10.2307/2387745|Sudden overturning of rocks near Puno in the Peruvian Andes revealed intermixed spider egg sacs and Camponotus inca adult ants. The egg sacs contained spiderlings of Eilica puno (Gnaphosidae) with adults found only in C. inca nests. No evidence was seen of behavioral or physical compartmentalization of the spiders and ants. Within two to five minutes after a rock was overturned the ants transported all egg sacs into underground portions of their nests. Spiderlings crawled over the ground and in one instance over a worker without eliciting observable reaction. Possible benefits to the ants or the spiders from the observed interactions are discussed; the spiders probably benefit from these interactions.
2388889|Spot-mapping of territories was used to document the restriction of nineteen bird species to thickets of bamboo (Guadua weberbaueri) in lowland forests in southeastern Peru. These species were defined as bamboo specialists. An additional seven species showed a preference for such thickets, but also used other habitats. These results correspond with previous, qualitative descriptions of the habitat preferences of bamboo specialists. At least four specialists are restricted to thickets throughout their entire geographic range (obligate bamboo specialists); another nine specialists may use other habitats sparingly away from southeastern Peru (near-obligate bamboo specialists); the remaining six species are frequent users of habitats lacking bamboo away from southeastern Peru (facultative bamboo specialists). The nonbamboo habitats used by the 13 near-obligate and facultative specialists are predominantly dense habitats with low canopy cover, including treefall gaps and early successional vegetation along rivers. The obligate and near-obligate specialists generally have small geographic ranges centered in southwestern Amazonia; a few have sister taxa in southeastern Brazil that are also bamboo specialists suggesting a common evolutionary history. The facultative specialists are generally more widespread. Bamboo specialists are more abundant in bamboo habitats than are other bird species in more generalized habitats.
30043295|The Amazon Basin can be divided into two geomorphological regions based on the age of its soils: young (< 30 mya) and old (> 300 mya). We tested the effects of soil age on dung beetle communities by comparing biomass, abundance, and species between reserves in Ecuador on young soils and reserves in Brazil on old soils. Beetle biomass in the old Amazon was one-third that in the young Amazon, and beetle abundance in the old Amazon was one-fourth that in the young Amazon. Species richness, rarefied to equal sample sizes, was not significantly different between old and young soils. These data suggest young soils of the Amazon support a significantly greater biomass and abundance of dung beetles than old soils, but that species richness across the Basin is similar. As dung beetles are bio-indicators of mammals, our data support previous studies indicating a greater biomass of mammals on young versus old Amazon soils.
10.2307/2388050|Almost all (70 out of 72) of the Indian bamboo species possess a long period of vegetative growth followed by a single suicidal bout of reproduction. Only about eight of these 70 monocarpic species exhibit synchronized seeding over an area of several hundred square kilometers. Of the two commonest species, Bambusa arundinacea, which forms dense stands along water courses in areas of less variable rainfall, belongs to this minority of synchronized seeders; Dendrocalamus strictus, which occurs in scattered numbers in areas of more variable rainfall, exhibits sporadic seeding behavior. Individuals of both species grow exponentially during the vegetative phase. Observations on the synchronized seeding of B. arundinacea show it to be spread over 5-6 years, with flower and seed production by any individual clump being completed over the dry season from December to April. An average clump produced 100 kg of seed, corresponding to 30 percent of its above-ground biomass. One major cohort of B. arundinacea widely distributed over peninsular India seeded in 1868-72, 1912-16, and 1958-62; while a number of minor cohorts have seeded at other times. There is no defined direction over which seeding progresses in time. The bamboo seeds are subject to high levels of predation, and we propose that the exponential nature of clump growth in conjunction with predator swamping has led to the evolution of a long pre-reproductive period and monocarpy, which characterize most Indian bamboo species. Synchronized mast seeding is a further independent adaptation favored in a few species occurring in dense stands in more constant environments.
2663854|This study tested three hypotheses regarding how plants respond to the spatial heterogeneity in light availability in the rain forest understory: (1) understory plants occur preferentially in the lighter parts of the understory; (2) understory palms are more shade tolerant than other understory plants; (3) rain forest plants differ in their ontogenetic response to understory light conditions. The study was carried out in old-growth rain forest in the Yasuni National Park, Amazonian Ecuador. The hypotheses were tested by comparing the distributions of 20 plant species (1454 individuals) over microsites with differing degrees of exposure to canopy gaps to the background distribution of these microsites in the forest. The gap exposure of a given microsite was described by an index based on the number and size of gaps in the canopy to which the site was exposed. Two plant height classes were studied: 0.80-2.49 and 2.50-5 m. The first and third hypotheses were accepted, while the second hypothesis was rejected. The results for the individual species corresponded well with what is known from earlier studies about the ecology of these species or close relatives, suggesting that the patterns observed can be generalized for Neotropical rain forests. Notably, the most abundant species in the study represent several different life history strategies. Thus, abundance in the rain forest understory can be achieved by several different strategies. This suggests that niche differentiation in terms of response to small changes in understory light conditions may be an important factor in the maintenance of the high local plant species richness of tropical rain forests.
10.2307/2388624|Four differential equation decomposition models were postulated, based on different assumptions of the behavior of the decomposition rate $\big(\frac{1}{X}\cdot\frac{dX}{dt}\big)$: Model 1, rate constant; Model 2, rate decreasing linearly as a function of the remaining litter fraction; Model 3, rate decreasing nonlinearly as a function of the remaining litter fraction; and Model 4, litter formed by two fractions, each having a constant decomposition rate but varying in proportion with time (thus the overall rate will also vary with time). The models were tested against dry-weight data from three contrasting litter types from the Tamaulipan cloud forest: leaves of Liquidambar styraciflua, fruits of Prunus serotina, and branch segments of L. styraciflua. All three types were incubated in litter bags at constant temperature (30$^\circ$C) and 100 percent relative humidity. Subsets of four replicates were collected, dry-weighed, and discarded at increasing intervals for three months. Model 1 (the negative exponential) consistently gave the worst fit to the data. The best fits were obtained from Models 3 and 4, showing the high intrinsic heterogeneity of litter and, consequently, the variability of the relative decomposition rates.
10.2307/2388318|Flooding of soil for 12 wk induced leaf epinasty, reduced chlorophyll content, accelerated ethylene production, inhibited growth, induced decay of roots, and stimulated production of hypertrophied lenticels and adventitious roots on 46-day-old Hevea brasiliensis seedlings. Marked variations were shown among three families of Hevea in response to flooding. The importance of genetic variations in flood tolerance of H. brasiliensis is emphasized.
20492563|I assessed the usefulness of a portable stable isotope analyzer for assigning animals to food chains of tropical ecosystems. Based on the stable carbon isotope ratio of the animals' breath (
10.2307/2389019|In this paper are described the food habits of the most frequent fishes of Limon stream, Henri Pittier National Park, Venezuela. The diet of 3 characids (Creagrutus beni, Hemibrycon dentatus and Astyanax metae), 1 loricariid (Chaetostoma sp.) and 1 poeciliid (Poecilia reticulata) was analyzed. The food eaten by the analyzed species was composed by allochthonous plant material, microalgae, aquatic and terrestrial insects (Coleoptera, Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Heteroptera, Megaloptera, Odonata, Plecoptera and Trichoptera). The aquatic insects of Diptera order were the most depredated by these fish, except for Chaetostoma sp., because it is algivore. Some temporal differences on the diet were found in some species. The low percentage of empty stomachs and the lack of variation in the relation sizeweight between the seasons suggest that the food is not the main regulator of the analyzed populations.
10.2307/2388302|The efficacy of two collecting techniques, litter sifting and pitfall traps, for sampling leaf litter ants in tropical forests was compared. Litter sifting consistently sampled more ant genera, species, and individual workers than did pitfall traps. Litter sifting samples contained a greater proportion of smaller species and specialist species than did pitfall traps. Habitat variation between sites appeared to have little effect on the inherent differences in sampling efficacy and biases between the two methods.
30045448|The dispersal of Morus macroura seeds by two species of frugivorous bats (Rousettus leschenaulti and Cynopterus sphinx) was studied in a forest at Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden in Southwest China from March to May 2005. Feeding roosts were identified within 500 m around parent trees and the types and number of seed loads under each roost were recorded. We found feeding roost density decreased with increasing distance from the parent, but found no correlation between distance and seed deposition. The effect of bat digestion on seed germination was investigated, and we found that germination percentage of all treatments involving ingestion by bats was significantly lower than control seeds and some germination parameters of seeds from different treatments changed.
10.2307/2387701|The timing and levels of flowering and fruiting were studied in a premontane rain forest in western Colombia. Flower production is less seasonal than fruit production, and periods of peak fruiting do not always closely follow the periods of higher flowering activity. Fruit production is more equitably distributed through the year than in seasonal tropical environments, but there are two small fruiting peaks that center on the wetter portions of the year. Proportionally fewer canopy species than understory species produce bird-dispersed fruits, and almost all understory trees produce this type of fruit. Species of Miconia fruit sequentially through the year, but the total number of individuals in fruit varies seasonally. This variation is apparently offset by an increase in fruiting activity of other trees as there is no marked seasonal depression in the availability of fruit for birds.
2389164|Despite the importance of the soil seed bank in tropical forest regeneration, little is known about spatial variability in species composition and abundance of seeds stored in the soil. To develop sampling methods for comparative studies, we examined species richness, spatial variation, and abundance of germinants from the soil seed bank in a 16 year old secondary, tropical wet forest at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Surface soil (10 cm deep, 4.7 cm diameter) was collected at the intersection points of a gridded 1 ha plot (10 x 10-m grid, 121 samples) and in a nested 100 m
2663876|Tropical monodominant forests in which one tree species dominates the canopy occur in all three major tropical regions, but few studies have focused on the mechanisms responsible for dominance. This study tests the hypothesis that relative to other species in the community, dominant species are well defended and escape herbivore and pathogen damage. We surveyed the rate of damage on young expanding leaves of seedlings and saplings belonging to eight species within both monodominant Gilbertiodendron dewevrei forests and adjacent mixed-species forests in eastern Congo. Results showed that escape from herbivore and pathogen damage is not a mechanism by which Gilbertiodendron achieves dominance, as it suffered the highest damage level of any species surveyed. Similarly, other sub-dominant common species also suffered high rates of damage. These results are discussed in relation to the phenolic, fiber, and nitrogen content of leaves, and in the context of current theories pertaining to plant-herbivore interactions.
10.2307/2388101|A population of about 50 Hipposideros ridleyi was located in a lowland peat forest in Malaysia. Females gave birth concurrently with several other species of bats. A compilation of new and published pregnancy and nursing data indicates that two reproductive periods occur yearly in Malaysian Microchiroptera.
30043191|We developed and evaluated a model of the canopy of a tropical montane forest at Monteverde, Costa Rica, to estimate inorganic nitrogen (N) retention by epiphytes from atmospheric deposition. We first estimated net retention of inorganic N by samples of epiphytic bryophytes, epiphyte assemblages, vascular epiphyte foliage, and host tree foliage that we exposed to cloud water and precipitation solutions. Results were then scaled up to the ecosystem level using a multilayered model of the canopy derived from measurements of forest structure and epiphyte mass. The model was driven with hourly meteorological and event-based atmospheric deposition data, and model predictions were evaluated against measurements of throughfall collected at the site. Model predictions were similar to field measurements for both event-based and annual hydrologie and inorganic N fluxes in throughfall. Simulation of individual events indicated that epiphytic bryophytes and epiphyte assemblages retained 33-67 percent of the inorganic N deposited in cloud water and precipitation. On an annual basis, the model predicted that epiphytic components retained 3.4 kg N ha/yr, equivalent to 50 percent of the inorganic N in atmospheric deposition (6.8 kg N ha/yr). Our results indicate that epiphytic bryophytes play a major role in N retention and cycling in this canopy by transforming highly mobile inorganic N (ca. 50% of atmospheric deposition is
10.2307/2388916|The decomposition rates and mass of fine (< 10-cm-diameter) and coarse (> 10-cm-diameter) woody detritus were measured in the dry tropical forests of the northeastern Yucatan Peninsula. The smallest mass of woody detritus was found in undisturbed stands: fine fractions averaged 4.7 Mg ha
2663940|The clonal mat-forming fern, Dicranopteris linearis (N. L. Burm.) Underw., dominates vast areas of rainforests on the windward slopes of Mauna Loa Volcano on the island of Hawai'i. Because clone size has important ecological and evolutionary consequences in such a dominant species, we used isozyme analysis to investigate clone size and other aspects of genetic diversity and reproduction over a broad range of environmental conditions on primary successional sites (pahoehoe lava substrates). Isozyme analysis provided a measure of the upper limit of clonal size in this interdigitating clonal species. Each 0.5-ha primary successional site on Mauna Loa was comprised of a minimum of two to four clones. Genetic diversity in Dicranopteris was low; of 32 putative loci investigated, only 4 were polymorphic, with 2 or 3 alleles/locus. Over the 17 study locations on Mauna Loa and Kilauea Volcanoes, we identified nine multilocus genotypes based on Unique combinations of allozymes. Seven of the nine genotypes were heterozygous for at least one locus, evidence of an intergametophytic mating system. Highly dispersible spores, coupled with intergametophytic mating should promote higher genetic diversity. We propose that the following factors contributed to low genetic diversity: founder effects; extreme isolation from mainland gene pools; high potential for mating among different gametophytes produced from the same sporophyte; relatively low numbers of safe sites for gametophyte establishment over space and time; and long-term reliance on vegetative growth. Leaf phenotypes were associated with genotype, but also with environmental conditions. Enough variability within a genotype existed to support the current treatment of Hawaiian Dicranopteris as one species. Vegetative growth was the primary means by which Dicranopteris covered the landscape. Nevertheless, spore production, gametophyte establishment, and sexual reproduction were absolutely essential for colonization of the few favorable microsites available on pahoehoe lava substrates of Mauna Loa following lava eruptions, dieback, and similar landscape-level disturbances.
10.2307/2389056|We hypothetized that termitaries of Cubitermes with their alveolate structure might constitute good shelters for ant colonies. We tested this hypothesis in 10 forests of southern Cameroon where we assessed a density of 124.48  13.6 Cubitermes fungifaber and C. banksi termitaries (both active and abandoned) per ha. Our work was undertaken on 725 termitaries among which we distinguished three groups: active, vertical (358); abandoned, vertical (220); and fallen abandoned (147). The rate of termitaries sheltering ant societies is higher for those which are abandoned (92.5% for fallen ones; 83.6% for vertical ones) than for those which are active (43.8%). We recorded 799 ant societies belonging to 37 genera and 151 species, of which 11 are undescribed. We found up to six ant colonies per termitary. These termitaries, which are frequent in the understory, thus proved to be good shelters for ant societies. Moreover, this represents one of the highest levels of diversity of ants ever recorded, although these termitaries correspond to a limited area in comparison to that represented by the soil and leaf litter, rotten wood lying on the ground, or trees' trunks and canopy. These results imply that in the rain forest the scarcity of nesting sites is one of the principal factors limiting the populations of ground-dwelling ants. The termitaries sampled also sheltered 103 incipient ant colonies (12.9% of the total number of societies) which belong principally to the Formicinae (71.7% of the societies of Formicinae recorded were incipient; 4.3% for the Ponerinae; 5.9% for the Myrmicinae and 0% for the Cerapachyinae and the Dolichoderinae). Depending on the subfamily, the Cubitermes termitaries are used as shelter only during foundation (Formicinae) or during the entire life cycle (other subfamilies).
10.2307/2388091|The prey consumed by Leptodacylus fallax were analyzed in regard in regard to sex, body size, season of capture, prey weight, and prey length. The major food item, a cricket (Amphiacusta sp.) occurred in 59 percent of all frogs and comprised 21 percent of all items and 31 percent of total dry weight of food. Millipedes, colepterans, and gastropods were also important groups of prey. Estimated mean caloric intake was higher in females (2.45 Kcal.) than in males (2.10 Kcal.) but was similar when adjusted for body weight. There was no appreciable difference between sexes in the mean length and mean number of prey items per frog. Frogs collected during the dry season contained more opilionids and vertebrates than those collected during the wet season; other types of prey were eaten in comparable amounts in both seasons. Mean prey length per frog in both sexes and mean dry weight of prey per frog, in females only, were positively, significantly correlated with mouth width; mean number of items per frog in both sexes was not. The largest frogs consumed a higher percentage of large items ( 40 mm) than smaller frogs, yet, in addition, consumed many small items ( 15 mm). Possible competition between large and small individuals and the lack of cannibalism are discussed.
10.2307/2388591|Floral sexuality was characterized for most of the flora (708 species) of a forest reserve at Chamela, Jalisco, and compatibility was determined for a sample of hermaphroditic species. Nine types of floral sexuality were found; the frequency of these types was related to life form and systematics. Monostylous hermaphroditism was typical of epiphytes (96%) and herbs (82%) but less so among vines (68%), shrubs (62%), and trees (54%). Dioecy increased across these groups (4%, 1%, 10%, 14%, and 24%, respectively). Monoecy was concentrated in Euphorbiaceae and Cucurbitaceae; Boraginaceae and Rubiaceae predominated among the few distylous species. Contrasting vegetation types had similar frequencies of sexuality types. Compatibility tests showed reduced fruiting from self- compared to cross-pollination in 94 percent of 33 species from 14 families, and 76 percent were considered self-incompatible. Intraspecific variation was not salient, but in some cases congeners were notably divergent.
2663814|We recorded the times of flowering, fruiting, and leafing for ten native canopy and subcanopy trees and shrubs (monthly from December 1994 through December 1997) in a montane cloud forest with relatively aseasonal rainfall on the island of Maui, Hawaii. These species represented the great majority of individual woody plants at the site. Flowers and fruits were available in the community year-round; however, all species exhibited annual patterns of flowering, and four species showed annual patterns of fruiting while the rest fruited in supra-annual patterns. Many species had protracted flowering or fruiting peaks, and some bore small numbers of flowers or fruit year-round. Most species flowered in a monthly peak mainly between May and August, corresponding to the period of greatest solar irradiance and marginally higher temperatures. Fruit ripening followed at varying intervals. In contrast, the heaviest flowering occurred between November and March, resulting from bloom of the dominant tree, Metrosideros polymorpha. At the highest elevations, Metrosideros flowering was heaviest during September, but peak flowering of lower elevation trees occurred in late fall and winter. Two forms of this species differed in their temporal and spatial patterns of flowering. For M. polymorpha var. polymorpha and var. incana, bloom peaked annually between November and January; however, for M. polymorpha var. glaberrima, flowering peaked from April through July, with an earlier secondary peak in January.
2389209|Dead wood can be an important component of the carbon pool in many forests, but few measurements have been made of this pool in tropical forests. To fill this gap, we determined the quantity of dead wood (downed and standing dead) in 25 long-term (up to 30 yr) permanent forest plots located in six different life zones of Venezuela. Downed wood was separated into fine (< 10 cm in diameter) and coars ( 10 cm in diameter) classes, and three decomposition states (sound, intermediate, or rotten). The total quantity of dead wood, averaged by life zone, was lowest in the dry (2.43 Mg/ha), reached a peak in the moist (42.33 Mg/ha) and decreased slightly in the wet (34.50 Mg/ha) life zone. Most of the dead wood was in the standing dead category (about 42-76% of the total). The decomposition state of dead wood in all plots was mostly rotten (45%) or intermediate (44%); there was little sound wood (11%). Turnover rates of dead wood generally ranged between 0.03/yr to 0.52/yr with no clear trend with life zone. The large amount of dead wood in some plots was equivalent to about 20 percent or less of aboveground biomass, indicating that dead wood can represent a significant amount of carbon in these forests.
10.2307/2387679|The total annual flows of elements and energy in tree leaf litter fall and in leaf materials harvested from trees by the leaf-cutting ant Atta colombica Guerin are compared in order to estimate the fractions of the flows controlled by the ants. Flows of mineral elements through colonies were estimated by determining mineral element content of organic refuse from the colonies which had accumulated during a five month dry season. Because the ants are less active during the dry season than in the wet season, estimates of annual nutrient flow based on dry season refuse accumulations are probably underestimates. The annual flows of 13 elements in tree leaves and in tree reproductive parts processed by the ant colonies were calculated. Expressed per area of forest, flows ranged between 0.5 and 3.1 percent of the nutrient flows in the annual leaf litter fall. When expressed per m
40863750|The trajectory of hurricane-induced succession was evaluated in a network of forest plots measured immediately before and 3 mo, 5, 10, and 15yr after the direct impact of a Category 4 hurricane. Comparisons of forest structure, composition, and aboveground nutrients pools were made through time, and between species, lifehistory groups and geomorphic settings. The hurricane reduced aboveground biomass by 50 percent, causing an immediate decrease in stem density and diversity indices among all geomorphic settings. After 15 yr, basal area and aboveground biomass returned to pre-hurricane levels, while species richness, diversity indices, and stem densities exceeded pre-hurricane levels. Differences in species composition among geomorphic settings had not returned after 15 yr but differences in stem densities and structure were beginning to emerge. Significant differences were observed in the nutrient concentration of the three species that comprised the most aboveground biomass, and between species categorized as secondary high-light species and primary, low-light species. Species whose abundance was negatively correlated with the mature forest dominant also had distinct nutrient concentrations. When total aboveground nutrient pools were compared over time, differences in leaf nutrients among species were hidden by similarities in wood nutrient concentrations and the biomass dominance of a few species. The observed successional trajectory indicates that changes in species composition contributed to fast recovery of aboveground biomass and nutrient pools, while the influence of geomorphic setting on species composition occurs at time scales > 15 yr of succession.
30043148|We conducted a demographic examination of Pterocereus gaumeri, a rare and endemic columnar cactus of the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. Growth, survival, and fecundity of individuals were recorded in two populations from 1997 to 1999. Size-based population projection matrices were constructed to document the population dynamics. Seed germination and seedling establishment experiments were conducted in the field to estimate the rate of seed and seedling survival. Our results show that P. gaumeri did not reproduce by asexual means or vegetative growth and thus relies wholly on sexual reproduction for population growth. Low reproductive success, seed predation, and low seedling survival appear to be important factors that contribute to the rarity of this species. The population growth rate (A) varied between 0.9545 and 1.0316. According to the matrix elasticity values, population dynamics of this species depend mainly on adult survival, with low values in fecundity and survival for the lowest size categories. Our results did not indicate that the population size of P. gaumeri was decreasing; however, increasing pressure on land use transformation is one of the most important factors that may threaten the persistence of this species. /// Se presenta un estudio demogrfico de Pterocereus gaumeri, un cactus raro, y endmico columnar de la Pennsula de Yucatn, Mxico. Desde 1997 a 1999, se registr el crecimiento, la sobrevivencia y la fecundidad de individuos en dos poblaciones. Se construyeron matrices de proyeccin basadas en tamao poblacional para documentar la dinmica de las poblaciones. Se realizaron experimentos de germinacin de semillas y establecimiento de plntulas en condiciones naturales, para estimar la tasa de sobrevivencia de semillas y plntulas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que P gaumeri no se reproduce asexualmente o por crecimiento vegetativo, por lo tanto el crecimiento poblacional depende completamente de la reproduccin sexual. El bajo xito reproductivo, la depredacin de semillas y la baja tasa de sobrevivencia parecen ser factores importantes que contribuyen a la rareza de esta especie. La tasa de crecimiento poblacional (P) vara entre 0.9545 y 1.0316. De acuerdo con los valores de las matriz de elasticidad, la dinmica poblacional de esta especie depende principalmente de la sobrevivencia de los adultos, con valores bajos en fecundidad y sobrevivencia de las categoras de tamaos menores. Nuestros resultados no indican que el tamao poblacional de P gaumeri est decreciendo, sin embargo, el incremento de presion por el cambio de uso de la tierra es uno de los factores ms significativos que puede amenazar la continuidad de esta especie.
30043639|The monoecious understory herb Begonia urophylla blooms in the dry season at Las Cruces, Costa Rica, and bloom is partially synchronized. A laboratory experiment investigated reduced photoperiod as an unambiguous cue for flowering. The inductive period was 3 weeks for flowers but less for bud formation. Variation in bloom time may be an adaptation to enhance fitness gain of plants, such as B. urophylla, with sequential male and female phases. Abstract in Spanish is available at http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/btp.
10.2307/2387680|Plants in the Guanica Forest (lat. 18
10.2307/2388588|The combination of pasture burning to control weeds and selective timber harvesting is resulting in the spread of wildfires in Amazonian rain forests near Paragominas, Para, Brazil. We visited 15 cattle ranchers who had permitted selective logging on their land and found that eight of the affected forests had burned shortly after logging. In selectively logged, high forests, fire-induced mortality was greatest for trees less than 10 cm DBH, whereas in low and second-growth forests, nearly all trees were killed. Fires affect regeneration mechanisms such that the more severely forests are burned, the more complex and prolonged will be the pattern of succession.
30045484|Miconia prasina (Melastomataceae) is an important colonizing species during early stages of secondary succession in Puerto Rico but its abundance declines with increasing stand age. We studied its demography for 2 yr (1995-1997) in three populations across a pasture to forest chronosequence (1-, 12-, and 25 yr old) and in one population in a hurricane-disturbed older forest (>60-yr old). Vegetative growth was positive in the two young sites, but negative in the two older sites. The highest percentage of plants that flowered occurred in the two younger sites but highest seed production occurred in the 25-yr-old site. Although seed germination occurred in the two older sites, no seedlings established. Vegetative reproduction (root sprouts) was found in all sites, with most sprouts occurring in young sites. The 2 yr of census data were used to construct stage-based transition matrices. In the two young sites, the average population growth rate was positive ( > 1), while average population growth was negative in the two older sites ( < 1). Elasticity, a measure of the effects of proportional changes in life-history transitions to the long-term population growth rate, varied across both stages and sites. Elasticity shifted from large plants in young sites to small plants in older sites. Across all sites, elasticities related to survival were more important than those of growth or vegetative reproduction. The demographic analysis supported the previous observations of changes in the density of M. prasina based on the chronosequence and also suggests that establishment via seeds must occur prior to abandonment in active pastures. /// Miconia prasina (Melastomatcea) es una especie colonizadora durante las etapas tempranas de sucesin secundaria en Puerto Rico, pero su abundancia declina con la edad del bosque. Nosotros estudiamos su demografa durante dos aos (1995-1997) en tres poblaciones a lo largo de una cronosecuencia de pastizales a bosque (1, 12, y 25 aos de edad) y en una poblacin en un bosque perturbado por un huracn (>60 aos de edad). El crecimiento vegetativo fue positivo en los sitios jvenes, pero negativo en los sitios viejos. El mayor porcentaje de plantas que florecieron ocurri en los sitios jvenes, pero la mayor cantidad de semillas fue producida en el sitio de 25 aos. Aunque la germinacin de semillas ocurri en los dos sitios viejos, ninguna plntula se estableci. Se encontr reproduccin vegetativa (por plntulas establecidas por yemas de las races) en todos los sitios, con la mayora de estas plntulas encontradas en los sitios jvenes. Los dos aos de datos de censo se utilizaron para construir matrices de transicin. En los sitios jvenes, el crecimiento promedio de la poblacin fue positivo ( > 1), mientras que el crecimiento promedio fue negativo ( < 1) en los dos sitios viejos. La elasticidad, definida como una medida del efecto de los cambios proporcionales en las tasas de transicin en el crecimiento poblacional a largo plazo, cambi con respecto a los tamaos y sitios. La elasticidad fue la ms alta en las plantas de tamaos grandes en los sitios jvenes mientras que en los sitios viejos las plantas de tamaos pequeos tuvieron la elasticidad ms alta. En todos los sitios, las elasticidades relacionadas a la sobrevivencia fueron ms importantes que las relacionadas al crecimiento o reproduccin asexual. El anlisis demogrfico apoy las observaciones previas de los cambios de abundancia de Miconia prasina en una cronosecuencia y sugiere que el establecimiento por semilla debe ocurrir antes del abandono en pastizales activos.
30043174|The loss of global amphibian biodiversity has been well documented in recent years. The greatest information from Latin America came from countries such as Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, and Puerto Rico. The five papers in this special section illustrate the critical status of Latin American amphibians and further demonstrate certain commonalities of amphibian population declines within the region. These studies provide a framework by which future research and management could proceed in all tropical regions. /// En los pasados aos se ha documentado la perdida de biodiversidad de anfibios en muchas partes del mundo. La mayor informacin con respecto a Amrica Latina proviene de trabajos realizados en Costa Rica, Panam, Ecuador y Puerto Rico. Los cinco trabajos de esta edicin especial ilustran el estado crtico de los anfibios en Amrica Latina y demuestran que existen algunos elementos comunes en los patrones de disminuciones poblacionales de anfibios en la regin. Estos estudios proveen un marco de referencia para futuras investigaciones y desarrollo de planes de manejo en regiones tropicales.
10.2307/2989658| Entomophagy often plays an integral and complementary role in the diet of autochthonous groups in tropical South America where it helps to compensate for the general deficiency of animal proteins and other vital "protective" products. Most studies have regarded insect-eating as an archaic trait which is gradually disappearing owing to the steady encroachment of more modern subsistence systems. Among the Yukpa-Yuko Indians of Venezuela and Colombia, however, insect foods have retained their importance in the less acculturated communities. Cultural ecological research was conducted among this tribe between 1969 and 1971. Specimens for identification were procured in the areas exploited for subsistence purposes by the Irapa, Marac, and Rionegro subgroups. The collection and use of insects belonging to 22 genera and 7 orders is discussed. 
10.2307/2387992|The population structure of five endemic palms in the Vallee de Mai, on Praslin Island in the Seychelles Group, was investigated and reproductive activity recorded. Lodoicea and Phoenicophorium occurred throughout the entire valley Verschaffeltia was only found on the valley floors, Deckenia and Nephrosperma mainly on the slopes. Mortality in the populations of the commoner species occurred in two unrelated stages, juvenile and senile. Estimates of the age of individuals of different sizes were made from the three most common species. Lodoicea is confirmed as the longest lived, though only reaching a maximum age of 200-350 years; female plants die younger than males. Deckenia may reach 180, Phoenicophorium 80 years. The significance of the results is discussed and some questions posed for future investigation.
10.2307/2388055|Bay-winged Cowbirds (Molothrus badius) remove ectoparasitic larvae of botflies from their nestlings and those of their brood parasite, the Screaming Cowbird (Molothrus rufoaxillaris). The host also removes other ectoparasites like mites. This removal behavior may be one of the factors selecting for the host specific behavior of Screaming Cowbirds, as ectoparasitism by flies and mites reach lethal levels at times.
40891345|The life history of figs (Ficus, Moraceae) involves pollination by specialized insects and seed dispersal by vertebrate frugivores. This three-way interaction raises the possibility of conflict between pollinators and seed dispersers over fig resources. The conflict might be mediated in dioecious figs by the segregation of inflorescences with specialized male and female sexual functions, termed gall figs and seed figs, on separate trees. In dioecious figs, pollinators are intimately associated with gall figs, whereas vertebrate frugivores prefer seed figs and disperse the seeds they contain. Optimal foraging theory predicts that frugivore preference for ripe seed figs is associated with superior nutritional quality when compared to gall figs. We tested this prediction comparing nutrient and mineral properties of ripe figs in 12 functionally dioecious and two monoecious species from New Guinea. Analyses of variance indicated that gall figs contain more fiber and minerals, whereas seed figs contain significantly more carbohydrates and fat. Fruit bats, the primary dispersers of dioecious figs in New Guinea, prefer carbohydrate-rich diets, and from this perspective, seed figs offer a greater nutritional reward than gall figs. More nondigestible fiber in gall figs than seed figs would appear to discourage frugivory. Parallel differences between ripe gall figs and seed figs occur in each independent dioecious lineage whereas nutritional content in monoecious figs is more similar to seed figs. This suggests that sexual dimorphism in nutritional quality might be adaptive and associated with the maintenance of functional dioecy in figs.
2663901|We investigated the role of wood-boring insects in the creation of light gaps within mangrove forests. We compared the frequency of gaps caused by wood borers to other gap-forming processes and characterized the physical attributes of light gaps in mangrove forests on small islands in Belize. Methods of quantifying light gaps included aerial photography, ground surveys, and experimental plots. Small light gaps (12 m
10.2307/2388424|Three species of trees in the premontane forests of both Trinidad and Tobago have an extremely different coterie of fruit and seed consumers on each island. On Trinidad, legitimate dispersers comprised of principally frugivorous passerines were most abundant, whereas on Tobago seed-predacious parrots and chachalacas predominated. Significant morphological differences between Trinidad and Tobago in the fruits of the three plant species reflected the difference in consumers. Such characters as relatively thickened fruit walls, a higher frequency of multiple seeds and arils, and enlarged seeds were present in the Tobago populations, which were heavily preyed upon. The Tobago populations also had certain attractive features to legitimate dispersers, such as quantity of fruit pulp, red color of fruit linings, and concentrations of sugar reduced or in lower frequency. The continued survival and reproduction of the Tobago tree populations, despite different dispersal than on Trinidad, is attributed to their protective adaptations and the different habitats on the two islands. This study suggests that under strong isolation, adaptation to a new consumer situation may be selected for rapidly in certain tropical fruiting trees.
30044009|This study reports the effect of daily mean ambient temperature on daily activity and habitat use by the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) in the Pantanal wetlands of Brazil. We equipped 11 giant anteaters with a global position system collar programmed to acquire a location every 10 min for 15 d. A temperature data logger left in the meteorological station at the study site registered data on ambient temperature. Giant anteaters were mainly active in open fields except during the coldest days, when they sought protection inside forests. Giant anteaters also used open habitats for resting but during the hottest or chilliest days they sheltered in forests. In the Pantanal, where temperatures are usually high, giant anteaters were active all night long, but as daily average ambient temperature decreased anteaters began and finished activity progressively earlier and reduced total activity. As a consequence, time spent active at daylight increased progressively and time spent active during the night decreased progressively, probably to allow the anteaters to expose themselves to solar radiation and to avoid heat loss during the night. /// O objetivo deste trabalho foi relacionar a actividade e uso do habitat do tamandu-bandeira (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) com as temperaturas mdias dirias do Pantanal Brasileiro. Equipamos 11 tamandus-bandeira com um sistema de posicionamento global (GPS) previamente programado para registrar uma localizao cada 10 minutos durante 15 dias. Colocamos um registrador de temperatura na estao meteorolgica da rea de campo para registrar a temperatura ambiente a cada 10 minutos. A atividade dos tamandus-bandeira ocorreu essencialmente em habitat descobertos, excepto durante os dias mais frios, onde tambm estiveram ativos em florestas. Para repouso, usaram tambm habitat descobertos, mas nos extremos de temperatura optaram por abrigo em reas mais cobertas. Os tamandus tm apenas um perodo de atividade por dia, cuja durao  reduzida com a diminuio da temperatura mdia dirias do ambiente. No Pantanal, geralmente com clima quente, os tamandus-bandeira so noturnos mas,  medida que a temperatura mdia diria diminui, a sua atividade inicia-se e termina progressivamente mais cedo. Como conseqncia,  medida que os dias vo esfriando, os tamandus-bandeira vo se tornando cada vez mais ativos durante o dia e menos ativos durante a noite, aumentando assim a sua exposio  radiao solar e evitando que emanem muito calor corporal durante a noite.
10.2307/2388239|Temperate-zone amphibians generally show an acclimation response of tolerance to high temperatures (CTMax), and several wide-ranging species have been found to have a negative correlation between elevation and CTMax. Fewer tropical species have been examined, but Heatwole et al. (1965) reported that the Puerto Rican frog Eleutherodactylus portoricensis failed to show an acclimation response, but did show a negative correlation between elevation and CTMax. Subsequently, E. portoricensis, as originally understood, was found to consist of a widespread species (Eleutherodactylus coqui) and a species restricted to high elevations (E. portoricensis) (Thomas 1965). CTMax was determined for these two species, and we found that differences previously believed to be attributable to elevation are, in fact, interspecific differences. There were no differences in CTMax of E. coqui from different elevations, but E. portoricensis had significantly lower CTMax. E. coqui failed to show an acclimation response. The few species of tropical amphibians that have been investigated suggest that, unlike most temperate-zone species, some tropical species fail to show an acclimation response, and some fail to show a negative correlation between CTMax and elevation.
30043233|Many butterflies in tropical forests feed on fruits that have fallen to the forest floor. This substrate differs in many ways from floral nectar, and therefore fruit-feeding butterflies are expected to possess adaptations for efficient foraging, choice, and ingestion of their food. Differences in food quality and in spatial and temporal availability are also likely to have led to life history evolution. Here we describe the sugar and nitrogen content of fruits that butterflies feed on in a tropical forest in Uganda, and measure the attractiveness of these fruits to the local butterfly fauna together with the role that decay plays in the attraction. These data are supplemented with feeding observations at fruit falls in the forest. Our results show that (1) fruits contain significant and variable concentrations of sugar and nitrogen, and constitute a nutritious food source for butterflies in tropical forests; (2) fruit-feeding butterflies use cues from the fruits and fermentation products to locate their food; (3) different classes of fruit-feeding butterflies may vary in their preferences for certain fruits, and differ in their ability to find preferred food; and (4) fruit choice is not strongly correlated with attractiveness or nutrient content. The results are discussed in the light of the evolution of food searching and life history strategies.
