42871469|A floristic study of the subfamilies Adiantoideae and Taenitidoideae, as a contribution to the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil", is presented. In that region the subfamily Adiantoideae is represented by the genus Adiantum (2 species) and the subfamily Taenitidoideae by the genus Eriosorus (1 species). Description of the family, keys and descriptions of the subfamilies, genera and species, as well as illustrations, comments on the distribution, habitats and variability are presented.  apresentado um estudo floristico das subfamilias Adiantoideae e Taenitidoideae, como uma contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Na regio, a subfamilia Adiantoideae  representada pelo gnero Adiantum (2 espcies) e a subfamilia Taenitidoideae pelo gnero Eriosorus (1 espcie). So apresentadas descrio da famlia, chaves e descries para subfamilias, gneros e espcies, bem como ilustraes, comentrios relativos  distribuio, habitat e variabilidade.
42871446|The description and illustration of a new species of Melastomataceae are presented. M. hatschbachii was collected in Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais and, up to now, seems to be endemic to this locality. This species can immediately be distinguished from M. taxifolia (St. Hil.) DC.,M. seminatici A.B. Martins and M. canescens Naud. by its longer petioles and pedicels, and by its anthers with slightly grooved thecae and a large ventral pore. Uma nova espcie de Melastomataceae  proposta. So apresentadas neste trabalho a descrio e a ilustrao de M. hatschbachii, coletada em Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais, onde parece ser endmica. Esta espcie pode ser distinguida de M. taxifolia (St. Hil.) DC., M. semiriana A.B. Martins e M. canescens Naud., principalmente pelos pecolos e pedicelos mais longos e pelas anteras com tecas levemente sulcadas, com poro ventral amplo.
42871879|The study of the family Magnoliaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In this area, the family is represented by the genus Talauma, with only one species, T. ovata A. St. Hil. A description and illustrations, as well as comments on the variability and geographic distribution of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Magnoliaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Talauma ovata A. St.Hil. So apresentadas descrio, ilustraes e comentrios sobre a sua variabilidade e distribuio geogrfica.
42871493|From April 1994 to April 1995, a floristic survey was carried out in a marginal cerrado area at Emas District, Pirassununga Municipality, So Paulo State (approximately 4730'W and 2202'S), when 358 species were found. In order to help the species identification, an indented key based on vegetative characters was constructed. Entre abril de 1994 e abril de 1995, efetuou-se um levantamento floristico em uma rea de cerrado situada no distrito de Emas, muncipio de Pirassununga, So Paulo (aproximadamente, 4730'W e 2202'S), quando foram encontradas 358 espcies. Para auxiliar a identificao destas espcies, construiu-se uma chave indentada baseada em caracteres vegetativos.
42871359|Laboratory and field experiments were perfomed in order to compare some aspects of the physiology of the brown algae Pelvetia canaliculata growing on rocky-shore, and its marsh representative ecada libera, in North Wales. Rates of water loss are similar for both plants under laboratory conditions though there is a significant difference between the dry/fresh weight relation. In nature, the salt marsh form looses water much slower than the rocky-shore plants because of different environmental conditions. Both forms are very sensitive to continuous submergence and decay within a variable interval of time that increases with light intensity. Photosynthesis and respiration proceed at similar rates when submerged, or out of water in various states of desiccation of the thalli. The relations of photosynthesis and respiration to water content of the thalli were linear and could be detected with the Warburg manometer when the plants were at 10 - 20% of the saturation water content. A comparison of the water loss in the field and of assimilation in the laboratory under different water contents show that the marsh form is able to photosynthesise for a much longer time, than the rocky-shore plants. The light compensation point in emersed water-saturated thalli ranges around 700 lux for both forms at 12 C. The vertical distribution of Pelvetia canaliculata is discussed in view of the new data presented here. Vrios aspectos da fisiologia da alga parda Pelvetia canaliculata foram estudados, analisando-se comparativamente os resultados obtidos com plantas que crescem em costes rochosos e plantas que crescem entre as angiospermas dos pntanos salgados do Pas de Gales. Em condies de laboratrio, com umidade relativa constante, as taxas de perda d'gua so praticamente idnticas embora as plantas do pntano apresentem uma maior relao peso seco/peso fresco. Na natureza, entretanto, a velocidade de dessecamento entre as duas formas difere muito devido  maior umidade do ambiente em que vivem as plantas do pntano. Ambas as formas so bastante sensveis  imerso contnua em gua do mar corrente e entram em decomposio em um perdo que aumenta com a intensidade luminosa. As taxas de fotosntese e respirao no diferem significativamente, tanto em plantas imersas como emersas e com diferente teor de gua no talo, nas duas formas. As variaes da fotossntese e da respirao com o teor de gua do talo so lineares, sendo que estes processos caem a nveis no detectveis, com a tcnica de Warburg utilisada, quando se atingem valores da ordem de 10 -20% do total de saturao de gua. As comparaes das curvas de perda d'gua no campo e de assimilao com diferente quantidade de gua no talo mostram que as plantas de costes rochosos dispem de um perdo muito mais curto . para a fotossntese. O ponto de compensao luminoso para ambas as formas  similar e encontra-se ao redor de 700 lux a 12 C. Com base nos dados apresentados e nos da literatura discute-se a distribuio vertical de Pelvetia canaliculata.
42871938|Succession was studied at the low intertidal level of an exposed rocky shore at Ponta da Fortaleza, Ubatuba, State of So Paulo, where Sargassum cymosum var. nanum is the dominant alga. Experimental areas were scraped throughout the year and the successional sequences were observed. S. cymosum var. nanum is a perennial seaweed, an attribute of a biotically competent strategist. Nevertheless, this Sargassum cymosum variety is dwarf and exhibits precocious reproductive development, characteristic of opportunistic species. Succession in this community was maintained in its earlier stages both at control and experimental sites, due to desiccation stress, which causes widespread algal mortality at early summer. Foi estudada a sucesso no nvel inferior da regio entre-mars em um costo rochoso exposto  ao das ondas, no litoral de So Paulo (Ponta da Fortaleza, Ubatuba). Neste costo, Sargassum cymosum var. nanum  a alga dominante. reas experimentais foram raspadas ao longo do ano onde foi observada a seqncia sucessional. S. cymosum var. nanum  uma espcie perene, caracterstica de organismos sucessionais tardios. No entanto, esta variedade  an e apresenta desenvolvimento reprodutivo precoce, caracterstica de espcies oportunistas. Nesta comunidade a sucesso  mantida nos estgios iniciais, tanto nas reas experimentais como nas reas controle, devido  dessecao, que causa grande mortalidade de algas no incio do vero.
42871356|O trabalho se refere ao estudo de 29 espcies da ordem Ceramiales (Rhodophyta) do litoral do Estado de So Paulo e do litoral do Estado do Paran (desde Itanham 24 10' S., 46 47' 30" W. at Ilha do Sa 25 59' S., 48 36' W.). Apresentamos a lista das espcies encontradas e descries detalhadas das espcies pouco conhecidas, com ilustraes de estruturas que consideramos importantes. Para cada gnero h uma chave dicotomica para identificao de espcies. A ocorrncia de Caloglossa ogasawaraensis  citada pela primeira vez para o litoral brasileiro. The paper deals with the benthic Rhodophyta (Ceramiales) from the southern coast of So Paulo State and the coast ot Paran State (from 24 10'S., 46 47' 30" W. to 25 59' S., 48 36' W.) It presents 29 species of Ceramiales with descriptions and illustrations of the little known species of the Brazilian coast. Artificial dichotomous keys for identification of Species are also given. The species Caloglossa ogasawaraensis is reported for the first time for the Brazilian coast.
42871363|Do extrato clorofrmico, foi isolada u'a mistura de dois alcanos que, atravs de espectrometra de massa e no infravermelho, foram identificados como n-nocacosano e n-untriacontano. Do mesmo extrato, foi isolada uma outra substncia e atravs de dados expectrais concluiu-se que se trata de um composto de cadeia longa, apresentando grupamento hidroxila e carbonila. Todos os trs compostos so, presumivelmente, componentes da cutcula. A anlise cromatogrfica em camada delgada revelou a presena de trs glicosidos flavonides. Os trs apresentam a mesma aglicona, identificada como quercetina, atravs de comparao de seu espectro no infravermelho com o de uma amostra autntica. Os acares constituintes dos glicosidos foram identificados cromatograficamente como glicose, galactose e ramnose. Taninos condensados tambm esto presentes, alem de traos de cido tartrico. A mixture of two alkanes was isolated from the chloroform extract. Through spectral analysis (IR and MS) the mentioned hydrocarbons were identified as n-nonacosane and n-hentriacontane. Another compound was isolated from the same extract and through spectral data was concluded to be a long chain substance, presenting hydroxil and carbonil groups. All three compounds are presumed to be components of the cuticular wax. Chromatographie analysis showed three flavonoid glucosides which present the same aglycone, identified as quercetin by comparing its IR spectrum with that of an authentical sample. Through TLC, glucose, galactose and rhamnose were identified as the sugars linked to quercetin. Condensed tannins and traces of tartaric acid are also present.
42871437|The study of the family Euphorbiaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Alchomea (1), Bernardia (2), Chamaesyce (2), Croton (9), Hyeronima (1), Manihot (1), Pera (1), Phyllanthus (7), Richeria (1), Sapiwn (1) and Sebastiania (5). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Euphorbiaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Alchomea (1), Bernardia (2), Chamaesyce (2), Croton (9), Hyeronima (1 ), Manihot (1), Pera (1), Phyllanthus (7), Richeria (1), Sapium (1) e Sebastiania (5). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871476|Croton urucurana bears two stalked and patelliform extrafloral nectaries (EFNs) on the petiole. We studied the structure and ultrastructure of the EFNs in relation to nectar secretory process. Three developmental stages of the EFN (pre-secretory, secretory and postsecretory) were recognized. The EFN is constituted by a secretory layer (epidermic and parenchymatic cells), subtended by ground parenchyma and sclerenchymatic cells. Vascular bundles cross the EFN stalk, terminating in the secretory parenchyma. Numerous plasmodesmata have been found in cell walls among parenchymatic cells and connecting these with epidermic cells. It suggests that pre-nectar transport occurs mainly by simplast. Some sugar is storaged in starch grains inside chloroplasts and amyloplasts at the pre-secretory stage. Rough ER and dictyosomes seem to be involved in nectar accumulation and transport. Nectar secretion is carried out by vesicles, whose membranes fuse by the plasmalemma. Nectar is accumulated in the subcuticular space and flows outwards through cuticular channels. The most conspicuous features of the studied EFNs were the presence of both starch grains at the pre-secretory stage and ER profiles at the secretory stage. Croton urucurana possui dois nectrios extraflorais (EFNs) pateliformes e pedunculados no pecolo. Ns estudamos a estrutura e ultra-estrutura dos EFNs, em relao ao processo de secreo do nctar. Trs estgios de desenvolvimento do EFN (pr-secretor, secretor e pssecretor) foram caracterizados. O EFN  constitudo por uma camada secretora (clulas epidrmicas e parenquimticas), por uma camada de preenchimento parenquimtica e por clulas esclerenquimticas. O sistema vascular do EFN atravessa o pednculo da glndula e alcana as clulas secretoras parenquimticas. Numerosos plasmodesmas conectam as clulas parenquimticas entre si e estas com as clulas epidrmicas. Isto sugere que o simplasto  a via principal de transporte de pr-nctar. No estgio prsecretor, so observados muitos amiloplastos e cloroplastos com gros de amido, os quais se hidrolisam durante a secreo. Retculo endoplasmtico rugoso e dictiossomos parecem estar envolvidos no acmulo e no transporte de nctar. A secreo do nctar  feita por vesculas, cujas membranas se fundem com a plasmalema. O nctar  acumulado no espao subcuticular e  expelido atravs de canais cuticulares. As caractersticas mais destacadas dos EFNs estudados foram a presena de gros de amido no estgio pr-secretor e de elementos do RE no estgio secretor.
42871470|The study of the family Haloragaceae is part of the project of "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Laurembergia, with only one species, L. tetrandra (Schott) Kanitz. Descriptions and illustrations as well as comments on the geographic distribution and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Haloragaceae  parte do levantamento da "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Laurembergia tetrandra (Schott) Kanitz. So apresentadas descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre a distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade da espcie.
42871317|O trabalho descreve uma nova espcie de Levringiella, L. polysiphoniae, com base em material coletado nof litoral do Estado de So Paulo. As plantas foram encontradas crescendo sobre Polysiphonia denudata. Esta  a primeira citao do gnero Levringiella para o Oceano Atlntico. A new species of Levringiella, L. polysiphoniae Oliveira Filho & Ugadim is described from material collected on the coasts of So Paulo State, Brazil. The plants were found growing on Polysiphonia denudata. This is the first reference to the genus Levringiella for the Atlantic Ocean.
42871889|The study of the family Anacardiaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Anacardium nanum St. Hil., Lithraea molleoides (Vell.) Engl., Tapirira guianensis Aubl. and T. marchandii Engl. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Anacardiaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelas espcies: Anacardium nanum St. Hil., Lithraea molleoides (Vell.) Engl., Tapirira guianensis Aubl. e T. marchandii Engl. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871461|A new species of Myrsinaceae, Rapanea hermogenesii is described and illustrated. This new species resembles R., guyanensis Aubl. in several characters, as reflexed or patent petals, leaves with inconspicuous secondary ribs beneath, pistillate corolla flower fused at the basal quarter and whitish smooth branchlets with irregular surface. However it is distinguished by the following attributes: larger stigma, densely distributed resiniferous glands all over the young leaves, short vinaceous glandular lines on the midrib of the dorsal leaf surface, subchartaceous or membranaceous leaves with acute or obtuse apex, shorter fruit pedicel, larger fruit and abundant resiniferous rounded or elongated glands on calyx and corolla lobes. R. hermogenesii is easily identified by the densely distributed glands on the young leaves, confering them a vinaceous (fresh material) or blackish (in siccu) color and by the short vinaceous glandular lines on the dorsal leaf midrib. Uma nova espcie de Myrsinaceae, Rapanea hermogenesii,  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie assemelha-se a R. guyanensis Aubl. pelas ptalas deflexas ou patentes, nervuras secundrias inconspcuas na face dorsal da folha, corola da flor pistilada unida no quarto basal, ramos lisos, de superfcie irregular e esbranquiada, sendo porm diferenciada pelos seguintes aspectos: estigma maior, presena de canais resinferos crassos, densamente distribudos nas folhas jovens e canais resinferos lineares, curtos, vinosos na nervura mediana (face dorsal da folha), pice foliar agudo ou obtuso, folha membrancea ou subcartcea, pedicelo do fruto menor, fruto maior e presena de glndulas resinferas alongadas ou arredondadas no clice e corola. R. hermogenesii  facilmente diagnosticada pela presena de canais resinferos muito abundantes nas folhas jovens, conferindo a estas uma colorao vinceo-escura (no campo) ou enegrecida (in siccu) e pelos canais resinferos vinceos, lineares, curtos, ao longo da nervura mediana da face dorsal.
42871777|The general data on the project of survey of the vascular flora of the Serra de Gro-Mogol, a part of the Espinhao Range of mountains, are presented. They a are based upon collections obtained during 21 expeditions to that area in northeast of the State of Minas Gerais. More than 100 researchers worked in the identification and compilation of the taxonomic treatments for the families, each one including identification keys, descriptions and illustrations of genera and species, as well as data on their geographic distribution and habitats. In this introduction to the Flora, basic data on the geomorphology, climate and vegetation of the Serra de Gro-Mogol are presented, followed by description of the methods employed, general format of the taxonomic treatments, and a brief discussion of the main results obtained. In the region occur 15 families of ferns, with 22 genera and 40 species, one species of gymnosperms, and 113 families of angiosperms, with 444 genera and 1032 species. At least 59 species of flowering plants are endemic to the region of Gro-Mogol. The five richest families are Leguminosae (104 spp.), Compositae (76 spp.), Melastomataceae (43 spp.), Rubiaceae (42 spp.), and Gramineae (41 spp.). Following to this introductory article, the taxonomic treatments will be presented in alphabetical order. Os dados gerais sobre o projeto de levantamento da flora vascular da Sena de Gro-Mogol so apresentados, com base em coleoes realizadas durante 21 expedies a essa rea situada no nordeste de Minas Gerais, na Cadeia do Espinhao. Foram envolvidos mais de 100 pesquisadores na identificao e preparo dos trabalhos sobre cada familia, contendo chaves de identificao, descries e ilustraoes dos gneros e especies, aleni de dados sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e habitats. Nesse artigo introdutrio  Flora, so apresentados dados geomorfolgicos, climticos e vegetacionais sobre a Serra de Gro-Mogol, e descritos os mtodos utilizados, o formato dos tratamentos taxonmicos e discutidos os principis resultados obtidos. Foram encontradas na regio 15 familias de pteridftas, com 22 gneros e 40 especies, urna especie de gimnosperma, e 113 familias de angiospermas, com 444 gneros e 1032 espcies. Pelo menos 59 especies de angiospermas so endmicas da regio de Gro-Mogol. As cinco familias mais ricas em especies sao Leguminosae (104 spp.), Compositae (76 spp.), Melastomataceae (43 spp.), Rubiaceae (42 spp.) e Gramineae (41 spp.). Os trabalhos sobre cada familia so apresentados a seguir a esse artigo, em ordern alfabtica, devendo ser publicados em volumes subsquentes os demais trabalhos.
42871319|This paper describes a new variety of Caulerpa brachypus Harvey var nordestina Joly et Semir var. nova, besides giving new data on the distribution of the recently described var. brasiliana of this same species.
42871316|O trabalho apresenta uma reviso crtica das referncias sobre a ocorrncia e distribuio do gnero Compsopogon no Brasil e discute os critrios usados na separao das espcies. Com base em material de herbrio e em coletas mais recentes assinala a presena de duas espcies deste gnero, C. chalybeus e C. aeruginosus, no Brasil, sendo esta a primeira vez que C. aeruginosus  citado para a Amrica do Sul. Fornece a primeira descrio detalhada e as primeiras figuras ilustrando a presena de espcies de Compsopogon no Brasil. The presence of the genus Compsopogon in Brazil is discussed critically with base on previous literature references and on recent gatherings. Critical remarks are also made concerning the criteria used in Species distinction. From the available material, it was verified the presence of two species of Compsopogon in Brazil: C. chalybeus and C. aeruginosus, the latter being for the first time referred for South America. The paper provides the first detailed descriptions and pictures illustrating the presence of the genus in Brazil.
42871410|A floristic study of the Cyatheaceae presented as a contribution to the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that region the family is represented by the genera Trichipteris (two species) and Cyathea (one species). Keys to genera and species, descriptons and illustrations, as well as comments on the distribution, habitats and variability are presented. Estudo florstico da famlia Cyatheaceae como contribui ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia  representada pelos gneros Trichipteris (duas espcies) e Cyathea (uma espcie). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, bem como comentrios relativos  distribuio, habitats e variabilidade das espcies.
42871473|The study of the Tribes Barnadesieae and Mutisieae (Compositae) is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the tribe Barnadesieae is represented by 2 genera: Barnadesia (1 sp) and DasyphyHum (3 spp); the tribe Mutisieae is represented by 7 genera: Actinoseris (8 spp), Gochnatia (3 spp), Stiff tia (1 sp), Wunderlichia (1 sp), Chaptalia (2 spp), Trichocline (1 sp) and Trixis (3 spp). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo das Tribos Barnadesieae e Mutisieae (Compositae)  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A Tribo Barnadesieae est representada naquela rea por 2 gneros: Barnadesia (1 sp) e Dasyphyllum (3 spp); a Tribo Mutisieae est representada por 7 gneros: Actinoseris (8 spp), Gochnatia (3 spp), Stifftia (1 sp), Wunderlichia (1 sp), Chaptalia (2 spp), Trichocline (1 sp) e Trixis (3 spp). So apresentadas chaves para os gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871443|Three new species of Lecythidaceae, Cariniana parvifolia, Eschweilera complanara and E. mattos-silvae, are described and illustrated and their relationship with other Lecythidaceae discussed. A key to the species of Lecythidaceae known from eastern Brazil is provided. Notes on the distribution, conservation status, and taxonomic problems of the eastern Brazilian species of Lecythidaceae are presented. Trs espcies novas de Lecythidaceae, Cariniana parvifolia, Eschweilera complanata e E. mattos-silvae so descritas e ilustradas, e suas afinidades com outras Lecythidaceae so discutidas. Uma chave para as espcies conhecidas de Lecythidaceae no leste do Brasil  fornecida. So apresentadas observaes sobre a distribuio, conservao e problemas taxonmicos das espcies de Lecythidaceae do leste brasileiro.
42871874|Morphological aspects of post-seminal development in Paepalanthus chlorocephalus Silv. and P. senaeanus Ruhl. (subgen. Xeractis) and P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth. and P. incanus (Bong.) Koern. (subgen. Paepalocephalus) were studied. Each species studied has a different germination rate; according to species, this lies between 78-98%. The seeds contain an undifferentiated embryo and starchy endosperm. The outer integument of the seeds displays longitudinally arranged ribs, and projections which expand only after imbibition. A weakly differentiated operculum may be observed. During germination a protocorm with undifferentiated cells is the first structure to develop. The leaves form later on the upper portion of this structure, and adventitious roots then appear at the base resulting in a seedling. Germination is cryptocotyledonar. An epi-and hypocotylar nature is suggested for the protocorm. Additional information provided by the present study may help to understand taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships in the Eriocaulaceae. Foram analisados os aspectos morfolgicos de Paepalanthus chlorocephalus Silv., P. senaeanus Ruhl. (subgen. Xeractis), P. geniculatus (Bong.) Kunth. e P. incanus (Bong.) Koern. (subgen. Paepalocephalus), em desenvolvimento ps-seminal. Cada espcie apresentou uma frequncia de germinao diferente; os valores variaram entre 78-98% para as diferentes espcies Catudadas. As sementes possuem embrio indiferenciado e endosperma amilfero. O tegumento seminal externo apresenta costelas dispostas longitudinalmente e projees que se expandem somente aps a embebio. Verificou-se a presena de um oprculo pouco diferenciado. Durante a germinao, a primeira estrutura a se desenvolver  um protocormo com clulas indiferenciadas. Posteriormente, nesta estrutura desenvolveram-se na poro superior as folhas e, a seguir, as razes adventcias na poro basal, originando a plntula. A germinao  criptocotiledonar. Sgere-se uma natureza epi-e hipocotilar para o protocormo. O presente estudo adiciona informaes que podem auxiliar na interpretao das relaes taxonmicas e filogenticas das Eriocaulaceae.
42871448|This paper presents the results of an ecophysiologic research realized in a reserve of secondary semideciduous forest, with three woody species: Endlicheria paniculata (Spreng.) Macbride (Lauraceae), Protium widgrenii Engler (Burseraceae) and Sorocea bonplandii (Baill.) Burger, Lanj. & Boer (Moraceae). Data collected correspond to daily march of transpiration, degree of stomatal opening, effectiveness of stomatal closure, saturation deficits and microclimatic conditions at rainy and dry season. Transpiration restriction was seen in all species, independent of the season. The transpiration control by stornata was efficient and leaves did not develop high saturation deficits. Apresenta-se neste trabalho os resultados de pesquisa ecofisiolgica realizada em uma reserva de mata secundria semidecdua, com trs espcies arbreas: Endlicheria paniculata (Spreng.) Macbride (Lauraceae), Protium widgrenii Engler (Burseraceae) e Sorocea bonplandii (Baill.) Burger, Lanj. & Boer (Moraceae). So fornecidos dados obtidos na estao seca e chuvosa referentes ao andamento dirio da transpirao, graus de abertura estomtica, velocidade do fechamento hidroativo dos estmatos, dficits de saturao, alm do andamento das condies microclimticas nas estaes seca e chuvosa. As trs espcies apresentam restries da transpirao nas duas estaes, possuem estmatos eficientes no controle da transpirao e no desenvolvem altos dficits de saturao.
42871496|The study of the family Menyanthaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". The family is represented there by the genus Nymphoides, with only one species, N. indica (L.) O. Kuntze. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the habitat, geographic distribution, ecology and morphology of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Menyanthaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea apenas por uma espcie, Nymphoides indica (L.) O. Kuntze. Para a espcie, so apresentadas descrio, ilustraes e comentrios sobre habitat, distribuio geogrfica, ecologia e morfologia.
42871450|Thorny, red galls were observed on Piptadenia gonoacantha. Six stages were recognized during the gall development: 1) A small spot appears on one of the surfaces of the leaflet. A larval chamber lined by sclereids and surrounded by a parenchyma derived from chlorenchyma is formed; above the larval chamber roof, parenchymatic projections are formed. 2) The gall becomes a small red intumescence on the leaflet. The gall parenchyma increases and a cortical and a medullar regions are discernible. The medullar region is near to the larval chamber. 3) The gall becomes wrapped up by thorns; on the apex a tuft with long thorns is observed. In the beginning, cortical parenchyma increases, but latter its development ceases and then the medullar parenchyma begins to increase; the sclereids around the larval chamber desappear partially and a nutritive tissue is formed. 4) The gall elongates, assuming a conic shape. Sclereids are observed on the roof of larval chamber and the medullar parenchyma cells above it elongate. 5) The gall stops growing and the thorns spread uniformly around it. At first phase, the cells of the cortex-medullar transition region sclerify and the larva consumes the medullar cells. At the second phase, the larva consumes the medullar cells above larval chamber too, openning a exit channel toward the gall apex. At the third phase the larva returns to the larval chamber, that is incompletely divided in two sub-chambers by a sclerified septum, and stablishes itself in the pupal sub-chamber. The larva secretes a silky pelicle that prevents the entrance into the pupal sub-chamber. 6) An apperture appears apically (dehiscence) by desintegration of the remaining medullar cells, enlarging later. Senescent galls become dark and the original color change into brown, ending the cycle. Em exemplares de Piptadenia gonoacantha foram observadas galhas espinhosas de cor predominantemente vermelha. Seis estdios de desenvolvimento foram definidos: 1) Observa-se uma pequena mancha numa das faces do folilulo. Forma-se uma cmara larval revestida de escleredes, a qual  envolvida por um parnquima derivado do clornquima; acima do teto da cmara larval formam-se projees parenquimticas. 2) Observa-se um pequeno intumescimento avermelhado. O parnquima da galha aumenta, formando as regies cortical e medular. A regio medular fica junto  cmara larval. 3) A galha aumenta em tamanho, cobre-se de espinhos e no pice forma-se um tufo com espinhos mais longos que os laterais. O parnquima cortical aumenta primeiro, seguido depois pelo medular; as escleredes que revestiam toda a cmara larval desaparecem em parte e instala-se o tecido nutritivo. 4) O corpo da galha assume um formato cnico. As escleredes permanecem apenas no teto da cmara larvai e as clulas medulares situadas acima delas alongam-se bastante. 5) A galha pra de crescer e os espinhos distribuemse uniformemente. Na 1 fase, ocorre esclerificao das clulas na regio de transio crtex-medula e a larva consome as clulas medulares at a zona esclerificada; na 2 fase, a larva consome as clulas medulares situadas acima da cmara larval, construindo um canal de sada em direo ao pice da galha; na 3 fase, a larva retorna  cmara larval, que est dividida em duas sub-cmaras por um septo esclerificado incompleto. Instala-se na sub-cmara pupal, secretando um tabique de seda, que veda a entrada desta. 6) Forma-se uma abertura no pice da galha (deiscncia) devido  desintegrao das clulas medulares restantes. Esta abertura alarga-se posteriormente. As galhas senescentes ficam mais escuras e a cor original muda para uma cor castanha, terminando o ciclo.
42871478|The relationships among several attributes of the leaves of Sebastiania myrtilloides were studied: leaf sclerophylly, area, mass, volume, density, thickness, and anatomy in plants under natural conditions in a sun-exposed cerrado environment and in a shaded understorey riparian forest in Serra do Cip, Brazil. The area, mass, density and thickness of the leaves varied significantly between sunny and shady habitats. Variations in leaf sclerophylly were influenced by leaf mass and density. Sun exposed leaves were denser and thicker due to both an increase in the length of adaxial epidermis, and the palisade and spongy parenchyma cells. S. myrtilloides presented an increase of 64% in stomatal density in the sunny habitat. The species showed an increase of 57% and 46% in trichome density under light conditions on the adaxial and abaxial epidermis, respectively. S. myrtilloides showed significant leaf structure plasticity, which reflected on its capability to explore both cerrado and riparian forest environments. As relaes entre vrios atributos foliares de Sebastiania myrtilloides foram estudados: esclerofilia, rea, massa, densidade, espessura foliar e anatomia foliar de plantas em condies naturais sob completa exposio solar (cerrado) e sob sombreamento (mata ripria) na Serra do Cip. A rea, massa, densidade e espessura foliar variaram significativamente entre os habitats ensolarado e sombreado. As variaes na esclerofilia, expressada em massa foliar especfica (MFE), foram influenciadas pela massa e densidade foliar. As folhas expostas  luz solar mostraram-se mais densas e espessas devido ao aumento na espessura da epiderme adaxial e dos parnquimas palidico e esponjoso. S. myrtilloides apresentou um aumento de 64% na densidade de estmatos no habitat ensolarado e um aumento de 57% e 46% na densidade de tricomas sob condies de luz na epiderme abaxial e adaxial, respectivamente. A espcie mostrou uma significativa plasticidade estrutural na folha, que  refletida na sua capacidade de explorar tanto ambientes de cerrado como de mata.
42871418|The description of a new species of Scrophulariaceae, Stemodia heterophylla Giulietti & Souza, that occurs in Northeast Brazil is presented. S. heterophylla is a singular species that presents that following characteristics which are absent in other species of Stemodia: flowers in thyrsoid inflorescences, different leaves in vegetative and flowering branches, acrodromus leaf venation and seeds in placentous tissues. Neste trabalho  apresentada a descrio de uma nova espcie de Scrophulariaceae do Nordeste do Brasil. Esta espcie  muito caracterstica em relao s outras do gnero Stemodia, especialmente pelas flores em inflorescencia do tipo tirso, folhas de formatos diferentes nos ramos florferos e vegetativos, venao acrdroma e sementes imersas no tecido placentrio.
42871387|A morphological study of the underground system of Trimezia suggests the condition of a primitive corm.  feito um estudo morfolgico do sistema subterrneo de Trimezia propondo-se, para esse rgo, a condio de cormo primitivo.
42871489|X. diamantinae, X. itatiayensis, X. longiscapa, X. obtusiuscula and X. trachyphylla are a problematic taxonomic group, if only the external morphological characters are analized. Bearing in mind to contribute for the taxonomic understanding of diese taxa, the leaves of 13 specimens were studied. Typic specimens of eadi taxon have leaves with characteristic and definite organization; however, die leaves of some individuals have intermediated features between two or more taxons. These aspects suggest die occurence of natural intercross in these group of species. X. diamantinae, X. itatiayensis, X. longiscapa, X. obtusiuscula e X. trachyphylla formam um grupo de difcil delimitao taxonmica, quando se consideram apenas as caractersticas morfolgicas externas. Com o objetivo de contribuir para um melhor entendimento desses txons foram estudadas as folhas de 13 espcimes. Em todos os txons estudados encontram-se representantes tpicos, cujas folhas exibem organizao particular e definida. Entretanto, observam-se indivduos portadores de folhas de organizao intermediria entre txons diferentes, sugerindo a ocorrncia de entrecruzamentos naturais.
42871579|This study of Gesneriaceae is a contribution to the "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil" project. The family is represented in the area by 9 species belonging to 5 genera: Anetanthus, Codonanthe, Nematanthus, Paliavana e Sinningia. Identification keys, descriptions, and comments about geographic distribution, phenology, habitat and morphological variation were elaborated as well as illustrations of taxa. O presente estudo das Gesneriaceae  uma contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia est representada na rea por 9 espcies, distribudas em 5 gneros: Anetanthus, Codonanthe, Nematanthus, Paliavana e Sinningia. So apresentadas chaves de identificao, descries, comentrios como distribuio geogrfica, fenologia, ambiente e variao morfolgica, alm de ilustraes dos taxons encontrados na rea.
42871564|Hypolytrum Rich. (Cyperaceae) has 55 species, of which 29 occur in the Neotropics, from southern Mexico to northeastern Bolivia and southeastern Brazil. Three geographic patterns are recognized here: broad range, restricted range, and very restricted range (local endemics). Most of the studied species have a continuous geographic distribution, and only a few (three species) have a disjunct distribution. The Amazon Basin (with the highest number of species) and the Brazilian Atlantic coastal rain forest (with the highest number of species with a very restricted distribution) were recognized as the two major centers of diversity of the genus in the Neotropics. Hypolytrum Rich. (Cyperaceae) est representado por 55 espcies, das quais 29 ocorrem na regio Neotropical, distribudas do sul do Mxico ao nordeste da Bolvia e sul do Brasil. Foram reconhecidas espcies com distribuio contnua e disjunta e trs padres de distribuio geogrfica: ampla distribuio, distribuio restrita e distribuio muito restrita (ou endmicas locais). A Bacia Amaznica (com o maior nmero de espcies) e a Floresta Atlntica Costeira (com o maior numero de espcies com distribuio muito restrita) foram identificadas como os dois centros de diversidade do gnero nos Neotrpicos.
42871336|Um estudo do feixe fibrovascular da folha, em Barbacenioideae, mostrou a presena de traquedes de transfuso como acontece em Vellozioideae (Menezes, 1970 e 1971a). Verificou-se que estas traquedes originam-se do procmbio, com exceo das que esto em contato com a bainha do feixe, que so de origem periciclica. Verificou-se, ainda, que o feixe fibrovascular  envolvido por uma bainha dupla: a interna, endodrmica e a externa, parenquimtica. As clulas endodrmicas tornam-se esclerificadas, com exceo das que esto em contato com as traquedes de transfuso. Estas clulas no espessadas constituem as clulas de passagem. Pela semelhana com o que ocorre em Gramineae e outras Monocotiledneas, optou-se pela denominao "bainha mestomtica" para a bainha endodrmica. Verificou-se que apenas os traos foliares, no caule, apresentam-se formados, tambm, por protoxilema e protofloema e que durante o deslocamento do trao foliar formam-se pontes de metaxilema que divergem do trao foliar e e que se unem aos feixes caulinares. Mostrou-se, ainda, alguns aspectos anatmicos que distinguem o gnero Aylthonia N. Menezes: mesfilo dorsiventral, tricomas caractersticos e drusas em quase todas as clulas do mesfilo, inclusive, nas clulas do tricoma. A study on the fibrovascular bundle of the leaf, in Barbacenioideae N. Menezes revealed the presence of transfusion tracheids, just as occurs in Vellozioideae (Menezes, 1970 and 1971a). It was observed that these tracheids originate from the procambium, with the exception of those that are in contact with the bundle sheath, which are of peryciclic origin. It was further observed, that the fibrovascular bundle is incased in a double-sheath: the internal one, endodermal and the external one, parenchyma tous. The endodermal cells become sclerified, with the exception of those in contact with the transfusion tracheids. These non-sclerified cells are the passage cells. By resemblance to what happens in Gramineae and other monocotyledons, the denomination "mestoma sheath" was chosen for the endodermal sheath. It was observed that only the leaf traces in the stem are formed, in part, by protoxylem and protophloem and that, during the shifting of the leaf trace, metaxylem bridges are formed that diverge from the leaf trace and that unite with the bundles of the stem. Furthermore, some anatomical aspects that distinguish the genus Aylthonia N. Menezes, were shown: dorsiventral mesophyll, characteristic trichomes, and druses in almost all the mesophyll cells, inclusively in the trichome cells.
42871940|As part of a taxonomic study of the family Lytraceae for the flora of "campos rupestres" of Minas Gerais, Brazil, the present work describes a new species, Cuphea rubro-virens T. Cav. Also, the relationships of the new species to C. teleandra Lourt. are discussed. Como parte do estudo taxonmico da famlia Lythraceae dos campos rupestres de Minas Gerais, Brasil, este trabalho apresente a diagnose, ilustrao e comentrios de uma nova espcie, Cuphea rubro-virens T. Cav.  discutido tambm seu relacionamento com C. teleandra Lourt., para a qual novos dados so acrescentados.
42871353|A radiossensibilidade de sementes de Phaseolus vulgaris cv bico-de-ouro, tratadas com radiao gama, foi medida tomando por base o efeito provocado por esta radiao sobre o crescimento das plantas derivadas destas sementes. Determinou-se o peso fresco e o peso seco da raiz, hipoclito e plmula, bem como o comprimento do hipoctilo. A radiossensibilidade foi expressa pela variao destes valores de crescimento em relao aos do controle no irradiado, considerado como 100%. Nas fases iniciais do crescimento foram observados valores diferentes na expresso da radiossensibilidade, conforme o rgo e o parmetro analisado. Nos estgios finais, a expresso da radiossensibilidade passou a apresentar valores relativos muito semelhantes, independentes do rgo ou do tipo de medida efetuada. As medidas de peso fresco apresentaram valores mais variveis, de um modo geral, maiores que as de peso seco. Plantas desenvolvidas no escuro mostraram maior radiossensiblidade que plantas desenvolvidas na luz. Efeitos de reverso na inibio do crescimento foram detectados aps 40 e 64 h de crescimento, em material tratado com 80 e 120 kr. The radio-sensitivity of gamma-irradiated seeds of Phaseolus vulgaris cv bico-de-ouro was measured by the effects of this radiation on the plan tie ts grown from the irradiated seeds. The fresh and dry weight of the root, hypocotyle and plumule was measured as well as the length of the hypocotyle. The radio-sensitivity was calculated as percent of the control values (considered as 100%). In the early stages of growth, the plantlets showed different values of radio-sensivity according to the organ and to the kind of measurement made. Later radio-sensivity became uniform whatever the organ ol measurement. Measurement of fresh weight showed hogher radio-sensitives than dry weight. Trie same occurs in dark-grown plants and in light-grown plants, the former being more radio-sensitive. Reversals in the growth inhibitions were detected after 40 and 64 h of growth in plants grown from seeds irradiated with 80 and 120 kr.
42871479|Miconia cipoensis R. Goldenberg belongs to the section Miconia and occurs in "campo rupestre" vegetation in the "Serra do Cip", Minas Gerais, Brazil. The new species is described and compared to others in the sections Miconia Naudin and Glossocentrum Benth. & Hook. Miconia cipoensis R. Goldenberg pertence  seo Miconia Naudin e foi coletada em campos rupestres na Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Essa nova espcie  descrita e comparada com outras nas sees Miconia Naudin e Glossocentrum Benth. & Hook.
42871402|Guatteria notabilis Mello-Silva & Pirani, a new species of Annonaceae, is described. It is distinct in its terminal flowers, sessile fruitlets and in the dense ochraceous-ferrugineous indument that covers its shoots, leaves and flowers. The new species occurs in some "serras" of the Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais and Bahia, Brazil. Besides the descriptions, some illustrations and comments on its problable taxonomic relationships are presented.  descrita urna nova espcie de Annonaceae, Guatteria notabilis Mello-Silva & Pirani, caracterizada por apresentar flores terminais, carpdlos ssseis e denso indumento ocrceo a ferrugneo-tomentoso que recobre rmulos, folhas, e flores. Ocorre em algumas serras da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais e Bahia. So apresentadas descries e ilustraes da nova espcie, bem como comentarios de sua ocorrncia e provveis relaes taxonmicas.
42871939|The paper is the first taxonomic survey of the freshwater Rhodophyta of the State of So Paulo. Twenty two specific and infraspecific taxa were identified: Batrachospermwn atrwn (Hudson) Harvey var. atrwn, B. atrum (Hudson) Harvey var. puiggarianum (Grunow) Necchi, B. bicudoi Necchi, B. boryanwn Sirodot, B. capense Starmach ex Necchi e Kumano var. breviarticulatwn Necchi e Kumano, B. cipoense Kumano e Necchi, B. exsertum Necchi, B. flageUforme (Sirodot) Necchi, B. gracillimum West e West emend. Necchi, B. hebninthoswn Bory, B. jolyi Necchi, B. keratophytum Bory, B. macrosporum Montagne var. macrosporum, B. macrosporum Montagne var. excelswn (Montagne) Sirodot, B. orthostichwn Skuja, B. procappwn Skuja, B. skujanum Necchi, B. vagwn (Roth) C. Agardh, B. virgatum (Ktzing) Sirodot, Compsopogon coeruleus (Balbis) Montagne, Sirodotia deiicatula Skuja, and Thorea bachmannii Pujais ex Pujais. Of these, ten were cited for the first time for Brazil (B. boryanwn, B. flageliforme, B. gracillimum, B. heiminthoswn, B. keratophytum, B. macrosporum var. excelsum, B. virgatum, C. coeruleus, S. deiicatula, and T. bachmannii) and 16 for the State of So Paulo (B. capense var. breviarticulatum, B. cipoense, B. macrosporum var. macrosporum, B. orthostichum, B. procarpum, and B. vagum, in addition to those cited for the first time for Brazil). For each taxon identified, the following information is given: a detailed description of the material studied, its geographical distribution in Brazil, habitat, comments, and illustrations. Whenever possible', each taxon was identified on the basis of population sample. Illustrations, including one map of the area studied with the collecting sites, and artificial keys for identification, one for the genera and the remainder for the infrageneric taxa surveyed complement the text. The lowest frequency of freshwater rhodophytes was verified in the western part of the State, whereas the highest was in the eastern. This study evidenced inconsistency in the taxonomy of Compsopogon at specific level, and also reinforced the possibility of some of the already described species of the genus most probably being ecophenes of a single species. All specimens studied were identified as C. coeruleus. All specimens of Sirodotia were referred to S. deiicatula. This study also pointed out the need of a Worldwide revision of the genus Sirodotia, and the weakness of its taxonomy at species level. The genus Batrachospermum showed several taxonomical problems, especially in the Section Viridia, as to the circumscription of species and to the definition of the taxonomic criteria for sorting out at specific level. O trabalho  o levantamento taxonmico pioneiro das Rhodophyta de gua doce do Estado de So Paulo. Foram identificados 22 taxons especficos e infra-especficos: Batrachospermum atrum (Hudson) Harvey var. atrum, B. atrum (Hudson) Harvey var. puiggarianum (Grunow) Necchi, B. bicudoi Necchi, B. boryanum Sirodot, B. capense Starmach ex Necchi e Kumano var. breviarticulatum Necchi e Kumano, B. cipoense Kumano e Necchi, B. exsertum Necchi, B. flageliforme (Sirodot) Necchi, B. gracillimum West e West emend. Necchi, B. helminthosun Bory, B. jolyi Necchi, B. keratophytum Bory, B. macrosporum Montagne var. macrosporum, B. macrosporum Montagne var. excelsum (Montagne) Sirodot, B. orthostichum Skuja, B. procarpum Skuja, B. skujanum Necchi, B. vagum (Roth) C. Agardh, B. virgatum (Ktzing) Sirodot, Compsopogon coeruleus (Balbis) Montagne, Sirodotia delicatula Skuja e Thorea bachmannii Pujals ex Pujais. Dentre estes, dez foram citados pela primeira vez para o Brasil (B. boryanwn, B. flageliforme, B. gracillimum, B. helminthosum, B. keratophytwn, B. macrosporum var. excelsum, B. virgatum, C. coeruleus, S. delicatula e T. bachamannii e 16 para o Estado de So Paulo (B. capense var. breviarticulatum, B. cipoense, B. macrosporum var. macrosporum, B. orthostichum, B. procarpwn e B. vagum, em adio aos citados pela primeira vez para o Brasil. Para cada txon identificado foram apresentados: descrio detalhada, distribuio geogrfica no Brasil, habitat, comentrios e ilustraes. Todos os txons foram identificados, sempre que possvel, a partir de amostras populacionais. Ilustraes, incluindo-se um mapa com os locais de coleta, e sete chaves artificiais para identificao dos gneros e txons infra-genricos estudados complementam o trabalho. Foi verificada menor ocorrncia de Rhodophyta de gua doce na regio oeste do Estado de So Paulo e maior na regio leste. Este estudo demonstrou a inconsistncia da taxonoma, a nvel infragenrico, de Compsopogon e reforou a suposio de que vrias das espcies descritas na literatura sejam, provavelmente, ecofenos de uma mesma espcie. Os espcimes estudados foram includos em C. coeruleus. Em Sirodotia, os espcimes estudados foram todos referidos como S. delicatula. O estudo indicou neste caso a necessidade de uma reviso mundial das espcies e a fragilidade da taxonoma a nvel especfico desse gnero. O gnero Batrachospermwn apresentou problemas taxonmicos, especialmente para a Seo Virdia, com relao  circunscrio de espcies e  definio de critrios taxonmicos para o nvel especfico.
42871943|The study of the family Loganiaceae is a part of the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Antonia ovata Pohl, Spigelia aceifotia Woods, S. linarioides A.DC., S. schlechtendatiana Mart., S. seowiana Cham. & Schlecht., Strychnos bicolor Prog, and S. gardneri A.DC., including a new species, Spigelia cipoensis Zappi. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and ilustrations, as well comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Loganiaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelas espcies: Antonia ovata Pohl, Spigelia aceifotia Woods., S. tinarioides A.DC., S. schlechtendatiana Mart., S. sellowiana Cham. & Schlecht., Strychnos bicolor Prog, e S. gardneri A.DC., incluindo uma nova espcie, Spigelia cipoensis Zappi. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871372|New delimitations were given to the species Eriocaulon melanocephalum Kunth and E. aquatile Koern. After the studies done on plants collected from the Serra do Cip (State of Minas Gerais, Brazil) the author included E. heteropeplon Silv.; E. melanocephalum Kunth subsp. usterianum Beauv., nom. nud. and E. usterianum Beauv. in the species E. melanocephalum Kunth and E. angustifolium Koern in the species E. aquatile Koern. Baseada em estudos feitos em materiais coletados na Serra do Cip (Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil), a autora ampliou os limites das espcies Eriocaulon melanocephalum Kunth e E. aquatile Koern., incluindo-se na primeira E. heteropeplon Silv., E. melanocephalum Kunth subsp. usterianum Beauv. nom. nud. e E. usterianum Beauv. e no segundo, E. angustifolium Koern.
42871516|The pollen ontogeny of Tabebuia pulcherrima was analyzed. Pollen development follows the usual course in dicotyledonous angiosperms. The sporoderm is composed of a finely reticulate outer exine, and a thin intine. The microstructure of the exine is determined by the primexine, before the separation of the microspore tetrads by dissolution of the callose wall. At the aperture sites, the pectinized intine layer forms an oncus impregnated with proteinaceous substances. Irregularly shaped ruptures occur in the colpal membrane, partially exposing the intine. During meiosis, the callose walls of the meiocytes gradually become PAS-positive, and a cycle of amylogenesis/amylolysis takes place in the cytoplasm. At tetrad stage the meiotic amyloplasts are almost absent. A new cycle of amylogenesis/amylolysis is observed in the protoplasm of the pollen vegetative cell, during its maturation. At the same time, the vegetative cell nucleolus swells and develops conspicuous nucleolar vacuoles. The generative cell does not develop amyloplasts. In mature pollen grains, the generative cell is elongated and falciform, with a PAS-positive wall, and becomes associated with the vegetative nucleus to form the male germ unit. A ontogenia do gro de plen de Tabebuia pulcherrima foi analisada. O desenvolvimento do andrfito segue o modo usual em angiospermas dicotiledoneas. A esporoderme  composta por uma exina finamente reticulada e um delgado estrato inferior pectinizado (intina). A microestrutura reticulada da exina  determinada pela primexina, antes do desmembramento das ttrades por dissoluo da calose. Nos colpos, o estrato pectinizado torna-se um oncus impregnado por substncias proticas. A exina das membranas aperturais sofre rupturas irregulares, expondo parcialmente a intina. No perodo meitico as paredes de calose dos meicitos tornam-se progressivamente PAS-positivas, ao passo que, no citoplasma, uma onda de amilognese/amillise  observada, estando os amiloplastos virtualmente ausentes nas ttrades de andrsporos. Durante a maturao do gro de plen, uma nova onda de amilognese/amillise acontece no protoplasma da clula vegetativa, ao passo que, no seu ncleo, o nuclolo expande-se significativamente, desenvolvendo conspcuos vacolos nudeolares. A clula generativa no desenvolve amiloplastos. No gro de plen maduro, a clula generativa torna-se alongada, com parede celular PAS-positiva e associa-se ao ncleo da clula vegetativa, formando a unidade germinativa masculina.
42871462|This work deals with the Leguminosae species of subfamily Caesalpinioideae from Picinguaba, in the northern coast of So Paulo State. The region studied, the sand plains associated with the Fazenda beach, is characterized by altitudes from 0 to 50m where the rain forest can be found alternating with mangroves and scrub and herbs vegetation. Fifty one species of Leguminosae were identified within three subfamilies, Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae which are published separately. This work deals with six species of Caesalpinioideae, representing three genera: Chamaecrista desvauxii, C. glandulosa, C. nictitans, Senna multijuga, Senna pendula and Schizolobium parahyba. It provides identification keys, diagnoses, illustrations, comments about morphological intraspecific and interspecific variation, geographic distribution, and flowering/fruiting seasons of the species studied. Este trabalho  o levantamento das espcies de Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae, de Picinguaba, localizada no litoral norte do estado de So Paulo. A plancie costeira estudada foi a da Praia da Fazenda com altitude de 0 a 50m s.n.m. onde encontramos uma vegetao, em sua maior parte arbrea. Foram encontradas 51 espcies de Leguminosae distribudas nas trs subfamilias, Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae e Papilionoideae que esto sendo publicadas separadamente. Neste trabalho so estudadas as 6 espcies de Caesalpinioideae distribudas em trs gneros: Chamaecrista desvauxii, C. glandulosa, C. nictitans, Senna multijuga, Senna pndula e Schizolobium parahyba. So apresentadas chaves para identificao, diagnoses, ilustraes, comentrios sobre as variaes morfolgicas observadas, distribuio geogrfica e perodos de florao e frutificao das espcies estudadas.
42871432|The study of the family Iridaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Sisyrinchium (2), Cipura (1), Neomarica (1), Trimezia (5) and Pseudotrimezia (2). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are provided. O estudo da famlia Iridaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o rspectivo nmero de espcies: Sisyrinchium (2), Cipura (1), Neomarica (1), Trimezia (5) e Pseudotrimezia (2). So apresentadas chaves para os gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre a distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871382|This paper deals with two species of marine Rhodophyta found for the first time along the Brazilian coast. The plants were hitherto known only from Caribbean area. They are Champia feldmannii Diaz-Piferrer and Spermothamnion gymnocarpum Howe. Each new record is documented with structural and reprodutive features. O trabalho trata de duas espcies de algas marinhas, da diviso Rhodophyta, encontradas pela primeira vez ao longo do litoral brasileiro. As plantas so conhecidas somente na zona das Caraibas. So elas: Champia feldmannii Diaz-Piferrer e Spermothamnion gymnocarpum Howe. Os autores apresentam alm de descries das estruturas vegetativas e de reproduo observaes sobre a ecologia dos taxons referidos.
42871424|Column, thin-layer chromatography and spectrometric methods, revealed the presence of the following carotenoids in the thalli of 19 lichen species from Brazil and Paraguay: ()-, ()-, ()-carotene, ()-cryptoxanthin, lutein, 3'-epilutein, zeaxanthin, ()-doradexanthin, canthaxanthin, astaxanthin, lute in epoxide, antheraxanthin, violaxanthin, neoxanthin, mutatoxanthin, auroxanthin, rhodoxanthin, capsochrome and apo-12'-violaxanthal. The total content of carotenoids ranged from 19.40 (Usnea amaliae) to 96.83 () g. g-1 dry wt (Parmelina linoknanii). Os mtodos empregando cromatografia em coluna e camada delgada e em espectrometra revelaram a presena dos seguintes carotenides no talo de 19 espcies de liquens do Brasil e do Paraguai: ()-, ()-, ()-caroteno, ()-criptoxantina, lutena, 3'-epilutena, zeaxantina, ()-doradexantina, cantaxantina, astaxantina, epxido de lutena, anteraxantina, violaxantina, neoxantina, mutatoxantina, auroxantina, rodoxantina, capsocromo e apo-12'-violaxantal. O contedo total de carotenides varia de 19,40 (Usnea amalia) a 96,83 () g.g-1 em peso seco (Parmelina linoknanii).
42871477|An anatomical study of the roots, scapes and leaves of Enocaulon species from the Brazilian campos rupestres was undertaken. Eriocaulon species characteristically possess whitish spongiform root system with uniseriate epidermis, cortical parenchyma composed of different cell types, some of which form diaphragms that store air. The scapes possess thin-walled epidermal cells, cortex with loosely aggregated chlorenchyma, a sinuous pericycle, completely enclosing the smaller collateral vascular bundles and forming caps around the larger ones. The leaves possess thin-walled epidermal cells, loosely textured chlorophyllous parenchyma with diaphragms, collateral vascular bundles with double sheaths, extensions of the sheaths of parenchymatous cells. The anatomical characters observed are those typical of plants of aquatic or wet habitats. Foi realizado o estudo anatmico de razes, escapos e folhas de espcies de Eriocaulon que ocorrem nos campos rupestres do Brasil. As espcies de Eriocaulon so caracterizadas por apresentarem razes esbranquiadas, com aspecto esponjoso, epiderme unisseriada, parnquima cortical constitudo de diferentes tipos de clulas, com diafragmas que reservam ar; os escapos apresentam clulas epidrmicas de paredes finas, crtex com parnquima clorofiliano frouxo, periciclo sinuoso, envolvendo totalmente os feixes vasculares colaterais menores e formando calotas sobre os maiores. Folhas com clulas epidrmicas de paredes finas, parnquima clorofiliano frouxo-diafragmtico, feixes vasculares colaterais com bainha dupla, extenso de bainha dos feixes de natureza parenquimtica. As caractersticas anatmicas observadas so tpicas de plantas aquticas ou que ocorrem em locais midos.
42871518|This paper presents the species of Alstroemeriaceae of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The family is represented in the area by 3 species included in one genus: Alstroemeria cunha Vell., A. longistila Schenk and A. plantaginea Mart. ex Schult. & Schult.f. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations and comments are presented. Neste trabalho so apresentadas as espcies de Alstroemeriaceae da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A famlia  representada na rea pelo gnero Alstroemeria, incluindo 3 espcies: Alstroemeria cunha Vell., A. longistila Schenk e A. plantaginea Mart, ex Schult. & Schult.f.  apresentada chave para as espcies, alm de descries, ilustraes e comentrios.
42871454|The study of the family Proteaceae is a part of the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In this area, the family is represented by the following taxa: Roupala montana Aubl. and R. rhombifolia Mart, ex Meissn., Euplassa inaequalis (Pohl) Engl., E. incana (Klotzsch) Johnst. and E. legalis var. villanovae Sleum. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions, habitats and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Proteaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada, naquela rea, pelos taxons: Roupala montana Aubl. e R. rhombifolia Mart, ex Meissn., Euplassa inaequalis (Pohl) Engl., E. incana (Klotzsch) Johnst. e E. legalis var. villanovae Sleum. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, habitats e variabilidade.
42871492|This work is a survey of the epiphytes of the Reserve of the Cidade Universitria "Armando de Salles Oliveira", in So Paulo, SP (Brazil), here defined as vascular plants usually found living on others, without parasitizing them, during at least a part of their life cycles. The study site (approximately 4643'W, 2333'S) is a secondary forested area isolated in urban environment and represents one of the few forested areas in this city. The climate type is Kppen's Cwa, and the mean annual precipitation is 1207 mm. Polypodiaceae (9 species), Bromeliaceae (8), Orchidaceae (6), Moraceae (4), Araceae (4), Cactaceae (3), Piperaceae (1), Blechnaceae (1) and Araliaceae (1) are the families of epiphytes found at the study site, making up 37 species belonging to 20 genera. Three of them are exotic: Schefflera actinophylla (Araliaceae), Ficus microcarpa (Moraceae) and Philodendron embescens (Araceae). Families, genera and species descriptions are provided, as well as an identification key to the species based exclusively on vegetative characters, identification keys to species and genera in each family and comments on the phenology, geographic distribution and ecology of the species. Most of them show widespread geographic distribution. All main epiphytic life forms are represented. Este trabalho trata do levantamento das espcies de epfitas da Reserva da Cidade Universitria "Armando de Salles Oliveira", em So Paulo, SP, aqui consideradas como plantas vasculares usualmente encontradas sobre outras, sem parasit-las, durante alguma fase do ciclo de vida. O local de estudos (aproximadamente 4643'W, 2333'S)  uma ilha de mata secundria em ambiente urbano e representa uma das poucas reas cobertas por floresta na regio, tendo pouco mais de 10 ha. O clima  do tipo Cwa de Kppen, com precipitao mdia anual de 1207 mm. As famlias de epfitas representadas so Polypodiaceae (9 espcies), Bromeliaceae (8), Orchidaceae (6), Moraceae (4), Araceae (4), Cactaceae (3), Piperaceae (1), Blechnaceae (1) e Araliaceae (1), totalizando 37 espcies pertencentes a 20 gneros. Trs delas so exticas: Schefflera actinophylla (Araliaceae), Ficus microcarpa (Moraceae) e Philodendron erubescens (Araceae). So apresentadas descries das famlias, gneros e espcies; uma chave para identificao das espcies baseada exclusivamente em caracteres vegetativos; chaves de identificao para os gneros e espcies de cada famlia, assim como comentrios sobre a fenologia, distribuio geogrfica e ecologia das espcies. A maioria delas apresenta ampla distribuio geogrfica. Esto representadas todas as principais formas de vida epifticas conhecidas.
42871501|The study of the genus Syngonanthus (Eriocaulaceae) is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In this area, the genus is represented by 20 species and 8 varieties in 4 sections. A key to the species, as well as descriptions, illustrations, and comments on variability and geographic distribution of the species are presented. O estudo do gnero Syngonanthus (Eriocaulaceae)  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". O gnero est representado nesta rea por 20 espcies e 8 variedades, em 4 sees.  apresentada uma chave para as espcies, alm de descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre sua variabilidade e distribuio geogrfica.
42871341|Foram feitos estudos anatmicos comparativos das folhas de Datura arborea L., procedentes de So Paulo (So Miguel Paulista e Santo Amaro), Minas Gerais (Campo do Meio) e Mato Grosso (Campo Grande). Foram realizadas tambm a avaliao quantitativa dos alcaloides totais e a anlise cromatogrfica em camada delgada dos alcalides e derivados flavonides. Comparative anatomical studies of leaves of Datura arborea L. from So Paulo (So Miguel Paulista e Santo Amaro), Minas Gerais(Campo do Meio) and Mato Grosso (Campo Grande) were made. The quantitative evaluation of the total alkaloids as well as the thin layer Chromatographie analyses of the alkaloids and the flavonoid derivatives was carried out.
42871335|Anteras de N. tabacum cv. "goiano" IAC-70 foram cultivadas assepticamente em meio de cultura sinttico. Em 5-10% das culturas parte dos gros de plen diferenciam-se produzindo embries e plntulas, que emergem das anteras aps 20 dias em cultura. Essas plantinhas crescem, atingem a florao, no produzindo nem frutos nem sementes. No trabalho so descritos os pormenores das tcnicas utilizadas para obteno desses haplides andrognicos. Anthers from N. tabacum cv. "goiano" IAC-70 were cultured asseptically on a synthetic medium. After 20 days, numerous plantlets projected out of the anthers (5-10% of the cultures). These haploid plants raised from pollen grains, grow and reach to flower, but they are sterile.
42871430|A taxonomic survey of the benthic seaweeds of Fernando de Noronha Archipelago, Brazil, including 128 taxa, being 44 of Chlorophyta, 22 of Phaeophyta, and 62 of Rhodophyta is presented. 9 Chlorophyta, 8 Phaeophyta, and 31 Rhodophyta are new records for the area. All taxa are presented in tables also containing reproductive stages information, names used by previous authors, and names of authors that have already cited each tax on for the area.  apresentada uma relao de algas marinhas bentnicas do Arquiplago de Fernandode Noronha, totalizando 128 taxons, sendo 44 de Chlorophyta, 22 de Phaeophyta e 62 de Rhodophyta. Soreferidas, pela primeira vez para a regio, 9 Chlorophyta, 8 Phaeophyta e 31 Rhodophyta Todos os txons esto relacionados em tabelas que incluem algumas informaes sobre estdios de reproduo, os nomes usados pelos autores anteriores, e os dos autores que j citaram estes taxons para a regio.
42871673|The Reserva Biolgica da Represa do Grama is situated in the Zona da Mata of Minas Gerais, comprising 263,8 hectares of seasonal forest. Seven genera and 15 species of Lauraceae have been recorded from the Reserva: Aniba firmula, Beilschmiedia taubertiana, Cryptocarya micrantha, Endlicheria paniculata, Nectandra aff. megapotamica, N. membranacea, N. oppositifolia, N. psammophila, Ocotea aciphylla, O. brachybotrya, O. corymbosa, O. divaricata, O. aff. indecora, O. odorifera e Urbanodendron verrucosum. Keys, descriptions, illustrations and comments on distribution of genera and species are presented. A Reserva Biolgica da Represa do Grama est localizada na Zona da Mata de Minas Gerais e abrange uma rea de 263,8 hectares de floresta estacionai semidecidual. Na rea, a famlia Lauraceae  registrada por sete gneros e 15 espcies: Anibafirmula, Beilschmiedia taubertiana, Cryptocarya micrantha, Endlicheria paniculata, Nectandra aff. megapotamica, N. membranacea, N. oppositifolia, N. psammophila, Ocotea aciphylla, O. brachybotrya, O. corymbosa, O. divaricata, O. aff. indecora, O. odorifera e Urbanodendron verrucosum. So apresentados chaves, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre os gneros e espcies.
42871389|Sargassum cymosum C. Ag. forms dense belts near the infralittoral fringe on the rocky coasts of SE Brazil. Sheltered areas are inhabited by var. oymosum of that species, represented by individuals reaching about 50cm in length; exposed areas are inhabited by var. nanum attaining about 5cm in length. Two tipical populations of both varieties living very close to each other were studied monthly, for 18 months, and less regularly for 5 years, for: standing stock, density, size and reproduction Observations on the associated flora and on the relation of both populations with the black sea urchin (Echino me tra luounter) were also included. The populations of both varieties are stable, formed by perennial plants, and are responsible for over 70% of the total biomass characterizing a mature community. In exposed sites high densities of sea urchins, (maximum 172/m) are associated with a high density of S. cymosum var. nanum (maximum 460/m), both densities being positively correlated (r= 0.795). Only young individuals of this sea urchin are found among the Sargassum plants; large individuals are found nearby in pools or in rocky caves from which conspicuous seaweeds are absent, with the excepticon of crustous corallines. On the other hand, sea urchins are not found within the zone of S. cymosum var. cymosum, on the sheltered side. All the biological variables analysed showed a seasonal variation, with higher values of biomass and size of the plants in the spring; low values were observed in February for var. nanum and in March-April for var. cymosum The controlling factors of the cyclic variation detected are not clear but the decline of the populations coincides with temperature increase, which is also associated with the period of clearer and calmer waters. S. cymosum var. nanum is monoecious and var. cymosum is dioecious, however both are highly fertile throughout the year and the distribution of size classes shows that recruitment is not restricted to a particular season. The liberation of oocysts seems to follow as endogenous rhythm occurr ing fortnightly during spring tides in the field as well as in the laboratory. In comparing the phenology of the studied variet i e s with plants of other areas we concluded that in the tropics the importance of the seasonal variation of factors such as light and temperature, that are of primary importance to explain the phenology of seaweeds in higher latitudes, can be locally modified by the interaction of a complex of other factors that cannot be determined "a priori". Sargassum cymosum var. oymosum e S. oymosum var. nanum formam densos bancos proximo a franja do infralitoral, respectivamente nos costoes protegidos e batidos na costa sudestes do Brasil. Duas populaes destas variedades foram estudadas na Pona da Fortaleza, Ubatuba, SP, para avaliar a variao mensal da biomassa e densidade das populaes, tamanho, peso e reproduo dos indivduos durante 18 meses. Foram includas neste estudo observaoes sobre as algas epfitas, ou encontradas entre as plantas de Sargassum bem como sobre a populao de ourios que vive sob a cobertura de S. cymosum var. nanum. As duas populaes de Sargassum so perenes, entretanto, somente o apressrio e eixos principais persistem durante todo o ano. Ramos laterais primarios em desenvolvimento, frteis e senescentes so encontrados em todas estaes do ano, sendo continuamente renovados. Em todas as pocas amostradas a biomassa das duas populaes corres^ pondeu a mais que 70% da biomassa total da rea, caracterizando uma comunidade madura do tipo climax. A variao sazonal da densidade dos ourios correlaciona-se positivamente com a variao da biomassa de S. cymosum var. nanum. As interrelaoes entre as populaes destes dois organismos so discutidas destacando-se o papel chave que representam nesta comunidade. Os valores de biomassa de Sargassum mostraram uma marcada variao sazonal , sendo mximos na primavera e mnimos no vero e inicio do outo -no. Esta variao esta relacionada  variaro do peso e compri -mento medios das plantas, embora a variao da densidade tam -bem seja importante no cos to batido. Receptculos maduros sao encontrados em ambas as populaes durante o ano inteiro; entre tanto, a liberao de oocistos parece obedecer a um ritmo endoge no quinzenal que acompanha os perodos de mares baixas. A fenologia das variedades estudadas foi comparada com os dados conhecidos para outras especies de Sargassum nos trpicos e subtrpicos do hemisferio norte. Conclumos que nos trpicos e subtrpicos o papel da luz e temperatura na fenologia das algas marinhas pode ser localmente modificado pela interao de um complexo de outros fatores.
42871880|The study of the family Trigoniaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Trigonia, with 2 species: T. cipoensis Fromm-Trinta & Em. Santos, and T. nivea Camb. var. pubescens (Camb.) Lleras. A key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Trigoniaceae  parte do levantamento da flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela regio pelo gnero Trigonia com 2 espcies: T. cipoensis Fromm-Trinta 8c Em. Santos, e T. nivea Camb. var. pubescens (Camb.) Lleras. So apresentadas chaves para espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871381|A new kind of underground stem is described for Vernonia species from Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais, Brazil) which is characteristic by its positively geotropic manner of growth, presence of buds usually dormant, and the condition of bearing numerous adventitious roots. In analogy with Selaginella, it is suggested the name rhyzophore to this kind of stem. Under natural conditions, in the soil, the lateral buds always give to new rhyzophores. Descreve-se um novo tipo de caule subterrneo que ocorre em espcies de Vernonia da Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais, Brasil), que tem a peculiaridade de apresentar crescimento geotrpico positivo, gemas laterais e um notvel nmero de razes adventceas. Em analogia com o que ocorre em Selaginella, sugere-se o nome rizforo para essa estrutura. Em condies naturais, no solo, suas gemas laterais do sempre origem a novos rizforos.
42871941|Sebastiania nummularifolia I. Cord, a new species in the genus is described from Gro Mogol area, Minas Gerais, Brasil, been included in the section Elachocroton (Baill.) Pax Considerations about its habitat and morphological characteres that differentiate it from other brazilian species in the section are presented. Sebastiania nummularifolia I. Cord, uma nova espcie do gnero  descrita para a regio de Gro Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brasil, sendo includa na seo Elachocroton (Baill.) Pax. So apresentadas consideraes sobre seu habitat e caracteres morfolgicos que a separam das outras espcies brasileiras da seo.
42871572|Three new species and one new variety are described and illustrated to Diplusodon: Diplusodon canastrensis and D. glocimarii, from Minas Gerais, D.cryptanthus and D. punctatus var. dentatus, from Gois and Tocantins, respectively. Two new status, D. foliosus and D. petiolatus, D. paraisoensis synonym and two lectotypifications are presented. Trs novas espcies e uma nova variedade so descritas e ilustradas para o gnero: Diplusodon canastrensis e D. glocimarii, de Minas Gerais, D. cryptanthus e D. punctatus var. dentatus, de Gois e Tocantins. Duas novos status, D. foliosus e D. petiolatus, um novo sinnimo, D. paraisoensis e duas lectotipificaes so apresentadas.
42871326|Sementes de feijoeiro (Phaseolus vulgaris), variedade "bico-de-ouro", foram irradiadas com raios gama de uma fonte de Cs. Mediu-se a velocidade de germinao, a 30C, em teor timo e em excesso de gua de embebio. Dos resultados ressalta-se a germinao significativamente maior (p < 0,05) encontrada aps 24 horas de germinao, com um tratamento de 5 Kr, nos dois teores de gua. Esta diferena permanece como tendncia nas horas seguintes, apesar de no ser detectvel pelo teste estatstico empregado (X). Outras diferenas estatisticamente significativas tambm foram encontradas, principalmente indicando um retardamento ou inibio na germinao. Verificou-se tambm a manuteno da alta germinabilidade das sementes tratadas, mesmo em doses como 120 Kr, quando as sementes so germinadas em condies timas. A germinabilidade revelou-se significativamente menor, em doses altas, quando a germinao ocorre em condies de excesso de gua. Nas doses de 20 Kr e acima, nota-se um retardamento na germinao, principalmente nas primeiras 24 horas. Nas sementes germinadas em teor timo de gua ocorre uma recuperao deste atraso, notvel principalmente aps 40 horas de germinao. Esta recuperao no ocorre em sementes germinadas em excesso de gua de embebio. Sugere-se que este efeito pode ser provocado pela interferncia no metabolismo energtico, importante no fenmeno da recuperao de danos rdio-induzidos, decorrente da menor velocidade de difuso de oxignio nos tecidos submetidos a um excesso de gua de embebio. Os dados obtidos corroboram os resultados apresentados por outros autores que indicam o segundo dia de germinao como fase mais sensvel  ao das radiaes X e gama sobre a germinao de sementes. Bean seeds (Phaseolus vulgaris var. "bico-de-ouro" ) were treated with gamma-rays from a Cs irradiation device. The germination rate was measured at 30C, at two different amounts of soaking water. There was a significant increase (p < 0.05) in germination, after 24 hours, at 5 Kr, both in excess and in optimal soaking water. This difference could not be detected in later hours, but still remained as a tendency. Other statistically different germination amounts were detected, but mainly inhibitory in nature and at heavy doses of radiation. Even at heavy doses a high germinability could be detected when the seeds were germinated with optimal soaking water. With excess of soaking water there was a significant decrease in the germinability. With doses of 20 Kr and above, a marked retardation could be detected, mainly in the first 24 hours. In optimal soaking water this retardation disappears within a few hours, most strikingly in the first 40 hours of germination. This restoration does not occur when the seeds are germinated in excess of soaking water. It is suggested that this effect might occur by interference with energetic metabolism, important component of restitution of radio damaged systems, and as a consequence of decreased diffusion of oxygen through the tissues soaked in excess of water. As previously related by other authors, and also suggested by our results there seems to be a highly sensitive phase in plant germination about the 2nd day of germination.
42871458|The various species of Dioscoreaceae family are well known throughout the world as yams. The genus Dioscorea is most widely distributed and most common in die Americas. Its economic importance as a food source is based on the subterranean organs, in general considered to be tuberous structures. The subterranean system of D. kunthiana has a cauline anatomy and is composed of a non-thickened stem axis and various tuberosities. The roots of die plant arise exclusively from these tuberosities. It is thus concluded that this subterranean stem does not act only as a food storage but functions mainly transporting water and nutrients from the roots to the aerial axis of the plant. These subterranean stems cannot be considered tubers nor rhizomes but rhizophores and constitute a second stem system in the plant. Muitas espcies da famlia Dioscoreaceae so conhecidas no inundo todo como inhame. O gnero Dioscorea  o mais amplamente distribuido e comum no continente americano. O potencial econmico como fonte de alimento  devido aos rgos subterrneos espessados, na maioria das vezes chamados de tubrculos. O sistema subterrneo de D. kunthiana , em grande parte, de estrutura caulinar, composto de um eixo no espessado e varias tuberosidades das quais partem todas as razes da planta. Concluiu-se ento, que este caule subterrneo no  apenas um rgo de reservas nutritivas mas tem como funo principal transportar gua e nutrientes das razes  poro area da planta. Admitiu-se que este caule subterrneo no deveria ser chamado de tubrculo nem de rizoma, mas sim de rizforo e se trata de um segundo sistema caulinar presente na planta.
42871378|A study of the relationship between the ploidy and some morphological features of Nicotiana tabacum L. plants, regenerated from tissue cultures, made it possible to establish four groups of plants (H, D, P and C). The H-plants were haploid, with 24 chromosomes. Their leaves were lanceolate and membranous, with about 11 chloroplasts per stoma. The corolla lobes were pointed and the stigma protruded beyond the corolla tube. Fruits were absent. The D-plants were diploid or aneuploid with chromosome number equal or close to 48. Their leaves were elliptical, leathery, bearing more or less 20 chloroplasts per stoma. The corolla lobes were triangular and the stigma lay in the same plane as the lobes of the tube. Plants almost always bore fruits. The P-plants were polyploid or aneuploid with chromosome number equal or close to 60, 72, 96 or 120. Their leaves were elliptical, ovate or lacerate and always more or less fleshy. Stornata with 30, 40 or more chloroplasts. Flowers were absent or presented blunt corolla lobes. The stigma was hidden in the corolla tube. Plants frequently were sterile or with few fruits. The C-plants showed features that were similar to those of D or P-plants, being characterized by leaves with more or less pronounced spots and mosaics or by their tendency to bear lateral branches showing developmental patterns clearly distinct from those of the main shoot. O estudo das correlaes entre a ploidia de plantas de Nicotiana tabacum L. regeneradas a partir de culturas de tecidos e algumas de suas caractersticas morfolgicas permitiu o reconhecimento de 4 categorias distintas de plantas: H, D, P e C. Na classe H agrupamos as plantas haplides com 24 cromossomos. Estas plantas apresentavam folhas lanceoladas, membranosas e com aproximadamente 11 cloroplastos por estmato. Os lobos da corola eram afilados e o estigma saliente. Nunca chegavam a formar fruto. Na classe D englobamos as plantas diplides e aneuplides com valores iguais ou prximos a 48 cromossomos. As folhas eram elpticas, coriceas, com aproximadamente 20 cloroplastos por estmato. Os lobos da corola eram triangulares e o estigma rente aos lobos do tubo da corola. Quase invariavelmente apresentavam frutos. Na classe P englobamos as plantas poliplides e aneuplides com nmero de cromossomos variando ao redor de 60, 72, 96 e 120. As folhas eram elpticas, ovaladas ou laceradas porm sempre mais ou menos carnosas. O nmero de cloroplastos dos estmatos variava ao redor de 30, 40 ou mais. No apresentavam flores ou quando estas estavam presentes, tinham os lobos da corola arredondados e estigma mergulhado no tubo da corola. Frequentemente eram estreis ou formavam poucos frutos. As plantas da classe C tinham caractersticas similares s das classes D ou P, distinguindo-se destas pela presena de mosaicos mais ou menos extensos nas folhas ou pela tendncia de formarem ramos laterais com aspecto e padro de desenvolvimento diferente daquele do eixo principal.
42871490|A synopsis with delimitation of genus, infrageneric classification, synonymy and comments provided for the species of the northeastern and southeastern regions of Brazil. A key to the subgenera and section and a list of the species recognized in this paper are presented. Two new species are described and illustrated: P. cracens Fryxell & G. L. Esteves and P. rubriphylla G. L. Esteves. Uma sinopse, incluindo a delimitao do gnero, classificao infragenrica, sinnimos e comentrios,  apresentada, com base nas espcies das regies nordeste e sudeste do Brasil. O traballio inclui tambm uma chave de identificao dos subgneros e sees e a relao das espcies situadas nos mesmos. Duas espcies novas so descritas e ilustradas: P. cracens Fryxell & G. L. Esteves e P. rubriphylla G. L. Esteves.
42871436|This study is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area the family Caryocaraceae is represented by only one species: Caryocar brasilense Camb. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, pollination and phenology are presented. O estudo da famlia Caryocaraceae  parte do projeto da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por apenas uma espcie: Caryocar brasiliense Camb. So apresentadas descrio e ilustraes, bem comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, polinizao e fenologia.
42871483|The study of the family Umbelliferae is a part of the project of "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Hydrocotyle (1), Klotzschia (2) and Eryngium (5). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Umbelliferae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada, naquela rea, pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Hydrocotyle (1), Klotzschia (2) and Eryngium (5). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871351|A necessidade de tomar folhas de Curatella americana L. e de reun-las em amostras uniformes para futuros estudos de incorporao de cido silcico, em condies de campo, despertou interesse em estimai a idade de cada uma segundo o grau de desenvolvimento atingido no instante da coleta. Com este objetivo, tentou-se a aplicao do ndice plastocrnico que  a adaptao da funo exponencial ao conceito de plastocrono. Vrios ramos foram coletados e considerados como sendo diferentes estgios de desenvolvimento atingidos por um nico ramo. A rea foi escolhida como parmetro de desenvolvimento e o estgio de referncia fixado em 10 cm. Segundo a descrio original do mtodo, o ndice plastocrnico (P. I.) dos ramos que possuiam, no pice, pelo menos uma folha igual ou menor do que 10 cm, foi calculado por interpolao. Para os ramos que no possuam folhas apicais iguais ou menores do que 10 cm, deduziu-se uma frmula de clculo por extrapolao. O ndice plastocrnico de cada folha (L.P.I.) tambm foi calculado. O mtodo do ndice plastocrnico permitiu agrupar, em uma nica coleta, folhas de idade comparvel, sem necessidade de se realizar medidas de crescimento foliar em funo do tempo. Alm disso, o comprimento, a rea e o peso seco, lanados contra o L.P.I., originaram curvas de crescimento em funo da idade relativa das folhas. Verificou-se, tambm, que cada folha atinge concomitantemente as dimenses mximas daqueles parmetros. The need to take leaves of Curatella americana L. and of assembling them in uniform samples for future studies concerning incorporation of silicic acid under field conditions, suggested an estimate of their ages as they are found on the shoot at the time of collection. For this purpose, an attempt to apply the plastochron index, which is an adaptation of the exponential function to the concept of plastochron, was made. A lot of shoots from different plants were collected and considered to be different developmental stages reached by only one branch during a certain time. The leaf area was chosen as a developmental parameter and a reference stage of 10 cm was fixed. According to the original description of the method, the plastochron index (P.I.) of shoots, bearing a leaf equal or smaller than the reference stage on the apex, was calculated through an interpolation formula. For the determination of the plastochron index of shoots without apical leaves of the required size (equal or smaller than the reference stage), an extrapolation formula was deduced. The plastochron index of each leaf (L.P.I.) was calculated too. The leaves were grouped in classes one L.P.I, long. In this way, the plastochron index method allowed the assembling of leaves at comparable developmental degrees, in a single collection without the need to relate their growth to the time involved. The leaf area, length and dry weight growth curves were obtained in function of the relative age, rendering possible the comparison between the increase of those parameters. It was observed that upper area, length and dry weight values are attained simultaneously by the leaves.
42871671|This study presents a taxonomic treatment of the family Annonaceae in the Serra da Canastra National Park. The Park, comprising 71.525 ha, is located in the southwestern part of the state of Minas Gerais, between 2000'-2030' S and 4615'-4700' W. The elevation of the park generally falls between 900 and 1496 m above the sea level. The predominant vegation types are cerrado, campos rupestres, and mesophytic forest communities along the rivers. Four genera and eight species were found in the Serra da Canastra National Park: Annona coriacea, A. warmingiana, Duguetia furfuracea, D. lanceolata, Guatteria sellowiana, Xylopia aromatica, X. brasiliensis, and X. sericea. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions, illustrations, geographical distribution data, phenology, and comments on the taxa are provided. Este trabalho apresenta o tratamento taxonmico da famlia Annonaceae do Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra. O Parque, que compreende uma rea de 71.525 ha, est situado no sudoeste do Estado de Minas Gerais, entre as coordenadas de 2000'-2030' S e 4615'-4700' W. As altitudes variam de 900 a 1496 m. Os tipos de vegetao predominantes na rea so o cerrado sensu lato, os campos rupestres e as florestas mesofticas, ao longo dos cursos d'gua. Quatro gneros e oito espcies ocorem no Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra: Annona coriacea, A. warmingiana, Duguetia furfuracea, D. lanceolata, Guatteria sellowiana, Xylopia aromatica, X. brasiliensis e X. sericea. So apresentados chaves de identificao para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes, dados sobre distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e comentrios sobre os taxons.
42871435|The study of the family Bombacaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Pseudobombax, with only one species, P. longiflorum (Mart et Zucc). A. Robyns. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Bombacaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Pseudobombax longiflorum (Mart et Zucc.) A. Robyns. So apresentadas descrio, ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica.
42871449|The stems of twenty-two taxa of four sections of Syngonanthus was analysed and classified into three distinct morphological and anatomical patterns: pattern 1 - erect stem axis with endodermis and pericycle evidents, without any type of thickning; pattern 2 - rhizomatous stem with a thickening resulted from the ativity of the pericycle named primary thickening meristem (PTM); pattern 3 - erect stem with axis largely reduced and with a secondary thickening meristem (STM). This patterns was observed into different species and sections of the genus: pattern 1 in Dimorphocaulon and Carphocephalus; pattern 2 in Thysanocephalus and Eulepsis; pattern 3 in Thysanocephalus. O caule de 22 txons de quatro seces do gnero Syngonanthus, Ruhl., que ocorrem nos campos rupestres do Brasil, foi analisado e classificado em trs padres morfolgicos e anatmicos. Padro 1 - caule areo, ereto, com entrens distintos, com endoderme e periciclo evidentes, sem nenhum tipo de espessamento; padro 2 - rizoma, com espessamento resultante da atividade do periciclo, denominado por outros autores, meristema de espessamento primrio (MEP) e padro 3 - caule areo com entrens reduzidos, com crescimento secundrio, resultante da atividade de um meristema de espessamento secundrio (MES). Foi observado que esses padres ocorrem de maneira indistinta nas espcies das diferentes seces do gnero: o padro 1 em Dimorphocaulon e Carphocephalus, o padro 2 em Thysanocephalus e Eulepsis e o padro 3 em Thysanocephalus.
42871320|Um pigmento vermelho, com as caractersticas descritas na literatura para floridorubina, foi extrado de plantas secas de Vidalia obtusiloba. Aps extrao com acetona 70%, purificao com tetracloreto de carbono e separao em cromatografia de camada fina, o pigmento foi analisado em, um espectrofotmetro apresentando um mximo de absoro em 515 nm. Discute-se a convenincia de se trabalhar com plantas secas para a extrao de floridorubina. Floridorubin was extracted from air-dried plants of Vidalia obtusiloba with 70% acetone and purified with carbon tetrachloride. The solution presented the same physical-chemical characteristics described by Feldmann and Tixier (1947 b) for Rytiphlaea tinctoria. With the aid of thin layer chromatography the solution was purified and then spectroscopically analised. The absorption sepectrum showed a maximum at 515 nm. Also included are remarks concerning the convenience of utilising dried specimens.
42871426|The scape of Cypems esculentus and young leaves of Remirea maritima, both Kranz species, were studied. Ultrastructural features reveal a dimorphism between chloroplasts from bundle sheath and mesophyll cells. Bundle sheath of C. esculentus shows chloroplasts with convoluted thylakoid system. Both species show chloroplasts with well-develped peripheral reticulum. Chloroplasts from mesophyll cells have well developed grana. In the scape, Kranz sheath may originate from modified cells of the vascular parenchyma, whereas in the young leaves differentiation occur directly from procambium cells. Foram analisados o escapo de Cyperus esculentus e folhas jovens de Remirea maritima, ambas espcies Kranz. Ocorre dimorfismo estrutural entre os cloroplastos das clulas da bainha e dos mesofilo. C. esculentus tem os cloroplastos da bainha com tilacoides convolutos e em ambas as espcies, o retculo perifrico  conspcuo. Os cloroplastos do mesofilo tm granos estruturados. A anlise do escapo mostra que a bainha Kranz pode originar-se a partir de modificaes das clulas do parnquima dos tecidos vasculares, enquanto que nas folhas jovens a diferenciao ocorre diretamente a partir do procmbio.
42871364|Seeds of Phasolus vulgaris L cv bico-de-ouro were irradiated with gamma-ray doses ranging from 1.2 kR to 80 kR. The seeds were soaked during 48 hours at 27 C in water or in a 10 mg/1 solution of gibberellic acid (GA). The plantlets were harvested 5 days after planting and their hypocotil and epicotyl length were measured. The growth of these structures was significantly increased after GA treatment. It is concluded that post-irradiation GA treatments show modulatory effects reducing the severity of the radiation-induced growth inhibitions to the plantlets. Sementes de Phasolus vulgaris L cv bico-de-ouro foram irradiadas com raios gama nas doses 1,2 kR at 80 kR. Em seguida foram colocadas para. germinar, durante 48 horas, a 27 C, em gua ou em uma soluo de 10 mg/1 de cido giberlico (AG). Decorridos 5 dias aps o plantio das sementes germinadas medu-se o comprimento do hipoctlo e do epictilo. O tratamento com AG promoveu, de modo estatisticamente significativo, o crescimento destes rgos. O tratamento com AG demonstrou caractersticas modulatrias, reduzindo a inibio do crescimento das plntulas provenientes das sementes irradiadas.
42871355|Efetuaram-se ensaios fitoqumicos nas folhas, casca do caule, lenho do caule, casca da raiz e lenho da raiz de 21 espcies do Cerrado. Tem-se abaixo o nmero de espcies que revelaram a presena das seguintes classes de compostos: saponinas  20, taninos  12, mucilagem  3, flavonides  7, cumarinas  1, antraderivados  0, alcalides  5, leo essencial  5, triterpenides  9 e leo resina  1. Phytochemical essays were made on leaves, stem bark, stem wood, root bark and root wood of 21 "Cerrado" species. Given below are the types of compounds and the number of species on which they are presented: saponins  20, tannins  12, mucilage  3, flavonoids  7, antracompounds . 0, alkaloids  5, essential oils  5, triterpenoids  9 and resin oils  1.
42871459|The study of floral vascularization of seven Xyris species (X. asperula Mart., X. filifolia Alb. Nilsson, X. hymenachne Mart., X laxifolia Mart., X paradisiaca Wanderley, X seubertii Alb. Nils-son, X vernina Malme) shows that the vascular suply of all verticills come from four fundamental complex: three spal staminode-lateral-petal complex e one petal-stamen-carpel complex. The lateral bundle traces of petals and the bundle traces of starnino des derive at the some level and come from the same complex; it may suggest that in Xyris the corola is a compound structure. O estudo da vascularizao floral de 7 espcies de Xyris (X. asperula Mart., X filifolia Alb. Nilsson, X. hymenachne Mart., X laxifolia Mart., X paradisiaca Wanderley, X. seubertii Alb. Nilsson, X. vernina Malme) mostrou que o suprimento vascular de todos os verticiclos provm de 4 complexos fundamentais: 3 complexos spalo-estaminide-ptalos-laterais e 1 complexo ptalo-estamino-carpelar. Os traos laterais de ptalas se originam do mesmo complexo e na mesma altura que os traos de estamindios; por esse motivo, a corola em Xyris foi interpretada como uma estrutura composta.
42871471|The study of the family Balanophoraceae is a part of the project of "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented only by the species Langsdorffia hypogaea Mart.. Descriptions and illustrations, as well comments on the geographic distributions and variability are presented. O estudo da famlia Balanophoraceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea apenas pela espcie Langsdorffia hypogaea Mart.. Sera apresentada a descrio da espcie acompanhada de ilustraes e comentrios acerca da distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871946|The study of the family Rutaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Esenbeckia febrfuga (St. Hil.) Adr. Juss. ex Mart., E. grandiflora Mart, subsp. grandiflora, Gatipea multflora Schultes, Zanthoxylum rhoifotiwn Lam. and Dictyoloma vandellianum Adr. Juss. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Rutaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea, pelas espcies: Esenbeckia febrfuga (St. Hil.) Adr. Juss. ex Mart., E. grandiflora Mart, subsp. grandiflora, Galipea multiflora Schultes, Zanthoxylum rhoifolium Lam. e Dictyoloma vandellianum Adr. Juss. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871373|The first seaweed flora of a Brazilian region was published by Joly in 1957, in a paper that is considered a milestone in Brazilian Phycology. In that paper Joly referred to the existence in the Santos Bay area, of 105 species, being 4 Cyanophyceae, 22 Chlorophyceae, 16 Phaeophyceae and 63 Rhodophyceae. In a survey carry out between 1976-1978, collecting in the very same places visited by Joly we were able to find out only 68 species, being 4 Cyanophyceae, 19 Chlorophyceae, 6 Phaeophyceae and 39 Rhodophyceae. Of these 68 species, 17 represent newcomers into the area, which makes the number of former species that are no longer in the area to rise to 54 species. This means that over 50% of the original flora have disappeared from the area in a period of 20 years. The data also show that the brown algae were the most sensitive group to the environmental changes, since its decrease amounted to 62,5%. A comparasion between the proportion of the groups in the fifties and in the seventies shows a small decrease in the red and a relative increase in the percentage of green and blue-green algae. Though the general pollution of the Santos region was not monitored in the period, it is notorious and is supposed to be responsible for most of the detected changes. The comparison of the Santos flora with that of neighbour regions points out that pollution should already had its influence on the floristic composition of the area even in the fifities. O primeiro trabalho com carter de flora a tratar das algas marinhas do Brasil foi publicado por Joly, em 1957, sobre a flora marinha da regio de Santos, tendo-se constituido no marco mais significativo da Ficologia Brasileira. No referido trabalho Joly refere a existncia de 105 espcies sendo 4 Cianofceas, 22 Clorofceas, 16 Feofceas e 63 Rodofceas. Em levantamento que efetuamos no perodo de 1976-1978, coletando exatamente nos mesmos pontos visitados por Joly, encontramos apenas 68 espcies, sendo 4 Cianofceas, 19 Clorofceas, 6 Feofceas e 39 Rodofceas. Destas 68 espcies, 17 devem ter sido introduzidas recentemente e constituem novas referncias para a rea o que aumenta para 54 o nmero de espcies que existiam anteriormente na regio e que no so mais encontradas no local. Isto significa que mais de 50% da flora original desapareceu nos ltimos 20 anos. Os dados mostram ainda que as algas pardas foram as mais sensveis as mudanas ambientais tendo havido uma diminuio de 62,5% no nmero de espcies que exisjtiam na regio na dcada de 50. Uma comparao da proporo de cada grupo nas dcadas de 50 e 70 evidencia que houve uma pequena reduo na representaodas algas vermelhas e um aumento relativo na representao das algas verdes e azuis. Embora a poluio geral da Baa de Santos no tenha sido monitoreada nestes 20 anos seu aumento  notrio e a ela devem ser atribuidas a maior parte das alteraes detectadas na flora. A comparao da flora de Santos com a de regies limtrofes leva  concluso de que os efeitos da poluio j deviam exercer sua influncia na composio florstica da regio mesmo na dcada de 50.
42871944|The study of the family Hippocrateaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Cheiloclinium cognatum (Miers) A.C.Sm., Peritassa campestris (Camb.) A.C.Sm. and Tontelea micrantha (Mart.) A.C.Sm. Key to the genera, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, habitats and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famflia Hippocrateaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelas espcies: Cheilocliniwn cognatum (Miers) A.C.Sm., Peritassa campestris (Camb.) A.C.Sm. e Tontelea micrantha (Mart.) A.C.Sm. So apresentadas chave para gneros, descries e ilustraes das espcies, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, habitat e variabilidade.
42871491|Five new brazilian species of Philodendron: P. altomacaense, P. appendiculatum, P fragile, P. hatschbachii e P. roseopetiolatum are described and illustrated, three of these species are endemic to the state of Rio de Janeiro. All the species belong to the subgenus Philodendron, section Calostigma (Schott) Pfeiffer and subsection Macrobelium (Schott) Engler because they have climbing stem, of 7-12 locules with 3-5 ovules per locule positioned near the base of the ovary. Commentaries about morphological characters, geographical distribution and conservation status according to the criteria of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) are presented. Cinco novas espcies brasileiras de Philodendron so descritas e ilustradas: P. altomacaense, P. appendiculatum, P fragile, P. hatschbachii e P. roseopetiolatum, sendo trs delas endmicas do estado do Rio de Janeiro. Todas as espcies pertencem ao subgnero Philodendron, seo Calostigma (Schott) Pfeiffer e subseo Macrobelium (Schott) Engler por apresentarem caule escandente, de 7-12 lculos com 3-5 vulos por lculo, inseridos prximo a base do ovrio. Comentarios acerca das caractersticas morfolgicas, distribuio geogrfica e categoria das espcies sob risco pelos critrios da International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) so fornecidos.
42871334|Cormos de Gladiolus x gandavensis van Houtte foram irradiados com doses agudas e com doses que foram fracionadas em geraes vegetativas sucessivas, de raios gama de uma fonte de Cs. Tratamentos agudos com 4 Kr no apresentaram resultados consistentes, quando repetidos. Em dois tratamentos houve uma significativa (p < 0,05) precocidade na ntese da primeira flor, porm em dois outros tratamentos no foram constatadas diferenas significativas. Doses agudas de 8, 12 e 16 Kr tambm no apresentaram diferenas significativas no tempo para ntese da primeira flor. Tratamentos de 4 Kr, administrados a duas, trs e quatro geraes consecutivas, resultaram em precocidade altamente significativa (p < 0,01) na florao. Os resultados demonstram que o fracionamento das doses pode estimular significativamente a florao destas plantas. Sugere-se que os cormos descendentes dos irradiados, apresentam uma maior sensibilidade  induo de florao precoce e que possivelmente o fenmeno na stimulao da florao de Gladiolus x gandavensis depende da radiosensibilidade do material tratado. Corms of Gladiolus x gandavensis van Houtte were treated with acute and fractionated doses of gamma rays from a Cs source. Acute treatments with 4 Kr did not result in consistent effects, on repetition. In two of the treatments, there was a significant (p < 0.05) stimulatory effect on the anthesis of the first flower, but in two repetitions this effect could not be detected. Acute doses of 8, 12 and 16 Kr also did not present any significant differences in the time for anthesis of the first flower. The dose fractionation of 4 Kr on two, three and four consecutive vegetative generations resulted in highly significant (p < 0.01) flowering stimulation. The results demonstrate that, while acute doses do not stimulate anthesis, the same doses when fractionated on consecutive vegetative generations, do stimulate the flowering of the irradiated material. It is suggested that the corms derived from irradiated ones are more sensitive to floral stimulation and that the flowering stimulation in Gladiolus x gandavensis might depend on the radio-sensibility of the treated material.
42871314|O trabalho se refere s Chlorophyta bentnicas do Litoral Sul do Estado de So Paulo e do Litoral do Estado do Paran. Apresentamos descries de ordens, famlias, gneros e espcies com ilustraes de estruturas que consideramos importantes; chaves dicotmicas artificiais para identificao de famlias, gneros e espcies, bem como, uma chave geral dicotomica para identificao de gneros estudados. So tratados taxonomicamente 5 ordens, 9 famlias, 14 gneros e 33-espcies. As seguintes espcies so citadas pela primeira vez para as costas brasileiras: Enteromorpha micrococca, Enteromorpha ramulosa, Chaetomorpha minima, Cladophora brachyclados e Chaetomorpha nodosa. Apresentamos dados ecolgicos, poca de reproduo bem como distribuio das espcies nas estaes de coleta visitadas e um resumo da distribuio geogrfica. The present paper deals with benthic Chlorophyta from the coast of So Paulo West of Santos and the coast of Paran State. The paper presents descriptions of orders, families, genera and species with illustrations of significant structures. Artificial dichotomous keys for identification of families, genera and species are also given, as well as a general dichotomous key for identification of genera. Of the material studied, 5 orders, 9 families, 14 gnera and 33 species belong to the Chlorophyta. The following species are cited for the first time for the Brazilian coast: Enteromorpha micrococca, Enteromorpha ramulosa, Chaetomorpha minima, Chaetomorpha nodosa and Cladophora brachyclados. Ecological data are given, as well as reproduction period and distribution of plants in the areas visited. A summary of the general geographical distribution is also given.
42871463|A marginal cerrado area was analysed in Emas district, Pirassununga municipality, So Paulo State (approximately 4730'W and 2202'S). The floristic survey was carried out in 16 field trips, at 20-30 days intervals. All vascular plants in reproductive stage were collected and, then, pressed and identified. A total of 358 species, from 227 genera and 78 families, was found. The cerrado flora as a whole and its two components, woody and herbaceous, were analysed separately. The most important families were: Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Poaceae and Rubiaceae in the flora as a whole; Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae and Rubiaceae in the herbaceous component; and Myrtaceae, Fabaceae and Rubiaceae in the woody one. No presente trabalho, estudou-se uma rea de cerrado situada no distrito de Emas, muncipio de Pirassununga, So Paulo (aproximadamente, 4730'W e 2202'S). O levantamento florstico da rea foi efetuado em 16 excurses de coleta, com intervalos de 20 a 30 dias. O material em fase florfera e/ou frutfera ou de formao de esporos foi coletado e, posteriormente, prensado e identificado a nvel especfico. Foram encontradas 358 espcies, pertencentes a 227 gneros e 78 famlias. A flora como um todo e seus componentes herbceo-subarbustivo e arbustivo-arbreo foram analisados separadamente. As famlias que se destacaram foram: Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Poaceae e Rubiaceae na flora como um todo; Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae e Rubiaceae no componente herbceo-subarbustivo; e Myrtaceae, Fabaceae e Rubiaceae no componente arbustivo-arbreo.
42871370|The early stolons of O. latifolia shows two different zones: the tip zone or incipient bulbil and the basal zone or slender region of the stolon. In the axis of the bulbil, the differentiation of the vascular tissues stars from longitudinal procambium strands which proceed to form a continuous cylinder filled by the pith. Three bundles direct themselves to each scale, and the trace of the central bundle leaves a gap; later, the axis forms a secondary structure. The scales have three or five bundles immersed in a storage parenchyma, and between each bundle and the epidermis of the abaxial side, lysigenous secretory cavities with tannic content occur. In the scales with five bundles, the two bundles close to the margin seem to belong to stipules which became welded. The stolons has a stem structure, but the cortex is very developed and the endodermis is similar to that of the root. With the rise of the secondary structure, short longitudinal strips of phellogen are formed, which give origin to a discontinuous periderm; a continuous periderm is formed later, starting from a uniform phellogen situated in deeper layers of the cortex. O estolo muito jovem de O. latifolia j apresenta incio de separao em duas regies distintas: a terminal ou bulbilho incipiente e a basal ou poro delgada do estolo. No eixo do bulbilho, a diferenciao dos tecidos vasculares realiza-se a partir de cordes longitudinais de procmbio que acabam formando um cilindro contnuo, preenchido pela medula. Para cada escama dirigem-se trs feixes e o trao do feixe central deixa uma lacuna; posteriormente, o eixo forma estrutura secundria. As escamas possuem trs ou cinco feixes imersos num parnchima amilfero e, entre cada feixe e a epiderme da face abaxial, ocorrem cavidades secretoras lisigenas, com contedo tnico. Nas escamas com cinco feixes, os dois prximos  margem, parecem pertencer a estpulas que se soldaram. A poro delgada do estolo tem estrutura caulinar, porm, o crtex  bastante desenvolvido e a endoderme assemelha-se  da raiz. Com o incio da estrutura secundria, formam-se, no crtex, faixas longitudinais, curtas, de felognio, gue do origem a uma periderme descontnua; posteriormente, h formao de uma periderme contnua, a partir de um felognio uniforme, situado em camadas mais profundas do crtex.
42871887|The study of the family Chloranthaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Hedyosmum, with only one species, H. brasiliense Mart. ex Miq. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Chloranthaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Hedyosmum brasiliense Mart. ex Miq. So apresentadas descrio, ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica.
42871348|Entre as observaes feitas, salienta-se que as antpodas sofrem proliferao aps a fecundao da oosfera, dando origem a um tecido haustorial, responsvel pela translocao de nutrientes para o interior do vulo. Tais clulas so, a princpio, multinucleadas. Na semente, este mesmo tecido constitui o obturador. Com relac ao endosperma, verificou-se que  do tipo nuclear, que as suas clulas se formam de maneira centrpeta e que os ncleos de suas clulas so multinucleololadas. Alm disso, a camada externa do endosperma apresenta capacidade de formar novas clulas para o interior, clulas estas que acumulam substncias nutritivas (amido e corpsculos proteicos). Outra observao feita  de que as sinrgides podem sofrer uma proliferao e, tambm, que o tegumento interno, que no vulo constitui o tapetum tegumentar, na semente origina um tecido protetor, com clulas mucilaginosas e clulas com espessamento em U. A study on the megasporogenesis, megagametogenesis and embryogenesis of Velloziaceae revealed that the antipodal cells became proliferate after fertilization and give rise to a haustorial tissue, which is responsable for the nutrient translocation in the ovule. These cells are, at first, multinucleate. That haustorial tissue became an obturador in the seed. The endosperm is nuclear, its cells have many nucleoli and its peripheral layer functions like a cambium and produces on its inside, a series of thin-walled cells which became packed with starch and proteins bodies. It was noted a synergid's proliferation and an inner integument which gives the tegumentar tapetum in the ovule, originating a protector tissue in seed, with mucilaginous cells and cells with U thickning.
42871498|This study of the family Verbenaceae is part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". The family is represented in that area by the following genera: Aegiphila Jacq. (3 species), Aloysia Ort. & Palau., (1 specie), Lantana L.,(1 specie), Lippia L, (8 species), Stachytarpheta Vahl., (4 species) and Vitex L, (1 specie). Analytical keys for genera and species, descriptions, illustrations, ecological, phytogeographical and fenological data are provided.. Este estudo  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A famlia Verbenaceae est representada na regio pelos gneros Aegiphila Jacq., com 3 espcies, Aloysia Ort. & Palau., 1 espcie, Lantana L., 1 espcie, Lippia L., 8 espcies, Stachytarpheta Vahl., 4 espcies e Vitex L., 1 espcie. So fornecidas chaves analticas para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes e dados ecolgicos, fitogeogrficos e fenolgicos.
42871354|This paper refers to the finding of Avrainvillea longicaulis (Ktzing) Murray et Boodle, Caulerpa floridana Taylor, Siphonocladus rigidus Howe e Siphonockdus tropicus (Crouan) J. Agardh, in deep water at several points along the north-eastern coast of Brazil. These species were previously known to occur only in Caribbean region in tthe North Atlantic. Refere-se ao encontro das espcies Avrainvillea longicaulis (Ktzing) Murray et Boodle, Caulerpa floridana Taylor, Siphonocladus rigidus Howe e Siphonocladus tropicus (Crouan) J. Agardh na costa nordeste do Brasil. Estas plantas foram obtidas por dragagens efetuadas pelos navios "Canopus" e "Almirante Saldanha". As espcies eram anteriormente conhecidas do litoral americano apenas da regio carabica, no Atlntico Norte.
42871945|The study of the family Clethraceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". The family Clethraceae consists of the single genus Clethra, in that area represented by Clethra scabra Pers. O estudo da famlia Clethraceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Essa famlia consiste apenas de um nico gnero Clethra, representado naquela rea por Clethra scabra Pers.
42871327|Foi estudada a vascularizao do gineceu em doze espcies de Lecythidaceae. Foram elas: Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Gras fendleri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Holopyxidium jaranum (Huber) Ducke e Lecythis pisonis Camb. A estrutura principal  o complexo reticular que se origina dos feixes fundamentais do sistema vascular floral. A partir do complexo reticular, em diferentes nveis, divergem feixes placentrios. Tais feixes, em sua maioria, atingem o eixo placentrio atravs dos septos. Os vulos so vascularizados por ramos dos feixes placentrios. Os feixes ventrais, dorsais e laterais formam o complexo reticular. Evidenciam-se a partir desta estrutura em determinados nveis da flor. Em tais feixes foram tambm estudados: nmero, trajeto e outros aspectos. Demonstrou-se tambm que em Lecythidaceae o ovrio infero  do tipo apendicular. The gynoecium vascularization of twelve species of Lecythidaceae was studied. These were: Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Grias fendleri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Holopyxidium jaranum (Huber) Ducke, and Lecythis pisonis Camb. The main structure is the reticular complex that has its origin in the fundamental bundles of the floral vascular system. Placental bundles diverge from the reticular complex at different levels. Most of these bundles reach the placental axis through the septa. Ovule vascular bundles are branches of these placental bundles. The ventral, dorsal and lateral bundles form the reticular complex. They become evident from this structure at certain levels in the flower. The number, course and other features were also studied in such bundles. It was also demonstrated in the Lecythidaceae that the inferior ovary belongs to the appendicular type.
42871374|The new combination Blastocaulon scirpeum (Mart.) Giul. is proposed based on Paepalanthus scirpeus Mart., since in Paepalanthus the staminate flowers in all species have fourcelled anters, whereas in Blastocaulon the anther is typically two celled. Apresenta-se a nova combinao Blastocaulon scirpeum (Mart.) Giul. baseada em Paeptalanthus scirpeus Mart. A caracterstica principal da espcie, que justificou a nova combinao,  a presena de anteras com dois sacos polnicos.
42871487|The family Thymelaeaceae is represented in Brazil by six genera and ca. 28 species; palynological studies of 21 Brazilian species, belonging to two tribes were carried out: tribe Daphneae-Daphnopsis (14 spp.) and Funifera (2 spp.); tribe Dicranolepideae-Goodallia(1 sp.), Lasiadenia (1 sp.) and Lophostomn (3 spp.); and Schoenobiblus (tribe Daphneae) one species from Trinidad here examined to characterize the genus. The pollen grains are medium in size (large only in Funifera brasiliensis), apoiar, spherical, pantoporate with circular pores, sexine thicker than nexine, with two types of ornamentation: Croion-pattern and crotonoid pattern (defined through light microscopy, SEM and TEM). The first one occurs in all the species except Daphnopsis aemygdioi, D. alpestris, D. flipedunculata, D. martii, and D. pseudosalix, with crotonoid pattern. It was not possible to segregate the genera of the two tribes using pollen characters. However it was possible to make pollinic keys for the genera with more than one species (Daphnopsis, Funifera and Lophostoma). Foi estudada a morfologia polnica de 21 espcies brasileiras da famlia Thymelaeaceae (representada no Brasil por seis gneros e ca. 28 espcies), pertencentes  tribo Daphneae - Daphnopsis (14 spp.), Funifera (2spp.), e  tribo Dicranolepideae - Goodallia(1 sp.), Lasiadenia (1 sp.) e Lophostoma (3 spp.), e uma espcie de Trinidad - Schoenobiblus (tribo Daphneae), examinada para caracterizao do gnero. Os gros de plen estudados so de tamanho mdio (grande em Funi fera brasiliensis), apoiares, esfricos, pantoporados com poros circulares, sexina mais espessa do que a nexina, com dois tipos de ornamentao: padro-Croton e crotonide (definidos sob microscopia ptica, MEV e MET). O padmo-Croton ocorre em todos os taxons estudados, exceto em Daphnopsis aemygdioi, D. alpestris, D. filipedunculata, D. martii e D. pseudosalix, cujo padro  o crotonide. Os caracteres polnicos no permitiram diferenar os gneros das duas tribos; para os taxons com mais de uma espcie (Daphnopsis, Funifera e Lophostoma) foram elaboradas chaves polnicas especficas.
42871580|This study deals with the Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) of the National Park of the Serra da Canastra, state of Minas Gerais. The park is situated between 2000'-2030'S and 4615'-4700'W, and occupies about 71525 ha. Altitudes range generally from 900 to 1200 m, reaching a maximum of 1496 m. The principal vegation types are cerrado s.l. and campo rupestre; mesophytic forest communities can be found along creeks and rivers. There are nine genera and 25 species of Asclepiadoideae within the National Park of the Serra da Canastra, three of these being recently described: Barjonia erecta, B. cf. laxa, Blepharodon ampliflorum, B. lineare, B. nitidum, Ditassa acerosa, D. cordata, D. lenheirensis, D. obcordata, D. insignis, D. obscura, Hemipogon acerosus, Jobinia lindbergii, Macroditassa adnata, Nautonia nummularia, Oxypetalum appendiculatum, O. capitatum, O. erectum, O. foliosum, O. habrogynum, O. helios, O. insigne, O. warmingii, O. pachygynum and Tassadia propinqua. Keys for the genera and species, descriptions, illustrations, notes on geographic distribution and phenologycal information, and comments about the taxa are provided. Este trabalho trata das Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) do Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra, que possui 71.525 h. e est localizado no sudoeste de Minas Gerais, entre as coordenadas 2000'-2030'S e 4615'-4700' W. As cotas altimtricas variam entre 900 e 1200 m, atingindo um mximo de 1496 m. Dentre as formaes vegetais predomina o cerrado s.l., seguido do campo rupestre, mas podem ser encontradas florestas mesofiticas ao longo dos cursos d'gua. No Parque Nacional da Serra da Canastra ocorrem nove gneros e 25 espcies de Asclepiadoideae, sendo trs recentemente descritas: Barjonia erecta, B. cf. laxa, Blepharodon ampliflorum, B. lineare, B. nitidum, Ditassa acerosa, D. cordata, D. lenheirensis, D. obcordata, D. insignis, D. obscura, Hemipogon acerosus, Jobinia lindbergii, Macroditassa adnata, Nautonia nummularia, Oxypetalum appendiculatum, O. capitatum, O. erectum, O. foliosums, O. habrogynum, O. helios, O. insigne, O. pachygynum, O. warmingii e Tassadia propinqua. So apresentadas chaves de identificao para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes, informaes sobre distribuio geogrfica e fenologia, alm de comentrios sobre os txons.
42871360|Este trabalho tem por objetivo descrever a propagao vegetativa de Oxalis, latifolia Kunth, alm de fornecer subsdios para o conhecimento da anatomia da espcie. A propagao assexuada d-se, atravs de bulbos; as escamas mais externas e intermedirias originam folhas e segue-se a formao de estoles da axila das escamas mais internas, cada um com um bulbilho na extremidade. Em seguida, o eixo principal do sistema radicular forma uma raiz temporria que, de incio, acumula reservas e posteriormente, contrai-se aprofundando o bulbo no solo. Simultaneamente, ocorre a florao e, numa fase posterior, os estoles degeneram, isolando os bulbilhos que originaro novos indivduos. The purpose of this paper is to describe the vegetative propagation of Oxalis latifolia Kunth and constitute valuable data for the knowledge of the anatomy of the species. The asexual propagation is by means of bulbs. External and intermediate scales of the bulbs originate leaves; the formation of stolons follows from the axil of the internal scales, each one with a bulbil in its extremity. Afterwards, the main axis of the root system will acquire a temporary root which, at the beginning, accumulates reserves and, later, contracts itself, pushing the bulb deep into the soil. The blooming occurs simultaneously, and in a posterior phase the stolons degenerate, isolating the bulbils which give rise to new individuals.
42871352|Estudou-se o pice da inflorescencia de Leiothrix fluitane (Eriocaulaceae). Tal espcie apresenta uma forma de reproduo vegetativa atravs de um tipo de brotamento. Este  originado pelas clulas meristemticas apicais do eixo da inflorescencia madura aps a produo de todas as flores. O pice reprodutivo foi observado em inflorescencias jovens e maduras e comparado com o pice vegetativo de um brotamento. Os dois tipos de meristema apresentam a organizao bsica tnicacorpo. The inflorescence apex of Leiothrix fluitans (Eriocaulaceae) was studied. This species shows vegetative reproduction by means of a sprouting. This is originated by the apical meristematic cells of the axis of mature inflorescence after the production of all flowers. The reproductive apex was observed in young and mature inflorescences and compared with the vegetative apex of a sprouting.
42871466|Fifteen taxa of Drosera (Droseraceae) are recognized to Brazil. Identification keys, descriptions and comments for all taxa are included. Lectotypes are designated for Drosera montana var. schwackei and D. villosa var. latifolia. Neste trabalho  apresentado o levantamento das Droseraceae do Brasil. So reconhecidos 15 txons pertencentes ao gnero Drosera, para os quais so apresentados chaves para identificao incluindo as espcies e variedades, descries, ilustraes e comentrios. So designados lecttipos para Drosera montana var. schwackei e D. villosa var. latifolia.
42871411|This study is part of the general floristic survey of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The subfamily Chloridoideae (Gramineae) is represented in that area by the genera Aristida L., with 8 species, Ctenium Panzer, 3 species, Era grostis Wolf, 6 species, Gymnopogon Beauv., 1 species and Sporobolus (L.) R. Br., with 5 species. Analytical keys for genera and species, descriptions, illustrations, ecological and phytogeographical data are provided. Five new synonyms are proposed. Este estudo  parte do levantamento da flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A subfamilia Chloridoideae (Gramineae) est representada pelos gneros Aristida L., com 8 espcies, Ctenium Panzer, 3 espcies, Eragrostis Wolf, 6 espcies, Gymnopogon Beauv., 1 espcie e Sporobolus (L.) R. Br., com 5 espcies. So fornecidas chaves analticas para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes, dados ecolgicos e ftogeogrfcos. Cinco novos sinnimos so propostos.
42871337|Efetuou-se um estudo de vascularizao do androceu em flores de doze espcies de Lecythidaceae. Tais espcies foram: Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Grias fendteri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Holopyxidium jaranum (Huber) Ducke e Lecythis pisonis Camb. A principal estrutura morfolgica do androceu nesta famlia  o produto da fuso dos numerosos estmes e no pode ser considerada como um andrforo. Foi demonstrada a presena de fascculos de estames no androceu, cada um destes associado a um tronco de suprimento vascular, que  o trao do fascculo de estames. Androecium vascularization was studied in twelve species of the Lecythidaceae: Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Grias fendleri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Holopyxidium jaranum (Huber) Ducke and Lecythis pisonis Camb. The androecium in this family is the product of the fusion of the numerous stamens. This structure cannot be considered an androphore. The presence of stamen fascicles in the androecium was confirmed. Each stamen fascicle is associated with a trunk vascular supply (stamen fascicle trace).
42871397|A method for thin layer Chromatographic separation of classes of common constituents of plant waxes is described. A device is suggested, which enables the simultaneous development of up to 12 plates for preparative work. Descreve-se um mtodo para separao de classes de constituintes comuns de ceras vegetais por cromatografia em camada delada. Um dispositivo que permite o desenvolvimento simultneo de at 12 placas para trabalhos preparativos  apresentado.
42871414|This paper deals with a taxonomic survey on Lythraceae species from Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, and is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra of Cip". Seventeen Lythraceae species were identified, representing three genus: Cuphea P.Br. (11 species), Diplusodon Pohl (4 species) e Lafoensia Vand. (2 species): This paper shows identification keys, description and illustration, including comments on morphologic variation, taxonomy and geographic distribution. Este trabalho trata do estudo taxonmico das espcies de Lythraceae da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil, como parte do levantamento da flora da regio. A familia est representada na regio pelo gnero Cuphea P. Br. (11 especies), Diplusodon Pohl (4 espcies) e Lafoensia Vand. (2 espcies). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, incluindo-se tambm comentrios sobre a variabilidade, fenologia e distribuio geogrfica.
42871427|Three types of steins of Xyris spinulosa Krai & Smith, Xyris pterigoblephara Steud e Xyris dawsonii Smith & Downs, morphologically distinct from each other, were analyzed in terms of anatomical organization. In the species studied, the vascular system of the stem can be subdivided as follows: a) the system of amphivasal axial bundles, prolonged into leaf traces and fundamental bundles of the inflorescence; these occupy the central portion of the stem: b) the vascular system of the base of the adventicious roots, which originate at the limit of the central cylinder and c) the system of peripheral networks, which delimits the region of the vascular cylinder and effects intercommunication between leaf and root, thus connecting the former systems. Both the adventicious roots and the peripheral vascular networks arise from the region of apical meristem, called primary thickening meristem (PTM). Foram estudados sob o aspecto anatmico trs tipos de caules, morfologicamente bastante distintos, presentes nas espcies Xyris spinulosa Kral & Smith, Xyris pterigoblephara Steud e Xyris dawsonii Smith & Downs. O sistema vascular do caule das espcies estudadas, pode ser subdividido nas seguintes unidades: a) o sistema de feixes anfivasais, que se prolongam em traos foliares e feixes fundamentais de inflorescencia, e que ocupam a poro central do caule; b) o sistema vascular da base das razes adventcias, que se origina no limite do cilindro central e c) o sistema de plexos perifricos, que delimita a regio do cilindro vascular e efetua a intercomunicao folha-raiz, integrando os sistemas anteriores. Tanto as razes adventcias, como os plexos vasculares perifricos originam-se a partir da regio do meristema apical, denominada meristema de espessamento primrio (MEP).
42871346|Estudaram-se os pices de inflorescncias de doze espcies de Eriocaulaceae. No se originam flores, nem brcteas e nem tricomas na regio central destes pices. Alm disto, na maioria dos casos, tal regio se apresenta cncava. Nas espcies pesquisadas no ocQrre reproduo vegetativa a partir da inflorescencia. As espcies estudadas foram as seguintes: Eriocaulon elichrysoides, Leiothrix arecha valetae, Leiothrix curvifolia, Leiothrix sclerophylla, Paepalanthus barbiger, Paepahnthus bromelioides, Paepalanthus Miarei, Paepalanthus paulinus, Paepalanthus planifolius, Syngonanthus hthemidiflorus, Syngonanhthus fuscescens e Syngonanthus vernonioides. Inflorescence apices of twelve species of Eriocaulaceae were studied. Flowers, bracts and trichomes are absent in the central region of these apices. Furthermore this region is concave in most cases. Vegetative reproduction from inflorescence does not occur in those species. The following species were studied: Eriocaulon elichrysoides, Leiothrix arechavaletae, Leiothrix curvifolia, Leiothrix sclerophylla, Paepalanthus barbiger, Paepalanthus bromelioides, Paepalanthus hilarei, Paepalanthus paulinus, Paepalanthus planifolius, Syngonanthus anthemidiflorus, Syngonanthus fuscescens and Syngonanthus vernonioides.
42871388|This paper studies the rate of leaf-litter decomposition of four tree species of an evergreen sazonal forest (2333'S, 4643'W, 765-735 m Alt., State of So Paulo - Brazil) : Cedrella fissilis Vell. (Meliaceae) and Alahornea sidifolia Mull. Arg. (Euphorbiaceae) of the upper stratum; Guarea tuberaulata Vell. (Meliaceae) and Rudgea jasminoides (Cham.) Mull. Arg. (Rubiaceae) of the secondary stratum. Samples of freshly fallen leaves of each species and mixed sample contained in meshed nylon bags were left to decay on the forest floor during 6 months (experiment started at the beginning of the drier and cooler season) and 12 months (start at the onset of the rainny season). In the first lot of the experiment, the loss of dry matter after 4 driest months was around 10-20% and after 6 months, 35-50%. In the second lot of experiment, the weight loss after the 3 rainny months attained 30-50%, beeing 40-60% after 6 months. At the end of experiment, 12 months later, the remainning organic mate rial was between 45-25%. Carbon content of leaf samples declined more consistently at the beginning of decay process but nitrogen and phosphorus contents remained quite constant and the liberation of these elements followed the loss of dry matter Potassium, calcium and magnesium contents showed more accentut ed decline during the first six months decomposition. Two widely used expressions for decomposition rate were used: the exponential decay rate k and half-decomposition time, t. 50%. The highest k value was found for the leaves of Alohornea and Rudgea, followed by Guarea and Cedrela. The mixed sample showed an intermediate value. The half-decomposition time was estimated around 5-6 months for Alehornea and Rudgea species and 8 months for Guarea and Cedrela. O presente trabalho trata da decomposio do material foliar recm-cado de 4 espcies arbreas de uma mata mesfila secundaria (2333'S, 4643'W., altitude entre 765-735 m, So Paulo - S.P.): Cedrela fissilis Vell. (Meliaceae), Alehornea sidifolia Mull. Arg. (Euphorbiaceae), ambas do estrato superior; Guarea tuberculata Vell. (Meliaceae) e Rudgea jasminoides (Cham.) Mull. Arg. (Rubiaceae) do estrato secundario. Amostras de fo lhas recm-cadas de cada uma das espcies e lotes mistos de 4 espcies foram colocados em bolsas de rede de "nylon" e expostos junto ao folhedo existente no interior da mata. Uma srie de experimentos foi iniciada no fim da estao chuvosa e teve durao de 6 meses. Uma outra teve incio no comeo da estao chuvosa, com durao de 12 meses. Na primeira srie foi verificado um declnio no peso seco da ordem de 10-20% aps 4 meses e de 35-50% aps 6 meses de decomposio. Na segunda srie, a perda do material orgnico aps 3 meses chuvosos atingiu 30-50%, e 40-60% aps 6 meses. No fim do perodo do experimento , 12 meses mais tarde, o material organico remanescente no folhedo era da ordem de 45-25%. O contedo de carbono das amostras apresentou uma diminuio mais acentuada no incio do processo de decomposio, mas os teores de nitrognio e fosforo permane ceram mais ou menos constantes. A liberao destes elementos seguiu, portanto, a razo da perda do peso seco das amostras. Por outro lado, os teores de potassio, calcio e magnesio mostraram, de modo geral, maior queda nos primeiros 6 meses de de composio. A razo da decomposio exponencial k foi mais elevada para as folhas de Alohornea e Rudgea do que nas de Guarea e Cedrela, similares neste aspecto. O lote misto apresentou valor intermedirio. O tempo requerido para o desaparecimento de 50% do material, t50%, foi estimado em torno de 5-6 meses para folhas de Alohornea e Rudgea e 8 meses para Guarea e Cedrela.
42871565|Several nomenclatural novelties were used in a previously published account of Asclepiadoideae (Apocynaceae) from the Espinhao Range of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Although those names were published with a basionym reference, the authors stated that there was no intention to have them validly published therein. Under articles 34.1(a) and 45.1 of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, the author must explicitly accept the name in the place of its valid publication. This note attempts to clarify the author's prior intentions and now to validly publish thirteen new names of taxa. Vrias novidades nomenclatrias foram usadas em um levantamento previamente publicado das Asclepiadoideae da Cadeia do Espinhao de Minas Gerais, Brasil. Embora esses nomes tenham sido publicados com a referncia do basinimo, os autores colocaram que no havia inteno de t-los validamente publicados ali. De acordo com os Artigos 34.1(a) e 45.1 do Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica, o autor deve explicitamente aceitar o nome no local de sua publicao vlida. Esta nota procura esclarecer as intenes do autor naquela ocasio e ento publicar validamente treze nomes novos de txons.
42871494|The study of family Onagraceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Fuchsia (1) and Ludwigia (4). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments of the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology and variability of species are presented. O estudo da famlia Onagraceae  parte do levantamento da "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com os respectivos nmeros de espcies: Fuchsia (1) e Ludwigia (4). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871413|The study of the family Tiliaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Apeiba tibourbou Aubl. and Triumfetta semitriloba Jacq. Key to the genera, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famflia Tiliaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famflia est representada naquela rea pelas seguintes espcies: Apeiba tboitrou Aubl. e Triumfetta semitriloba Jacq. So apresentadas chave para gneros, descries e ilustraes das espcies, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871519|The study of the family Erythroxylaceae is part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Erythroxylum, with 9 species: E. bicolor O. E. Schulz, E. campestre A. St.-Hil., E. daphnites Mart, E. deciduum A.St.-Hil., E. gonocladum (Mart.) O.E. Schulz, E. suberosum A.St.-Hil., E. subrotundum A.St.-Hil., E. tortuosum Mart, e E. vacciniifolium Mart. Key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution and habitats of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Erythroxylaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea apenas pelo gnero Erythroxylum, com 9 espcies: E. bicolor O.E. Schulz, E. campestre A.St.-Hil., E. daphnites Mart., E. deciduum A.St.-Hil., E. gono-cladum (Mart.) O.E. Schulz, E. suberosum A.St.-Hil., E. subrotundum A.St.-Hil., E. tortuosum Mart, e E. vacciniifolium Mart. So apresentadas chave para espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e hbitat.
42871379|Plants of Sargassum hystrix J. Ag. and S. platycarpum Mont. were collected floating on waters of the Brazilian Current (18 15'S) at about 100 km off the mainland. Both species supported a rich community of associated animals and algae, including small crabs, cirripeds, molluscs, bryozoans and hydroids. The epiphytic algae comprised a total of 37 species, diatoms not included, being 24 Rhodophyta, 6 Phaeophyta, 4 Chlorophyta and 3 Cyanophyta. The floristic composition of the associated flora was very similar to the benthic flora of the neighbouring mainland. The existence of a large number of fertile specimens epiphytic on Sargassum constitutes an evidence of the role of the pelagic or semi-pelagic species of Sargassum acting as rafts in the dispersion of other species of organisms along the current flow. Exemplares de Sargassum hystrix J. Ag. e S. platycarpum Mont. foram coletados em abundncia flutuando em guas da corrente do Brasil  cerca de 100 km da costa, na altura do paralelo de 18 15'S. Ambas as espcies apresentavam-se associadas a uma rica comunidade de algas e animais epfitos. Dentre estes ltimos figuravam pequenos caranguejos, cirripdios, moluscos, briozorios e hidrozorios, como os mais notrios. As algas epfitas, com excluso das diatomceas, estavam representadas por 37 espcies, ditribudas em : 24 Rhodphyta; 6 Phaeophyta; 4 Chlorophyta e 3 Cyanophyta, com composio florstica muito semelhante  flora bentnica do litoral vizinho. A adaptao destas espcies de Sargassum  vida semipelgica e a freqncia de plantas maduras e frteis que crescem epifiticamente sobre as mesmas, formando uma verdadeira comunidade flutuante, constituem a base para consideraes biogeogrficas sobre o papel das grandes correntes na disperso de organismos marinhos bentnicos.
42871434|A study of the subfamily Cheilanthoideae as part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the subfamily is represented by the following species: Adiantopsis radiata (L.) Fe; Cheilanthes concolor (Langsd. & Fisch.) R. & A. Tryon, Ch. flexuosa Kze; Doryopteris omithopus (Mett. ex Hook. & Baker) J. Sm., D. sagittifolia (Raddi) J. Sm.; Notholaena eriophora Fe, N. venusta Brade; Pellaea crenata Tryon, P. pinnata (Kaulf.) Prantl e P. riedel Baker. Keys to genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution and variability of the species are presented. Estudo da subfamilia Cheilanthoideae como parte do levantamento da Fiora da Serra do Cip: Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta subfamlia est representada naquela rea pelas seguintes espcies: Adiantopsis radiata (L.) Fe; Cheikanthes concolor (Langsd. & Fisch.) R. & A. Tryon, Ch. flexuosa Kze; Doryopteris omithopus (Mett. ex Hook. & Baker) J. Sm., D. sagittifotia (Raddi) J. Sm.; Notholaena eriophora Fe, N. venusta Brade; Pellaea crenata Tryon, P. pinnata (Kaulf.) Prantl e P. riedelii Baker. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries bem como ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871517|Thirty species of Euphorbiaceae were found in the inselbergs flora of Milagres belonging to the following genera: Acalypha (1), Actinostemon (1), Bernardia (1), Chamaesyce (1), Cnidoscolus (3), Croton (7), Dalechampia (1), Ditaxis (1), Euphorbia (4), Jatropha (2), Manihot (1), Phyllanthus (2), Romanoa (1), Sapium (1), Sebastiania (1) and Tragia (2). Keys to the genera and especies are provided, as well as descriptions, ilustrations and flowering/fruiting period of the species. A famlia Euphorbiaceae est representada na regio de Milagres por 30 espcies distribudas nos seguintes gneros: Acalypha (1), Actinostemon (1), Bernardia (1), Chamaesyce (1), Cnidoscolus (3), Croton (7), Dalechampia (1), Ditaxis (1), Euphorbia (4), Jatropha (2), Manihot (1), Phyllanthus (2), Romanoa (1), Sapium (1), Sebastiania (1) e Tragia (2). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre os perodos de florao e frutificao dos txons.
42871391|Seeds of Struthanthus vulgaris Mart, were germinated in dry Petri dishes and on branches of Psidium guajava L.. Anatomical aspects of the primary haustorium of the plants were studied. In both cases the intrusive organ originates from a sub-terminal and lateral region of the radicle and the initial developmental stages were quite similar. The epidermal cells in contact with the substrate present some modifications and probably have an important role when the parasite fixes to the host. Then, a lysigenous cavity is formed in the meristematic terminal part, close to the modified epidermis and fills with an amorphous material; it is probably related with penetration and development of the intrusive organ. Zones of collapsed parenchymatic cells are seen everywhere in the haustorial system. The first ones are peripheral and appear when the intrusive organ is growing. This structure is formed by the remaining meristematic cells and grows through the lysigenous cavity. Under natural conditions the haustorium reaches the external layers of the host xylem, and then gives rise to lateral branches where meristematic cells are seen associated with zones of collapsed cells. In the host xylem the haustorial absorbent cells are usually seen in the ray parenchyma cells which consequently become hypertrophied. They may also penetrate the vessel elements Structurally the haustorium is formed by parenchymatic cells , trachal elements centrally located, collapsed regions, sclereids and absorbent cells. A anatomia do haustrio primrio de struthanthus vulgaris Mart. foi estudada em plantas crescendo sobre placas de Petri secas e sobre ramos de Psidium guajava L.. Os estadios iniciis de formao do haustrio so semelhantes em ambos os casos. O referido rgo tem origem subterminal, num dos flancos da radcula. As clulas epidrmicas em contato com o substrato apresentam modificaes e, provavelmente, desempenham papel importante na fixao do parasita sobre o hospedeiro. A seguir, forma-se uma cavidade lisgena, na regio meristemtica prxima  epiderme modificada. Essa cavidade, globular, preenche-se com um material amorfo e est provavelmente, relacionada com a pene trao e desenvolvimento do rgo intrusivo. Este origina-se a partir da outra parte de clulas meris temticas e cresce atra - vs da cavidade lisgena. Em conseqncia desse crescimento surgem, lateralmente a essa estrutura, as primeiras zonas de clulas colapsadas. Em condies naturais o haustrio cresce ate atingir as camadas externas do xilema do hospedeiro. A partir deste estdio, ele emite ramos laterais, onde podem ser vistas regies meristemticas associadas a zonas de clulas colapsadas. No xilema do hospedeiro, as clulas sugadoras sao observadas nas clulas parenquimticas radiais, as quais, conseqentemente , tornam-se hipertrofiadas. As clulas mencionadas foram observadas, tambm, no interior dos elementos de vaso. Estruturalmente, o haustrio acha-se constitudo por clulas parenquimticas, elementos traqueis, zonas colapsadas, escleredeos e clulas sugadoras.
42871409|A new species from Morro do Chapu, Bahia, Brazil. The description of a new species of Malpighiaceae, Camare elongata Mamede, that occurs, up to date, only at Morro do Chapu (Bahia) is presented. Camarea elongata is close related to C.axillaris St.-Hil. by the presence of rhizome, verticilated leaves, one-flowered cincinus and the morphology of the samaras. The affinities of the two taxa are discussed in this paper. Uma nova espcie de Morro do Chapu, Bahia, Brasil. Neste trabalho  apresentada a descrio de uma nova espcie de Malpighiaceae, Camarea elongata Mamede, de ocorrncia at o momento, restrita a Morro do Chapu (Bahia). Esta espcie  caracterizada pelo sistema subterrneo do tipo rizoma, ramos com entrens longos, folhas verticiladas, flores em cincinos unifloros e axilares e samarfdeos com ala dorsal pouco desenvolvida. So discutidas tambm suas afinidades com Camarea axillaris St.-Hil.
42871892|The study of the family Gentianaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil", In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Curtia (3), Deianira (2), Irlbachia (4), Macrocarpaea (1), Schultesia (2) and Senaea (1). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Gentianaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Curtia (3), Deianira (2), Irlbachia (4), Macrocarpaea (1), Schultesia (2) e Senaea (1). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871584|A survey of species of all plant life forms except trees, shrubs and epiphytes was carried out on an urban forest fragment. Such area occupies near 10 ha, representing one of the few forest remnants of So Paulo City. The climate of the region is Cwa of Kppen, with mean temperature in the warmest month upper than 22C and in the coldest one between 3-18C, with annual precipitation higher than 1,000 mm. So Paulo City forests show floristic and structural correlations both to the Atlantic Forest and to the inland mesophytic semideciduous forests of the So Paulo State. Monthly collections of botanical samples were made between March 1995 and December 1997, with scattered supplementary collections made after that period. A total amount of 188 species have been identified, belonging to 138 genera in 49 families of angiosperms and 8 families of pteridophytes. The families with the greatest number of species are Asteraceae (22 species), Poaceae and Bignoniaceae (10 species each), Leguminosae (9 species), Malvaceae and Sapindaceae (8 species each), Araceae and Apocynaceae (7 species each), Commelinaceae and Marantaceae (6 species each). Identification keys emphasizing vegetative features, as well as descriptions and comments on the phenology, dispersal and geographic distribution of the species are presented. Este trabalho consiste no levantamento das espcies de todas as formas de vida vegetal exceto rvores, arbustos e epfitas encontradas na mata da Reserva da CUASO, na capital de So Paulo. Tal Reserva ocupa uma rea aproximada de 10 ha, representando atualmente um dos poucos remanescentes de vegetao natural da metrpole. As caractersticas climticas da regio determinam clima do tipo Cwa de Kppen, com temperatura mdia do ms mais quente superior a 22 C e do ms mais frio entre 3C e 18C, com precipitao anual maior que 1000 mm. A vegetao da regio tem sido relacionada florstica e estruturalmente com a Mata Atlntica e com as matas mesfilas semidecduas do interior do estado. Foram coletados espcimes botnicos no perodo de maro de 1995 a dezembro de 1997, com coletas suplementares posteriores, tendo sido identificadas 188 espcies, pertencentes a 138 gneros, distribudos em 57 famlias, sendo 49 de angiospermas e 8 de pteridfitas. As famlias com maior nmero de espcies foram Asteraceae (22 espcies), Poaceae e Bignoniaceae (10 espcies cada), Leguminosae (9 espcies), Malvaceae e Sapindaceae (8 espcies cada), Araceae e Apocynaceae (7 species cada), Commelinaceae e Marantaceae (6 espcies cada). So apresentadas chaves de identificao com nfase em caracteres vegetativos, descries e comentrios sobre fenologia, sndromes de disperso e distribuio geogrfica das espcies.
42871506|A year round sampling for propolis components at the Maria Pinto region in Central Chile was assayed. We show here the features of Chilean propolis, using micromorphological assay of pollen grains. Major plant sources included Eucalyptus globulus, Populus alba, and the native species Baccharis linearis, Peumus boldus, Escallonia illinita and Quillaja saponaria. The maximum yield of crude propolis is reached on August and September. The pharmaceutical significance of these findings is discussed. A observao ao longo de um ano das caractersticas botnicas de amostras de uma colmia de Mara Pinto (regio central do Chile) revela que as espcies introduzidas mais utilizadas na produo de prpolis so Eucalyptus globulus e Populus alba, enquanto as nativas so Baccharis linearis, Peumus boldus, Escallonia illinita e Quillaja saponaria. A produo de prpolis bruta apresenta rendimento mximo nos meses de agosto c setembro. Discute-se a importncia farmacutica desses achados.
42871878|A floristic study of the Dennstaedtiaceae presented as a contribution to the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that region the family is represented by the genera Histiopteris (1 species); Lindsaea (3 species) and Pteridium (1 species). Keys to genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the distribution, habitats and variability are presented. Estudo floristico da famlia Dennstaedtiaceae como contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Na regio a famlia  representada pelos gneros Histiopteris (1 espcie), Lindsaea (3 espcies) e Pteridium (1 espcie). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, bem como comentrios relativos  distribuio, habitats e variabilidade das espcies.
42871347|Some data concerning flower initiation in Streptocarpus nobilis were obtained. It was found that is possible to induce plants to flower with two short days only, and that the critical photoperiod for floral induction lies between 12:30 and 13:00 hours. Flowering intensity shows a direct relationship to the number of inductive cycles and an inverse relationship to the photoperiod length. Seedlings having only cotyledons could be induced to flower. Neste trabalho so relatadas diversas caractersticas da iniciao floral em Streptocarpus nobilis. Foi verificado que  possvel induzir-se a florao com apenas dois dias curtos, e que o fotoperiodo crtico para a induo floral localiza-se entre 12 h. 30 min. e 13 horas. A intensidade da florao  diretamente proporcional ao nmero de ciclos indutores e inversamente proporcional  durao do fotoperodo indutor. Verificou-se tambm que plantinhas possuindo apenas os cotildones so capazes de serem induzidas para a florao.
42871398|A new brazilian species of Simaroubaceae is described in this paper: Picramnia excelsa Kuhlmann ex Pirani, from the state of Paran. Its relationships to another species are discussed. Also, the pistillate flowers and fruits of Picramnia campestris Rizz. & Occh., from Minas Gerais, are described for the first time. Neste trabalho  descrita uma nova espcie de Simaroubaceae, Picramnia excelsa Kuhlmann ex Pirani, do Paran. So discutidas as relaes da nova espcie dentro do gnero.  apresentada tambm uma complernentao da descrio de Picramnia campestris Rizz. & Occh., espcie de Minas Gerais encontrada pela primeira vez com flores pistiladas e frutos.
42871383|Twenty species of Eriocaulaceae have been studied in terms of the types and distribution of hairs on involucral bracts of inflorescences as well as on floral bracts, sepals and petals of masculine and feminine flowers. The distribution of hairs on the parts show certain peculiarities and can be a useful diagnostic criterion. The species investigated were: Blastocaulon rupestre (Gardn.) Ruhl., Eriocaulon aquatile Koern., E. cipoense Alv. Silv., E. elichrysoides Bong., Leiothrix crassifolia (Bong.) Ruhl., L. fluitans (Mart.) Ruhl., L. sclerophylla Alv. Silv., Paepalanthus bromelioides Alv. Silv., P. flaccidus (Bong.) Kunth, P. planifolius (Bong.) Koern., P. scleranthus Ruhl., Philodice hoffmannseggii Mart., Syngonanthus anthemidiflorus (Bong.) Ruhl., S. caulescens (Poir.) Ruhl., S. chrysolepis Alv. Silv., S. elegans (Koern.) Ruhl. var. canescens Alv. Silv., S. marginatus Alv. Silv., S. vernonioides (Kunth) Ruhl., S. verticillatus (Bong.) Ruhl. and Tonina fluviatilis Aubl. Foram estudadas vinte espcies de Eriocaulaceae quanto aos tipos e distribuio dos pelos existentes nas brcteas involucrais das inflorescncias e tambm nas brcteas florais, spalas e petalas das flores masculinas e femininas. A distribuio dos pelos nas peas mostrou uma certa peculiaridade e poder ser um critrio taxonmico significante. As espcies pesquisadas foram: Blastocaulon rupestre (Gardn.) Ruhl., Eriocaulon aquatile Koern., E. cipoense Alv. Silv., E. elichrysoides Bong., Leiothrix crassifolia (Bong.) Ruhl., L. fluitans (Mart.) Ruhl., L. sclerophylla Alv. Silv., Paepalanthus bromelioides Alv. Silv., P. flaccidus (Bong.) Kunth, P. planifolius (Bong.) Koern., P. scleranthus Ruhl., Philodice hoffmannseggii Mart., Syngonanthus anthemidiflorus (Bong.) Ruhl., S. caulescens (Poir.) Ruhl., S. chrysolepis Alv. Silv., S. elegans (Koern.) Ruhl. var. canescens Alv. Silv., S. marginatus Alv. Silv., S. vernonioides (Kunth) Ruhl., S. verticillatus (Bong.) Ruhl. e Tonina fluviatilis Aubl.
42871392|It is described a new species in the section Pleurosti ma of the genus Pleurostima, and 12 new combinations in the same genus are proposed.  feita a descrio de uma nova especie da seco Pleuvostima (Velloziaceae) e sao propostas 12 novas combinaes para o mesmo genero.
42871453|The study of the family Loranthaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Dendrophthora (1), Psittacanthus (1), Struthanthus (4) and Phoradendron (7). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Loranthaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Dendrophthora (1), Psittacanthus (1), Struthanthus (4) e Phoradendron (7). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica.
42871329|O trabalho se refere s RHODOPHYTA bentnicas do litoral Sul do Estado de So Paulo e do litoral do Estado do Paran, (desde Itanham  24 10' S., 46 47' 30" W. at Ilha do Sai  25 59' S., 48 36' W.). Apresentamos descries de ordens, famlias, gneros e espcies com ilustraes de estruturas que consideramos importantes, chaves dicotmicas artificiais para identificao de famlias, gneros e espcies, bem como, uma chave dicotmica para identificao dos gneros estudados. So tratados taxonomicamente 6 famlias, 12 gneros, 20 espcies e 1 variedade das ordens acima citadas. A ocorrncia das seguintes espcies: Acrochcuetium sargassi, Acrochaetium globosum, Acrochaetium elegans, Gelidium floridanum e Gelidiella hancocki  feita pela primeira vez para o litoral brasileiro. Apresentamos dados ecolgicos, poca de reproduo, bem como, a distribuio das espcies em diferentes estaes de coleta visitadas e tambm um resumo da distribuio geogrfica. The present paper deals with the benthic RHODOPHYTA from the coast of So Paulo State south west of Santos and the coast of Paran State (from 24 10' S., 46 47' 30" W. to 25 59' S., 48 36' W.). The paper presents descriptions or orders, families, genera and species with illustrations of significant structures. Artificial dichotomous keys for identification of families, genera and species are also given, as well as, a general dichotomous key for identification of genera. The following species: Acrochaetium sargassi, Acrochaetium globosum, Aerochaetium eiegans, Gelidium floridanum and Gelidiella hancocki, of the orders above cited, are reported for the first time for the Brazilian coast. The referred orders are represented in the region by 12 genera, 20 species and 1 variety. Ecological date are given, as well as, reproduction period and distribution of plants in the area visited. A summary of the general geographical distribution is also given.
42871468|In this paper Paepalanthus spirifer Silveira is reduced to the synonymy of P. polyanthus (Bong.) Kunth. P. spirifer is only known from its holotype, collected at the Serra do Cip, MG. Its characterization is mainly associated to the presence of leaves arranged in two whorls and to the presence of three lobes at the corolla tube of the staminate flower. It was verified, however, that these features are included in the range of morphological variation present in P. polyanthus, thus not presenting any kind of discontinuity with this species. Neste trabalho  proposta a sinonimizao de Paepalanthus spirifer Silveira em P. polyanthus (Bong.) Kunth. P spirifer  conhecida apenas por seu holtipo, coletado na Serra do Cip, MG. Sua caracterizao est associada especialmente  presena de folhas dispostas em duas espirais e 3 lobos no tubo da corola da flor estaminada. Verificou-se, entretanto, que estes caracteres se encontram includos no conjunto de variaes morfolgicas encontradas em P. polyanthus, no apresentando descontinuidade alguma com essa espcie.
42871520|In the Espinhao range, 27 species of Dioscorea L. occur: D. altissima Lam., D. amaranthoides Presl, D. anomala (Kunth) Griseb., D. bulbifera L., D. campestris Griseb., D. cinnamomifolia Hook., D. demourae R. Knuth, D. dodecaneura Vell., D. filiformis Griseb., D. hassleriana Chod., D. heptaneura Vell., D. laxiflora Griseb., D. maianthemoides R. Knuth, D. microbotrya Griseb., D. monadelpha (Kunth) Griseb., D. orthogonenra Hochr., D. ovata Vell., D. piperifolia Humb. & Bonpl., D. polygonoides Humb. & Bonpl., D.rumicoides Griseb., D. scabra Humb. & Bonpl., D. sincorensis R. Knuth, D. sinuata Vell., D. spicata (Vell.) Pedralli, D. stenophylla Uline, D. subhastata Vell, and D. trifida L.f. Description, illustrations, and comments on habitats and geographical distribution are presented for each species. Na cadeia do Espinhao ocorrem 27 espcies de Dioscorea L.: D. altissima Lam., D. amaranthoides Presl, D. anomala (Kunth) Griseb., D. bulbifera L., D. campestris Griseb., D. cinnamomifolia Hook., D. demourae R. Knuth, D. dodecaneura Vell., D. filiformis Griseb., D. hassleriana Chod., D. heptaneura Vell., D. laxiflora Griseb., D. maianthemoides R. Knuth, D. microbotrya Griseb., D. monadelpha (Kunth) Griseb., D. orthogoneura Hochr., D. ovata Vell., D. piperifolia Humb. & Bonpl., D. polygonoides Humb. & Bonpl., D. rumicoides Griseb., D. scabra Humb. & Bonpl., D. sincorensis R. Knuth, D. sinuata Vell., D. spicata (Vell.) Pedralli, D. slenophylla Uline, D. subhastata Vell, e D. trifida L.f. So apresentadas para cada espcie descrio, ilustraes e comentrios sobre hbitats e distribuio geogrfica.
42871362|Xerophyta plicata Spreng., espcie rupcola pertencente  famlia Velloziaceae, apresenta uma notvel capacidade de tolerar a reduo do potencial hdrico interno, sem sofrer absciso de suas folhas. A alta tolerncia  desidratao, pouco frequente entre as plantas superiores, parece ser uma caraterstica comum nas plantas do gnero Xerophyta Juss., como j foi demonstrada em diversas espcies Africanas. O presente trabalho estuda o andamento dirio da transpirao da espcie brasileira na estao chuvosa e seca sob condies de cultivo, alm de alguns aspectos do comportamento fisiologico de folhas cortadas e submetidas ao processo de dessecamento em cmaras de umidade relativa controlada. Aps 10, 20, 40 e 80 dias de tratamento, as folhas se apresentaram amarelo-acinzentadas e cerca de 90% do conteudo total de gua foi perdido, com excesso daquelas mantidas em 100% de U. R. Quando re-hidratadas, as folhas readquiriram a cor verde em 48-72 horas e uma razo Fotossntese/Respirao positiva foi observada. No entanto, naquelas dessecadas durante 80 dias, somente as mantidas em cmara com umidade relativa em torno de 56% apresentaram razo positiva. O peso seco obtido, mais reduzido, indica uma injria metablica indireta do stress hdrico, dependente do tempo. Xerophyta plicata Spreng. - Velloziaceae, a Brazilian rupicolous flowering plant, presents a remarkable ability to withstand drought without abscission of the leaves. This property is quite largely spread among the genus, as has been already observed for African species. This paper sutides the daily march of transpiration during dry and wet seasons under cultivation and some aspects of physiological behavior of detached leaves submitted to artificial desiccation in relative humidity controlled chambers. After 10, 20, 40 and 80 days of treatment, the leaves were almost yellow-graysh and an average of 90% total water were lost, except for those maintained at 100% RH chamber. When rehydrated, chlorophyll appeared within 48-72 hours and positive photosynthetic/respiratory ratio was observed, but in the leaves desiccated during 80 days, only those maintained at 56% RH chamber showed a positive ratio. A lower dry weight indicates a time operative indirect metabolic injury of water deficit stress.
42871313|Foram feitos estudos da vascularizao de Rhizophora mangle L., que conduziram a conhecimentos que demonstraram alguma afinidade com a famlia Combretaceae e tambm  certeza de que o ovrio  bicarpelar. Foram feitos, tambm, estudos anatmicos e pde-se constatar a presena de laticferos do tipo articulado em todas as peas florais e nas brcteas. Description of the morphology and vascularization of the flower of Rhizophora mangle L. is presented. In common with the Combretaceae, its vascularization plane has a carpellary ring in the top of bicarpellar ovary. It also has the same origin pattern of lateral sepal traces as happens with some Ericales, which derived from the petal's traces. The laticiferous are present in all the whorls and bracts and are articulated.
42871875|This study aims not only stablish the anatomical pattern of the bark of Cecropia glazioui but also to test a proposed standardizat of terminology in portuguese to be used in anatomical studies of the bark. The bark of the studied specie is characterized, amongst other aspects, by presenting sieve tube members with simple sieve plate, sieve area evident with reduced sieve pores, presence of lignified parenchyma, presence of druses and cavities. It was not observed significant variations amongst the six specimens studied. The list of characteristics showed to be helpful guide since it allowed a complete analysis of the bark of Cecropia glazioui. O presente estudo visa no apenas descrever o padro anatmico da casca de Cecropia glazioui como tambm testar uma proposta para padronizao de termos em lngua portuguesa a serem utilizados nos estudos anatmicos da casca. A casca da espcie caracteriza-se, entre outros aspectos, por apresentar elementos de tubo crivado com placa simples, rea crivada evidente com orifcios-de-crivo reduzidos, presena de drusas e cavidades. No foram observadas variaes estruturais acentuadas entre os seis espcimes estudados, alm disso a lista de caractersticas revelou-se como roteiro til j que permitiu uma anlise completa da casca da espcie estudada.
42871509|A new genus of Scrophulariaceae from Northeast of Brazil is described: Anamaria. The only species of this genus was previously described in Stemodia, which has a similar androecium. However, the inflorescence and habit in that species are distinctive enough for the recognition of a new genus. Um novo gnero de Scrophulariaceae  descrito para o nordeste do Brasil: Anamaria. Sua nica espcie foi originalmente descrita no gnero Stemodia, principalmente devido  semelhana de seu androceu com o deste gnero. Entretanto, o tipo de inflorescncia e de hbito so caracteres suficientemente distintivos para erigir um novo gnero.
42871670|This work presents a taxonomic treatment for the seven species o Melpomene A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran (M. firma (J. Sm.) A.R. Sm. & R. C. Moran, M. flabelliformis (Poir.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. melanosticta (Kunze) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. moniliformis (Lag. ex Sw.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. peruviana (Desv.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. pilosissima (M. Martens & Gal.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, and M. xiphopteroides (Liebm.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran), and for the six species o Micropolypodium Hayata (M. caucanum (Hieron.) A.R. Sm., M. nanum (Fe) A.R. Sm., M. perpusillum (Maxon) A.R. Sm., M. setosum (Kaulf.) A.R. Sm., M. taenifolium (Jenman) A.R. Sm. e M. truncicola (Klotzsch) A.R. Sm.) that occur in Brazil. A critical analysis of each species and their synonymy, as well as considerations about classification, morphology, geographical distribution, identification keys, illustrations and comments about ecology and related species, are presented. O presente trabalho apresenta um tratamento taxonmico para as sete espcies de Melpomene A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran (M. firma (J. Sm.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. flabelliformis (Poir.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. melanosticta (Kunze) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. moniliformis (Lag. ex Sw.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. peruviana (Desv.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran, M. pilosissima (M. Martens & Gal.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran e M. xiphopteroides (Liebm.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran) e para as seis espcies de Micropolypodium Hayata (M caucanum (Hieron.) A.R. Sm., M. nanum (Fe) A.R. Sm., M. perpusillum (Maxon) A.R. Sm., M. setosum (Kaulf.) A.R. Sm., M. taenifolium (Jenman) A.R. Sm. e M. truncicola (Klotzsch) A.R. Sm.) que ocorrem no Brasil. So apresentados uma anlise crtica sobre cada espcie e seus sinnimos, consideraes acerca da classificao, morfologia e distribuio geogrfica das espcies, bem como chaves para identificao, comentrios sobre as espcies mais semelhantes e ilustraes.
42871416|This paper reports on the leaf anatomy of five woody species: Actinostemon concolor Mll. Arg., Sebastiania serrata (Baill.) Mll Arg. Endlicheria paniculata (Spreng.) Macbride, Prown widgren Engler and Sorocea bonpland (Baill.) Burger, Lanj. & Boer, from a secondary serai deciduous forest, a reserve localized in the Metropolitan area of So Paulo, Brasil. The species can be classified as mesomorphic, since they do not show structures related to water loss restriction. Stornata were seen only in the abaxial epidermis, being paracytic in the three first species and anomocytic in the last two. Unicellular trichomes can be found in all species. Sebastiania serrata also shows both uni and multicellular trichomes. Protiwn widgren shows concentric vascular bundles while in the other species they are radially disposed. Crystals of various forms are often present. Collenchyma occurs on both sides of the veins beneath the epidermis as a complete cylinder in the petiole. Fibres are found in bands or as an ininterrupted cylinder around the vascular bundles. Would be pointed out the presence of resin ducts in Protiwn widgren and of gelatinous fibres in Actinostemon concolor and Sebastiania serrata. Apresenta-se neste trabalho a anatomia foliar de cinco espcies arbreas, Actinostemon concolor Mll. Arg., Sebastiania serrata (Baill.) Mll. Arg., Endlicheria paniculata (Spreng.) Macbride, Protium widgren Engler e Sorocea bonpland (Baill.) Burger, Lanj. & Ber, coletadas em uma reserva da mata secundria semidecdua, localizada na rea metropolitana de So Paulo, Brasil. As espcies estudadas podem ser consideradas mesomorfas uma vez que no apresentam estruturas que possam ser relacionadas  proteo contra a perda excessiva de gua. Todas as espcies apresentam estmatos apenas na epiderme abaxial sendo dos tipos paractico nas trs primeiras citadas e anomocftico nas duas ltimas. Tricomas unicelulares so encontrados nas cinco espcies sendo que Sebastiania serrata apresenta tambm tricomas pluricelulares. A disposio dos feixes libero-lenhosos  radial nestas espcies com exceo de Protium widgren onde  concntrica. Cristais de formas variadas so encontrados com frequncia. Reforos colenquimticos ocorrem abaixo das epidermes na regio das nervuras. Fibras esclerenquimticas so comuns junto s nervuras formando conjuntos ou anis contnuos ao redor dos feixes. Pode ser destacada ainda a presena de canais resinferos no lber de Protium widgren e de fibras gelatinosas nas folhas de Actinostemon concolor e Sebastiana serrata.
42871429|Chaetomium ampullare Chivers and C. longicolleum Krzem. & Hadura were isolated from decomposing roots by washing technique. Description, comments, distribution, and illustrations were presented for each specie. Both are new citations for Brazil. Chaetomium ampullare Olivers e C. longicolleum Krzem. & Badura foram isoladas de razes em decomposio, atravs da tcnica de lavagem do substrato. Descrio, comentrios taxonmicos, distribuio geogrfica e ilustrao so apresentados para cada espcie. Ambas esto sendo referidas pela primeira vez para o Brasil.
42871419|The study of the family Scrophulariaceae is a part of project of "Flora of Pernambuco". In that area, the family is represented by 41 species and 16 genera: Achetaria, Agalinis, Alectra, Angelonia, Bacopa, Buchnera, Capraria, Conobea, Dizygostemon, Lindernia, Micranthemum, Monopera, Scoparla, Stemodia, Tetraulacium and Torenia. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions, illustrations and comments of the species, are presen teed. Neste trabalho  apresentado o levantamento das espcies de Scrophulariaceae do Estado de Pernambuco. Foram encontradas 41 espcies em 16 gneros: Achetaria, Agalinis, Alectra, Angelonia, Bacopa, Buchnera, Capraria, Conobea, Dizygostemon, Lindernia, Micranthemum, Monopera, Scoparla, Stemodia, Tetraulacium e Torenia. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes.
42871325|Este trabalho se refere ao desenvolvimento das estruturas de reproduao de Champia minuscula. So apresentados dados detalhados sobre organizao do talo, formao e posio do procarpo e desenvolvimento do carposporofito. As estruturas masculinas, nesta espcie, so descritas pela primeira vez. A formao dos espermatngios e tetrasporngios tambm foi estudada. Os dados obtidos concordam, de um modo geral, com os descritos para Champia parvula; apenas, em Champia minuscula, constatamos a presena de uma clula secundria dos gonimoblastos, originando a massa principal dos filamentos gonimoblsticos. A clula secundria origina-se por uma diviso transversal da clula primria dos gonimoblastos. This papel describes the development of reproductive structures of Champia minuscula. Detailed informations about thallus organization, early stages and position of the procarp and also the development of the carposporophyte till maturity are given. Male structures are described for the first time in this species. The development of spermatangia and tetrasporangia was also studied. We call attention to the fact that in Champia minuscula the assemblage of gonimoblast filaments start from a secondary gonimoblast initial and not from the primary one as already described for Champia parvula. Seven plates with 35 drawings illustrate the paper.
42871440|The study of the family Campanulaceae is part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the three genera : Wahlenbergia Schrad. with one species, W. brasiliensis Cham.; Siphocampylus Pohl, with three species, S. nitidus Pohl, S. sulfureas E. Wimm. and S. westinianus (Billb.) Pohl; and Lobelia L. with three species too, L camporum L., L fistulosa Vell, and L organensis Gardn. ssp. organensis. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution and morphological variation of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Campanulaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por trs gneros: Wahlenbergia Schrad. com uma espcie, W. brasiliensis Cham; Siphocampylus Pohl, com trs espcies, S. nitidus Pohl, S. sulfureus E. Wimm. e S. westinianus (Billb.) Pohl e Lobelia L. tambm com trs espcies, L camporum L., L fistulosa Vell, e L organensis Gardn ssp. organensis. So apresentadas chaves para a identificao dos gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variao morfolgica.
42871569|This survey of the species of vascular plants in the region of Catols, in the Chapada Diamantina, BA, was carried out in the municipalities of Abaira and Piat, between latitudes 1313'S and 1325'S, and longitudes 4137' and 4159'W, encompassing an area of approximately 880 km 2 above 1,000m alt., including the Pico do Barbado (2,033 m), with 'campo rupestre' vegetation predominating. The present list comprises 1,713 species distributed in 142 families, of which the largest are Compositae (179 species), Leguminosae (161 species), Melastomataceae (105 species), Orchidaceae (76 species), Rubiaceae (60 species), Eriocaulaceae (55 species), Myrtaceae (53 species), Verbenaceae (49 species), Euphorbiaceae (48 species) and Gramineae (48 species). The index of species richness obtained for the area was 689 for Catols, while for the Pico das Almas it was found to be 509. This suggests that, independent of the different sizes of the samples, the area of Catols presents a higher diversity for both species and genera than the area studied for the Flora of the Pico das Almas. Este trabalho trata do levantamento das espcies de plantas vasculares da regio de Catols, na Chapada Diamantina, BA. O local de estudos localiza-se entre os municpios de Abaira e Piat, entre as latitudes 1313'S e 1325'S, e as longitudes 4137' e 4159'W, englobando uma rea de aproximadamente 880 km acima de 1.000m s.n.m., incluindo o Pico do Barbado (2.033 m), com vegetao predominantemente de campo rupestre. A presente lista compreende 1713 espcies, distribudas em 142 famlias, das quais sobressaem-se as Compositae (179 espcies), Leguminosae (161 espcies), Melastomataceae (105 espcies), Orchidaceae (76 espcies), Rubiaceae (60 espcies), Eriocaulaceae (55 espcies), Myrtaceae (53 espcies), Verbenaceae (49 espcies), Euphorbiaceae (48 espcies) e Gramineae (48 espcies). O clculo de riqueza de espcies na rea resultou em 689 para Catols, ao passo que, para o Pico das Almas, o nmero encontrado foi de 509. Isto sugere que, independentemente do diferente tamanho da amostragem, a rea de Catols apresenta maior diversidade tanto de espcies como de gneros, do que aquela observada para a Flora do Pico das Almas.
42871403|The essential oil of the leaves of Piptocarpha rotundifolia (Less.) Baker (Compositae) is produced in a proportion of 0,13% of dry weight. The thin layer Chromatographie analysis of the essential oil of the leaves revealed, among its components, the presence of alfa-caryophyllene, beta-caryophyllene, geraniol and linalool. O teor de leo essencial das folhas de Piptocarpha rotundifolia (Less.) Baker (Compositae) foi de 0,13% em relao ao peso seco da droga. A anlise cromatogrfica em camada delgada do leo essencial das folhas revelou, entre seus componentes, a presena de alfa-cariofileno, betacariofileno, geraniol e linalol.
42871883|The study of the family Lentibulariaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by two genera: Genlisea with 5 species and Utricularia with 13 species. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology, habitats of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Lentibulariaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por dois gneros: Genlisea com 5 espcies e Utricularia com 13 espcies. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e habitat.
42871369|Fertile sporophytes of Laminaria brasiliensis Joly & Oliveira Filho dredged off the coast of Esprito Santo State (Brazil) were put in filtered seawater at 15C, 1000 lux and 12:12 photoperiod. Zoospores were liberated, attached to glass slides and developed into male and female gametophytes. Male plants exhibited a ramified filamentous thallus with a few dozen cells, bearing terminal antheridia. Female plants were unicellular with one oogonium each. Fertilized oospheres soon divided to produce a short (3-4 cells) filament, which later divided longitudinaly producing a small monostromatic blade, fixed to the substratum through filamentous rhyzoids; later on the branches became plutistratified and a stipe became conspicuous. The same results were obtained with plants maintained at room temperature, varying between 4-25C with maximum illumination of 2,800 lux (diffuse sun-light). When the sporophytes attained the size of 2-3 mm they were transferred to Provasoli ES medium. Bleaching of the thallus followed by marginal decay occured and the plants did not grow longer than 2.5 cm in the conditions employed. German dioxide proved to be deleterious to sporelings at concentrations higher than 0.50 mg/l causing progressive bleaching of the thallus border. The importance of light and temperature is discussed in relation to the distribution of the Brazilian plants. Pores frteis de esporfitos de Laminaria brasiliensis Joly & Oliveira F dragadas nas costas do Estado do Esprito Santo foram transportadas para o Laboratrio em S. Paulo e mantidas em gua do mar filtrada  15C e fotoperodo de 12: 12 (1000 lux, luz fluorescente). Os zosporos liberados germinaram dando origem a gametfitos masculinos filamentosos e ramificados com nmero varivel de clulas e gametfitos femininos unicelulares. Aps a fecundao das oosferas os zigotos sofreram divises perpendiculares ao seu maior eixo, formando inicialmente esporfitos filamentosos com 3-4 clulas que, posteriormente, por divises longitudinais, formaram talos laminares, monostromticos. Em estgios posteriores observou-se a formao de estipes e diferenciao de tecidos ficando o talo multiestratificado em sua poro mediana inferior. O mesmo processo de desenvolvimento foi constatado tanto nas plantas mantidas nas condies descritas acima, como em condies ambientais, onde a temperatura variou de 4-25C e a intensidade luminosa mxima esteve em torne de 2.800 lux (luz natural difusa). Ao atingirem o tamanho de 2-3 mm de comprimento os jvens esporfitos foram transferidos para meio de cultura Provasoli (ES) onde cresceram at cerca de 2,5 cm, quando comearam a sofrer um processo de destruio dos pigmentos, seguido de degenerao das pores marginais do talo. Para controlar o desenvolvimento excessivo de diatomceas utilizou-se diferentes concentraes de Ge0, o qual mostrou-se prejudicial ao desenvolvimento dos esporfitos jovens em concentraes superiores a 0,50 mg/l. Discute-se a importncia da luz e temperatura no controle da distribuio da espcie no litoral brasileiro.
42871324|Coletas peridicas no litoral de So Paulo e dados da literatura mostram que Centroceras clavulatum  encontrada com tetrasporngios durante todos os meses do ano e que plantas com estruturas de reproduo masculina ou feminina so raras. A germinao dos tetrsporos segue um padro de desenvolvimento que se aproxima mais do encontrado nas Rhodomelaceae que nas Ceramiaceae. Discute-se o tamanho dos esporos como possvel carter de valor taxonmico. As plantas obtidas em cultura, no laboratrio, a partir da germinao de tetrsporos, so comparadas, quanto  sua morfologia, com as plantas coletadas na natureza. Centroceras clavulatum is found with tetraspores throughout the year; male and female plants are rare. A detailed development, from tetraspores to full plants, in laboratory conditions is described. The development of the spores is closer to the pattern presented by the Rhodomelaceae than by the Ceramiar ceae. The taxonomical value of spore's size, based on its mean size and standard deviation, is discussed. The author's discus the morphological discrepancies found between the plants obtained in the laboratory (Von Stosch and Erd-Schreiber media) and the ones gathered in nature.
42871511|A survey of the Asclcpiadoidcae (Apocynaceac) of Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, was prepared as part of the floristic studies conducted by Universidade de So Paulo in campos rupestres. The subfamily, traditionally known as Asclepiadaceae, comprises 99 species and 20 genera in the region. Most species are included in Ditassa R. Br. (41 spp.) and other genera of Metastelmatinae; Oxypetalum R. Br. (21 spp.) is, however, the second largest genus in the region. The species are arranged according to their postulated affinities. Descriptions, synonymy, illustrations, and comments on the species and genera accepted in this study arc provided. The diversity of Asclepiadoideae and the restricted geographical distribution of many species confirm the high rate of endemism characteristic of the Espinhao Range. This work has indicated several taxonomic problems that will require broader populational studies or worldwide analyses of particular taxonomic groups. O estudos das Asclcpiadoidcae (Apocynaceac) da Cadcia do Espinhao de Minas Gerais foi preparado como parte dos estudos florsticos em desenvolvimento pela Universidade de So Paulo nos campos rupestres. Na regio, a subfamilia, tradicionalmente conhecida como Asclepiadaceae, conta com 99 espcies e 20 gneros. A maior parte das espcies est includa em Ditassa R. Br. (41 spp.) e outros gneros classificados cm Metastelmatinae; Oxypetalum R. Br. (21 spp.), porem,  o segundo maior gnero cm nmero de espcies na regio. As espcies esto organizadas de acordo com suas supostas afinidades. So apresentados descries, sinnimos, ilustraes e comentrios para as espcies e gneros aceitos neste tratamento. A diversidade de Asclepiadoideae e a distribuio geogrfica restrita de muitas espcies confirmam o alto ndice de endemismo caracterstico da Cadeia do Espinhao. O levantamento indicou uma srie de problemas taxonmicos que exigiro estudos populacionais mais abrangentes ou anlises mais amplas de determinados grupos taxonmicos.
42871578|In this treatment, which is part of the "Flora do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil" project, only species of Theaceae-Theoideae sensu Cronquist have been considered, since the genus Ternstroemia will be treated in the family Pentaphylacaceae. In the Serra do Cip, two species of Theaceae were found, Laplacea fruticosa (Schrad.) Kobuski and L. tomentosa (Mart. & Zucc.) G. Don, which can be differentiated by the symmetry of the leaf blade, as well as by the pubescence of the abaxial surface of the leaves. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, taxonomic comments, and geographic distribution data for each species are presented. L. fruticosa shows a wide range in South America, whereas L. tomentosa seems to be restricted to the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Espcies pertencentes a Theaceae - Theoideae sensu Cronquist so consideradas neste tratamento, enquanto o gnero Ternstroemia ser tratado na famlia Pentaphylacaceae. Foram identificadas duas espcies na Serrra do Cip: Laplacea fruticosa (Schrad.) Kobuski e L. tomentosa (Mart. & Zuce.) GDon. As espcies de Laplacea podem ser diferenciadas pela simetria foliar e pelo indumento na face abaxial das folhas. So apresentadas chave de identificao, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre taxonoma e distribuio geogrfica das espcies. Enquanto L. fruticosa tem ampla ocorrncia na Amrica do Sul, L. tomentosa  aparentemente restrita a Minas Gerais.
42871890|The study of the family Burseraceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Protium, with 3 species, P. almecega March., P. brasiliense (Spreng.) Engl. and P. heptaphullum (Aubl.) March. A key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Burseraceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelo gnero Protium, com 3 espcies: P. almecega March., P. brasiliense (Spreng.) Engl. e P. heptaphullum (Aubl.) March. So apresentadas chave para espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871460|Pollen grains of ten species, A. aquilega, A. eurycorymbus, A. fulgens, A. lingulata, A. mertensii, A. mulfordii, A. muricata, A. stelligera, A. tomentosa and A. werdermannii, distributed in three subgenera were studied. Pollen grains were assembled into three types in relation to the aperture configurations: inaperturate, colpate, porate; the last type was the most frequent. Pollen morphology proved to be very important to the taxonomy of the studied species, confirming the great diversity of the genus. Foram estudadas as espcies A. aquilega, A. eurycorymbus, A. fulgens, A. lingulata, A. mertensii, A. mulfordii, A. muricata, A. stelligera, A. tomentosa e A. werdermannii distribudas em trs subgneros. Os gros de plen das espcies foram separados quanto a abertura em trs tipos: inaperturados, colpados e porados, predominando este ltimo. A morfologia polnica revelou-se de grande importncia para o conhecimento taxonmico das espcies estudadas, confirmando a grande diversidade do gnero.
42871886|The Serra do Cip is located in the Espinhao Range of mountains (Cadeia do Espinhao), which extends from the State of Minas Gerais into the State of Bahia (Brazil). This paper deals with the area of the Serra do Cip situated in the Municipality of Santana do Riacho, Minas Gerais, between 1912'-1920'S and 4330'-4340'W. The altitude lies between 800-1300 m; the soils are in general shallow and sandy, and there is outcropping - mostly of quartzites and sandstones - almost everywhere. The region can be included in climate type Cwb (Kppen); the dry period coincides with winter, while the rainy season lasts from 7 to 8 months. The plant cover is diversified in accordance with physiographic conditions: gallery forests occur along the drainage lines, "capes" (separate forest clumps) and "cerrado" on slopes, and above 1000 m there is a dominance of field-type physiognomy - "campos rupestres" - and rupiculous vegetation. Floristic studies in the area began in 1972; since then 125 families of seed plants have been found there: 100 families of Dicotyledons, 24 families of Monocotyledons and 1 family of Gymnosperms; the Pteridophytes are represented by 10 families and the Bryophytes by 11 families. A Serra do Cip est situada na poro sul da Cadeia do Espinhao, e a rea tratada neste trabalho situa-se nos limites do Municpio de Santana do Riacho, MG, entre os paralelos 1912-1920'S e longitude 4330-4340'W. Apresenta-se sob forma de um conjunto de elevaes em torno de 1200 m. As estruturas rochosas dobradas so de natureza quartztica, entremeadas por alguns afloramentos de calcrio. O clima da regio  do tipo Cwb de Kppen com separao ntida em estao seca e chuvosa. O tipo de solo reflete a natureza do embasamento rochoso, sendo predominantemente raso e arenoso. A cobertura vegetal varia com a altitude e estgio de decomposio ou deposio do substrato, sendo encontradas matas ciliares ao longo das linhas de drenagem, capes de mata, manchas de cerrado e, acima de 1000 m, predomina a vegetao campestre (campos rupestres) e rupcola. Os estudos florsticos na rea foram iniciados em 1972 e at o presente foram encontradas 125 famlias de Fanergamas, das quais 100 de Dicotiledneas, 24 de Monocotiledneas, 1 de Gimnospermas, e ainda 10 de Pteridfitas e 11 de Brifitas, num total de cerca de 1600 espcies listadas.
42871585|The study of the family Apocynaceae s.str. is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". The family is represented there by 27 species distributed in 14 genera: Aspidosperma, Condylocarpon, Forsteronia, Hancornia, Himatanthus, Macrosiphonia, Mandevilla, Mesechites, Odontadenia, Prestonia, Rhodocalyx, Secondatia, Stipecoma and Temnadenia. Key to genera and species, descriptions, illustrations and comments on the geographic distribution, habitat, phenology and morphological variability are presented. O estudo da famlia Apocynaceae s.str.  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A famlia est representada na rea por 27 espcies distribudas em 14 gneros: Aspidosperma, Condylocarpon, Forsteronia, Hancornia, Himatanthus, Macrosiphonia, Mandevilla, Mesechites, Odontadenia, Prestonia, Rhodocalyx, Stipecoma e Temnadenia. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre habitat, distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871452|The study of the family Acanthaceae is a part of the "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Staurogyne (2), Ruellia (7), Lepidagathis (1), Justicia (3). Key to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions and variability of the species are presented. Two new names and a new combination are proposed: Justicia serrana to Orthotactus montanus Nees, Justicia riparia to Beloperone mollis Ness and Lepidagathis floribunda to Lophostachys floribunda Pohl. O estudo da famlia Acanthaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Staurogyne (2), Ruellia (7), Lepidagathis (1), Justicia (3). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade. So propostos dois novos nomes e uma nova combinao: Justicia serrana para Orthotactus montanus Nees, Justicia riparia para Beloperone mollis Ness e Lepidagathis floribunda para Lophostachys floribunda Pohl.
42871366|Um estudo da germinao da semente de Velloziaceae foi feito, salientando-se os seguintes aspectos: 1 - A poro haustorial do cotildone (escutelo) fica retida quase que todo o tempo no interior da semente deixando-a, como folha cotiledonar, poucos dias antes de degenerar. 2 - H uma leve diferenciao das clulas epidrmicas do escutelo em contacto com o endosperma. 3 - O colo cotiledonar  o responsvel pela toro sofrida pela plntula. 4 - Somente aps a emergncia da rimeira folha  que ocorre o desenvolvimento da radcula para dar origem  raz primria. 5 - Ha formao de um anel de pelos absorventes no limite hipoctilo-radcula. 6 - Embora, aparentemente, o cotildone tenha posio apical e a plmula, lateral, na realidade tm, respectivamente, posio lateral e apical. Discute-se, ainda, a condio primitiva do cotildone apresentar apenas um feixe vascular, comparando-se com outros aspectos de primitividade apresentados pela famlia Velloziaceae. A study of seedling development in the Velloziaceae was made; the significant points of interest are the following: 1 - The haustorial tip of the cotyledon (the scutellum) is retained within the seed for almost the entire time. It emerges from the seed coat as a cotyledon leaf only a few days before degeneration sets in. 2 - There is slight modification of those epidermal cells of the scutellum which make contact with the endosperm cells. 3 - The cotyledon neck is responsible for the curvature undergone by the seedling. 4 - Only after emergence of the first leaf does development of the radicle give rise to the primary root. 5 - A ring of absorbent root hairs is formed at the limit of hypocotyl and radicle. 6 - Although cotyledon and plumule apparently occupy apical and lateral positions respectively, in fact the reverse is true: the cotyledon is lateral, the plumule apical. The primitive condition represented by the single vascular bundle of the cotyledon is discussed, together with other primitive aspects of the family Velloziaceae.
42871417|A complete conspectus with synonymy, figures and notes is provided for the Brazilian species of the neotropical genus Picramnia.A key to the 19 species recognized in this paper is presented. Five new taxa are described and illustrated: P. oreadica subsp. oreadica and subsp. pendutiflora, P. andrade-limae, P. gardneri subsp. septentrionalis, P.glanoviana subsp. amptifotiola ; and a new combination (P. sellanti subsp. spruceand) is made. IS new synonyms are proposed. Uma sinopese completa incluindo sinonmia, figuras e comentrios  apresentada para as espcies brasileiras do gnero neotropical Picramnia. O trabalho inclui tambm uma chave de identificao das 19 espcies reconhecidas. Cinco novos taxons so descritos e ilustrados: P . oreadica subsp. oreadica e subsp. pendutiflora, P. andrade-limae, P. gardneri subsp. septentrionalis, P. glazioviana subsp. amptifotiola; e uma nova combinao (P. sellowii subsp. spruceana)  proposta. No tratamento taxonmico, so feitas 15 sinonimizaes novas.
42871488|This paper deals with possible diferences in the control of phenylpropanoids biosynthesis in congeneric species from the forest and cerrado, through the quantification of foliar amount of phenols, lignins and proteins at the rainy and dry seasons. The results showed a tendency towards higher phenolic and lignin contents in the cerrado species and higher protein levels in the forest species wih some exceptions. The results agree partially with the initial hypothesis that the replacement of lost materials due to phytophagous attack is more expensive for vegetation which grows on poor soils than that on rich soils. Adaptative evolution results in modification of the biossynthetic apparatus, in this case the chiquimic acid pathway, in order to produce more defense compounds in cerrado plants. The results demonstrate a need to analyse a greater number of species in order to investigate patterns at the level of families, genera, species or populations. Procurou-se verificar as possveis variaes no controle do acmulo de fenilpropanides comparativamente em espcies congenricas de cerrado e de mata, nas estaes seca e chuvosa. Para tanto foram analisados os teores de fenis, ligninas e protenas em folhas. Os resultados mostraram uma tendncia a um maior acmulo de compostos fenlicos e de ligninas nas espcies do cerrado e de protenas nas espcies de mata com algumas excees. Os resultados concordam em parte com a hiptese inicial de que a reposio dos materiais perdidos por ataque de fitfagos  mais dispendiosa para a vegetao que se desenvolve em solos pobres, havendo ento um desvio da via biossinttica, neste caso a via do cido chiqumico, para a produo de compostos de defesa. Demonstraram que seria de interesse a anlise de maior nmero de espcies a fim de se obter dados suficientes para a interpretao do comportamento em nvel de famlias, gneros, espcies ou populaes.
42871575|The study of the family Juncaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Juncus, with only one species, J. microcephalus. A description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Juncaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Essa famlia est representada na rea pelo gnero Juncus, com apenas uma espcie, J. microcephalus. So apresentadas descrio e ilustraes da espcie, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871576|This study of the family Humiriaceae is part of the "Flora do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil" project. In the Serra do Cip, the family is represented by the following species: Humiria balsamifera, Humiriastrum glaziovii and Vantanea obovata. Keys to the species, descriptions, illustrations, taxonomic comments, and geographic distribution data for each species are presented. O estudo da famlia Humiriaceae  parte do levantamento da "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Esta famlia est representada na rea pelas seguintes espcies: Humiria balsamifera, Humiriastrum glaziovii e Vantanea obovata. So apresentadas chaves para espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios taxmicos e dados sobre distribuio geogrfica.
42871423|This paper deals with a study realized in a reserve of secondary semideciduous forest localized in the Campus of University of So Paulo, in the metropolitan area of So Paulo, SP, Brazil. The studies were carried out with two wood Euphorbiaceae species: Actinostemon concolor and Sebastiania serrata. The results obtained at the dry and rainy seasons are given, corresponding to daily course of transpiration, degree of stomatal opening, effectiveness of stornata! closure, saturation deficits and microclimatic conditions. Transpiration restriction was seen in both species. independent of the season. The hydroactive closure reaction is rapid, suggesting that these species can control transpiration efficiently. The leaves did not develop high saturation deficits. Este trabalho  resultado de pesquisa realizada em urna reserva de mata secundara semidecdua, situada no Campus da Universidade de So Paulo, localizada na rea metropolitana de So Paulo. SP, Brasil. Os estudos foram realizados com 2 espcies lenhosas de Euphorbiaceae: Actinostemon concolor e Sebastiania serrata. Os resultados obtidos nas estaes seca e chu vasa correspondem a dados de andamento dirio da transpirao, grau de abertura estomtica, velocidade do fechamento hidroativodos estmatos, dficits de saturao e andamento dirio das condies microclimticas. As duas espcies apresentaram restries na transpirao em ambas as estaes. Pela reao hidroativa de seus estmatos demonstrou-se que ambas as espcies podem controlar a transpirao eficientemente. As folhas no desenvolveram altos dficits de saturao.
42871870|This paper deals with some aspects of colonization of hillsides and headwaters by forest components in "campos rupestres" of Diamantina Plateau and Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais. Descriptions and illustrations of spacial sequences of the establishment of woody pioneers are presented, and aspects of the dispersal syndromes concerning uphill colonization are discussed. It is likely that the patterns of spacial distribution observed correspond to steps of the successional dynamics of these forest species. O presente trabalho descreve e ilustra as sequncias espaciais de instalao de formas lenhosas pioneiras nas encostas midas e nas cabeceiras dos riachos que drenam os campos rupestres do Planalto de Diamantina e da Serra do Cip, MG. So tambm discutidos os aspectos das sndromes de disperso dos disporos concernentes  colonizao "morro acima" pelas espcies envolvidas. Infere-se que os padres espaciais de distribuio observados correspondem s etapas da dinmica sucessional dessas espcies florestais no ambiente rupestre.
42871587|The study of the family Araliaceae constitutes a contribution to the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". The family is represented in the area by 7 species distributed in 2 genera: Dendropanax and Schefflera (previously Didymopanax). Keys to genera and species, descriptions, illustrations and comments on the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology, and morphological variability are presented. O estudo da famlia Araliaceae constitui contribuio" ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia est representada na rea por 7 espcies distribudas em 2 gneros: Dendropanax e Schefflera (anteriormente Didymopanax). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre habitat, distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871876|As a result of a taxonomic study of "sempre vivas" from Brazil, four new species were described: Syngonanthus brasiliana; S. magnificus and S.suberosus from Rio Vermelho, Minas Gerais and S. mucugensis from Mucug, Bahia. Como resultado de estudos taxonmicos feitos com as sempre-vivas do Brasil, quatro novas espcies foram descritas: Syngonanthus brasiliana; S. magnificus e S.suberosus de Rio Vermelho, Minas Gerais e S. mucugensis de Mucug, Bahia.
42871508|A survey of the woody plants of the forest of the Parque Santo Dias, So Paulo, SP, Brazil is presented. The area is a remnant of the native forest of the city, open to public visitation since 1992. Collections of botanical samples were made by the first author during 4 years (1992-1995), and specimens previously collected in the area were also available for the inventory. 154 species belonging to 110 genera in 55 families have been recognized. From these species, 1 is a tree-fern, 2 are gymnospcrms, 146 are dicotyledons, and 5 are monocotyledons. The families with the greatest number of species are: Leguminosac (14 spp), Lauraccac, Myrtaccac and Solanaccac (12 spp each), and Mclastomataccae and Rubiaceae (11 spp each). Based on a floristic comparison with other forests in the State of So Paulo, it has been verified the predomination of elements from the Brazilian southern flora, and from montane mesophytic scmideciduous forests. Also the occurrence of species with restricted distribution to the neighbourhoods are reported. Considerations on forest stratification and evidences of human interference arc pointed. O presente trabalho consiste do levantamento das espcies dos componentes arbreo e arbustivo do Parque Santo Dias, rea florestal remanescente no municpio de So Paulo, aberta  visitao pblica desde 1992. Foram coletados materiais frteis e estreis por perodo de quatro anos, que, somados aos coletados na dcada de 80, resultaram cm 154 espcies, pertencendo a 110 gneros, de 55 famlias, sendo 1 espcie de ptcridfta, 2 espcies de gimnospcrmas, 146 espcies de dicotiledneas e 5 espcies de monocotilcdncas. As famlias com maior nmero de espcies so: Leguminosac (14), Lauraceac, Myrtaccac c Solanaccac (12 cada) e Rubiaccac e Mclastomataccae (11 cada). A partir de comparaes florsticas com outras matas do estado de So Paulo, verifcou-sc a predominncia de elementos da flora do sul do pas e das matas mesflas semidecduas de altitude, ressaltando-se ainda a ocorrncia de espcies com distribuio restrita aos arredores da cidade. So feitas tambm consideraes sobre a fisionomia c estratificao da mata c evidncias da interferncia antrpica.
42871393|Stem segments from dark grown Araucaria angustifolia seedlings were cultured on synthetic nutrient medium supplied with kinetin plus auxins (NAA, IAA, IBA, or 2, 4-D). Several kinds of calluses were produced, especially in conditions of high auxin (2mg/1) and low kinetin (0. 1mg/1). High kinetin and low auxin promoted the development of the lateral buds. These buds can be isolated and remain alive on basal medium lacking hormones for 6 months, without rooting. Segmentos de caule de plntulas de Araucaria angustifolia crescidas no escuro foram cultivados em meio sinttico com adio de cinetina e auxina (ANA, AIA, AIB ou 2, 4-D). Foram pro duzidos vrios tipos de calos, especialmente em condies de alta concentrao de auxina (2mg/1) e baixa de cinetina (0, 1mg/1). Alta cinetina e baixa auxina promoveram o desenvolvimento das gemas laterais. Estas gemas podem ser isoladas e permanecem vivas no meio basico sem hormnios por 6 meses, sem enraizar.
42871872|A new species of Malaxis (Orchidaceae) is described and illustrated, The new species from Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais, Brazil) is named Malaxis cipoensis F. Barros. Comments on the taxonomic status of the Brazilian sections of the genus are given. A espcie, proveniente da Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais, Brasil), foi denominada Malaxis cipoensis F. Barros. So apresentados comentrios sobre o "status" taxonmico das sees brasileiras do gnero.
42871888|The study of the family Malpighiaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Tetrapterys (5), Heteropterys (5), Banisteriopsis (11), Peixotoa (4), Camarea (4), Thryallis (1), Pterandra (1), Byrsonima (12) and Mascagnia (1). Key to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Malpighiaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Tetrapterys (5), Heteropterys (5), Banisteriopsis (11), Peixotoa (4), Camarea (4), Thryallis (1), Pterandra (1), Byrsonima (12)  Mascagnia (1). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871881|The study of the family Vitaceae is a part of the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by two species of the genus Cissus, C. erosa L. C. Rich, subsp. erosa and C. simsiana Schult. & Schult, f. A key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the distribution and morphological variation of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Vitaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Nesta rea, a famlia  representada por duas espcies do gnero Cissus, C. erosa L. C. Rich, subsp. erosa e C. simsiana Schult. & Schult, f. Uma chave para as espcies, descries e illustraes, e tambm comentrios sobre a distribuio e variao morfolgica das espcies so apresentados.
42871942|The study of the family Santalaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Thesium, with only one species, T. brasiliensis A.DC. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the habitat and taxonomic delimitation of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Santalaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Thesium brasiliense A.DC. So apresentadas descrio, ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre habitat e delimitao taxonmica da espcie.
42871568|A taxonomic study of the genus Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae) in the Espinhao Range, in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is presented. The Espinhao Range is a group of mountains located at the Central Brazilian Plateau, with nearly 1100 km in extension, crossing the Minas Gerais and Bahia states, on the North-South direction. It is a formation dominated by rocky outcrops and extensive formations called "campos rupestres", extremely important on a biogeographical point of view, for its high endemism level, either in animal and plant groups. The floristic survey of Croton species found in that formation was carried out based on the authors's field work and on herbarium collections. Croton is the second greater and more diverse genus of the Euphorbiaceae, with around 800 species widespread in the tropics, 250-300 of them represented in Brazil. Twent two species occur in the Espinhao Range, MG: C. antisyphiliticus Mart., C. argyroglossum Baill., C. atrorufus Mll. Arg., C. buxifolius Mll. Arg., C. campestris A. St.-Hil., C. celtidifolius Baill., C. floribundus Spreng., C. glutinosus Mll. Arg., C. grewioides Baill., C. julopsidium Baill., C. lobatus L., C. lundianus Mll. Arg., C. migrans Casar., C. muscicarpa Mll. Arg., C. myrsinites Baill., C. nummularius Baill., C. siderophyllus Baill., C. subferrugineus Mll. Arg., C. timandroides Mll. Arg, C urucurana Baill., C. aff. petraeus Mll. Arg. e C. aff. desertorum Mll. Arg., the latter two probably new. An identification key, morphological descriptions, illustrations, notes on geographic distribution, habitat, phenological information and general comments on each taxon are provided. Este trabalho trata do levantamento do gnero Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae) na Cadeia do Espinhao, Minas Gerais, Brasil, que  um conjunto de serras localizado no Planalto Central Brasileiro, com cerca de 1100 km de extenso, atravessando os estados de Minas Gerais e Bahia, no sentido Norte-Sul. Trata-se de uma formao caracterizada por numerosos afloramentos rochosos e domnio de um tipo de vegetao denominado campo rupestre, que exibe alto grau de endemismos. O levantamento das espcies de Croton nessa formao foi efetuado baseando-se em materiais de herbrio e nas coletas realizadas na regio, pelos autores, durante o desenvolvimento projeto. Croton  o segundo maior e mais diverso gnero da famlia Euphorbiaceae, com cerca de 800 espcies amplamente distribudas nos trpicos. Na Amrica do Sul, o Brasil  o pas com maior representatividade do gnero, possuindo cerca de 250-300 espcies. Na Cadeia do Espinhao foram encontradas 22 espcies: C. antisyphiliticus Mart., C. argyroglossum Baill., C. atrorufus Mll. Arg., C. buxifolius Mll. Arg., C. campestris A. St.-Hil., C. celtidifolius Baill., C. floribundus Spreng., C. glutinosus Mll. Arg., C. grewioides Baill., C. julopsidium Baill., C. lobatus L., C. lundianus Mll. Arg., C. migrans Casar., C. muscicarpa Mll. Arg., C. myrsinites Baill., C. nummularius Baill., C. siderophyllus Baill., C. subferrugineus Mll. Arg., C. timandroides Mll. Arg, C urucurana Baill., C. aff. desertorum Mll. Arg. e C. aff. petraeus Mll. Arg., sendo as duas ltimas provavelmente inditas para a cincia. So apresentados chave de identificao, descries morfolgicas, ilustraes, dados sobre distribuio geogrfica, habitat e fenologia, e comentrios sobre os taxons estudados.
42871399|As a result of a taxonomic review of the genus Leiothrix, three new species were described: Leiothrix cipoensis, L. rupestris and L. sinuosa. Como resultado da reviso taxonmica do gnero Leiothrix recentemente concluda, trs novas espcies so descritas: Leiothrix cipoensis, L. rupestris e L. sinuosa.
42871467|As a result of taxonomic studies of different Leguminosae groups two new combinations are proposed: Moldenhawera emarginata (Sprengel) L. P. Queiroz & R. Allkin (tribe Caesalpinieae) and Cratylia intermedia (Hassler) L. P. Queiroz & R. Monteiro (tribe Phaseoleae). It is described Zornia brasiliensis var. adenocarpa L.P.Queiroz, var.nov. Three species of Moldenhawera (M. cuprea Pohl, M. nitida H.S.Irwin & Arroyo and M. riedelii Yakovlev) are treated as synonyms of M. emarginata. Como resultado de estudos taxonmicos em diferentes grupos de Leguminosae so propostas duas novas combinaes: Moldenhawera emarginata (Sprengel) L.P. Queiroz & R. llkin (tribo Caesalpinieae) e Cratylia intermedia (Hassler) L.P.Queiroz & R.Monteiro (tribo Phaseoleae).  descrita Zornia brasiliensis var. adenocarpa L.P.Queiroz, var.nov. Trs espcies de Moldenhawera (M. cuprea Pohl, M. nitida H. S. Irwin & Arroyo e M. riedelii Yakovlev) so tratadas como sinnimos de M. emarginata.
42871873|Pleurothallis rupestris and P. teres Lindl, are known as different taxa occurring in the Brazilian rupestrian fields. However, the results of anatomical studies with isolated populations show that both groups share a common set of morphological features. Both plants have rupicolous habit with varying degrees of xeromorphic characteristics. Attention may be drawn to the reduced ramical, rhizome with pericicle that is the same as primary thickening meristem (PTM) for others monocotyledons and to the mesophyll with water storage tissue. This comprises idioblasts with helical thickenings with predominantly lignified walls. It is suggested that only one species is accepted as valid, electing P. rupestris as the correct binomial. Foram estudados sob os aspectos anatmicos os rgos vegetativos de populaes identificadas inicialmente como P. rupestris e P. teres Lindl, que ocorrem nos campos rupestres do Brasil. Pelas caractersticas morfolgicas e anatmicas se distingue apenas uma espcie devendo prevalecer o nome mais antigo P. rupestris. Ambas so rupcolas com caractersticas xeromorfas. Merecem ateno especial a presena de ramicaule reduzido, rizoma com periciclo que equivale ao meristema de espessamento primrio (MEP) de algumas monocotiledoneas e principalmente a presena de idioblastos de paredes lignificadas com espessamentos helicoidais formando o parnquima aqutero no mesofilo.
42871394|The subject of this paper is floral vascularization in Oxalis lati'folia H. B. K., O. oxyptera Progel, O. corymbosa DC, O. corniculata L. and Averrhoa carambola L. The petal traces, external stamen traces and carpellary dorsal traces originate in a complex. Parenchymatous saliences which are not vasculariz ed and nectaries occur at the base of the stamens; both may be vestiges of staminodes. The presence of obdiplostemony seems to be a consequence of the loss of a whorl of stamens. The flowers show caracteristics of an evolutionary process, as represented by the tendency to gamosepalism, reduction in the number of stamens, fusion of the ventral and marginal carpellary traces, reduction of carpellary dorsal bundles, and substitution of parietal by axile placentation. Neste trabalho e estudada a vascularizao floral de Oxalis latifolia H. B. K., O. oxyptera Progel, O. oorymbosa DC., O. oornieulata L. e Averrhoa carambola L. Os traos petalares, etaminais externos e carpelares dorsais so provenientes de um complexo. Ocorrem salincias parenquimticas na base dos estames que no so vascularizadas e, ainda, nectarios; ambos podem representar vestgios de estaminodios. A presena de obdiploste monia parece ser consequncia da perda de um verticilo. As flores revelam caracteres de um processo evolutivo, representado pela tendencia  gamos sepal ia, reduo do numero de estmes, fuso dos traos ventraie e marginais de carpelos, reduo dos fei. xes dorsais de carpelos e substituio da placentao parietal pela axilar.
42871384|This paper studies the input and transfer of potassiun and phosphorus by rainfall water and throughfall water in a secondary semideciduous forest located in a metropolitan area of So Paule  (23 33'S, 46P 43'W)  State of So Paulo. 68% of annual rainfall reached the soil surface during the period of experiment. The potassium input by rainfall was 2,3 kg.ha.year and 126 kg.ha. -year reached the soil surface by throughfall. The phosphorus input was 1,12 kg.ha.year and the amount washed by throughfall water 7,5 kg.ha.year. These quantities represent more than 70% of potassium and 40% of phosphorus of the total amount annually recycled by litter-fall and throughfall. Este trabalho estuda o papel da precipitao na importao e transferncia de potssio e fsforo na reserva da mata mesfila secundria localizada na rea metropolitana de So Paulo-S.P. (23 33'S; 46 43'W). Os resultados obtidos mostram que cerca de 68% da precipitao atingiu efetiva mente a superfcie do solo, atravessando a cobertura vegetal no perodo do experimento. Cerca de 2,3 kg.ha.ano de potssio foram importados atravs da precipitao incidente e nada menos de 126 kg.ha.ano chegaram  superfcie do solo da mata, conduzidos pela gua de gotejamento. Quanto ao fsforo cerca de 1,12 kg.ha.ano foram trazidos pela gua de precipitao livre e sua participao na gua de gotejamento foi muito menor (7,5 kg.ha.ano) cm relao ao potssio. Em termos globais de transferncia via folhedo e gua de precipitao, mais de 70% de K e mais de 40% do P foram conduzidos pela gua de chuva.
42871497|The study of the family Bignoniaceae constitutes a contribution to the project "Flora of die Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". The family is represented in the area by 24 species, included in 12 genera and distributed in 2 tribes: Tecomeae (Cybistax, Jacaranda, Tabebuia, Zeyheria) and Bignonieae (Anemopaegma, Cuspidaria, Distictella, Friderida, Lundia, Memora, Pyrostegia). Keys to genera and species, descriptions, illustrations comments on the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology and morphological variability are presented. O estudo da famlia Bignoniaceae constitui contribuio ao Projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia est representada na rea por 24 espcies, includas em 12 gneros e distribudas em 2 tribos: Tecomeae (Cybistax, Jacaranda, Tabebuia, Zeyheria) e Bignonieae (Anemopaegma, Arrabidaea, Cuspidara, Distictella, Friderida, Lundia, Memora, Pyrostegia). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre habitat, distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871338|Estudou-se a placentao em doze espcies de Lecythidaceae, isto , Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Grias fendleri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Hotopyocidium jaranum (Huber) Ducke e Lecythis pisonis Camb. O ovrio  multilocular com placentao axilar, na base, e passa ao tipo unilocular com placentao parietal em certos nveis acima. No pice do eixo placentrio, ou acima, aparece novamente fuso das margens carpelares. Estudou-se tambm a posio do xilema em relao ao floema nos feixes carpelares ventrais. Em Lecythidaceae, assim como em Myrtaceae e outras famlias, a placentao parietal  derivada do tipo axilar. Placentation was studied in the following species of the Lecythidaceae: Allantoma lineata (Mart.) Miers, Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl., Cariniana estrellensis (Raddi) O. Kuntze, Chytroma spruceana (Berg) Miers, Corythophora alta R. Knuth, Couratari tauari Berg, Couroupita acreensis R. Knuth, Eschweilera krukovii A. C. Smith, Grias fendleri Seem, Gustavia augusta L., Holopyxidium jaranum (Hubber) Ducke and Lecythis pisonis Camb. The ovary is multilocular with axile placentation in its basis and unilocular with parietal placentation at certain levels above. Fusion occurs again between the margins of each carpel in the apex of the placental axis or higher. The xylem position in relation to that of the phloem was also studied in the ventral bundles of the carpels. In the Lecythidaceae, as in the Myrtaceae and other families, the parietal placentation is derived from the axile type.
42871321|Neste trabalho foram descritos aspectos morfolgicos, particularmente anatmicos, do "agrio", Nasturtium officinale R. Brown, aclimatado no Brasil. O "agrio", alm de apresentar interesse bromatolgico, tem propriedade antiescorbtica, verificando-se, ainda, nessa planta a presena de um glicosdeo, iodo e ferro. A planta mostra o caule flexvel, ramoso e fistuloso, com feixes de razes adventcias ao nvel dos ns. As folhas so alternas, profundamente divididas. As flores so pequenas, brancas, diclamdeas, hermafroditas, actinomorfas, reunidas em racimos terminais e axilares. O clice e a corola constam de 4 peas; as ptalas, dispostas em cruz, alternam-se com as spalas. O androceu  tetradnamo. O gineceu tem ovrio spero, bicarpelar e unilocular  tornando-se bilocular devido a um falso tabique de origem placentria , com vrios vulos. O fruto  siliqua e na maturao, deixa livre o replum com as sementes. A raiz  protostlica, radiada triarca ou tetrarca e o caule  do tipo sifonostlico dissecado ectoflico. A folha  anfistomtica, apresentando estrutura dorsiventral. Os estmatos so do tipo anisoctico; no caule e no pecolo os estmatos esto agrupados em regies delimitadas fusiformes, encontrando-se em diferentes fases de desenvolvimento. Na flor, em relao com o ovrio, encontram-se os nectarios. As anteras contm gros de plen com trs poros de germinao e exina reticulada. O ovrio mostra placentao marginoparietal e os vulos so campiltropos. O fruto contm semente do tipo exalbuminado. Outras particularidades anatmicas so a presena de clulas mirosnicas no parnquima, clulas armazenadoras de gua na epiderme, alm de incluses de amilo, formando no caule a bainha amilfera. A planta  glabra e no foram observadas incluses cristalinas. This paper is a morphological study of the vegetative and reproductive structures of Nasturtium officinale R. Brown, with special emphasis on the anatomy. This species is cultivated in Brazil, where it is populary known as: "agrio". In other countries it is known by the names: "berro" (Spain), "crecione (Italy), "cresson (France), "watercress" (England) and wasserkresse" (Germany). This plant has antiescorbtica property, showing also the presence of glucoside, iodine and iron. The plant is herbaceous with a flexible, glabrous, fistulous stem, with adventitious roots at the height of the nodes. The leaves are glabrous, alternate with 3-11 leaf-lets. The flower is white, actinomorphous, diclamideous, androginous. The androceum is diplostemonous and tetradinamous; the gynaeceum shows upper ovary, bicarpelar and bilocular by reason of a false sept. The fruit is a siliqua containing various seeds. The root is protostelic, radiate, triarch and tetrarch and the stem is of the syphonostelic dissected ectophoic type. The leaf is dorsiventrally organized and anfistomatic. The stomates are of the anisocytic type, grouped in fusiform zones. The anthers contain spheroidal, pollen grains with three germinal pores and reticulate exin. The ovary shows campylotropous ovules and marginal parietal placentation. The fruit contains exalbuminous seeds. Other anatomical peculiarities are the presence of myrosin cells in the parenchimatic tissues, water-storage cells in the epiderms, inclusions of starch grains forming a starch layer in the stem. The plant is hailess and inclusion of crystals has not been found.
42871345|A detailed description of the organization and development of vegetative, female, male and tetrasporic structures is presented for material of Vidalia obtusiloba collected at the type locality. The apical portion of the thallus is ventrally coiled and presents five pericentral cells. The subapical segments initially cut one dorsal pericentral cell and soon the other four pericentrals following the pattern known for the family. The ventral pericentral is the last cell to be cut. Further divisions of the dorsal and ventral pericentrals make older parts of the thallus with 6 to 8 cells around the central one. Periclinal divisions of the two lateral pericentral cells on each side of the thallus give rise to the lateral wings of the blade. The carpogonial branch arises at the second segment of a trichoblast, from the ventral pericentral cell. The fertile pericentral cuts initially a sterile lateral cell and soon after the carpogonial branch cells. The pericarp starts before fertilization. The anteridial bodies are globoid and are formed from the third segment of a trichoblast. Two tetrasporangia by segment arise at the third or fourth pericentral cells being covered by two large cells that later divide to form a cortical tissue. Of these only one sporangia reaches maturity. Early stages of carpospores development agree in general with the pattern ascribed to the Rhodomelaceae. O trabalho descreve detalhadamente a organizao do talo, o desenvolvimento das estruturas de reproduo e os primeiros estgios da germinao dos tetrsporos de Vidalia obtusiloba. As pores apicais apresentam-se enroladas sobre si mesmas, ventralmente, e com 5 pericentrais. Os segmentos sub-apicais cortam inicialmente uma clula pericentral dorsal e, posteriormente, as outras quatro pericentrais, seguindo a sequncia conhecida para a famlia, sendo a pericentral ventral a ltima a ser formada. Divises posteriores das pericentrais dorsais e ventral fazem com que as partes mais velhas se apresentem com 6 a 8 clulas em torno da central. A parte laminar do talo  formada por divises anticlinais das quatro pericentrais laterais, sendo duas de cada lado. O ramo carpogonial forma-se no segundo segmento de um tricoblasto, a partir da pericentral ventral. A pericentral frtil corta, inicialmente, uma clula lateral estril e a seguir as clulas do ramo carpogonial. O pericarpo inicia-se antes da fecundao. Os corpos anteridiais apresentam forma globoide e desenvolvem-se a partir do terceiro segmento de um tricoblasto modificado. Os tetrasporngios so formados pela terceira e quarta pericentrais, em nmero de dois por segmento, inicialmente com duas clulas de cobertura que se dividem, posteriormente, formando um tecido de cobertura. O padro de germinao dos carpsporos concorda, em linhas gerais, com o descrito na literatura para a famlia Rhodomelaceae.
42871328|O trabalho descreve e ilustra vinte espcies de algas marinhas ainda no referidas para o litoral brasileiro. As novas referncias esto assim distribudas : 8 Clorofceas, 3 Feofceas e 9 Rodofceas. Todo o material foi coletado em Fevereiro de 1972 no Atol das Rocas. A grande maioria das espcies j era conhecida da regio carabica, o que vem demonstrar mais uma vez a extenso de sua flora na direo S e E, diminuindo ainda mais o nmero de espcies anteriormente consideradas endmicas no Caribe. Twenty new references of benthic marine algae are ascribed to Brazil: 8 Chlorophyceae, 3 Phaeophyceae and 9 Rhodophyceae. All the material was collected at "Atol das Rocas" in February 1972. The large majority of the species were already known from the Caribean Sea, showing once more the extension of its flora towards S and E and restricting still more the number of endemic species in the area.
42871566|The study of the family Opiliaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Agonandra, with only one species, A. brasiliensis subsp. brasiliensis. A description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Opiliaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada na rea pelo gnero Agonandra, com apenas uma espcie, A. brasiliensis subsp. brasiliensis. So apresentadas descrio e ilustraes da espcie, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871438|The study of the family Meliaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Cabralea (1), Cedrela (1), Guarea (2) and Trichilia (3). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Meliaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Sera do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Cabralea (1), Cedrela (1), Guarea (2) e Trichilia (3). So apresentadas chaves para gnero e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871428|Anatomical aspects of the leaves of 33 species of the genus Xyris L. were studied. The unifacial leaves vary from flatened to cylindrical, and display a variety of patterns of vascular organization and a number of xeromorphic traits. Anatomical analysis of the basal portion of the limb suggests tendecies towards specialization in the species under study. Foram estudadas, sob o aspecto anatmico, as folhas de 33 espcies do gnero Xyris L. As folhas unifaciais variam desde achatadas at cilndricas e exibem padres de organizao vascular bastante diversos, alm de vrias caractersticas xeromrficas. Atravs da anlise anatmica da poro basal do limbo, admitem-se tendncias de especializao, para os rgos foliares das espcies estudadas.
42871431|The description of two new taxa, Trimezia fistulosa Foster var. longifolia Chukr and Pseudotrimezia gracilis Chukr, that occur at Serra do Cip (Minas Gerais) are presented. Apresenta-se a descrio de dois taxons novos, Trimezia fistulos Foster var. longifolia Chukr e Pseudotrimezia gracilis Chukr, que ocorrem na Serra do Cip em Minas Gerais.
42871480|The study of the family Begoniaceae is part of the project "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In the family only the genus Begonia is registered to Brazil, with four species present in the study area. Key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution and phenology of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Begoniaceae  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". No Brasil, a famlia est representada somente pelo gnero 'Begonia, que na rea de estudo apresenta quatro espcies. So apresentadas chave para as espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e fenologia.
42871380|The annual litter production, the mineral content and the rate of litter disappearance were studied in a secondary semideciduous forest, actually a reserve included in the metropolitan area of So Paulo  Brazil (23 33' S, 46 43' W; 735-756 m altitude). Yearly fall of litter was 9,4 t.ha, beeing the leaves the most important fraction (62,6%), foleowed by woody elements (28,6%), flowers + fruits + seeds (6,3%) and unidentified detritus (2,4%). Although some of the tree species of the higher strata change the leaves during the driest months (june, july and august), a sharp sazonality of litter fall was not observed, probably due to the homogenous rain distribution, without a typical dry period during the years that the experiment was carried out. The total organic nitrogen content of litter was 186 kg.ha.year, beeing 130 kg of the leaves, 34 kg of woody elements, 15 kg of flowers, fruits and seeds and 7,4 kg of unidentified detritus. The potassium content was 38 kg.ha.year, calcium 104 kg, magnesium 18 kg and phosphorus 9,4 kg. In all the cases, the leaf fraction was the major contributor. The rate of litter disappearence (k) was 0,8  0,9, and the half-life of decomposition, approximately 9 - 10 months. A produo anual do folhedo, o contedo de alguns nutrientes minerais e a razo do desaparecimento do folhedo acumulado foram estudados em uma reserva de mata semidecdua secundria com cerca de 10 ha de rea, situada na regio metropolitana de So Paulo, SP. (23 33' S, 46 43' W; 735-765 m de altitude). A produo anual de folhedo foi de 9,4 t.ha, sendo maior frao a de folhas, seguida em ordem decrescente, de elementos lenhosos (28,6%), flores + frutos + sementes (6,3%) e detritos no identificados (2,4%). Embora as espcies arbreas do estrato superior sofram absciso total ou parcial de folhas nos meses mais secos e frios (junho, julho e agosto), no foi observada uma sazonalidade marcante na queda do folhedo total, provavelmente pelo fato de os experimentos terem sido desenvolvidos em anos cuja distribuio pluviomtrica se mostrou bastante homognea, mesmo no perodo normalmente menos chuvoso. O contedo de nitrognio orgnico do folhedo produzido no perodo de um ano foi da ordem de 186 kg.ha, tendo as folhas contribudo com 130 kg, os elementos lenhosos com 34 kg, flores, frutos e sementes com 15 kg e detritos no identificados com 7,4 kg. O contedo em potssio foi estimado em 38 kg.ha.ano, clcio 104 kg, magnsio 18 kg e fosfato 9,4 kg. Em todos os casos, as folhas contribuiram com a maior parcela. A razo de desaparecimento do folhedo foi estimada em torno de 0,8  0,9 e o tempo necessrio para a decomposio de 50%, em aproximadamente, 9 - 10 meses.
42871361|Different kinds of explanted tissues from vegetative plants of Streptocarpus nobilis were cultivated in vitro under flower inducing photoperiods, and their ability to flowering compared. Isolated shoot apices and seedlings were able to produce flowers about 10 weeks after planting. Stem, petiole and leaf midrib segments rarely showed direct flower neo-formation as leaf discs do. In these cases, leafy buds were formed firstly, and the flowers developed 10 - 12 weeks later, in the neo-formed shoot. Diffrentes explantes de plantas vegetativas de Streptocarpus nobilis foram cultivados in vitro em condies fotoperidicas indutoras de florao, e comparada sua capacidade para florescer. pices caulinares e plntulas so capazes de florescer aps 10 semanas em cultura. Segmentos de caule, pecolo ou nervura mediana da folha raramente mostram neoformao de gemas florais diretamente do explante, como acontece nos discos foliares. Geralmente gemas com folhas diferenciam-se primeiro, e ento estes meristemas tornam-se florais, ocorrendo a florao 10 - 12 semanas aps o incio da cultura.
42871515|Piriqueta emasensis Arbo is described, illustrated and compared with related species. Piriqueta emasensis Arbo  descrita, ilustrada e comparada com outras espcies relacionadas.
42871484|The study of the family Droseraceae is part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Drosera, with three species: D. chrysolepis Taub., D. communis A. St.-Hil. and D. montana A. St.-Hil. Key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Droseraceae  parte do levantamento da "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil".  representada naquela rea pelo gnero Drosera com trs espcies: D. chrysolepis Taub., D. communis A. St.-Hil. e D. montana A. St.-Hil. So apresentadas chaves para as espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre a distribuio geogrfica.
42871573|This study of the family Aristolochiaceae is part of the project "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". The family is represented by three species of the genus Aristolochia L.: A. galeata Mart. & Zucc., A. melastoma Manso ex Duch. and A. smilacina (Klotzsch) Duch. Descriptions of family, genus, and species, are presented, as well as identification key, illustrations of the species, and comments on their distribution and characterization. Este estudo da famlia Aristolochiaceae  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Nessa rea, a famlia est representada por trs espcies do gnero Aristolochia L.: A. galeata Mart. & Zucc., A. melastoma Manso ex Duch. e A. smilacina (Klotzsch) Duch. So apresentadas descries de famlia, gnero e espcies, chave de identificao e ilustrao das espcies, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio e caracterizao.
42871891|The study of the family Simaroubaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following species: Picramnia glazioviana Engl., P. sellowii Planch. and Simarouba amara Aubl. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Simaroubaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelas espcies: Picramnia glazioviana Engl., P. sellowii Planch. e Simarouba amara Aubl. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871514|The management of remnant forest patches requires a comprehensive understanding of their functioning and evolution, which can be achieved by monitoring the main community components in the medium and long terms. We analysed structural and compositional changes in a forest fragment at the University of So Paulo (USP) (2333'44"-2334'02"S; 4643'38"-4643'49"W) from 1992 to 1997. Surveys were performed within a 100  50 m plot, and included trees with diameter at breast height (dbh)  15.9 cm in 1992 and trees with dbh  10 cm in 1997. Tree species were identified and classified according to successional stages. Structural and dynamic variables were compared for the most abundant species, for successional groups, and for the whole community. Density and basal area of the community increased considerably in the period; species diversity and evenness remained almost the same. For native species, both diversity and evenness decreased. Archontophoenix cunninghamiana, an exotic palm, showed the highest growth and recruitment rates of all species, indicating a process of biological invasion. Pioneers decreased in density and showed the lowest recruitment and the highest mortality among ecological groups, while late successional species increased in density and had low mortality. Compared to another 62 neotropical forests, the USP forest shows low stability, typical of immature or regenerating forests. Potential recruitment and regeneration problems of native species, especially the late successional ones, were detected and may be explained by A. cunninghamiana outcompeting native species. These results illustrate the need to manage fragments of native vegetation to maintain biodiversity. O manejo de fragmentos florestais remanescentes necessita do entendimento abrangente de seus processos evolutivos e funcionais, que pode ser alcanado por meio de monitoramento, a mdio e longo prazos, dos componentes-chave da comunidade. Foram aqui analisadas mudanas na estrutura e composio de um fragmento florestal, localizado na Universidade de So Paulo (USP) (2333'44"-2334'02"S; 4643'38"-4643'49"W), ocorridas entre 1992 e 1997. Os levantamentos foram feitos numa rea de 100  50 m, incluindo rvores com dimetro na altura do peito (dap)  15,9 cm; o levantamento de 1997 tambm incluiu rvores com dap  10 cm. Variveis estruturais e dinmicas foram comparadas para as espcies mais abundantes, para grupos sucessionais e para a comunidade. Densidade e rea basal da comunidade aumentaram consideravelmente no perodo; diversidade e equabilidade permaneceram praticamente as mesmas. Para as espcies nativas, diminuram tanto diversidade como equabilidade. A palmeira extica Archontophoenix cunninghamiana teve maiores taxas de recrutamento e crescimento dentre todas as espcies, indicando um processo de invaso biolgica. Dentre os grupos ecolgicos, as espcies pioneiras decresceram em densidade e tiveram menor recrutamento e maior mortalidade, ao passo que o contrrio se deu para as climxicas. Comparada a outras 62 florestas neotropicais, a floresta estudada demonstrou menor estabilidade, tipicamente encontrada em florestas imaturas ou em regenerao. Potenciais problemas no recrutamento e na regenerao das espcies nativas, especialmente as tardias, foram detectados, podendo ser explicados pela competio de A. cunninghamiana com as espcies nativas. Os resultados apresentados demonstram a necessidade de se manejar fragmentos de vegetao nativa para se conservar sua biodiversidade.
42871340|Descrevem-se as caractersticas anatmicas das folhas de Piper regnellii (Miq.) C. DC. var. regnellii. Efetuou-se a extrao do leo essencial e, por meio da anlise cromatogrfica em camada delgada, foram identificados cariofileno, limoneno, linaloi e geraniol. Anatomic characteristics of the Piper regnellii (Miq.) C. DC. var. regnellii leaves are described. Extraction of the essential oil was made and by means of the thin layer Chromatographie analyses earyophyllene, limonene, geraniol and linaloi were identified.
42871482|In the research the anatomical aspects of stem and root in primary and secondary structure of six species of the genus Pilosocereus Byles & Rowley were investigated. The primary structure of stem and root is practically unchangeable among the species, except by volume of vascular tissue. In the secondary structure of stem, it was observed the occurrence of calcium oxalate crystals in epidermal cells of species of subgenus Gounellea, while in the species of subgenus Pilosocereus such crystals were restricted to the collenchymatic hypodermis cells. Cortical bundles were noted in the stem of all species in primary and secundary structure; on the other hand medulary bundlles and mucilaginous cells were observed only in secondary structure of the stem. The importance of these character in the ecology and taxonomy of genus is discussed. Nesta pesquisa, seis espcies do gnero Pilosocereus Byles & Rowley foram investigadas quanto aos aspectos da anatomia do caule e da raiz, em estruturas primria e secundria. A estrutura primria do caule e da raiz apresentou-se praticamente invarivel entre as espcies analisadas, exceto pelo volume do tecido vascular. Na estrutura secundria do caule, observou-se a ocorrncia de cristais de oxalato de clcio nas clulas epidrmicas das espcies do subgnero Gounellea, enquanto que nas espcies do subgnero Pilosocereus estes cristais foram restritos s clulas da hipoderme colenquimtica. Feixes corticais foram notados no caule de todas as espcies em estruturas primria e secundria, por outro lado, feixes medulares e clulas de mucilagem foram observados apenas na estrutura secundria do caule. A importncia desses caracteres na ecologia e taxonoma do gnero  discutida.
42871947|The study of the family Myrtaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Gomidesia (1), Marlierea (3), Catyptranthes (1), Myrcia (20), Myrceugenia (1), Eugenia (7), Myrciaria (1), Siphoneugena (2), Psidium (7), Blepharocalyx (1) and Campomanesia (2). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distributions and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Myrtaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Gomidesia (1), Marlierea (3), Calyptranthes (1), Myrcia (20), Myrceugenia (1), Eugenia (7), Myrciaria (1), Siphoneugena (2), Psidium (7), Blepharocalyx (1) e Campomanesia (2). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871507|In this work, 46 populations belonging to 17 species and 8 genera of Commelinaceae occurring in the Northeast of Brazil were cytologically analysed. Five of these species (Aneilema brasiliense 2n=40, Commelina rufipes var. rufipes 2n=30, Dichorisandra albo-marginata 2n= 76, D. puberula 2n=38 and Tinantia sprucei 2n=34) had no previous chromosome number register in the literature. The chromosome numbers of the remaining species (Callista filiformis 2n=14, C. monandra 2n=14, C. repens 2n=12, Commelina benghalensis 2n=22, C. diffusa 2n=30, C. erecta 2n=60, C. obliqua 2n=60, Dichorisandra hexandra 2n=38, D. thyrsiflora 2n=38, Gibasis geniculata 2n=32, Tradescantia ambigua 2n=24, and Tripogandra glandulosa 2n=16) were in agreement with at least one of the previous reports. The interphase nuclei were semi-reticulate in ten species and reticulate in other seven. Meiotic pairing was normal in six of the analysed species (Aneilema brasiliense, Callista filiformis, Dichorisandra puberula, Gibasis geniculata, Tradescantia ambigua and Tripogandra glandulosa), with exclusive formation of bivalents. However, a bridge was observed in most anaphase I cells of Tradescantia ambigua. Interpopulational variability was not observed. In the genus Dichorisandra chromosome size and morphology were relatively constant. Three species showed 2n=38 whereas D. albo-marginata presented 2n=76. The wide range of chromosome numbers variation found in our sample confirms the known karyological diversity of Commelinaceae from other areas. Neste trabalho foram analisados citologicamente 46 populaes pertencentes a 17 espcies de oito gneros da famlia Commelinaceae ocorrentes no Nordeste Brasileiro. Cinco dessas espcies (Aneilema brasiliense 2n=40, Commelina rufipes var. rufipes 2n=30, Dichorisandra albo-marginata 2n=76, D. puberula 2n=38, Tinantia sprucei 2n=34) no apresentavam registro citogentico anterior na literatura. Nas demais espcies (Callista filiformis 2n=14, C. monandra 2n=14, C. repens 2n=12, Commelina benghalensis 2n=22, C. diffusa 2n=30, C. erecta 2n=60 c C. obliqua 2n=60, Dichorisandra hexandra 2n=38, D. thyrsiflora 2n=38, Gibasis geniculata 2n=32, Tradescantia ambigua 2n=24, Tripogandra glandulosa 2n=16) os nmeros cromossmicos observados coincidiram com ao menos um dos registros prvios para cada espcie. Os ncleos interfsicos foram do tipo semi-reticulado em 10 espcies e reticulado nas outras sete. O pareamento meitico de seis espcies analisadas (Aneilema brasiliense, Callisia filiformis, Dichorisandra puberula, Gibasis geniculata, Tradescantia ambigua e Tripogandra glandulosa) foi regular, com formao exclusiva de bivalentes. Contudo, foi observada uma ponte na maioria das clulas em anfasc I de Tradescantia ambigua. Variaes interpopulacionais no foram observadas. No gnero Dichorisandra o tamanho e a morfologia cromossmica foram relativamente constantes. Trs espcies apresentaram 2n=38 e D. albomarginata apresentou 2n=76. Uma ampla variao numrica foi encontrada entre as espcies analisadas, confirmando a diversidade cromossmica observada em comelinceas de outras regies.
42871390|The diagnosis of a new species of Malpighiaceae, Byrsonima oipoensis Mamede, that occurs only in Serra do Cip, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is presented in this paper. Its variation in the habitat and its relation with B. oxyphylla A. Juss. and B. mierophylla A. Juss. are discussed. This new species belongs to the subgenus Byrsonima. Neste trabalho  apresentada a diagnose de uma nova espcie de Malpighiaceae, Byrsonima oipoensis Mamede, de ocorrncia at agora restrita para a Serra do Cip. Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil. So discutidas a variabilidade da mesma no seu ambiente natural e sua relao com B. oxyphylla A. Juss. e B. mierophylla A. Juss. Esta nova especie pertence ao subgnero Byreonima.
42871948|The study of the family Rapateaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Cephalostemon, with only one species, C. riedetianus Koern. Description and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Rapateaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por uma s espcie, Cephalostemon riedetianus Koern. So apresentadas descrio, ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre a distribuio geogrfica, fenolgica e variabilidade da espcie.
42871371|The root presents a somewhat uniform apical meristem, in which the root cap and the epidermis seem to have a common origin. Regarding the number of protoxylem poles, it may be diarch, diarch expanding into triaren, or triarch. The vascular cambium has its origin in the procambium and in the perycicle. The epidermis originates from the endodermis. The root hairs are persistent, grow on a great extension of the root and present two types, one of which does not seem functional. The contractile root is succulent and dauciform, due to a great proliferation of the secondary phloem parenchyma. In this same tissue, layers of cells similar to those of the endodermis give origin to suberized regions similar, as a whole, to a poliderm. The contraction of the root is caused by the depletion and colapse of the radial row cells of the phloem parenchyma, accompanied by the contortion of the xylem. The contraction follows an acropetal orientation. A raiz apresenta um meristema subapical um tanto uniforme, no qual a coifa e a epiderme parecem ter origem comum. Quanto ao numero de polos de protoxilema, a mesma pode ser diarca, diarca passando a triarca ou triarca. O cmbio vascular tem origem no procmbio e no periciclo. A periderme forma-se a partir da endoderme. Os plos absorventes so persistentes, desenvolvem-se em grande extenso da raiz e se apresentam de dois tipos, um deles parecendo no funcional. A raiz contrtil  suculenta e dauciforme, devido a uma grande proliferao de parnquima do floema secundrio. Ainda neste tecido, camadas de clulas semelhantes s da endoderme do origem a regies suberifiadas semelhantes, no conjunto, a uma poliderme. A contratao da raiz  realizada pela depleo e colapso das clulas de fileiras radiais do parnquima do floema, acompanhados pela contoro do xilema. A contrao progride no sentido acrpeto.
42871672|Eventhough the variety of habitats is one of the major components related to the diversity of species, a quantitative approach in 'campo rupestre' is scarce. The present study of rocky outcrop vegetation in Morro da Me Inacia and Fumaa (Chapada Diamantina, Bahia) envisages the delimitation and habitat description as well as the description of spatial patterns. Three habitats have been arbitrarily chosen, according to rock surface and vegetation limits: afloramento (bare rock), entremeio (continuous vegetation) and vala (deep crevices rifts). These have been sampled in units of 10x 10m further divided into subunits of 22m, from which the percentages of species coverage have been estimated. Vala is the rarest of habitats and it was sampled only in the units to which it was directed. The concentration of organic matter in the afloramento is higher than that in entremeio and not distinguishable from vala. Chamaephytes Velloziaceae desiccation-tolerant species predominate in the afloramento whereas in the entremeio there's a predominance of hemicryptophytes Poaceae. Multivariate analyses reveal great importance of the locals and of habitats in the community structure. The contiguity between different habitats generated greater heterogeneity of strata and life forms in restricted areas, supporting more species. All possible occupation patterns of the different habitats oMe Inacia and Fumaa are observed, demonstrating the separation in space occupation and natural resources available. Apesar da variedade dos habitats ser um dos principais componentes relacionados  diversidade de espcies, h carncia de estudos quantitativos de habitats em campo rupestre. Este estudo da vegetao em afloramentos rochosos no Morro da Me Incia e na Fumaa (Chapada Diamantina, Bahia) visa delimitar e descrever habitats, bem como detectar padres espaciais.Trs habitats foram estipulados de forma arbitrria, basicamente segundo caractersticas da superfcie rochosa e limites da vegetao: afloramento, entremeio e vala. Eles foram amostrados por unidades de 10x10m divididas em subunidades de 22m, a partir das quais os percentuais de coberturas das espcies foram estimados.Vala  o habitat mais raro, sendo amostrado apenas nas unidades estratificadas. A concentrao de matria orgnica no afloramento  maior do que a no entremeio, sendo indistinta da vala.Espcies camefticas de Velloziaceae tolerantes  dessecao predominam no afloramento, enquanto no entremeio h predomnio de espcies hemicriptofticas de Poaceae. Na vala, as famlias possuem reas mais equilibradas em relao aos demais habitats, prevalecendo espcies fanerofticas de eudicotiledneas. Anlises multivariadas revelam grande importncia dos locais e habitats na estrutura das comunidades. A contiguidade entre os diferentes tipos de habitats gera maior heterogeneidade de estratos e de formas de vida em rea restrita, suportando mais espcies. Todos os padres possveis de ocupao dos diferentes habitats na Me Incia e na Fumaa so observados, o que demonstra setorizaoes na ocupao do espao e na disponibilidade dos recursos ambientais.
42871444|The description of a new species of Ochnaceae, Ouratea hatschbachii K. Yamamoto, is presented. This species is, at present, known only from Gro Mogol (Minas Gerais), and may be identified by its cordiform leaves with entirely serrate margins, sometimes with spiny teeth and the persistent and numerous stipules and bracts. Affinities with O. glaucescens (St. Hil.) Engl. and O. blanchetiana (Planch.) Engl. are discussed. Neste trabalho  apresentada a descrio de uma nova espcie de Ochnaceae, Ouratea hatschbachii K. Yamamoto, de ocorrncia, at o momento, restrita a Gro-Mogol (Minas Gerais). Esta espcie pode ser identificada pelas suas folhas cordiformes com margens inteiramente serradas, s vezes com serratura pungente e estpulas e brcteas numerosas e persistentes. So discutidas as afinidades com O. glaucescens (St. Hil.) Engl. e O. blanchetiana (Planch.) Engl.
42871563|The structure of eight insect galls was studied on two sympatric rabbitbrush, Chrysothamnus nauseosus subsp. consimilis and C. nauseosus subsp. hololeucus (Asteraceae). In this system 3 galls are specific to one of the host subspecies, 3 are specific to the other subspecies, and 2 are common to both subspecies. Galls are caused by Cecidomyiidae and Tephritidae, and are formed in shoot apical meristem, axillary buds, nodes and internodes of the host plants. Trichomes, secretory structures, and sclerenchyma occurred in several of the studied galls. These structures may represent protective and/or defensive strategies against the natural enemies of the gall maker. Seven of the studied galls presented nutritive tissue whose cells were similar to meristematic or parenchymatic cells. Nutritive tissue was absent in one ambrosia gall. Analyses of galls developed in these phylogenetically closely related plants led to the conclusion that cecidogenous responses are influenced by a specific parasitic action and directed by the stage of plant cell differentiation by the time of induction. This investigation was supported by CNPq (Proc. 523433/94-8, 301776/83) and CAPES/PICDT. Foi estudada a estrutura de oito galhas causadas por insetos em duas subespcies simptricas, Chrysotamnus nauseosus subsp. consimilis e C. nauseosus subsp. hololeucus (Asteraceae). Neste sistema, 3 galhas so especficas para uma das subespcies, 3 para a outra e 2 so comuns a ambas as subespcies. As galhas so causadas por Cecidomyiidae e Tephritidae, ocorrendo no pice caulinar, nas gemas axilares, nos ns e entrens das plantas hospedeiras. Tricomas, estruturas secretoras e esclernquima foram observados em vrias das galhas estudadas e podem representar estratgias protetoras e/ou defensivas contra os inimigos naturais do galhador. Sete das galhas estudadas apresentaram tecido nutritivo, cujas clulas podem ser semelhantes s meristemticas ou ento mostrar caractersticas de clulas parenquimticas. Tecido nutritivo no ocorreu na nica galha de ambrosia. A anlise de galhas desenvolvidas em plantas filogeneticamente relacionadas possibilitou concluir que as respostas cecidognicas esto sob influncia da ao especfica do parasita e so direcionadas pelo estgio de diferenciao da clula vegetal no momento da induo.
42871455|The study of the family Mayacaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Sena do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Mayaca Aublet, with two species: Mayaca fluviatilis Aublet and Mayaca sellowiana Kunth. Descriptions, analytical key, illustrations and comments about geographic distribution of the species are given. O estudo da famlia Mayacaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por duas espcies: Mayaca fluviatilis Aublet e Mayaca sellowiana Kunth. So apresentadas descries, chave analtica para identificao das espcies, ilustraes e comentrios sobre a sua distribuio geogrfica.
42871499|This paper represents a taxonomic survey of Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus Koern. species in Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais State, Brazil. It is included in the study of the family Eriocaulaceae which is part of "Flora da Serra do Cip" project. In this area the section is represented by 9 species: Paepalanthus denudatus Koern., P. hilairei Koern., P. polyanthus (Bong.) Kunth and P. ramosus (Wikstr.) Kunth, that present an wide distribution in Brazil, whereas P. cipoensis Silveira, P. diffusus Silveira, P. heterotrichus Silveira, P. robustus Silveira and P. tuherculatus Silveira are endemic to Serra do Cip. Key to the species, descriptions, illustrations and comments on the geographic distribution and morphological variability are presented.  apresentado o levantamento das espcies de Paepalanthus sect. Actinocephalus Koern. na Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. O trabalho encontra-se includo no estudo da famlia Eriocaulaceae, que  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip". A seo  representada nessa rea por 9 espcies: Paepalanthus denudatus Koern., P. hilairei Koern., P. polyanthus (Bong.) Kunth e P. ramosus (Wikstr.) Kunth, que apresentam uma ampla distribuio no Brasil, enquanto P. cipoensis Silveira, P. diffusus Silveira, P. heterotrichus Silveira, P. robustus Silveira e P. tuberculatus Silveira so endmicas na Serra do Cip. So apresentadas descries, ilustraes e chave para as espcies assim como comentrios sobre a distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871342|O trabalho se refere s RHODOPHYTA (CRYPTONEMIALES, GIGARTINALES e RHODYMENIALES) bentnicas do litoral Sul do Estado de So Paulo e do litoral do Estado do Paran (desde Itanham  2410'L.S., 4647'30" Long. W. at Ilha do Sa  2559' L.S. 48 36' Long. W.). So tratados taxonmicamente 13 famlias, 22 gneros e 35 espcies. As seguintes espcies: Cruorilla armorica, Amphiroa anastomosans, Grateloupia dichotoma, Gracilaria tepocensis e Gracilariopsis cmdersonii so citadas pela primeira vez para o litoral brasileiro. Apresentamos dados ecolgicos, poca de reproduo bem como a distribuio das espcies nas estaes de coleta visitadas. The present paper deals with the benthic RHODOPHYTA (CRYPTONEMIALES, GIGARTINALES and RHODYMENIALES) from the coast of State of So Paulo south west of Santos and the coast of State of Paran (from Itanham 2410'S. L., 4647'30" W. Long, to Ilha do Sa 25 49'S.L. 4836'W. Long.). These orders are represented in the region by 22 genera and 35 species. The following species: Cruoriella armorica, Amphiroa anastomosans, Gratelou pict dichotoma, Gracilaria tepocensis and Gracilariopsis andersonii are reported for the first time for the Brazilian coast. Ecological data are given, as well as, reproduction period and distribution of plants in the area visited.
42871425|The effects of different types of culture media, organic nutrients, activated charcoal, physical state of medium, and the expiant size were studied regarding the conversion of C. pileatum root tips into protocorm-like bodies (PLB). Modified MS medium was disclosed to be particularly favorable to induction, when compared other more diluted media. Continuous growth of the explanted root tip and PLB formation were considerably dependent on the carbon source. Sucrose, glucose and fructose proved to be the most effective carbon sources. Bacto-peptone improved PLB regeneration. A tendency to multiple PLB regeneration was obtained in liquid medium. Activated charcoal added to the medium showed a conspicuous increase in the conversion of root tips into PLB. An inverse relation was detected between the size of the explanted root tip and the capacity of PLB formation. Os efeitos de diferentes tipos de meios de cultura, nutrientes orgnicos, carvo ativado, estado fsico do meio e tamanho dos explantes foram estudados em relao a converso de pices radiculares de C. pileatum em protocormides (PLB). O meio MS modificado foi o que mais favoreceu a induo de protocormides quando comparado aos meios mais diludos. A manuteno do crescimento do explante radicular e a formao de protocormides foi dependente da presena de urna fonte de carbono no meio: sacarose, glicose e frutase mostraram ser as fontes mais efetivas. Bacto-peptona estimulou a regenerao de protocormides. Em meio lquido os explantes mostram unia tendncia para a regenerao de PLB do tipo multiplo. O carvo ativado mostrou ser eficaz na transformao dos pices radiculares em protocormides. Verificou-se uma relao inversa entre o tamanho do explante e a capacidade de formao de protocormides.
42871375|The possibility to induce restorations in the growth of 2Krad gamma irradiated cells of cytokinin-dependent and cytokinin-habituated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv W-38) tissue cultures was investigated. The fresh weight yields of the two strains proved to be different when submitted to the same radiation dose and grown under identical conditions. These fresh weight yields were dependent on the growth substance concentration in the media into which the irradiated tissues had been transferred. The addition of kinetin to irradiated cytokinin-habituated tissues did not result in growth restoration. Restorative effects were noticed after the addition of high concentrations (in the inhibitory range) of IAA to cytokinin-dependent tissues. After 2 Krad gamma radiation, habituated tissues grown in absence of exogenous cytokinins showed an increased reactivity to IAA additions; on the other hand, dependent tissues showed increased reactivities to kinetin additions (in the presence of 11.5 M IAA) and to 10 or 100 M IAA additions (in the presence of 0.1 M kinetin). A possibilidade de induzir a restaurao do crescimento de tecidos irradiados com 2 Krad de radiao gama for investigada em linhagens celulares de tabaco (Nicotiana tabacum cv W-38), citocinina-habituadas e citocinina-dependentes. O peso fresco das duas linhagens, aps tratamentos idnticos, revelou-se diferente. O aumento do peso depende da concentrao das substncias de crescimento presentes no meio para o qual os tecidos foram transferidos. A adio de cinetina a tecidos citocinina-habituados no resultou em restaurao no crescimento. Restauraes foram observadas aps a adio de altas concentraes (na faixa inibitria) de AIA a tecidos citocinina-dependentes. Aps o tratamento com2 Krad de raios gama, os tecidos habituados mostraram-se mais sensveis que os controles  adio de AIA (em ausncia de citocininas exgenas). Por outro lado, os tecidos dependentes mostraram-se mais sensveis  adio de cinetina (em presena de 11,5 M de AIA) e  adio de 10 ou 100 M de AIA (na presena de 0,1 M de cinetina).
42871422|The distribution of Anadenanthera macrocarpa (Benth.) Brenan seedlings under the adult tree and at some distance from it was analyzed quantitatively. The analyzes were performed at four different times, i.e., January 1979, July 1979, January 1980, and May 1980, corresponding to the beginning (January) and to the peak (July and May) of the rainy season, in a semi-arid region of the Brazilian Northeast (Sertnia, State of Pernambuco). To determine the number of seedlings, 10 adults trees were selected and 1 m sections were marked at a distance of 1 m, 5 m and 10 m from the trunk to the North, South, East and West, for a total of 12 m per tree and an overall total of 120 m. A large number of seedlings was detected at all three distances investigated and their number was maximum during the months of highest rainfall, i.e. July 1979 (2,000 plants) and May 1980 (2,500 plants). No differences in number of seedlings under the adult trees were detected among cardinal points. Analisou-se quantitativamente, a distribuio de plantas jovens de Anadenanthera macrocarpa (Benth.) Brenan sob e fora da planta adulta. As anlises foram realizadas em 4 perodos: janeiro/1979; janeiro/1980 e julho/1979; maio/1980 respectivamente incio e plena estao chuvosa, em uma localidade (Sertnia-PE) da regio semi-rida do Nordeste brasileiro. Para determinar o nmero de plantas jovens foram selecionadas 10 plantas adultas e sob cada uma foram lanados quadrados (1 m) a 1 m, 5 m e 10 m distantes do tronco, nas direes Norte, Sul, Leste e Oeste, perfazendo 12 m por rvore e 120 m 2 no total. Detectou-se grande nmero de plantas jovens nas trs distncias analisadas, evidenciando-se maior quantidade nos meses de maior precipitao, julho/1979 (2.000 plantas) e maio/1980 (2.500 plantas). No foram registradas diferenas quanto ao nmero de plantas jovens sob as adultas, com relao s direes.
42871404|This paper presents results of a preliminary survey involving the analysis of alkanes of the epicuticular waxes of capitula of Eriocaulaceae from the region of Diamantina, State of Minas Gerais (Brasil). The data suggest that such alkane profiles might be used as useful taxonomic characters of Eriocaulaceae. O artigo apresenta resultados de uma triagem preliminar, envolvendo a determinao de perfis de alcanos das ceras epicutilares de captulos de espcies de Eriocaulaceae da regio de Diamantina, MG. Os dados levantados sugerem que alcanos das ceras de captulos de espcies dessa famlia podero ser usados como caracteres taxonmicos.
42871464|A new species of tubiflorous Vellozia from Serra da Baliza, Gois, Brazil, is described. Its taxonomic relantionship with V. tubiflora and the characters that support the clade formed by both species are considered. An account of their leaf and pedicel anatomy is provided. Uma nova espcie de Vellozia com flores tubulosas, oriunda da Serra da Baliza, Gois, Brasil,  descrita. So analisados suas relaes taxonmicas com V. tubiflora e os caracteres que sustentam o ciado formado pelas duas espcies. So fornecidas tambm descries anatmicas da lmina foliar e do pedicelo.
42871510|This study of the family Palmae is a contribution to the project "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". The family is represented in the area by 6 species included in 5 genera: Acrocomia aculeata (Jacq.) Lodd. ex Mart., Allagoptera campestris (Mart.) Kuntze, Attalea oleifera Barb. Rodr., Geonoma brevispatha Barb. Rodr., Syagrus glaucescens Glaz. ex Becc. and S. pleioclada Burret. Keys to genera and species, descriptions, illustrations and comments on the geographic distribution, habitats, phenology and morphological variability are presented. O presente estudo da familia Palmae  uma contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia  representada na rea por 6 espcies, includas em 5 gneros: Acrocomia aculeata (Jacq.) Lodd. ex Mart., Allagoptera campestris (Mart.) Kuntze, Attalea oleifera Barb. Rodr., Geonoma brevispatha Barb. Rodr., Syagrus glaucescens Glaz. ex Becc. e S. pleioclada Burret. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre hbitat, distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871882|The study of the family Combretaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Combretum (1) and Terminalia (2). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Combretaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada na rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Combretum (1) e Terminalia (2). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871445|A new species of Melastomataceae, Trembleya hatschbachii Wurdack et E. Martins is described and illustrated. Distribution is restricted to the region of Gro-Mogol, state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. This species may be distinguished from all others described for the genus by the yellow petals and by the elliptical leaf blades loosely distributed along the branch. So apresentadas a descrio e a ilustrao de uma nova espcie de Melastomataceae, Trembleya hatschbachii Wurdack et E. Martins, cuja distribuio  restrita  regio de Gro-Mogol, Minas Gerais, Brasil. A espcie pode ser reconhecida pelas ptalas amareladas e lminas foliares elpticas laxamente distribudas ao longo dos ramos.
42871401|A detailed study of the anthers in the family Velloziaceae establishes that although all anthers display four sporangia, at dehiscence there may be either four or two locules. The formation of only two locules results from the reduction or total disappearance of a residual tissue, which is made up of connective plus endothecium. The sporangia may be lateral in positon, internal due to formation fo a sustaining tissue at the connective, or intermediate. The dehiscence of the anther may be latrorse or introrse. In the genus Vellozia there are four locules at maturity and the dehiscence is latrorse; all of the species shed their mature pollen grains as tetrads. In the genera of subfamily Barbacenioideae there are two locules at maturity, all of the species shed their mature pollen grains as monads and dehiscence is introrse. In the genus Xerophyta, which together with genus Vellozia constitutes subfamily Vellozioideae, are found a series of intermediate conditions in the position of the sporangia and in the type of dehiscence, and the mature pollen grains are shed as monads or tetrads. Um estudo detalhado da estrutura da antera na famlia Velloziaceae demonstrou que embora a antera em todas as espcies apresente quatro esporngios, na deiscncia pode haver tanto dois como quatro loculos. A formao de apenas dois lculos resulta da reduo ou total desaparecimento do tecido residual, formado pelo conectivo mais endotcio. Os esporngios podem ter posio lateral, interna (devido  formao de um tecido de sustentao no conectivo), ou posio intermediria. A deiscncia da antera pode ser latrorsa ou introrsa. No gnero Vellozia h quatro lculos, na maturidade da antera, a deiscncia  latrorsa e todas as espcies apresentam gros de plem em ttrade. Nos gneros da subfamlia Barbacenioideae h dois lculos na maturidade, a deiscncia  intorsa e todas as espcies apresentam gros de plem em mnade. No gnero Xerophyta que, juntamente com o gnero Vellozia constitui a subfamlia Vellozioideae, verifica-se uma srie de condies intermedirias, com relao  posio dos esporangios e  posio da deiscncia, e os gros de plem podem ser em monades ou ttrades.
42871330|So estudadas neste trabalho algumas caractersticas da germinao da semente do barbatimo. O peso fresco mdio das sementes utilizadas  de 96 mg, com coeficiente de variabilidade de 13,4%. O contedo de gua das sementes  de cerca de 16% do seu peso seco, diminuindo aproximadamente 20% quando estocadas por um ano. A semente germina igualmente em solo de Cerrado como em solo de mata; as plantinhas crescidas em solo de Cerrado apresentam muito melhor desenvolvimento em relao aquelas crescidas em solo de mata. A faixa de temperatura para germinao  ampla, situando-se a temperatura mxima entre 40-41C, e a mnima abaixo de 15C. A faixa tima  limitada aproximadamente pelas temperaturas de 26C e 34C. Sementes intactas apresentam menor germinabilidade e menor velocidade de germinao que. sementes escarificadas. O efeito inibitrio do tegumento decresce em sementes estocadas por um ano. Some aspects of barbatimo seeds as well as of its germination were studied. The seed water content is 16% of its dry weight. The average fresh weight of seeds is 96,2 mg (sx = 6 mg). The seeds germinate well both in Cerrado soil and in forest soil. The plantlets from seeds growing in Cerrado soil are more vigorous than those growing in forest soil. The seed is not photoblastic. The temperature range for germination is wide, the maximum about 40-41C, the minimum below 15C, the optimum between 26-34C. Intact seeds germinate about 50% less than scarified seeds. The inhibitory effects of seed coat decrease in seeds stored for one year.
42871503|The border community of Sargassum from the rock shore of Pedra do Xaru, locataed 30 km south of Recife city (PE-Brazil) was characterized in terms of abundance and relative frequency. Samples were collected with a plastic ring of 50 cm of area, throwed 30 times in aleatory way in January, February (dry season), and June, July (rainy season). The dominant specie was Sargassum polyceratium Montagne, that presented an average biomass of 445.15  138.47 (dry season) and 383  104.65 (rainy season) (dry weight, g/m2). The best represented Division was Rhodophyta (46.15%), followed by Fucophyceae (38.46%) and Chlorophyta (15.39%). S. polyceratium was preferable host to the epiphytic macroalgae, which show low ability to colonize hard substratum, contrasting with the competitive ability of Sargassum. Hydrological parameters didn't present expressive variations, although wave exposure seems to be the main parameter to control die studied population. A comunidade da margem de Sargassum do costo rochoso de Pedra do Xaru, localizado a 30 km de Recife, foi caracterizada em termos de abundncia e frequncia relativa. Para amostragem, utilizou-se uma circunferncia de plstico de 50cm de rea, lanada 30 vezes de forma aleatria na rea, os lanamentos foram posicionados de acordo com coordenadas aleatrias, nos meses de janeiro, fevereiro (poca seca) e junho, julho (poca chuvosa). A espcie dominante foi Sargassum polyceratium. Montagne, que apresentou biomassa mdias de 445,15  138,47 (perodo seco) e 383  104,65 (perodo chuvoso). As macroalgas melhor representadas foram as da Diviso Rhodophyta (46,15%), seguidas pelas Fucophyceae (38,46%) e Chlorophyta (15,39%). 5. polyceratum apresentou-se como um bom hospedeiro de macroalgas epfitas, as quais parecem apresentar pouca habilidade para colonizar substrato rochoso, em contraste comas caractersticas de dominante competitivo e colonizador oportunista de Sargassum. Os parmetros hidrolgicos no apresentaram variaes expressivas, mas a exposio as ondas parece ser o parmetro que regula a dinmica da populao estudada.
42871500|This treatment of Paepalanthus subg. Xeractis is provided as part of the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil." In this area, the subgenus is represented by 10 species and one variety. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, and comments on geographical distribution and variability are provided. O estudo de Paepalantiius subg. Xeractis  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Este subgnero est representada na rea por 10 espcies e uma variedade. So apresentadas uma chave, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e variabilidade.
42871567|The study of the family Scrophulariaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Achetaria (1), Angelonia (1), Stemodia (2), Scoparia (1), Escobedia (1), Physocalyx (2), Agalinis (3), Esterhazya (2) and Buchnera (4). Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Scrophulariaceae faz parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia  representada naquela rea pelos seguintes gneros, com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Achetaria (1), Angelonia (1), Stemodia (2), Scoparia (1), Escobedia (1), Physocalyx (2), Agalinis (3), Esterhazya (2) e Buchnera (4). So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871472|The study of the family Convolvulaceae is a part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area the family is represented by the following genera, with their respective number of species: Merremia (5), Ipomoea (7), Turbina (1), Jacquemontia (5), Evolvulus (4) and Cuscuta (1). Key to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Convolvulaceae  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Esta famlia est representada na rea pelos seguintes gneros com o respectivo nmero de espcies: Merremia (5), Ipomoea (7), Turbina (1), Jacquemontia (5), Evolvulus (4) e Cuscuta (1). So apresentadas chaves de gnero e de espcies, descries, ilustraes, comentrios sobre distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade das espcies tratadas.
42871339|Estudo anatmico das folhas de Xylopia frutescens Aublet e avaliao quantitativa e cromatogrfica do seu leo essencial. Report on the anatomical study of the leaves of Xylopia frutescens Aublet, as well as Chromatographie and quantitative evaluation of their essential oil.
42871447|This work deals with the Velloziaceae species from Gro-Mogol, north of the Espinhao Range, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The region is characterized by its altitudes ranging from 700 to 1250m and where the "campos rupestres" can be found alternating with "cerrado" vegetation, semideciduous and gallery forests and "carrascais". Nineteen species of Velloziaceae were identified, representing two genera: Barbacenia markgrafii, B. reflexa, B. riparia, B. umbrosa, Vellozia albiflora, V. brachypoda, V. aff. brachypoda, V. bradei, V. ciliata, V. glauca, V. grao-mogolensis, V. hirsuta, V. luteola, V. marcescens, V. markgrafii, V. maxillarioides, V. prolifera, V. spiralis and V. stenocarpa. The work provides discussion of the geographic distribution, phenology and morphological intraspecific and interspecific variation of the species treated. Este trabalho trata das espcies de Velloziaceae de Gro-Mogol, localizada ao norte da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais. A regio se caracteriza por altitudes que vo de 700 a 1250m s.n.m. onde se encontram principalmente campos rupestres havendo ainda manchas de cerrado, matas semidecduas, matas ciliares e "carrascais". Foram catalogadas 19 espcies distribudas em 2 gneros: Barbacenia markgrafii, B. reflexa, B. riparia, B. umbrosa, Vellozia albiflora, V. brachypoda, V. aff. brachypoda, V. bradei, V. ciliata, V. glauca, V. grao-mogolensis, V. hirsuta, V. luteola, V. marcescens, V. markgrafii, V. maxillarioides, V. prolifera, V. spiralis e V. stenocarpa. So apresentados comentrios sobre a variabilidade morfolgica observada, a taxonoma e relacionamento entre os txons, distribuio geogrfica e fenologia das espcies estudadas.
42871502|The floristic study of the Pitcairniodeae (Bromeliaceae) is part of the project "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that region the subfamily is represented by three genera: Dyckia (7 species), Encholirium (3 species) and Pitcaimia (1 species). Keys to genera and species, as well as descriptions and illustrations, besides brief comments on each taxon are presented. A new combination and five new synonym are proposed. O estudo florstico das Pitcairnioideae (Bromeliaceae)  parte do projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A subfamilia est representada na regio por trs gneros: Dyckin (7 espcies), Enciiolirium (3 espcies) e Pitcnirnin (1 espcie). So apresentadas chaves para os gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, alm de breves comentrios para cada taxon. Uma nova combinao e cinco novos sinnimos so propostos.
42871586|The study of the family Aquifoliaceae is part of the project of "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". In that area, the family is represented by the genus Ilex, with 9 species: I. affinis, I. conocarpa, I. dumosa, I. lundii, I. nummularia, I. paraguariensis, I. prostrata, I. pseudobuxus and I. theezans. A key to the species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Aquifoliaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada na rea pelo gnero Ilex, com 8 espcies: I. affinis, conocarpa, I. dumosa, I lundii, I. nummulara, I paraguariensis, I. prostrata, I. pseudobuxus e I. theezans. So apresentadas uma chave para espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871574|This study of Flacourtiaceae is a contribution to "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil" project. The family is represented in the area by the genus Casearia Jacq., with 4 species: C. arborea (Rich.) Urb., C. eichleriana Sleumer, C. obliqua Spreng., and C. sylvestris Sw. Key to species, descriptions, illustrations, and comments on geographic distribution, habitats, phenology, and morphological variability are presented. O presente estudo das Flacourtiaceae  uma contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". A famlia  representada na rea pelo gnero Casearia Jacq., com 4 espcies: C arborea (Rich.) Urb., C. eichleriana Sleumer, C. obliqua Spreng, e C. sylvestris Sw. So apresentados chave para as espcies, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre distribuio geogrfica, habitat, fenologia e variabilidade morfolgica.
42871451|A taxonomic survey of Asclepiadaceae species from the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, is presented as a part of the "Flora of Serra do Cip" project. Thirty-seven Asclepiadaceae taxa were identified, representing eleven genera: Asclepias L. (1 species), Astephanus R. Br. (4 species), Barjonia Decne. (2 species), Blepharodon Decne. (4 species), Ditassa R. Br. (13 taxa), Gonioanthela Malme (1 species), Hemipogon Decne. (1 species) Matelea Aubl. (1 taxa), Metastelma R. Br. (3 species), Oxypetalum R. Br. (6 taxa), Tassadia Decne. (1 taxa). Analytical keys for taxa descriptions, illustrations, ecological and phytogeographical data are provided. Three new synonyms are proposed. Este trabalho trata do estudo taxonmico das espcies de Asclepiadaceae da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil, como parte do levantamento da flora da regio. A famlia est representada pelos gneros: Asclepias L. (1 espcie), Astephanus R.Br.(4 espcies), Barjonia Decne. (2 espcies), Blepharodon Decne (4 espcies), Ditassa R.Br. (13 taxa), Gonioanthela Malme (1 espcie), Hemipogon Decne. (1 espcie), Matelea Aubl. (1 taxa), Metastelma R.Br. (3 espcies), Oxypetalum R.Br. (6 taxa) e Tassadia Decne. (1 taxa). So apresentadas chaves paraos taxa, descries, ilustraes, dados ecolgicos e fitogeogrfcos. Trs novos sinnimos so propostos.
42871350|The deep-water flora of the area of the Rio Doce Delta (Esprito Santo State) on the East Coast of Brazil is described. The survey comprised 82 dredgings of which 22 presented benthic algae. The plants are restricted to the areas presenting coral or calcareous substrate. Forty three species of algae were found, including the Rhodophyceae,, Phaeophyceae and Chlorophyceae. Though the red algae presented the largest diversity, the brown appears as dominant and more important in the characterization of the flora. The more important species are Cryptonemia crenulata, Dictyopteris justii, Lobophora variegata, Sargassum hystrix and Laminaria brasiliensis. The last mentioned species was dredged at 73 m deep, being the deepest record of algal growth in the stations studied. Descreve-se a flora marinha bentnica de profundidade da regio do Delta do Rio Doce, no Estado do Esprito Santo. O estudo foi baseado em uma amostragem de 82 estaes de dragagens efetuadas em vrias profundidades dentro da referida rea, sendo que em apenas 22 estaes foram coletadas algas marinhas. As plantas esto restritas s reas onde ocorre coral e areia calcrea corno substrato. So mencionadas 43 espcies de algas, incluindo representantes das Rodofceas e Clorofceas. A maior diversidade de espcies foi encontrada no grupo de algas vermelhas. Entretanto, as pardas parecem ser as mais importantes para caracterizar a flora dada a abundncia com que se apresentaram nas amostras. Dentre as espcies mais representativas destacam-se Cryptonemia crenulata, Dictyopteris justii, Lobophora variegata, Sargassum hystrix e Laminaria brasiliensis. Esta ltima espcie foi coletada a uma profundidade de 73 m, constituindo-se na estao mais funda onde se constatou um ativo crescimento algal.
42871669|A taxonomic revision of Encholirium is presented. The genus is exclusively Brazilian and its distribution is intimately associated with rock outcrops, the majority of species being found on rocky outcrops of the cerrado and caatinga and campos rupestres of the Espinhao Range of Minas Gerais. Only two species occur on inselbergs inside the domain of the atlantic forest. In the present treatment 23 species are recognized for the genus. The transfer of Dyckia biflora to Encholirium is being suggested, plus a new species, while two names remained doubtful, and 13 binomials are placed under synonymy . The characters that have shown to be more relevant to the circumscription of the species o Encholirium were: the habit (including plant height, diameter and general aspect of the rosette), size of scape bracts, size of floral bracts in relation to flowers, pedicel length, form and coloration of sepals and petals and position of the stamens and the stile in relation to the corola. Identification keys for the species o Encholirium are presented, as well as descriptions, illustrations, geographic distributions, comments on taxonomic and nomenclatural aspects and some aspects in relation to the fenology and conservation of each species.  apresentada a reviso taxonmica de Encholirium, gnero exclusivamente brasileiro cuja distribuio est intimamente associada a afloramentos rochosos, sendo que a a maioria das espcies  encontrada nos afloramentos rochosos do cerrado e caatinga, e nos campos rupestres da Cadeia do Espinhao de Minas Gerais. Apenas duas espcies ocorrem nos inselbergs dentro dos domnios da floresta atlntica. No presente tratamento so reconhecidas para o gnero 23 espcies. Est sendo sugerida a transferncia de Dyckia biflora para Encholirium, uma nova espcie esta sendo descrita, dois nomes permaneceram duvidosos e 13 binmios esto sendo colocados em sinonimia. Os caracteres que se mostraram mais relevantes para a circunscrio das espcies de Encholirium foram: hbito (incluindo altura da planta, dimetro e aspecto geral da roseta), tamanho das brcteas do escapo, tamanho das brcteas florais em relao s flores, comprimento do pedicelo, forma e colorao das spalas e ptalas, e posio dos estmes e do estilete em relao  corola. So apresentadas chaves de identificao para as espcies de Encholirium, descries, ilustraes, distribuio geogrfica, comentrios sobre aspectos taxonmicos e nomenclatrios, bem como alguns aspectos referentes  fenologia e conservao de cada espcie.
42871400|Doubts as to whether Lamarckia aurea (L.) Moench may be legitimately regarded as a constituent of the Brazilian grass flora are investigated. In view of the conclusion that existing records for the species in Brazil may be of dubious accuracy, a history of the genus, a brief taxonomic treatment, and a discussion of distribution are included, with the intention of eliciting possible further records. Investigam-se as dvidas quanto ao fato de Lamarckia aurea (L.) Moench pertencer ou no  flora de gramneas brasileiras. Em vista de se concluir que os registros dessa espcie sejam de natureza duvidosa, incluem-se neste trabalho o histrico do gnero, breve tratamento taxonmico, e uma discusso da sua distribuio, com a inteno de se encorajar possveis futuros registros de sua ocorrncia no territrio brasileiro.
42871433|A study of the Hymenophyllaceae presented as a contribution to the project "Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that region the family is represented by its two main genera (sensu lato): Trichomanes with four species and Hymenophyllum with a single species. Keys to genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the distribution, habitat and polymorfism of the species are presented. Estudo da famlia Hymenophyllaceae como contribuio ao projeto "Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil". Na regio a famlia  representada por seus dois gneros principais (sensu iato): Trichomanes, com quatro espcies e Hymenophyollum, com uma nica espcie. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes, bem como observaes relativas  distribuio, habitat e polimorfismo das espcies.
42871406|Derbesia tenuissima (De Notaris) Crouan is referred for the first time for the Brasilian coast, based on morphological studies of the sporophyte and gametophyte, from three natural populations and life history studies conducted in culture conditions. The culture studies began with vegetative apices of the sporophytic phase, showing the heteromorphic life cycle known for the species. The gametophytes growing in cultures were similar to that found closed to the sporophytic phase on the natural populations, suggesting that the heteromorphic life cycle occurs naturally. A reexamination of the references to D. marina (Lyngbye) Solier for the Brasilian coast is commented considering that the chloroplast morphology of the species were not described for the region and that the filamentous phase tradicionally know as Derbesia is quite similar to the sporophytic phase of Bryopsidella and Pedobesia, and presents no special diagnostic characters for generic distinction. It is suggested also that Halicystis pyriformis Levring, referred for the coast of state of So Paulo should be merged into synonymy of D, tenuissima (= H. parvula Schmitz). Derbesia tenuissima (De Notaris) Crouan  referida pela primeira vez para o litoral brasileiro, com base no estudo da morfologia do esporfito e gametfito, provenientes de trs populaes naturais e estudos do histrico de vida em cultivo. Os estudos de cultivo iniciaram-se a partir de pices vegetativos da fase esporoftica, mostrando o ciclo heteromrfico conhecido para a espcie. Os gametfitos desenvolvidos em cultivo foram semelhantes queles verificados nas populaes naturais, encontrados nas proximidades da fase esporoftica, sugerindo que o ciclo heteromrfico ocorre normalmente na natureza. Sugere-se um reexame das referncias  D. marina (Lyngbye) Solier para o Brasil, considerando-se que as caractersticas dos cloroplastos, fundamentais na distino da espcie, no foram descritas na literatura para a regio e que a fase filamentosa, tradicionalmente conhecida como Derbesia e semelhante a fase esporofitica dos gneros Bryopsidella e Pedobesia, no apresentando caracteres diagnsticos distintivos. Sugere-se, ainda, que as referncias a Halicystis pyriformis Levring para o litoral do Estado de So Paulo, devem ser sinnimia de D. tenuissima (= H. parvula Schmitz).
42871495|The study of the family Oxalidaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In this area, the family is represented by the genus Oxalis, subgenus Thamnoxys, with 5 species. Descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the habitat, geographic distribution, phenology and morphology of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Oxalidaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea pelo gnero Oxalis, subgnero Thamnoxys, com 5 espcies. So apresentados para todas as espcies: descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre habitat, distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e morfologia.
42871577|Species of Pentaphylacaceae (Ternstroemiaceae sensu Candolle or Theaceae-Terstroemioideae sensu Cronquist) are considered in this treatment. In a floristic survey of the group carried out in the Serra do Cip two species were found: Temstroemia alnifolia Wawra and T. carnosa Cambess. These species of Ternstroemia are restricted to Brazil, and can be differentiated by the following features: T. alnifolia presents leaves with serrulate margin in the distal portion, brochidodromous venation and androecium composed of 50 or more stamens, while T. carnosa presents leaves with entire margin, hyphodromous venation and 25 stamens. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, taxonomic comments, and geographic distribution data for each species are presented. Espcies pertencentes a Pentaphylacaceae (Ternstroemiaceae sensu Candolle ou Theaceae-Terstroemioideae sensu Cronquist) so consideradas neste tratamento. Foram identificadas duas espcies na Serra do Cip: Ternstroemia alnifolia Wawra e T. carnosa Cambess. Ambas tm distribuio restrita ao Brasil, e podem ser diferenciadas pelas seguintes caractersticas: T. alnifolia apresenta folhas com margem serrilhada na poro distai, nervao broquiddroma e estmes em nmero igual ou superior a 50, enquanto T. carnosa apresenta a margem foliar inteira, nervao hifdroma e 25 estmes. So apresentadas chave de identificao, descries, ilustraes e comentrios sobre taxonoma e distribuio geogrfica das espcies.
42871465|A new Brazilian species of Ochnaceae, Sauvagesia lanceolata Sastre sp. nov. from "campo rupestre" of Gois is described. With the morphology of the staminodes and the apex ciliate of the leaves, S. lanceolata is affine of S. linearifolia A St-Hil. and S. deflexifolia Gardner. It differs by its outer staminodes more than 10 and the form of the leaves : lanceolate in S. lanceolata, linear in S. linearifolia and recuivate-elliptic in S. deflexifolia. Uma espcie nova brasileira de Ochnaceae, S. lanceolata Sastre sp. nov. que vive no campo rupestre de Gois  descrita. Com a morfologia dos estamindios e do pice ciliado das folhas, S. lanceolata  prxima de S. linearifolia A. St-Hil. e de S. deflexifolia Gardner.  diferente por seus estamindios externos mais que 10 e pela forma das folhas : lanceoladas em S. lanceolata, lineares em S. linearifolia e deflexo elptica em S. deflexifolia.
42871481|A post-seminal development study of Smilax quinquenervia Vell. revealed an embryonic axis that gives rise to the plumule and to the primary root. After this, the hypocotyl may be distinguished. The plumule originates a primary axis, with 3-4 nodes, each with a cataphyl, before eophyl development. From the cotyledonar node, an axilar bud develop, which gives rise to an underground cauline system, namely the rhizophore. The latter develops a great number of adventitious roots. The rhizophore is a sympodial system of branchs with a great number of stornata on the epidermis, which may be regarded as an evidence of an aerial organ, ancestry. Um estudo do desenvolvimento ps-seminal de Smilax quinquenervia Vell. demonstrou o aparecimento de um eixo embrionrio do qual se desenvolvem a plmula e a raiz primria aps o que, distingue-se o hipoctilo. A plmula origina um eixo primrio formado por 3 a 4 ns (cada um, com um catafilo), que precede o aparecimento do eofilo. Do hipoctilo saem as primeiras razes adventcias. Do n cotiledonar, a partir de uma gema protegida pela bainha cotiledonar, surge um eixo caulinar que permanece subterrneo, o rizforo, que passa a formar uma grande quantidade de razes adventcias. Esse rizforo  um sistema de ramificao simpodial. A grande quantidade de estmatos presentes na epiderme do rizforo poderia representar uma evidncia desse rgo subterrneo ter derivado de um rgo ancestral areo.
42871349|Evidenciou-se anatomicamente a reproduo vegetativa a partir da inflorescncia em sete espcies de Eriocaulaceae. As espcies estudadas foram as seguintes: Paepalanthus scirpeus, Leiothrix plantago, Leiothrix cuscutoides, Leiothrix sinuosa, Leiothrix fluitans, Leiothrix vivipara e Leiothrix propinqua. Nestas espcies o pice da inflorescencia origina uma plantinha completa, constituda por folhas, caule e razes adventcias (brotamento). The vegetative reproduction from inflorescence in seven species of Eriocaulaceae was demonstrated anatomically. The species studied were: Paepalanthus scirpeus, Leiothrix plantago, Leiothrix cuscutoides, Leiothrix sinuosa, Leiothrix fluitans, Leiothrix vivipara and Leiothrix propinqua. In these species a sprouting is produced at the apex of the inflorescence. This sprouting is a complete plantlet with leaves, stem and adventitious roots.
42871365|Repetidas observaes de campo, realizadas em Emas, municpio de Pirassununga, Estado de So Paulo, aps queimadas programadas para fins de estudo de seu papel ecolgico num ecossistema de campo cerrado, demonstraram que o fogo promove a abertura de frutos ou infrutescncias e favorece a disperso das sementes nas seguintes espcies: Anemopaegma arvensis, Gomphrena macrocephala, Jacaranda decurrens e Nautonia nummularia. Para elas, a queimada parece ser um fator favorvel, no sentido de que facilita a sua reproduo sexuada. Repeated field observations on prescribed burned areas of "campo cerrado", at Emas, Pirassununga, Estado de So Paulo, Brasil, showed that the incidence of fire in these areas promoted fruit dehiscence and seed dispersion in the following species: Anemopaegma arvensis, Gomphrena macrocephala, Jacaranda decurrens and Nautonia nummularia. At least for these four species, fire seems to be a positive or favorable condition, since it promotes their sexual reproduction.
42871871|This paper presents the results of a floristic inventory and analysis of community structure and composition carried out in riparian forests and forest islands ("capes") of Serra do Cip, belonging to the Espinhao Range, in the state of Minas Gerais. 97 families of vascular plants with 394 species were collected in the highlands between 1000m - 1300m altitude and presented in a checklist. Index of diversity of Shannon and equitativity showed high values, in both riparian forest and "capo". Comparisons with other montane forests of southern serras of Minas Gerais and So Paulo showed low similarity. Este trabalho apresenta os resultados de um levantamento florstico e anlise da estrutura e composio efetuados nas matas riprias e capes de altitude, entre cotas de 1000m e 1300m. Uma lista de 394 espcies de plantas vasculares pertencentes a 97 famlias  apresentada. Estimativas de ndices de diversidade e equitatividade mostraram altos valores tanto na mata riparia como no capo. Comparaes com outras florestas montanas do sul de Minas Gerais e do estado de So Paulo revelaram baixa similaridade.
42871439|This study is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area the family Boraginaceae is represented by the following species: Cordia curassavica (Jacq.) R. & S. and Toumefortiapaniculate Cham. Key to genera, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of the species are presented. O estudo da famlia Boraginaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia est representada naquela rea por duas espcies: Cordia cumssavica (Jacq.) R. & S. e Toumefortia paniculata Cham.  apresentada chave para os gneros, descries e ilustraes, alm de comentrios sobre suas distribuies geogrficas, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871877|Three new species, C. diamantina of sect. Cordylandra, endemic to the region around Diamantina (Minas Gerais), C. burle-marxii and C. obdeltifolia of sect. Criuva occurring mainly in the "campos rupestres" of northern Minas Gerais and Bahia, are described and illustrated. Their characters and geographic distribution are briefly discussed. Trs novas espcies, C. diamantina da seo Cordylandra, endmica da regio de Diamantina (Minas Gerais), C. burle-marxii e C. obdeltifolia da seo Criuva, que ocorrem principalmente nos campos rupestres do norte de Minas Gerias e na Bahia, so descritas e ilustradas. Seus caracteres e sua distribuio geogrfica so brevemente discutidos.
42871412|The study of the family Cactaceae is part of the project "Flora of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil". In that area, the family is represented by the following taxa: Arthrocereus odorus Ritter, Cereus calcirupicola (Ritter) Rizzini, Cipocereus minensis (Werd.) Ritter ssp. pleurocarpus (Ritter) Taylor & Zappi comb, nova, Epiphyum phyllanthus (L.) Haw., Ha tiora salicornioides (Haw.) Britton & Rose, PUosocereus coerulescens (Lern.) Ritter, P. floccosus (Backeb. & Voll) Byles & Rowley and Rhipsatis fioccosa Salm-Dyck. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions and illustrations, as well as comments on the geographic distribution, phenology and variability of ie species are provided. O estudo da famlia Cactaceae  parte do levantamento da Flora da Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Esta famlia encontra-se representada naquela rea pelos taxons: Arthrocereus odorus Ritter, Cereus calcirupicola (Ritter) Rizzini, Cipocereus minensis (Werd.) Ritter ssp. pleurocarpus (Ritter) Taylor & Zappi comb, nova, Epiphyttum phyanthus (1.) Haw., Ha tiora salicornioides (Haw.) Britton & Rose, PUosocereus coerulescens (Lem.) Ritter, P. floccosus (Backed. & Voll) Byles & Rowley cRhipsaUsfioccosa Salm-Dyck. So apresentadas chaves para gneros e espcies, descries e ilustraes das mesmas, alm de comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica, fenologia e variabilidade.
42871405|Based on large samples of populations of Sargassum from the coast of So Paulo, 13 infrageneric taxa are refered for the region, for which only 5 had previously been mentioned. The following taxa are recognized: S. cymosum C. Agardh var. cymosum, S. cymosum C. Agardh var. nanum Paula & Oliveira F, S. rigidulum Kuetzing, S. stenophyllum (Mertens) Martius, S. rami folium Kuetzing, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. filipendula, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. montagnei (Bailey) Grunow, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. pinnatum Grunow, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. laxum J. Agardh, S. vulgare C. Agardh var. vulgare, S. vulgare C. Agardh var. foliosissimum (Lamouroux) J. Agardh, S. vulgare C. Agardh var. nanum v. nova, S. furcaturn Kuetzing. Except for S. vulgare var. nanum, a new variety here described, delimitations of species and varieties recommended by recent literature related to the Western Atlantic were adopted, despite their taxonomical difficulties which are discussed in detail. All the infrageneric taxa are described and illustrated. A key for species and varieties is given, in order to facilitate their identification. The taxonomical criteria are critically discussed. An analysis of the morphology and sex of the receptacles is included, which has not been considered in the recent literature. In addition, data are provided for an uderstanding of the phenotypical variation involved in the taxonomical difficulties of the genus. Com base em uma ampla amostragem das populaes de Sargassum no litoral do Estado de So Paulo, so referidos 13 txons infragenricos para a regio, onde apenas 5 eram conhecidos anteriormente. Foram reconhecidos os seguintes txons: S. cymosum C. Agardh var. cymosum, S. cymosum C. Agardh var. nanum Paula & Oliveira F, S. rigidulum Kuetzing, S. stenophyllum (Mertens) Martius, S. rami folium Kuetzing, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. filipendula, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. montagnei (Bailey) Grunow, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. pinnatum Grunow, S. filipendula C. Agardh var. laxum J. Agardh, S. vulgare C. Agardh var. vulgre, S. vulgre C. Agardh var. foliosissimum (Lamouroux) J. Agardh, S. vulgare C. Agardh var. nanum v. nova, S. furcatum Kuetzing. Excetuando-se a descrio de uma variedade nova, S. vulgare var. nanum, as circunscries especficas e varietais da literatura recente para o Atlntico Americano foram mantidas, reconhecendo-se, entretanto, dificuldades na sua delimitao. Todos os taxons infragenricos presentes na rea foram descritos e ilustrados, apresentando-se, ainda, uma chave de identificao das espcies e variedades. Os critrios taxonmicos empregados na delimitao das espcies, incluindo-se uma anlise da morfologia e sexualidade dos receptculos, que no tem sido considerada pelos autores recentes, foram criticamente discutidos. Adicionalmente, so fornecidas informaes visando uma compreenso das causas das variaes fenotpicas, responsveis pelas dificuldades taxonmicas do grupo.
42871415|Some of the cells which are grouped in the abaxial epidermis of leaves of Paepalanthus species are bigger than the others of the same surface. A new interpretation is given to these cells, previously called bulliform cells. Other considerations are made about the trichomes that occur on these surfaces and to stornata distribution of these leaves. Grupos de clulas da epiderme abaxial da folha de espcies de Paepalanthus apresentam-se bem maiores que outras da mesma superfcie. Uma nova interpretao  apresentada para essas clulas, previamente denominadas clulas buliformes. Outras consideraes so feitas sobre tricomas presentes nestas superfcies e sobre a distribuio dos estmatos nessas folhas.
