41941381|Oncidium fuchsii Kniger (Orchidaceae) is described for the first time for the Argentinean flora. Synonyms, some ecological observations and a key to differentiate the entity with which can made a mistake, are included. Se describe a Oncidium fuchsii Kniger (Orchidaceae) por primera vez para la flora Argentina. Se incluyen sinnimos, observaciones ecolgicas y una clave para diferenciarlo de entidad con la que puede confundirse.
41941394|This article is the continuation of a previous one by the same author who studies the Wichi phytonymy of shrubs and trees of the Chaco forests in Salta province, Argentina. On this opportunity, a list of 90 Wich names for 83 species of herbs and climbing plants that grow in the same study area is shown and analysed both linguistically and semantically. The most significant results are noted and they are discussed with those of the previous article. In this way, we intend to contribute to the knowledge of Wich phytonymy and to continue discovering nomenclatural patterns in their ethnobotanical lexicon. Este trabajo es la prosecucin de uno anterior de la autora dedicado a la fitonimia de especies arbreas y arbustivas de los bosques del Chaco semirido salteo, Argentina. En esta ocasin se presenta y examina lingstica y semnticamente un repertorio de 90 nombres wichs recopilados correspondientes a 83 especies de hierbas y bejucos que crecen en la misma zona de estudio. Se remarcan los resultados ms sobresalientes y se comparan y discuten los mismos con los obtenidos en la contribucin anterior. Se pretende as aportar al conocimiento de la fitonimia de este pueblo y continuar descubriendo patrones nomenclatures subyacentes en su lxico etnobotnico.
41941165|Ten new species of Galianthe are described and illustrated: G. bisepala (Argentina), G. linearifolia (Argentina and Paraguay), G. aurelii, G. parvula and G. canindeyuensis (Paraguay), G. pseudopeciolata (Paraguay and Brasil), G. elegans, G. gertii, G. latistipula and G. grandifolia (Brasil).
41941094|El autor describe una nueva especie de Manihot de la flora argentina, que denomina M. Hunzikeriana. The author describes a new species of Manihot, belonging to the argentine flora, named M. Hunzikeriana.
43574277|The chromosome counts of Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil. confirmed the number 2n=40 for all the material studied. In the analysis of the meiosis it was proved that it has a normal behaviour, presenting 20 II. In the pollen analyzed about 100% of fertility was found. It was established that the embryo sac is of the Polygonum type. When the fruit is ripe, the embryos are in different stages: globular 2,6%; heart 70,24%; post heart 23,3%; torpedo 2,62% and mature 0,96% . These embryos continue growing when the seed is on conditions to germinate, this is the reason of the slow development observed in the germination.
41941184|Koelreuteria elegans (Seem.) A.C.Sm.subsp.formosana (Hayata) F.G.Mey.(Sapindaceae), an attractive ornamental tree has been found cultivated in one street of Resistencia (Prov. Chaco). This paper includes a description and an illustration of the plant, which is reported for the first time as cultivated in Argentina. The chromosome number of this species, 2n= 32, is confirmed.
41941379|Two new species of Baccharis from Paran State (Brazil) are described and illustrated: B. itapirocensis A. S. Oliveira & Deble and B. reticularioides Deble & A. S. Oliveira, and their taxonomic affinities are discussed. Additionally, Baccharis neorupestris Deble & A. S. Oliveira and B. lapidosa Deble & A. S. Oliveira are proposed as new names for replacing the illegitimate names Baccharis rupestris Heering and B. saxatilis Joch. Mull., respectively. Dos nuevas especies de Baccharis del estado de Paran (Brasil) son descriptas e ilustradas: B. itapirocensis A. S. Oliveira & Deble y B. reticularioides Deble & A. S. Oliveira, y se discuten sus afinidades taxonmicas. Adems, los nombres Baccharis neorupestris Deble & A. S. Oliveira y B. lapidosa Deble & A. S. Oliveira, son propuestos como nombres nuevos para reemplazar los nombres ilegtimos Baccharis rupestris Heering y B. saxatilis Joch. Mull., respectivamente.
41941088|En el presente trabajo se establecen las unidades vegetaeionales que comprende el territorio de Misiones, las cuales se ubican geogrficamente en el mapa adjunto. Misiones, en su totalidad, se halla incluida dentro de la provincia fitogeogrfica Subtropical Oriental y comprende dos sectores denominados Misionero y Planaltense. El primero de ellos encierra los siguientes distritos de vegetacin: de los laureles, del urunday, del palo rosa, de los helechos arborescentes y fluvial. Este ltimo distrito se divide en Subdistrito uruguayense y Subdisbrito paranense. Se hacen referencias a suelo y clima en cada distrito y se indican adems sus principales elementos florsticos. Dans cette publication on fait la division de la province de Misiones en territoires de vgtation. Misiones se trouve entierement comprise dans la province phytogographique Subtropical oriental et se divise en deux secteurs nomms Misionero et Planaltense. Le premier comprends les suivants districts: de los laureles, del urunday, del palo rosa, de los helchos arborescentes et fluvial. Ce dernier comprends les sous-districts uruguayense et paranense. On fait reference aux sols et climat de chaque district et on donne des listes des principaux lments floristiques.
41941395|A transcription and a critical review on Aim Bonpland's scarcely known manuscripts dealing with the geographical distribution of wild "yerba mate" (Ilex paraguariensis A. St. Hil., Aquifoliaceae) trees in South America is presented here. Among other data, Bonpland's assumptions on the occurrence of wild "yerba mate" individuals within present day Uruguayan boundaries are matched with modern voucher specimens of this species collected in Uruguay, and also with miscellaneous bibliographical sources, including details from later reports from Bonpland himself, and also from other contemporary naturalists who travelled through this country in the 1820's and 1830's, as well as with phytogeographical information. As a conclusion, it is supposed that these Bonpland's notes, written during his early years of residence at the Ro de La Plata basin, contain mistaken information that the same botanist did not report again, as his knowledge of the Argentinian Delta, the Uruguayan environment and the "yerba mate" got deeper. Se presentan la descripcin y el comentario crtico de manuscritos poco conocidos de Amado Bonpland que conciernen a la distribucin geogrfica del rbol que produce la "yerba mate" (Ilex paraguariensis, Aquifoliaceae) en Sudamrica. Entre otros datos, las afirmaciones de Bonpland sobre la existencia de individuos silvestres de "yerba mate" creciendo dentro de las fronteras actuales de la Repblica Oriental del Uruguay son confrontadas con ejemplares de herbario recientemente coleccionados en Uruguay y con diversas fuentes bibliogrficas, incluyendo datos adicionales del mismo Bonpland y de otros naturalistas contemporneos del botnico francs que viajaron por ese pas en las dcadas de 1820 y 1830, a la par de revisar informaciones fitogeogrficas existentes. Se concluye que estos escritos de Bonpland, redactados durante sus primeros aos de residencia en la Cuenca del Plata, poseen informaciones incorrectas que no se conoce que el mismo naturalista haya vuelto a reportar, en la medida en que sus conocimientos sobre el Delta argentino, el ambiente uruguayo y sobre la "yerba mate" se fueron incrementando.
41941246|The taxonomy of Sida section Muticae is treated. To the only species S. aggregate known up to now are added S. Ulei, S. Pires-Blackii and the new species S. Coradinii, S. Gertiana and S. Vallsii, all of them from northeastern Brazil. Se actualiza la taxonoma de la seccin Muticae del gnero Sida, considerada hasta ahora como constituida por una sola especie, S. aggregate, que vive desde Mxico hasta el norte de Brasil. En esta revisin se agregan S. Ulei y S. Pires-Blackii y se describen las nuevas especies S. Coradinii, S. Gertiana y S. Vallsii del nordeste de Brasil.
41941135|The author gives the description of several teratological cases in Cucurbitaceae specially belonging to the Argentine Flora.
41941433|Almost 100 years elapsed between Linnaeus' naming the then lone species of Arachis (A. hypogaea L.) known to Europeans, and the first taxonomic treatment of the genus by Bentham in 1841. During the next 100 years five to ten additional species descriptions appeared, assigning different species to the same names, and different names to the same species. By mid-20th Century, it was impossible to examine any herbarium collection of Arachis and assign any epithet with any assurance to any specimen (which was not a type collection) except to A. hypogaea, A. guaranitica, A. tuberosa and A. villosulicarpa. In our treatment, the literature of this botanical chaos in Arachis is reviewed in detail and an assessment is made of the foundations for its occurrence. It is shown that the bases for the confusion lay in the combination of the esoteric nature of the differentiating morphological features of Arachis, the fragmentary early collections, and the representation of species by seedling specimens. Also, it is related how, in 1959, we decided to re-explore the type locality of each species then known, collect therein complete plant specimens and thereby resolve the problem. Thirty-five years, two generations of plant collectors and around 2000 collections later, we present here 69 species descriptions of Arachis, species distributed in South America east of the Andes, south of the Amazon, north of La Plata and from NW Argentina to NE Brazil. We soon discovered that the most significant characters of Arachis lay in their underground structures, including their fruits, rhizomatous stems, root systems and hypocotyls. We showed that these defining characters tended to cluster the collections into groups which were associated with generally different geographic areas and ecological features. We drew a sample of 100 collections representing these clusters, areas and features, and arranged them in a hybridization diallel and showed, in crosses between collections representing different clusters of characters, areas and features, a remarkable number of complete failures to cross-fertilize and, in those hybrids that were recovered, a high degree of F hybrid infertility. When these cross-incompatibilities and pollen infertilities were combined with the data on character clustering, the nine distinct sections of the genus presented here then crystallized. Figures imposed upon maps of South America illustrate the geographic distributions of these sections. The collections were then assigned to the different sections on the bases of cross-incompatibility and exo-morphologic character clustering. When these groups were made, the esoteric characteristics referred to above, so confounding when applied across sectional lines, became highly pertinent when applied to the problem of species differentiation between collections within sections. These characteristics, applied in conjunction with chromosome cytology, Chromatographie and antigenic reactions, variations in intra-sectional hybrid fertility and adaptations of plant form, and annual and perennial habit, allowed us to assemble the following taxa of the genus Arachis: Section I. TRIERECTOIDES nov:. 1. A. guaranitica, 2. A. tuberosa. Section II. ERECTOIDES nov.: 3. A. Martii, 4. A. brevipetiolata nov., 5. A. Oteroi nov., 6. A. Hatschbachii nov., 7. A. cryptopotamica nov., 8. A. major nov., 9. A. Benthamii, 10. A. douradiana nov., 11. A. gracilis nov., 12. A. Hermannii nov., 13. A. Archen nov., 14. A. stenophylla nov., 15a. A paraguariensis subsp. paraguariensis, 15b. A paraguariensis subsp. capibarensis nov. Section III. EXTRANERVOSAE nov.: 16. A. setinervosa nov., 17. A. Macedoi nov., 18. A. marginata, 19. A. prostrata, 20. A. lutescens, 21. A retusa nov., 22. A. Burchellii nov., 23. Pietrarellii nov., 24. A villosulicarpa. Section IV. TRISEMINATAE nov.: 25. A. triseminata Section V. HETERANTHAE nov: 26. A. Giacomettii nov., 27. A. sylvestris, 28. A. pusilla, 29. A Dardani nov. Section VI. CAULORRHIZAE nov.: 30. A. repens, 31. A. Pintoi nov. Section VII. PROCUMBENTES nov.: 32. A. lignosa nov. comb., 33. A. Kretschmeri nov., 34. A. Rigonii, 35. A. Chiquitana nov., 36. A. matiensis nov., 37. A. appressiplia nov., 39. A. subcoriacea nov. Section VIII. RHIZOMATOSAE nov., Series PRORHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 40. A. Burkartii. Series RHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 41. A. pseudovillosa nov. comb., 42a. A. glabrata var. glabrata, 42b. A glabrate var. Hagenbeckii. Section IX. ARACHIS: 43. A glandulifera, 44. A. cruziana nov., 45. A monticola, 46. A. magna nov., 47. A. ipansis nov., 48. valida nov., 49. A Williamsii nov., 50. A Batizocoi, 51. A duranensis nov., 52. A Hoehnei nov., 53. A stenosperma nov., 54. A. praecox nov., 55. A. palustris nov., 56. A. benensis nov., 57. A. trinitensis nov., 58. A. decora nov., 59. A. Herzogii nov., 60. A. microsperma nov., 61. A. villosa, 62. A. helodes, 63. A. correntina nov. comb., 64. A. Simpsonii nov., 65. A. Cardenasii nov., 66. A. Kempff-Mercadoi nov., 67. A. Diogoi, 68. A. Kuhlmanii nov., 69a. A. hypogaea subsp. hypogaea var. 1. hypogaea, var. 2. hirsuta, 69b. A. hypogaea subsp. fastigiata var. 1. fastigiata, var. 2. peruviana nov., var. aequatoriana nov., var. 4. vulgaris. The autogamous reproductive systems, agametic reproduction, underground fruiting habit and the limited means of seed dispersal are shown to be logically tied to the drift in chromosomal organization which gives rise to noticeable increases in infertility in crosses between different collections of the same species, to a variably higher infertility in crosses between species within sections, to a near total infertility in crosses between species from different sections. The evolutionary and phylogenetic relationships between the different sections are discussed and are further shown in a sequence of diagrams illustrating the ideas presented. It is evident that the genetic distances separating the sections are far from being of the same magnitude. The presumably older sections (Triseminatae, Trierectoides, Erectoides, Extranervosae and Heteranthae), except for section Erectoides, are much more isolated from the remaining sections and from each other than those taken to be of more recent origin (Procumbentes, Caulorrhizae, Rhizomatosae and Arachis). Section Arachis is by far the largest, containing about 40% of the species described. Species of this section appear to be spreading into new territory and to be invading areas occupied by species of other sections. They grow intermixed with populations of Extranervosae in the upper Paraguay basin and occupy common ground with section Procumbentes in the Gran Pantanal. They have reached the shores of La Plata and the southeastern coast of Brazil and grow from Yala in NW Argentina to the Tocantins in NE Brazil. They include the worldwide cultivar, A. hypogaea. Essentially every published work on the botanical history and taxonomy of Arachis is presented here in the individual specimen references and in the general bibliography. The history of A. hypogaea from the early 16th Century to more recent times, along with the common names in several native American languages, provide a perspective on the antiquity of this cultivar and the level of civilization required for its creation. Six appendices provide supporting data and matters of record. Diagnostic keys to the sections and to the species within each section select the more sharply distinguishing characteristics of the sections and species. Nineteen line drawings capture the sectional and species structures of whole plants, root systems, fruit orientations, agametic reproductions from fruiting structures, carpel shapes and surface features of leaves and stems. Pasaron casi 100 aos entre la designacin por Linneo de la entonces nica especie de Arachis (A. hypogaea L.) conocida por los europeos, y el primer tratamiento taxonmico del gnero por Bentham en 1841. Durante los siguientes 100 aos, aparecieron cinco a diez descripciones de especies adicionales, que asignaban diferentes especies a los mismos nombres, y diferentes nombres a las mismas especies. A mediados del Siglo XX, era imposible examinar un ejemplar de herbario de Arachis y asignar con alguna certeza algn epteto a algn espcimen (que no fuera un ejemplar tipo) excepto a A. hypogaea, A. guaranitica, A. tuberosa y A. villosulicarpa. En nuestro tratamiento, la literatura de este caos botnico en Arachis esta revisada en detalle y se hace un anlisis de los fundamentos de su ocurrencia. Se demuestra que las bases de la confusin moran en la combinacin de la naturaleza esotrica de los caracteres morfolgicos diferenciados de Arachis, de los especmenes fragmentarios de antao, y de la representacin de especies por plntulas. Adems, se relata cmo, en 1959, decidimos reexplorar la localidad tipo de cada especie hasta entonces conocida, y recolectar all especmenes de las plantas enteras y as resolver el problema. Despus de treinta y cinco aos, dos generaciones de coleccionistas de plantas, y alrededor de 2000 colecciones, presentamos aqu las descripciones de 69 especies de Arachis, especies distribuidas en Sudamrica al este de los Andes, al sud del Amazonas, al norte de La Plata y desde el noroeste argentino hasta el nordeste de Brasil. Descubrimos muy pronto que los caracteres ms significativos de Arachis residen en sus estructuras subterrneas, incluyendo sus frutos, tallos rizomatosos, sistemas radicales e hipoctilos. Demostramos que estos caracteres determinantes tienden a aglomerar las colecciones en grupos que se asocian con reas geogrficas y formaciones ecolgicas generalmente diferentes. Hicimos un muestreo de 100 materiales representativos de aquellos grupos, reas, y formaciones y los arreglamos en un experimento diallico de cruzamientos y mostramos, en cruzamientos entre materiales de los diferentes grupos, un nmero notable de fracasos completos en la fertilizacin cruzada y, en aquellos hbridos que se lograron, se observ una alta tasa de infertilidad en la F. Cuando se combinaron estas incompatibilidades e infertilidades de polen hbrido con los datos de agrupamiento de caracteres morfolgicos, se cristalizaron entonces las nueve distintas secciones del gnero aqu presentadas. Las figuras impuestas sobre mapas de Sudamrica ilustran las distribuciones geogrficas de estas secciones. Las colecciones, entonces, fueron asignadas a las diferentes secciones sobre la base de las incompatibilidades de cruzamiento y de los agrupamientos de caracteres exo-morfolgicos. Al hacer estos grupos, las caractersticas esotricas a las cuales se hace referencia arriba, tan confusas cuando se aplican a travs de los lmites seccionales, se volvieron altamente pertinentes al ser aplicadas al problema de la diferenciacin especfica entre materiales dentro de las secciones. Estas caractersticas, aplicadas en conjunto con la citologa cromosmica, las reacciones cromatogrficas y antignicas, las variaciones en la fertilidad hbrida intra-seccional y las adaptaciones de forma de planta, y de hbito anual o perenne, nos permiti definir los siguientes taxa del gnero Arachis: Seccin I. TRIERECTOIDES nov: 1. A. guaranitica, 2. A. tuberosa. Seccin II. ERECTOIDES nov.: 3. A. Martii, 4. A. brevipetiolata nov., 5. A. Oteroi nov., 6. A. Hatschbachii nov., 7. A. cryptopotamica nov., 8. A. major nov., 9. A. Benthamii, 10. A. douradiana nov., 11. A. gracilis nov., 12. A. Hermannii nov., 13. A. Archerinov., 14. A. stenophylla nov., 15a. A. paraguariensis subsp. paraguariensis, 15b. A. paraguariensis subsp. capibarensis nov. Seccin III. EXTRANERVOSAE nov:. 16. A. setinervosa nov., 17. A. Macedoi nov., 18. A. marginata, 19. A. prostrata, 20. A. lutescens, 21. A. retusa nov., 22. A. Burchellii nov., 23. A. Pietrarellii nov., 24. A. villosulicarpa. Seccin IV. TRISEMINATAE nov.: 25. A. triseminata nov. Seccin V. HETERANTHAE nov.: 26. A. Giacomettii nov., 27. A. sylvestris, 28. A. pusilla, 29. A. Dardani nov. Seccin VI. CAULORRHIZAE nov.: 30. A. repens, 31. A. Pintoinov. Seccin VII. PROCUMBENTES nov.: 32. A. lignosa nov. comb., 33. A. Kretschmeri nov., 34. A. Rigonii, 35. A. chiquitana nov., 36. A. matiensis nov., 37. A. appressipila nov., 38. A. Vallsii nov., 39. A. subcoriacea nov. Seccin VIII. RHIZOMATOSAE nov., Serie PRORHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 40. A. Burkartii. Serie RHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 41. A. pseudovillosa nov. comb., 42a. A. glabrata var. glabrata, 42b. A. glabrata var. Hagenbeckii. Seccin IX. ARACHIS: 43. A. glandulifera, 44. A. cruziana nov., 45. A. montcola, 46. A. magna nov., 47. A. ipansis nov., 48. A. valida nov., 49. A. Williamsii nov., 50. A. Batizocoi, 51. A. duranensis nov., 52. A. Hoehneinov., 53. A. stenosperma nov., 54. A. praecox nov., 55. A. palustris nov., 56. A. benensis nov., 57. A. trinitensis nov., 58. A. decora nov., 59. A. Herzogii nov., 60. A. microsperma nov., 61. A. villosa, 62. A. helodes, 63. A. correntina nov. comb., 64. A. Simpsoniinov., 65. A. Cardenasiinov., 66. A. Kempff-Mercadoinov., 67. A. Diogoi, 68. A. Kuhlmanii nov., 69a. A. hypogaea subsp. hypogaea var. 1. hypogaea, var. 2. hirsuta, 69b. A. hypogaea subsp. fastigiata var. 1. fastigiata, var. 2. peruviana nov., var. 3. aequatoriana nov., var. 4. vulgaris. Se demuestra cmo los sistemas reproductivos autgamos, la reproduccin agamtica, el hbito de fructificacin subterrnea y el mecanismo limitado de dispersin de semillas estn lgicamente ligados con la deriva de organizacin cromosmica que da origen a incrementos notables de infertilidad en cruzamientos entre diferentes accesiones de la misma especie, a una infertilidad variablemente ms alta en cruzamientos entre especies dentro de las secciones, hasta una casi total infertilidad entre especies de diferentes secciones. Las relaciones evolutivas y filogenticas entre las diferentes secciones estn discutidas y tambin demostradas en una secuencia de diagramas ilustrando las ideas presentadas. Es evidente que las du tandas genticas que separan las secciones estn lejos de ser todas de la misma magnitud. Las secciones presumiblemente ms antiguas (Triseminatae, Trierectoides, Erectoides, Extranervosae y Heteranthae), excepto por la seccin Erectoides, estn mucho ms aisladas de las secciones restantes y entre s que aquellas secciones que se consideran de origen ms reciente (Procumbentes, Caulorrhizae, Rhizomatosae y Arachis). La seccin Arachis es por mucho la ms grande, pues contiene cerca de 40% de las especies descritas. Parece que las especies de esta seccin se estn expandiendo hacia nuevos territorios e invadiendo reas ocupadas por especies de otras secciones. Crecen entremezcladas con poblaciones de Extranervosae en la cuenca alta del ro Paraguay y ocupan terrenos comunes con la seccin Procumbentes en el Gran Pantanal. Han llegado hasta las orillas de La Plata y a la costa sureste de Brasil, y crecen desde Yala en el noroeste de la Argentina hasta el ro Tocantins en el nordeste de Brasil. Incluyen el cultgeno de importancia mundial, A. hypogaea. Esencialmente cada trabajo publicado sobre la historia botnica y la taxonoma de Arachis est presentado aqu en las referencias a especmenes individuales y en la bibliografa general. La historia de A. hypogaea desde principios del Siglo XVI hasta tiempos ms recientes, junto con los nombres comunes en varios idiomas autctonos americanos, nos dan una perspectiva sobre la antigedad de este cultivo y el nivel de civilizacin requerido para su creacin. Seis apndices proporcionan datos de apoyo e informacin de archivo. Claves diagnsticas a las secciones y a las especies dentro de cada seccin seleccionan los rasgos ms distintivos de las secciones y especies. Diecinueve dibujos de lnea capturan las estructuras claves para distinguir las secciones y especies, incluyendo plantas enteras, sistemas radicales, orientaciones de frutos, reproduccin agamtica a partir de estructuras fructferas, formas de carpelos, y la fisionoma superficial de hojas y tallos.
41941291|The taxonomic revision of the Sterculiaceae family in Paraguay is presented here, including 56 species and 4 varieties, a total of 59 taxa three of which are endemic. They belong to 7 genera, the same that grow in Argentina, with a variable number of species, ranging from 1 like in Sterculia and Guazuma to 16 such as Byttneria and Melochia. The family is distributed along all the area in very diverse habitats, like gallery forests, fertile lands, but also on calcarate, saltpetrous or sandy soils. The habit is generally shrubby to sub-shrubby, rarely arborescent or climbing. The plants are unarmed or spinose such in some Byttneria species. The project to revise this family stimulated the attention in the field work. As result was found Ayenia magna, member of the section Cybiostigma. Its more southern area was Trinidad in the coast of Venezuela, and now it has been found at Cerro Len, in the north of western Paraguay. Another interesting finding is Ayenia spinulosa, which has been only known by the type specimen. This species grows on calcarate soils of the Concepcin department. A generous amount of specimens make possible that this taxa can be represented in many herbaria of the world. The Sterculiaceae flowers are always small, usually agglomerate at the leafs axils, and in many cases morphologically complex. The petals are reddish or violet, rarely yellow like in Waltheria, or white. In Melochia it can be longistyle, brevistyle or mesostyle. The leaves are petiolate, estiplate, with stellate, single or glandular hairs. The appearance of the plants and the indment are similar to many Malvaceae, due to which it is necessary to examine this family at the herbaria. The anthers are dithecal and enlarged in Sterculiaceae, while in Malvaceae are monothecal and rounded. The text includes the description, synonymy and illustration of each taxon, keys to distinguish each one and its geographic distribution represented on 11 maps. The illustrations of some genera were taken from previous studies, but the Melochia drawing have been prepared for the present revision, which it is interesting because the author of the monograph do not included illustrations of each taxon. Se presenta la revisin de la familia Sterculiaceae para Paraguay, que est representada por 56 especies y 4 variedades, o sea un total de 59 entidades, de las cuales 3 son endmicas. Estn repartidas en 7 gneros, los mismos que en la Argentina, con un nmero variable de especies, desde solamente una como en Sterculia y Guazuma, hasta 16 como en Byttneria y Melochia.. La familia habita en todo el territorio en ambientes muy diversos, bosques en galera, campos de tierra frtil, tambin calcreos, salitrosos o arenosos. El porte es general-mente arbustivo o subarbustivo, raro arbreo o lianas. Las plantas son inermes o con aguijones como en especies de Byttneria. El proyecto de revisar esta familia incentiv la atencin en los viajes de recoleccin. Como resultado se encontr Ayenia magna representante de la seccin Cybiostigma. La localidad ms austral conocida era Trinidad en la costa de Venezuela, y ahora fue encontrada en Cerro Len, en el centro-norte de Paraguay Occidental. Otro registro interesante es el de Ayenia spinulosa de la cual se conoca solamente el ejemplar elegido como Tipo. Esta especie es propia de suelos calcreos del Departamento Concepcin. Una generosa cantidad de duplicados hizo posible que esta especie est ahora representada en muchos herbarios del mundo. Las flores de las Sterculiaceae son siempre pequeas, generalmente aglomeradas en las axilas de las hojas, a menudo son morfolgicamente complejas. Los ptalos son rojizos o violceos, raro amarillos como en Waltheria, o blancos. Las hojas son pecioladas, estipuladas, con pelos estrellados, tambin simples o glandulares. En Melochia pueden ser longistilas, brevistilas o medioestilas. El aspecto de las plantas y el indumento es bastante semejante al de muchas Malvaceae por esta razn es necesario revisar esta familia en los herbarios cuando se estudian las Sterculiaceae. Hay que prestar atencin a las anteras que son 2-3-tecas y alargadas en las Sterculiaceae y monotecas y redondeadas en las Malvaceae. El texto incluye descripcin, sinonimia, ilustracin de cada taxn y claves para facilitar la identificacin de cada uno de ellos, sus distribuciones estn representadas en 11 mapas. Las ilustraciones de algunos gneros fueron tomadas de trabajos de Cristbal, pero las de Melochia fueron elaboradas para el presente trabajo, lo que consideramos interesante, por que el autor de la monografa no incluye figuras de cada taxn.
41945698|A new lectotype is proposed for Wissadula macrantha which allow the rehabilitation of this name. Se propone cambiar el lectotipo de Wissadula macrantha por uno nuevo que permita rehabilitar este nombre.
41941368|The study covers ornamental plants species that are traded by two Guarani communities in Argentina. The trade is described, as well as the frequency, abundance and diversity of plants for sale on roadside stalls, along with the income they generate. Harvested and unharvested areas of forest are compared; the relative impacts of Guarani harvest and commercial timber extraction on ornamental plants are evaluated, and some traditional Guarani beliefs are described that regulate the harvest of ornamental plants by the Guarani. Se estudian las especies ornamentales que se comercializan en dos comunidades guaranes de Argentina, se describe la actividad, se ofrece informacin acerca de la riqueza, abundancia y diversidad de plantas halladas en los puestos de venta, y los ingresos que generan. Se comparan reas aprovechadas con reas sin aprovechamiento, se evala el impacto de la extraccin maderable sobre este recurso y se detallan ciertos criterios tradicionales que tienden a regular la recoleccin de plantas.
41941251|Ayenia nervosa Cristbal, a new species from Brasil, Minas Gerais, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the section Ayenia subsection Ayenia. Photomicrographs of the abaxial face of the leaf, showing the peculiar type of hairs, are also included. Ayenia nervosa Cristbal, una nueva especie de Brasil, Minas Gerais, es descripta e ilustrada. Pertenece a la seccin Ayenia subseccin Ayenia. Se discuten las diferencias entre la nueva especie y A. praecipua Cristbal y A. angustifolia A. St.-Hil. & Naudin, consideradas afines. Fotomicrografas del hipofilo de A. angustifolia y de la especie nueva mostrando el tipo distintivo de pelos son tambin incluidas.
41941317|Six new species of Malvaceae are described: Abutilon heterochros, Gaya ibitipocana, Sida itaparicana, Sida Arboae and Sida Meioana from Brasil and Hibiscus manuripiensis from Bolivia. Se describen seis especies nuevas de Malvaceae: Abutilon heterochros, Gaya ibitipocana, Sida itaparicana, Sida Arboae y Sida Meioana de Brasil e Hibiscus manuripiensis de Bolivia.
41945696|One new species of Acaulimalva from Per: A. glandulifera, three new species of Gaya from Bolivia: G. Cardenasii, G. pilocarpa and G. Woodii, and one from Argentina: G. purpurea, are described. Gaya albiflora is reported for the first time for Argentina. Se describe una especie nueva de Acaulimalva de Per: A. glandulifera, tres especies nuevas de Gaya de Bolivia, G. Cardenasii, G. pilocarpa y G. Woodii, y una de Argentina, G. purpurea. Gaya albiflora se cita por primera vez para Argentina.
41941334|Pollen grains of five species from two genera of the subfamilies Maihuenioideae and Pereskioideae (Cactaceae) are described with the optical and scanning microscopes. Maihuenia (F.A.C. Weber) K. Schum.: M. patagnica (Phil.) Britton & Rose and M. poeppigii (Otto ex Pfeiff.) F.A.C. Weber ex K. Schum. (Maihuenioideae) and Pereskia Mill.: P. aculeata Mill., P. nemorosa Rojas Acosta and P. sacharosa Griseb. (Pereskioideae). The studied pollen grains of genera Maihuenia are prolate or spheroidal, medium or large sized, and Pereskia are all spheroidal and large sized. The apertures show variation in number: three to fourteen, colpate, with different pattern distribution and length of the colpus: Maihuenia has tricolpate grains and Pereskia 6-14 pantocolpate, some of them form syncolpos. The sculpture does not show marked differences between the species, which is microechinate and nanoechinate with perforations surrounded by a thickening. A key to determine the species of each genus is presented. Fueron estudiados y descriptos con microscopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido, los granos de polen de cinco especies argentinas de dos gneros, Maihuenia (F.C.C. Weber) K. Schum. y Pereskia Mill., pertenecientes a las subfamilias Maihuenioideae y Pereskioideae (Cactaceae). Maihuenia patagnica (Phil.) Britton & Rose, M. poeppigii (Otto ex Pfeiff.) F.A.C. Weber ex K. Schum., (Maihuenioideae), Pereskia aculeata Mill., P. nemorosa Rojas Acosta y P. sacharosa Griseb. (Pereskioideae). Los granos de polen de Maihuenia son prolatos o esferoidales, medianos o grandes y los de Pereskia son todos esferoidales y grandes. Las aperturas muestran variacin en nmero, tres a catorce, pero todas son colpadas y tienen diferente modelo de ubicacin: Maihuenia tiene granos tricolpados y Pereskia 6-14 pantocolpados, algunos de stos forman sincolpos. La escultura no muestra marcadas diferencias entre las especies, ella es microequinada y nanoequinada con perforaciones rodeadas de un engrosamiento. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar las especies de cada gnero.
41941096|El autor estudia las especies del gnero Sicyos que viven dentro del territorio de la Repblica Argentina; sealando que hasta el presente se han hallado seis. Luego de una diagnosis del gnero, suministra una clave, descripciones y figuras de cada una de ellas, a fin de facilitar su reconocimiento. Las especies estudiadas son S. malvifolius Griseb., S. polyacanthus Cogn., S. Odonellii Mart.-Crov., S. Kunthii Cogn. (nuevo habitante para la flora argentina), S. Warmingii Cogn, S. Warmingii Cogn. var. longispina Mart.-Crov. (nueva variedad) y S. ignarus Mart.-Crov. (especie nueva para la ciencia). The author studies the species of Sicyos that grow in the Argentine territory. He gives a key, descriptions and illustrations of each one. The species, treated are S. malvifolius Griseb., S. polyacanthus Cogn., S. Odonellii Mart. Crov., S. Kunthii Cogn. (new inhabitant for the argentine flora), S. Warmingii Cogn., S, Warmingii var. longispina Mart.-Crov. (new variety) and S. ignarus Mart.-Crov. (new species).
41945699|The results of a ethnobotanical study of the medicinal plants used by small farmers near to the Reserva de Bisfera Yabot, are presented. Sixty-five semi structured interviews were made to men and women of different age. The number of medicinal species reaches the 176 vascular plants, of which 78 are cultivated and 93 are gathered in its wild state. Only five medicinal species are obtained of the market. The cultivated and spontaneous species are very similar as for richness, mention frequency and diversity expressed by Shannon index (H'). Se presentan los resultados de un estudio etnobotnico de las plantas medicinales utilizadas por pequeos agricultores de un sector del rea de influencia de la Reserva de Bisfera Yabot. Se efectuaron 65 entrevistas semi-estructuradas a hombres y mujeres de distinta edad. El nmero de especies medicinales relevadas alcanza un total de 176 plantas vasculares, de las cuales 78 son cultivadas y 93 se recolectan en su estado silvestre de distintas situaciones de vegetacin. Solamente 5 especies medicinales mencionadas son obtenidas del mercado. Las especies cultivadas y espontneas son muy similares en cuanto a riqueza, frecuencia de mencin y diversidad expresada por medio del ndice de Shannon.
41941399|The present work is a first approach to the study of the role of edible plants with underground storage organs (PUSO) in Patagonia, from both temporal and spatial perspectives, integrating ethnohistorical and current ethnographic data on the use of PUSO. Of the 54 sources studied, 75% mention the use of wild PUSO for human alimentation in Patagonia. There are 51 species of wild edible PUSO registered, the most common group being those with edible roots. The steppe and transition zones present the greatest richness of PUSO, probably because of ecological adaptations associated with drought in the former case, and the relatively high diversity typical of ecotones in the latter. Marked discontinuity of use was revealed by ethnohistorical registers, with few species present for longer than a century. Worthy of special mention are the documented continuity of A. tuberosa from the18th century up to the present time, and the recent incorporation of exotic species. When the ethnohistorical studies reviewed are compared with recent ethnobotanical field studies, dynamic use patterns are suggested, which over time have led to the abandonment of PUSO in alimentary practices in Patagonia. The unusual characteristics found with respect to temporal and spatial factors can be related both to specific local knowledge developed over time by Patagonian inhabitants, and the sociopolitical and academic circumstances of the different literature analysed. El presente trabajo es la primara aproximacin acerca del papel de las plantas con rganos de almacenamiento subterrneos comestibles (POAS) en la Patagonia, desde una perspectiva temporal y espacial, al integrar datos etnohistricos y etnogrficos actuales ligados al uso de las POAS. El 75 % de las 54 fuentes analizadas mencionan el uso de POAS en la alimentacin humana de la Patagonia. Las POAS silvestres comestibles registradas ascienden a 51 especies, siendo mayor el conjunto de POAS con races comestibles. La estepa y zonas ecotonales resultaron las de mayor riqueza de POAS, probablemente vinculado a adaptaciones ecolgicas de stas a la aridez en el primer caso, como a la alta diversidad relativa que presentan los ecotonos, en el segundo. El registro etnohistrico mostr discontinuidades marcadas, siendo pocas las especies presentes por ms de un siglo, destacndose la continuidad documental de A. tuberosa desde el siglo XVIII al presente, as como la incorporacin reciente de especies exticas. Las fuentes etnohistricas revisadas y su contraste con datos etnobotnicos recientes de campo sugieren dinamismo en los patrones de utilizacin, que a lo largo del tiempo han Ilevado al abandono del uso de las POAS en la prctica alimentaria de la Patagonia. Las singularidades encontradas respecto a lo temporal y espacial pueden vincularse tanto a los conocimientos locales y especficos desarrollados a lo largo del tiempo por los habitantes de la Patagonia, como tambin a las circunstancias sociopolticas y acadmicas de cada una de las fuentes analizadas.
41941277|Turnera L. is arranged in 9 series. In this paper the revision of the species with floral nectar pockets is presented: series Anomalae Urb. and series Turnera. Within the latter 2 subseries are proposed, Turnera and Umbilicatae Arbo, differenciated upon morphology and cytogenetics. Series Anomalae has racemose inflorescences, the peduncle free or attached to the petiole, or sometimes lacking; series Turnera has 1-flowered epiphyllous inflorescences. Series Anomalae includes 14 species which live between 02-24S and 35-65W, in the Amazonian and Chaco forests, the following being new: T. amazonica, T. discors, T. involucrata, T. kuhlmanniana, T. laciniata, T. reginae, T. sancta and T. bahiensis var. truncata. Subseries Umbilicatae lives in Bahia and surroundings, up to 1600 m, it has 8 species being new T. coriacea var. solium. Subseries Turnera has a distribution similar to that of the genus as a whole, in a variety of environments; it has 19 species, 3 being new: T. campanulata, T. fernandezii and T. occidentalis; several species are weedy, 2 having reached the Old World. Keys, illustrations and distribution maps are provided. El gnero Turnera L. comprende 9 series. En este trabajo se presenta la revisin de las especies con bolsillos nectarferos florales, agrupadas en las series Anomalae Urb. y Turnera. En la ltima se proponen 2 subseries, Turnera y Umbilicatae Arbo, diferenciadas sobre morfologa y citogentica. La serie Anomalae presenta flores solitarias o reunidas en inflorescencias racemosas, pednculo ausente, libre o soldado al pecolo, pedicelo nulo; la serie Turnera posee inflorescencias unifloras epifilas, pedicelo ausente, profilos insertos en la base del cliz. La serie Anomalae vive entre 02-25S y 35-65W en la selva amaznica y el bosque chaqueo; abarca 14 especies, siendo nuevas: T. amazonica, T. discors, T. involucrata, T. kuhlmanniana, T. laciniata, T. reginae, T. sancta y T. bahiensis var. truncata. La subserie Umbilicatae vive en Bahia y alrededores, hasta 1600 m de altitud; incluye 8 especies, siendo nueva: T. coriacea var. solium. La subserie Turnera ocupa casi el rea americana del gnero, en ambientes variados, presenta 19 especies, siendo nuevas: T. campanulata, T. fernandezii y T. occidentalis; varias especies son ruderales, 2 son malezas del Viejo Mundo. Se presentan claves, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin.
41941261|First chromosome counts are reported for two species of Hibiscus sect. Furcaria, H. Pohlii Gurke and H. Wilsonii Fryxell. Both species presented 2n=72. En este trabajo se presentan los primeros recuentos para H. Pohlii Gurke e H. Wilsonii Fryxell pertenecientes a la seccin Furcaria. Ambas especies poseen 2n=72.
41941154|The foliicolous lichens genera Asterothynum and Mazosia are reported for the first time for Argentinian flora: Asterothynum leucophthalmum and A. leptosporum collected in Corrientes province, and Mazosia tumidula from Misiones province. Furthermore the following three foliicolous species are new records for Argentina: Sporopodium xantholeucum, S. leprieurii and Lopadium foliicola; whilst Asterothynum monosporum is recorded for Bolivia and A. pittieri for Paraguay. Keys, descriptions and illustrations of the species are given.
41941315|Schizachyrium hatschbachii Peichoto is cited for the first time for the Argentinian flora. Some ecological observations and the key to differentiate it from related species are included. Se cita a Schizachyrium hatschbachii Peichoto por primera vez para la flora argentina. Se incluyen algunas observaciones ecolgicas y una clave para diferenciarla de las entidades afines.
41941393|The uses of wild bees products and plants in the traditional medicine of the province of Misiones, Argentina, was studied; particularly regarding bee species and therapeutic uses of honey-based concoctions. In this paper, 412 different uses were reported, comprising 9 wild bees taxa. Among the useful products collected from wild bee hives, honey was the most frequently used; mainly for respiratory afflictions and as functional foods. Honeys are used as the basic ingredient of 61 concoctions, where 39 plant species, 6 manufactured products, and 5 products of animal origin may be mixed-in alternatively. Consensus between informants was found regarding primary products, but not in the combinations used in the recipes. Honeys produced by Tetragonisca fiebrigi and Apis mellifera stand out due to their widespread use and high value given by inhabitants. These honeys could be considered as complementary therapeutic products, but a priori not as interchangeable ones. However, specificities in the medicinal use of Tetragonisca fiebrigi and Apis mellifera honeys should be understood as a continuum, shaped by other factors such as availability and access. Se analizan los usos medicinales de los productos obtenidos de colonias de abejas silvestres, en cuanto al uso diferencial de estos recursos segn las especies de abejas y el consenso de usos de mezclas que involucran mieles. Se reportaron 412 usos correspondientes a 9 taxones de abejas. Entre los productos de los nidos de estos insectos, la miel es el ms utilizado como remedio, principalmente para el sistema respiratorio y como alimento funcional. La misma se emplea en diversas formas de preparacin y estn presentes en 61 preparados mixtos donde se combinan con plantas (39 especies), productos manufacturados (6) y de origen animal (5). Se hall consenso en el uso de algunos productos, no as en las combinaciones en las que intervienen. Las mieles de Tetragonisca fiebrigi y de Apis mellifera se destacan por su importancia y versatilidad de uso. stas pueden ser consideradas recursos medicinales complementarios y a priori no intercambiables. Sin embargo, las especificidades deben ser entendidas como alternativas no categricas, cuyo uso es moldeado por otros factores como disponibilidad y acceso.
41941239|Pollen grains of 41 species representing all seven sections of Helicteres were studied with light and scanning electron microscopy and described. In order to establish palynological affinities Neoregnellia cubensis, Kleinhovia hospita, Reevesia thyrsoidea, Veeresia clarkii, Ungeria floribunda and Pterospermum acerifolium were also examined. Helicteres is palynologically rather uniform with respect to the shape and size of the grains as well as the type and number of the apertures. The pollen grains are usually triporate, oblate or suboblate, amb triangular and medium sized. Nevertheless the exine surface shows great variability. Nine pollen types are recognized on the basis of the sculpture of the exine: Type I, tectate-perforate, baculate, in sect. Helicteres; Type II, tectate-perforate, psilate to weakly verrucate, in 4 species of sect. Orthocarpaea; Type III, tectate-perforate, with the equatorial zone verrucate and the poles psilate, in sect. Stegogamos; Type IV, microreticulate, verrucate, in sect. Polyandria; Type V, tectate, scabrate, verrucate, in sect. Alicteres; Type VI, tectate-perforate, verrucate, in 2 species of sect. Orthocarpaea and 4 species of sect. Orthothecium; Type VII, tectate-perforatefossulate, verrucate, the verrucae large, irregular in outline, often anastomosed, in 3 species of sect. Orthothecium; Type VIII, tectate to tectate-perforate-fossulate, perforations and fossulae as well as micro-verrugae and micro-echinae densely concentrated at the poles, the equatorial zone psilate or scabrate, in 3 species of sect. Orthothecium; Type IX, tectateperforate-fossulate, microechinate, the perforations and fossulae densely concentrated at the poles, the micro-echinae distributed throughout the surface but hardly differentiated on the poles, in 16 species of sect. Sacarolha and 5 species of sect. Orthothecium. The pollen types are ordered according to the complexity of the exine; with the types with uniform sculpture considered simpler and the types with polar and equatorial zones differentiated considered complex. Keys to identify the nine pollen types of Helicteres and the pollen types of related genera are presented. According to pollen morphology Neoregnellia is closely connected with Helicteres; this genus shares the same pollen type, IX, with sect. Sacarolha and some species of sect. Orthothecium. The pollens of Kleinhovia and Helicteres have many characters in common (shape, size, apertures), the only difference being the microreticulate surface of the former; they are rather close to each other. Reevesia thyrsoidea, Veeresia clarkii and Ungeria floribunda stand apart from Helicteres in having 3-5 brevi-colp(or) ate and suprareticulate grains. The very distinctive pollen of Pterospermum acerifolium (large size, spheroidal, echinate) supports its segregation from the tribe Helictereae. In Helicteresthe different patterns of exine sculpture have taxonomic and phylogenetic value. In the first place, they allow the recognition of the 4 monospecific sections (Helicteres, Stegogamos, Alicteres and Polyandria) and at the same time they reveal the coherence of the genus, since the other 3 sections which have many species (Orthocarpaea, Orthothecium and Sacarolha) are connected with each other not only by exomorphological characters but also by pollen characters. In the second place, they provide bases for interpreting infra-generic relationships and the possible origin of the genus. Two possible evolutionary trends of exine sculpture, which are representated in two diagrams, are proposed. The first possibility starts with the Type VI; from this pollen type the evolutionary trend would have diverged in several directions. On one side, a line would lead toward increasing complexity of the exine that would end in Type VIII. This kind of pollen grain would have given rise to Type IX. On the other side, several divergent lines might have taken place; modifications in the exine sculpture would have led toward a progressive simplicity that would culminate in the absence of sculptural elements of Type II. From this kind of pollen grain Type I might have evolved. The second possibility starts from Type II; in this case the evolutionary trend of the exine would have gone in only one direction; the exine would have acquired more and more complexity, giving rise to pollen types connected with each other by transitional forms.
41941320|A study about the plants used in Guarani communities of Misiones Province, Argentina to build houses and temples is presented. Some topics about the abandonment of the traditional norms and materials of construction are discussed. Se presenta un estudio sobre las plantas empleadas en comunidades guaranies de Misiones para erigir estructuras habitacionales y religiosas. Se discuten algunos puntos relativos al abandono de las pautas tradicionales de construccin.
41941243|The new genus Tropidococcus Krapov. (Malvaceae) from Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil) is described and illustrated. It belongs to the Sphaeralcea alliance of the tribe Malveae and is characterized by the unnusual number of chromosomes, 2n=24, by the pollen with two series of six apertures to each side of the equator, and by the keeled mericarps. Se describe e ilustra el nuevo gnero Tropidococcus Krapov. (Malvceas) de Rio Grande do Sul (Brasil). Pertenece al grupo Sphaeralcea y se caracteriza por el nmero de cromosomas, 2n=24, nico en el grupo, por el polen con dos series de seis aberturas a cada lado del ecuador y por los mericarpos con la base carenada.
41941221|Turnera L. includes around 100 American species and two African ones, arranged in nine series. In this paper, the following four series embracing 21 species are revised: Annulares, Capitatae, Microphyllae and Papilliferae. Six new taxa are described: T. hatschbachii, T. hatschbachiivar. miniata, T. maracasana, and T. princeps of the seriesCapitatae, T. asymmetrica of the series Microphyllae, and T. caatingana of the series Papilliferae. The species of these four series share the common features of simple and glandular hairs, generally well-developed floral peduncle, absent pedicel, linear or elliptic prophylls, generally warty or granulate fruit, and a floral tube, appendicular in nature, in that it is the product of the fusion of the lower part of the calyx and corolla, with the staminal filaments adnate only at the base. In the series Annulares, Microphyllae and Papilliferae the leaves and young stems are fragrant, the scent being produced by the glandular hairs, and the floral peduncle is shortly adnate to the petiole. Three series, Annulares, Capitatae and Microphyllae, have leaves with generally well developed stipules and a disjunct geographical distribution. The series Annulares and Capitatae have nectaries and villous or hirsute styles, while Microphyllae and Papilliferae lack nectaries and their styles are glabrous or somewhat pilose. In some species of Microphyllae the staminal filaments are joined at the base, forming an annular structure 0,05-0,50 mm high. The seeds are peculiar in Annulares, being very short, with a central, prominent and slightly concave chalaza. In the series Capitatae, the flowers are gathered in short, capitate inflorescences, the length of the peduncles being variable or sometimes wanting, and the seeds are obovoid, reticulate or striate. The leaves of Microphyllae are small, with the stipules adnate to the foliar base; setiform glandular hairs, similar to those of Piriqueta, are exclusive to Turnera collotricha. The only series in the genus with stipitate glandular hairs is Papilliferae. Keys for the identification of series and species as well as illustrations and distribution maps are provided.
41941302|The first record of Lobelia reniformis Cham, and Thaumatocaryon dasyanthum (Cham.) I. M. Johnst. for the Argentinean flora is presented. Descriptions, illustrations, and ecological observations for these species are given. Se citan por primera vez a Lobelia reniformis Cham, y Thaumatocaryon dasyanthum (Cham.) I. M. Johnst. para la flora argentina. Se describen e ilustran las especies y se presentan algunas observaciones ecolgicas.
41941190|Sida amplissima L. is the basionym of Wissadula amplissima (L.) R.E. Fr. It is based on two brief descriptions, one of van Royen and the other of Plumier. The lack of a van Royen specimen in Leiden circunscribes the possibilities of typification to Plumier's illustration which was cited by Linnaeus and published afterwards by Burman. Plumier's illustration is designated as the lectotype of Sida amplissima L. It is reproduced here, and a key is provided to distinguish this species from the related ones.
41941205|The argentine Bignoniaceae include 23 genera and 56 species. Among the vines, Arrabidaea DC. is the genus with the highest number of native species. A.samydodes (Cham.) Sandwith, not known for Argentina, and A.triplinervia (DC.) Baill. ex Bureau, which was cited but not documented, are described and illustrated. A key is provided to identify the nine native species. A comparative analysis is made of their distribution in Argentina and their phenology.
41941146|Three new species of Tumera T. simulans, T. cottotricha and T. Harleyi are described, and T. flammea is transferred to Piriqueta. All these taxa seem to be endemic to certain Serras from Bahia and Minas Gerais.
41941380|A new species, named Calydorea riograndensis Deble is described and illustrated from Rio Grande do Sul State (Brazil). Comments about geographic distribution, conservation and affinities are stablished. Additionally, Calydorea minima Roitman & A. Castillo is validly published. Es descripta e ilustrada Calydorea riograndensis Deble una nueva especie para el estado de Rio Grande do Sul (Brasil). Se incluyen comentarios sobre su distribucin geogrfica, afinidades y conservacin. Adems, Calydorea minima Roitman & A. Castillo es vlidamente publicada.
41941107|En injertos reciprocos de Manihot flabellifolia y Manihot esculenta se demostr que el injerto M. fabellifolia / M. escuulenta (Mf / Me) produce mayor cantidad de races reservantes con mayor peso seco que el que forma el testigo Manihot esculenta El injerto Manihot esculenta / Manihot flabellifolia (Me / Mf) no forma races. reservantes. Su sistema radicular es igual al del testigo Manihot flabellifolia. Se estudiaron las causas que inciden en la mayor cantidad de races reservantes y en su mayor peso seco en el injerto (Mf | Me). Para ello a los 60, 75, 90, 110, 130 y 155 das despus del injerto, se hicieron las siguientes deteiminaciones en el injerto y en la mandioca: superficie foliar; peso seco de las hojas, tallos, races comunes y races reservantes y se midi tambin la intensidad respiratoria de las hojas. Lob resultados indicaron que la mandioca forma una mayor superficie foliar y tiene una mayor intensidad fotosinttica que el injerto; qus la intensidad respiratoria de las hojas de mandioca es superior a la intensidad respiratoria de las hojas del injerto; pero que el injerto traslada mayor cantidad de sustancias fotosintetizadas a las races reservantes que la mandioca Los resultados obtenidos son estadsticamente significativos. El mayor nmero de races reservantes que forma el injerto quizs sea debido que la parte area del injerto forma mayor cantidad de sustancia (hormona?) que el testigo mandioca. In reciprocal grafts of Manihot flabellifolia and Manihot esculenta it was demonstrated that the graft Manihot flabellifolia | Manihot esculenta (Mf | Me) producers more quantity of reserving roots with grearter dry weight, than Manihot esculenta. The graft Manihot esculenta | Manihot flabellifolia (Me | Mf) does not form reserving roots; its radicular system is identical to M. fabellilia's system. In trie graft Mf | Me and in M. esculenta were made the following determination; foliar surface; aerial part, absorbing roots and reserving roots dry weight and foliar respiratory intensity; at 60; 75; 90; 110; 130 and 155 days after grafting. Results indicate that M. esculenta forms a greater foliar surface and has more photosynthetic intensity than the graft (Mf | Me) which translates a greater quantity of photosyntetized substances to the reserving roots than M. esculenta. These results are statistically significativas. The greater number cf reserving roots that forms the graft (Mf | Me) can be explained admitting that perhaps its aerial part forms more quantity of substances (hormones?) than Manihot esculenta.
41941120|Four new taxa of south american Malvaceae are described and illustrated. Tarasa rhombifolia (Cuzco), T. corrugata (Cuzco) and Urocarpidium corniculatum (Matucana, Lima) grow in Per. Urocarpidium pentacoccum (Sierra de Ambato, Catamarca) grows in Argentina. A key for the known species of Urocarpidium is included.
41941283|The species of Sida section Nelavaga Borss. Waalk. from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil and Paraguay are revised. Six new species are described: S. Cabreriana, S. pindapoyensis, S. Schininii, S. Schumanniana, S. vagans and S. Waltoniana. A key is provided to distinguish the 24 species from the area. A table with chromosome counts is included. Se revisa la seccin Nelavaga Borss. Waalk. del gnero Sida para Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil y Paraguay. Se tratan 24 especies de las cuales seis son nuevas: S. Cabreriana, S. pindapoyensis, S. Schininii, S. Schumanniana, S. vagans y S. Waltoniana. Se incluye una clave y una tabla con recuentos cromosmicos.
41941155|Se describen como nuevas dos especies de Stellana de Sudamrica andina (Bolivia y Norte argentino, y Chile central). Se da una descripcin amplia de Stellaria arvalis F. Phil., considerando que es incompleta la descripcin de Stellaria cuspidata war. alsineformis Naud., que por referencia directa da validez al nombre dado por Federico Philippi.
41941076|In this paper the author makes a sort of critic revision of the function of boro microelement in plant organism.
41941230|Chromosome numbers of nine subtropical woody species collected in Argentina and Paraguay are reported. The counts for Coutarea hexandra (2n=52), Inga vera subsp. affinis 2n=26 (Fabaceae) and Chorisla speciosa 2n=86 (Bombacaceae) are reported for the first time. The chromosome number given for Inga semialata 2n=52 is a new cytotype different from the previously reported. Somatic chromosome numbers of the other taxa studied are: Sesbania punicea 2n=12, S. virgata 2n=12 and Pilocarpus pennatifolius 2n=44 from Argentina.
43574297|The typification of Theobroma Guazuma L.  Guazuma ulmifolia Lam. is discussed, and with the selection of a specimen from the Hortus Cliffortianus Herbarium, the synonymy of Guazuma tomentosa H.B.K. with G. ulmifolia, as established by Fawcett & Rendle, Standley and Robyns, is confirmed. Within the species two varieties are recognized, separated mainly on the basis of fruit characteres, var. ulmifolia with the capsule remaining closed at maturity, and var. tomentella K. Schum. with the capsule incompletely dehiscent by five slits not wide enough to allow the seeds to escape; to a certain extent these differences are correlated with differences in shape of fruit, and outline and indument of the leaves. For both varieties the chromosome number 2n =16, previously mentioned for G. ulmifolia, is established. A list of names proposed within the complex is appended, with comments on their probable identities, as appears from the information at present available.
41945702|Triumfetta rhomboidea Jacq. is recorded for the first time from eastern Paraguay and South of Brazil. The species is described and illustrated and its geographical distribution in America is also given. The relationships with T. semitriloba Jacq., a closely related species is considered. Triumfetta rhomboidea Jacq. se cita por primera vez para Paraguay Oriental y sur de Brasil. Esta especie se describe e ilustra, y se menciona su distribucin geogrfica en Amrica. Se la compara con T. semitriloba Jacq., la especie ms afn.
41941284|Two new species of Hibiscus sect. Fumaria are described: H. cabralensis and H. Mariae from Minas Gerais state, Brazil. It is included a key to distinguish the 12 species of the section that are present in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. Se describen dos especies nuevas de Hibiscus secc. Fumaria de Minas Gerais, Brasil: H. cabralensis e H. Mariae. Se incluye una clave para diferenciar las 12 especies de la seccin que habitan en el estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil.
41941270|Plants of Rhabdadenia Ragonesei Woodson (Apocynaceae) were regenerated in vitro from leaves explants. The procedure employed includes: 1) Surface sterilization of leaves by immersion in 70% ethanol (10 s) followed by 1,1% NaOCl (15 min) and three wash with sterile distilled water. 2) Callus and buds induction by culture on Murashige and Skoog medium (MS) + 3 mg/L benzyladenine (BAP). 3) Subculture of callus and buds on MS + 1 mg/L BAP, and 4) Rooting on MS + 0.5 mg/L naftalenacetic acid. Se regeneraron plantas de Rhabdadenia Ragonesei Woodson (Apocynaceae) mediante el cultivo in vitro de explantes foliares en condiciones ambientales controladas. El procedimiento consisti en: 1) Desinfeccin de las hojas por inmersin en etanol al 70% (10 s) seguida de inmersin en NaOCl al 1,1% (15 min) y lavado tres veces con agua destilada estril. 2) Induccin de callos y yemas mediante el cultivo de explantes foliares en el medio de Murashige y Skoog (MS) + 3 mg/L de benciladenina (BAP). 3) Subcultivo de callos y yemas en MS + 1 mg/L de BAP y 4) Enraizamiento de los vstagos obtenidos en MS + 0,5 mg/L de cido naftalenactico.
41941400|The objective of this study is to compare the knowledge and utilization of medicinal plants by rural people from Chaco Serrano of Crdoba (Argentina), considering: a) the conservation status of the study sites (two of them near from natural protected areas (NPA) and other two located far away from NPA), b) the availability of plant species from each site. To achieve these aims we complemented quantitative (sampling and ecological indexes applied to ethnobotany) and qualitative methodology (ethnographic approach). The results show that: a) the diversity of plants surveyed in the field and known by the locals, assessed with different indices, do not show major differences between sites; b) knowledge and use of native medicinal species are not related to the vicinity to NPA; c) the main diseases treated at the four sites are of digestive, respiratory and circulatory systems. In conclusion, the proximity of NPA (greater access to native species) and /or environmental availability of plant resources do not seem to be the main factors influencing the knowledge on medicinal plants among rural people. Nevertheless, the constant exchange of knowledge and species among the informants and the sources of knowledge would be some of the important factors that might influence the use and knowledge of medicinal plants in the study region. El objetivo del trabajo es comparar el conocimiento y utilizacin de plantas medicinales por pobladores rurales del Bosque Chaqueo Serrano de Crdoba (Argentina), considerando: a) el estatus de proteccin de los sitios de estudio (dos sitios prximos a reas naturales protegidas (ANP) y dos sitios alejados de las mismas), b) la disponibilidad vegetal en cada sitio. Se complementaron metodologas cuantitativas (muestreos e ndices ecolgicos aplicados a la etnobotnica) y cualitativas (enfoque etnogrfico). Los resultados muestran que: a) la diversidad de especies relevadas y la diversidad de especies conocidas por los pobladores, no muestran diferencias significativas entre sitios; b) los conocimientos y utilizacin de especies medicinales nativas no se relacionan con la cercana a ANP; c) las principales afecciones tratadas con plantas medicinales en los cuatro sitios estudiados son de tipo digestivas, respiratorias y circulatorias. La cercana a un ANP (mayor accesibilidad a especies nativas) y/o disponibilidad ambiental de recursos vegetales no seran los principales factores que influyen en los conocimientos sobre plantas medicinales entre los pobladores rurales. Sin embargo, tanto el intercambio constante de saberes y de especies entre los informantes como las distintas fuentes de conocimiento podran ser algunos de los factores influyentes en la utilizacin y conocimiento de las plantas medicinales en la regin de estudio.
41941445|The Historia General y Natural de las Indias by Oviedo published in 1535 has original illustrations that in the edition realized by Amador de los Ros in 1851-1855 some of them were changed and other ones incorporated. In some cases the errors are huge like the illustration of a weasel with an Australian kangaroo. These errors disqualify all the changes realized by Amador de los Ros in the 1851-1855 edition. For this reason, are presented here all the original illustrations of the first edition of the natural history. La Historia General y Natural de las Indias de Oviedo publicada en 1535 tiene ilustraciones originales que en la edicin de Amador de los Ros de 1851-1855 algunas fueron reemplazadas y se agregaron nuevas. En algunos casos los errores son garrafales como ilustrar a la comadreja con un canguro de Australia. Estos errores descalifican todos los agregados que Amador de los Ros hizo a la edicin de 1851-1855. Por ello, ahora se presentan todas las ilustraciones originales de la primera edicin, referentes a la historia natural.
41941267|The chromosome number was determined in eleven recently-described species of Arachis belonging to five different taxonomie sections. Two new species of section Arachis, A. Gregoryi and A. Krapovickasii, present 2n=20 chromosomes and lack the small 'A' pair, while A. linearifolia and A. Schininii have 2n=20, including the small 'A' pair of chromosomes, typical of the A genome of A. hypogaea. Arachis Schininii, previously listed under A. Hoehnei, a species lacking this pair of chromosomes, has many morphological differences, and is therefore considered to be a new species. Arachis submarginata (sect. Extranervosae), A. Pflugeae and A. Hassleri (sect. Procumbentes), and seridonsis and A. interrupta (sect. Heteranthae) also have 2n=20. One species of section Rhizomatosae, A nitida, is tetraploid (2n=40), but is morphologically distinct from the other tetraploids in this section. The new species of section Erectoides, A. porphyrocalyx, shows 2n=18. This is the first count of 2n=18 chromosomes for an Arachis species outside section Arachis and its origin is probably not associated with the origin of the 18 chromosomes occurring in three species of section Arachis. Se determin el nmero cromosmico de once especies recientemente descriptas del gnero Arachis, pertenecientes a cinco secciones taxonmicas. En la seccin Arachis, A. Gregoryi y A. Krapovickasii presentan 2n=20 cromosomas sin el par "A", mientras A. linearifolia y A. Schininii presentan 2n=20, incluyendo el par "A", tpco del genomio A de A. hypogaea. Arachis Schininii presenta caractersticas citolgicas (presencia del par "A") y morfolgicas distintas de A. Hoehnei, bajo la cual estuvo incluida. Arachis submarginata (seccin Extranervosae), A. Pflugeae y A. Hassleri (seccin Procumbentes), y A. seridonsis y A. interrupta (seccin Heteranthae) tambin presentan 2n=20. Una especie de la seccin Rhizomatosae, A nitida, es tetraploide, con 2n=40, pero morfolgicamente distinta de las dems especies tetraploides de la seccin. En la seccin Erectoides, la nueva especie A. porphyrocalyx presenta 2n=18. Este es el primer recuento de 18 cromosomas en especies de Arachis que no pertenecen a la seccin Arachis y su origen no est asociado al origen de los 18 cromosomas de las tres especies de la seccin Arachis.
41941187|Melochia canescens Cristbal and Melochia ministella Cristbal, two new species of sect. Pyramis Goldberg, are described and illustrated. They live in N Argentina and Western Paraguay, and the first one also in SE Bolivia. A key for the identification of the nine species of sect. Pyramis living in austral South America is provided. M. Goldbergii Cristbal is a new record for Argentina and Bolivia and M. Werdermannii Goldberg is new for Paraguay and Brasil. Chromosomes first counts of these two species are reported (n= 9), and a confirmation of a previous count for M. canescens (sub M. anmala Griseb.) is included.
41941196|Doryopteris triphylla (Lam.) H. Christ is mentioned for the first time for this area. The presence of Doryopteris lorentzii (Hieron.) Diels is confirmed.
41941271|Lathyrus linearifolius Vogel is confirmed in the Argentine flora. The number of species of the genus recorded for the northeast region is increased to nine. The new citation is described and illustrated indicating its geographic distribution. A key to distinguish the nine species from NE of Argentina is provided. Lathyrus linerifolius Vogel se confirma para la flora Argentina. El nmero de especies del gnero mencionadas para la regin nordeste se incrementa a nueve. Se describe e ilustra la nueva cita, indicando su distribucin geogrfica. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar a las nueve especies representadas en el NE de Argentina.
41941112|Se plantaron estacas de mandioca en distinto estado de desarrollo, provenientes de plantas de semillas. Los resultados obtenidos muestran que las plantas provenientes de estacas que estaban en un estado de desarrollo avanzado producen un mayor peso de races reservantes. Can el objeto de estudiar la influencia del fotoperiodo en la formacin de races reservantes en mandioca se plantaron estacas en macetas con tierra en condiciones de invernculo, sometidas a 6, 10, 12 y 14 hs de luz. Todas las variantes reciban 6 hs de luz solar, y las 4, 6 y 8 hs de luz suplementaria fueron dadas por focos incandescentes. Los resultados muestran que la mandioca es una planta de dia corto en cuanto a la formacin de races reservantes. Se realizaron mediciones de peso seco de races, hojas y tallos, nmero de hojas, nudos y races y longitud del tallo. Manioc stalks in different stages of developmen, proceeding from seedlings, were planted. The results demosrate that plants proceeding from stalks that were in a very advanced development stage produced more weight of reserving roots. To observed the influence of the photoperiod on reserving roots formation in manioc, stalks were planted in pots with soil in greenhouse condition receiving 6, 10, 12 and 14 ligiht hours. All the variants received 6hs of sunlight and the 4, 6 and 8 hs of supplementary light were given by icandescent lamps. The results shown that manioc is a short-day plant in respect to reserving-root formation. Roots, leaves and stems dry weight; leaves, nodes and roots number, and stems lenght were also determined.
41941210|A large Eryngium, spectacular because of its size and abundance where it occurs, extremely common throughout Argentine Mesopotamia, the delta of the R. Paran, and the southern shore of the River Plate, the identity of which has been variously interpreted, is described as a new species, Eryngium mesopotamicum Pedersen.
41941137|Se estudia la composicin florstica del csped de las plazas y parques pblicos de la ciudad de Corrientes, establecindose que se trata de una comunidad disclimcica con predominio de Paspalum notatum y Sporobolus in die us. Se analiza, adems, la procedencia y la forma biolgica de cada una de las especies que lo componen y que provienen, en su totalidad, de la flora de la regin. This study treats about the floristical composition of lawns of publics parks and squares in Corrientes city. It is analized the origin and the biological form of each species that compound them, all coming from the local flora.
41941173|The karyotypes of six species of the genus Piriqueta are described for the first time. The basic chromosome number is x = 7. Four species are diploid, P. cistoides ssp. cistoides and P. racemosa with 2n = 2x = 14 = 14m; P. australis 2n = 2x = 14 = 12m + 2sm; P. duarteana, 2n = 2x = 14 = 12m + 2st; P. rosea, with two cytotypes, diploid (14m) and tetraploid (28 m) and P. taubatensis, a polyploid species, with 2 n = 6x = 42 = 38m + 4sm. The diploid species, P. cistoides, P. racemosa, P. australis, P. ochroleuca and P. sidifolia var. multiflora, present regular meiosis, with 7 II; while the pairing in P. taubatensis shows multivalents, suggesting that this species is a segmental allohexaploid. The karyotypes are different in ploidy levels, symmetry, number of metacentrics, submetacentrics and subtelocentrics, and number and position of secondary constrictions. In some of the species there is differential staining intensity in the bivalents.
41941257|The systematics of Amomyrtus, an endemic genus of southwestern temperate South America, is reviewed. In molecular phylogenetic studies the genus is supported as monophyletic, with its closest relatives being other American genera such as Legrandia and Pimenta. A lectotype for Myrcia lechleriana Miquel is chosen. Se revisa la sistemtica de Amomyrtus, un gnero endmico del sudoeste de Amrica del Sur. En los estudios moleculares el gnero aparece como monofiletico, siendo sus parientes ms cercanos los gneros americanos Legrandia y Pimenta. Se elige un lectotipo para Myrcia lechleriana Miquel.
43574274|The chromosome number from 90 populations of 19 species and 5 subspecies of Turnera and 7 species of Piriqueta are reported for the first time. Previous reports of 6 taxa of Turnera and one of Piriqueta are confirmed. Six of the 9 series of the genus Turnera were studies cytologically. Four of the six has x=7 chromosomes (Salicifoliae, Stenodictyae, Leiocarpae and Mycrophylhe). Canaligerae has x=5 and Papilliferae posesses x=13 found in the only species of the series T. chamaedryfolia with 2n= 26. It is suggested that the most primitive basic number is x=7 which gave rise to x=5 and x=13. Autopolyploids and alopolyploids played an important role in the evolution of the species of the Turnera and Piriqueta. Among the known species of Turnera with basic number x=7, 40% are polyploids; one of them, T. sidoides with 5 subspecies, has only 2 diploids among 20 populations, the others are autotetraploids, autohexaploids and one autooctoploids. In the series Canaligerae with basic number x=5, only 34% of the species are diploids, 33% is represented by diploid and tetraploid cytotypes and the remaining 33% are alopolyploids. Different degress of diploidization were found in the different autopolyploids In the genus Piriqueta with basic number x=7, 27% of the species are polyploids.
41941084|El presente trabajo es un estudio de la dinmica de la vegetacin en loe mdanos del sur de Entre Ros. Primeramente se hace un anlisis del medio, describindose el paisaje, el origen geolgico, los suslos y el clima; luego se establece la sucesin vegetal, describindose, mediante inventarios fitosociolgicoe segn la escuela Zrich-Montpellier, cada una de las asociaciones que intervienen en la psammosere y en la psammohidrosere. Cette publication comprends l'tude de la dynamique de la vgtation sur les dunes continentales du sud de Entre Ros. D'abord, on fait l'analyse du milieu, en faisant la description du paysage, l'origine gologique, les sois et le climat; aprs, on tablie la succession vgtale, on dcrit les associations et on fait des tables avec les releves floristiques de chaque groupement de la psammosere et de la psammohidrosere.
41941232|We hybridized two hexaploid species (2n=6x=30) T. orientalis and T. velutina and one diploid species (2n=2x=10), T. grandiflora. These species had regular meiosis forming 15 II the hexaploids and 5 II the diploid. One hexaploid, 2n=6x=30 (T. orientalis  T. velutina), one pentaploid, 2n=5x=25 (T. orientalis  T. grandiflora) and one tetraploid, 2n=4x=20 (T. velutina  T. grandiflora) hybrids were obtained and studied cytologically to determine their genomic relationships. Meiotic behavior in the T. orientalis  T. velutina hybrid was very irregular, with many laggard chromosomes and bridges at AI and AII. Mean pairing relationships were 10,38 I,9,66 II, 0,07 III and 0,03 IV. The hybrid T. orientalise T. grandiflora presented irregular meiosis. Mean pairing relationships were 14,66 I and 5,16 II. T. velutina  T. grandiflora presented the most irregular meiosis, with mean pairing relationships of 6,941,6,42 II and 0,05 IV. The three hybrids were sterile. The genome constitution of T. orientalis is AABBBB and of T. grandiflora is CC. On the basis of chromosome associations in the hybrids, we propose the genomic formula AAAACC for T. velutina. One genome of T. orientalis is similar to one of the three genomes of T. velutina. The latter species shows one genome similar to the genome of T. grandiflora. Both T. orientalis and T. velutina are segmentary alohexaploids.
41941179|The seed proteins from 122 different samples of Arachis hypogaea L. originating from Bolivia, Per and Ecuador were studied by polyacrilamide gel electrophoresis. Seven constant and 27 inconstant bands were detected. The results of the last ones were utilized to analize similarities among samples employing the Jaccard coefficient and unweighted pair-group method of arithmetical averages (UPGMA). The seed proteins allowed to separate fully the A. hypogaea subspecies and the varieties to a lower extent.
41941304|Solanum vaillantii Dunal is recorded for the first time from Argentina. The species is described; an illustration by mean photographs is given. Its geographical localization in Argentina is also given. Se cita por primera vez para la flora de Argentina a Solanum vaillantii Dunal. Se brinda una descripcin de la especie, se la ilustra mediante fotografas y se presenta un mapa con su localizacin geogrfica en Argentina.
41941171|In the present paper the chromosome numbers of 5 species and 1 variety of Turnera are reported for the first time. Previous reports on 5 taxa are confirmed. The karyotypes of 16 taxa of Turnera are described for the first time. The results of the chromosome analysis were the following: T. weddelliana, 2n=2x=14=12m + 2sm; T. pumilea, 2n=2x=14=10 m + 4sm; T. hassleriana, 2n=2x=14=12m + 2sm; T. chamaedryfolia, 2n=2x=26=16m + 8 sm + 2st; T. caerulea, 2n=2x=10=8m + 2sm; T. concinna, 2n=2x=10=8m + 2sm; T. krapovickasii, 2n=2x=10=8m + 2sm; T. grandiflora, 2n=8x=40=32m + 8sm; T. subulata, 2n=2x=10=8m + 2sm; T. grandidentata, 2n=4x=20=18m + 2sm; T. angustifolia, 2n=6x=30=26m + 4sm; T. orientalis, 2n=6x=30=26m + 4 sm; T. ulmifolia, 2n=6x=30=24m + 6sm; T. velutina, 2n=6x=30=28m + 2 sm; T. aurelioi, 2n=8x=40=36m + 4 sm and T. cuneiformis, 2n=8x=40=36m + 4sm. The chromosomes are of small size. The species of the series Salicifoliae and Leiocarpae (x=7) have chromosomes which are smaller than those of the series Canaligerae (x=5) and Papilliferae (x=13). All species studied have symmetrical karyotypes. The scatter diagram shows that species with different basic numbers are perfectly separated. T. chamaedryfolia (x=13) of the series Papilliferae is the most asymmetrical while the species of the series Canaligerae are the most symmetrical. Species with x=7 occupy a central position in the diagram. The diploid species of Canaligerae studied had the same basic karyotype: 8m + 2sm, which can be considered as the fundamental karyotype of the series. The information obtained concerning karyotype analysis of these species support their taxonomic position.
41941247|Bordasia bicornis Krapov. new genus and species is described from northwestern Paraguayan Chaco. It is related to Sida from which it differs by the mericarp with two apical horns, by the leaves dimorphic and coriaceous and by the fannel-shaped calyx. Se describe Bordasia bicornis Krapov., nuevo gnero y especie del extremo NW del Chaco paraguayo. Es afn al gnero Sida del que se diferencia por sus mericarpos con dos cuernos apicales, por sus hojas coriceas dimorfas y por el cliz cnico.
41941340|In the review of the genus Baccharis in Brazil two new species from Bahia were recognized: Baccharis alleluia and Baccharis orbiculata. These species are described, illustrated and distinguished of the allied taxa. En la revisin del gnero Baccharis para Brasil, fueron reconocidas dos especies nuevas: Baccharis alleluia y Baccharis orbiculata. Estas especies son descriptas, ilustradas y diferenciadas de los taxones afines.
41941228|Vernonia cincta Griseb. and V. scorpioides (Lam.) Pers. (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) are two closely related taxa which have been considered by different authors either the same species or two varieties of the same species or two different species. In the present study a detailed chromosome analysis was carried out in an attempt to clarify the status and relationships of these two taxa. The cytological study revealed that Vernonia cincta has 2n=60 chromosomes and a karyotype formula composed of 36m + 16sm + 8t, whereas V. scorpioides presents 2n=66 and a karyotype with 34m + 20sm + 12t. Besides, V. cincta showed two chromosome pairs bearing satellites on the short arms, one m pair with linear satellite and one t pair with macrosatellite; while V. scorpioides presented one m chromosome pair carrying a linear satellite in the long arm. In addition to the chromosome number, these species showed certain other karyotypic differences, mainly in theirformula, total chromosome length and asymmetry level. Chromosomal information here reported supports the specific status of both taxa. The presence of telocentric chromosomes in V. cincta and V. scorpioides would distinguish them from the remainder New World species of Vernonia which commonly have metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes. The karyotypic differences between V. cincta and V. scorpioides may be explained by the occurrence of structural rearrangements such as centric fusions ortraslocations. This hypothesis is well supported by the similar total karyotype length of both taxa and the higher mean chromosome length of V. cincta, which presents a lower number of telocentric chromosomes than V. scorpioides.
41941250|Anagallis filiformis Cham. & Schltdl., species not previously mentioned for Argentina is recorded, described and illustrated. A. arvensis L., largely widespread in Argentina, is reported for the first time from Corrientes and Misiones provinces. A key for the identification of the four species of Anagallis present in the country is also included. Anagallis filiformis Cham. & Schltdl., especie no mencionada previamente para la Argentina, es citada, descripta e ilustrada. Se seala por primera vez A. arvensis L., ampliamente extendida en la Argentina, para las provincias de Corrientes y Misiones. Se incluye una clave para la identificacin de las cuatro especies de Anagallis presentes en el pas.
41941265|A taxonomic revision of the Brazilian species of the genus Macroditassa Malme (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae) is presented. The genus belongs to the subfamily Asclepiadoideae R.Br. ex Burnett, tribe Asclepiadeae (R.Br.) Duby, subtribe Metastelmatinae Endl. ex Meisn. and is the most closely related to the Ditassa R.Br. genus. Macroditassa has 14 taxa of which 11 are found in Brazil, where they occurr in the Atlantic forest, disturbed areas, clearings and gullies, "cerrado", "cerrado", "campo rupestre", "campos" (high-altitude savannas) and sandy coast plains ("restingas"). In this paper the identification key of the taxa, descriptions and illustrations, data on flowering and fruiting, as well as maps showing the geographic distribution are presented. Uma abordagem taxonmica das espcies brasileiras do gnero Macroditassa Malme (Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae)  apresentada. O gnero pertence  subfamlia Asclepiadoideae R.Br. ex Burnett, tribo Asclepiadeae (R.Br.) Duby, subtribo Metastelmatinae Endl. Ex Meisn., sendo assim mais estreitamente afim a Ditassa R.Br. Macroditassa conta, atualmente, com 14 txons, dos quais 11 ocorrem no Brasil sendo encontrados em floresta atlntica, em reas perturbadas, clareiras, depresses, cerrado, cerrado, campos rupestres, campos de altitude e em restingas. Neste trabalho so fornecidas chaves para identificao, descries e ilustraes, dados sobre a florao e frutificao, assim como a distribuio geogrfica, utilizando-se mapas e ilustraes.
41941090|Se estudi el efecto que produce en el rinde y en el contenido de sacarosa elementos suministrados por riego y por aspersin. Se observ que el riego de las estacas con las soluciones, realizado en el momento de la plantacin, no dio resultados positivos en el aumento del contenido de sacarosa, mientras que la aplicacin dedos aspersiones, la primera realizada despus del macollaje, y la segunda aproximadamente un mes antes de la cosecha, utilizando soluciones de CuSO y ZnSO en concentraciones de 0,005 %, dio resultados promisorios. It was studied the effects that in renders and content of saccharose in sugarcane produces the application of various doses of some macro and minor elements supplied by irrigation and by aspersion. It was observed that the irrigation of the stakes with the solutions, when the operation is performed in the moment of the plantation, does not give positive results in the increase of the saccharose content; while the application of two aspersiones (the first one realized after shooting and the second, more or less a month before the harvest was done) in which solutions of CuSO and ZnSO in the concentration of 0.005 % are employed, give promisory results.
41941248|Pollen grains of Bordasia bicornis Krapov. were studied and described with light and scanning electron microscopy. They showed palynological affinity with species of genus Sida L., therefore they were compared with 39 species of Argentina, Brasil, Colombia. Mexico, South Africa, India, Thailand, Philippines, Texas and Florida U.S.A. Bibliographic and personal data were used. Affinities in the structure of the exine and height of the spines as well as differences in apertures number and pores without thicker ring were found. Fueron estudiados y descriptos los granos de polen de Bordasia bicornis Krapov. con microcopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido. stos presentaron afinidad polnica con especies del gnero Sida L., por lo que se compararon con 39 especies de Argentina, Brasil, Colombia, Mxico, Sud frica, India, Tailandia, Filipinas Texas y Florida, EE.UU. del citado gnero, usando informacin bibliogrfica y de la propia autora. Se hallaron afinidades en la estructura de la exina y altura de las espinas y diferencias como el nmero de aperturas y poros sin engrosamiento.
41941371|The hybrids of T. ulmifolia with other polyploid species show fragmented chromosomes from diplotene/diakinesis to telophase II. The number of fragments is variable, ranging from some few to more than 500, in some cases all the chromosomes are fractured. In most hybrids with fragments, were also observed bridges in anaphase I and anaphase II. The hybrids of T. ulmifolia with diploid species frequently have cells without chromosome fragments, but when present they are few, no more than 5. The DNA is usually fractured in the crossing-over, but the number of fragments is greater than the number of produced chismata. The fragments observed in T. ulmifolia hybrids would be produced by an error in the DNA reparation after the normal breaks at pachitene. This error could be produced by interaction of one genome or chromosome of T. ulmifolia with the remaining species. Los hbridos de T. ulmifolia con otras especies poliploides presentan cromosomas fragmentados desde diplotene/diacinesis hasta telofase II. El nmero de fragmentos es variable, desde unos pocos hasta ms de 500 fragmentos, en algunos casos todos los cromosomas estn fragmentados. En la mayora de los hbridos que presentan clulas con fragmentos, tambin se observaron puentes en anafase I y anafase II. Los hbridos de T. ulmifolia con las especies diploides frecuentemente tienen clulas sin fragmentos cromosmicos, cuando los poseen son unos pocos, como mximo 5. Normalmente ocurren rupturas y reparacin de ADN para que se produzcan los sobrecruzamientos; la cantidad de rupturas excede en miles al nmero de quiasmas que ocurren. Los fragmentos hallados en los hbridos de T. ulmifolia se deberan a fallas en la reparacin del ADN despus de las rupturas normales del mismo en paquitene. Estas fallas seran causadas por la interaccin de algn genoma o algn cromosoma de T. ulmifolia con los de las otras especies.
41941314|In a recent review of the genus Baccharis L. we recognized five new species: Baccharis crassipappa Deble & Oliveira-Deble, B. inexspectata Deble & Oliveira-Deble, B. multipaniculata Oliveira-Deble & Deble, B. nassauvioides Oliveira-Deble & Deble and B. suberectifolia Oliveira-Deble & Deble. All species are described and illustrated and delimitation with allied taxa is discussed. En una revisin reciente del gnero Baccharis L. para Brasil, fueron reconocidas cinco especies nuevas: Baccharis crassipappa Deble & Oliveira-Deble, B. inexspectata Deble & Oliveira-Deble, & B. multipaniculata Oliveira-Deble & Deble, B. nassauvioides Oliveira-Deble & Deble y B. suberectifolia Oliveira-Deble & Deble. Todas las especies son descriptas, ilustradas y diferenciadas de los taxones relacionados.
41941436|La especie africana Wissadula rostrata (Schumach. & Thonn.) PI. ex Hook, a veces se reconoce en rango especfico y a veces en rango de variedad adentro de W. amplissima (L.) R.E. Fr. o de W. hernandioides (L'Hr.) Garcke, ambas especies americanas. Aqu se seala que W. rostrata tiene ms afinidad con W. parviflora (A. St.-Hil.) R.E. Fr, de Sudamrica, y se concluye que merece reconocimiento en rango especfico. The African species Wissadula rostrata (Schumach. & Thonn.) PI. ex Hook, has sometimes been recognized in specific rank and sometimes in varietal rank within either W. amplissima (L.) R.E. Fr. or W. hernandioides (L'Hr.) Garcke, both from the Americas. It is here noted that W. rostrata has greater affinity with the South American W. parviflora (A. St.-Hil.) R.E. Fr., and it is concluded that it merits recognition in specific rank.
43574290|Byttneria caripensis Cristbal (section Crassipetala) from Edo. Bolvar, Venezuela is described as new. The anatomy of the leaf nectaries and the minor venation are also studied. The very peculiar size and shape of the glandular cavities of the multiaperturate nectaries are stressed. Two illustrations are provided.
41941443|Based on herbarium specimens collected in our country, Eriobotrya japnica (Thunb.) Lindi. (Rosaceae) is mentioned for the first time as naturalized plant in Argentina. Ecological observations and information about various local uses are included. The species is described and illustrated. Sobre la base de ejemplares de herbario recolectados en nuestro pas, se cita por primera vez a Eriobotrya japnica (Thunb.) Lindi. (Rosaceae) como especie naturalizada en la Argentina. Se incluyen observaciones ecolgicas y tambin se brinda informacin acerca de los diversos usos locales. La especie es descripta e ilustrada.
41941149|Microsporogenesis, megasporogenesis, embryo sac development, and fertility were studied in P. regnellii Mez and P. hydrophilum Henr. The chromosome number of P. regnellii (2n = 40) is reported for the first time. Bivalent chromosome pairing suggests allotetraploid origin for this species with RRSS genome formula. There is no homology between R and S genomes. Cytological data suggest that P. hydrophilum (2n = 40) has a H H H' H' genome formula with segmental homology between H and H' genomes. Observations on megasporogenesis and embryo sac development indicate that P. regnellii reproduces sexually and P. hydrophilum by means of facultative apomixis.
41941242|Taxonomy of the genus Monteiroa is updated. Two new species: M. Hatschbachii and M. Reitzii are described and illustrated, raising to 10 the number of taxa. All of them live in the mountains of southeast and southern Brazil, and only M. glomerata extends its area to Uruguay and Argentina. Se actualiza la taxonoma del gnero Monteiroa y se describen e ilustran las especies nuevas M. Hatschbachii Krapov. y M Reitzii Krapov. con las cuales se eleva a diez el nmero de especies. Las especies viven en el Sudeste y Sur de Brasil y una de ellas, M. glomerata (Hook. & Arn.) Krapov. se extiende hasta el Ro de La Plata en Uruguay y Argentina.
41941102|1. Se estudi la absorcin de N, P, K y Ca durante el periodo vegetativo del algodonero. 2. Las plantas crecieron en macetas cilindricas de 0,50 m de alto por 0,30 m de dimetro, con 30 kg de tierra. La humedad fue mantenida entre 60 y 70 % de capacidad de campo. Las macetas estaban en un cuarto de crecimiento y reciban una intensidad lumnica de aproximadamente 4.500 luxes y un fotoperodo de 12 horas. 3. Los anlisis de las plantas se hicieron en distintas fases fenolgicas, analizndose individualmente cada planta y las hojas secas, pimpollos, flores y frutos cados de la misma. 4. Los resultados obtenidos demuestran que en el subperodo comprendido entre germinacin y aparicin de los primeros pimpollos florales (68 das), la acumulacin de materia seca y de N, P, K y Ca fue muy pequea en relacin a la que se produce en los siguientes subperodos; pero hubo un incremento notable si se compara con el contenido de esos elementos y el peso seco que tena la semilla. En el subperodo comprendido entre aparicin de primeros pimpollos florales a comienzo de fructificacin (42 das), hubo un incremento, expresado en % del mximo hallado en todo el perodo vegetativo, de 31,60 para peso seco; de 48,10 para N; de 17,50 para P; de 18,60 para K y de 21,00 para Ca. En el tercer sub perodo, que abarc de comienzo d fructificacin a terminacin del perodo vegetativo (106 das), en plantas con 12-13 frutos maduros, los incrementos fue ron: 63,00 % para materia seca; 47,10 para N; 77,80 para P; 77,40 para K y 68,00 para Ca. 5. Se propone un plan de abonado del algodonero. 1. The absorption of N, P, K and Ca, was studied during the vegetative period of the cotton plant. 2. The plants grow in cylinder shaped pots 0.50 meters high by 0.30 meters in diameter holding 30 kilos of soil. Humidity was maintained between 60 and 70 % of field capacity. The plants were in growing-room and received a light intensity of approximately 4500 luxes and a photoperiod of twelve hours. 3. The plant analysis were made through different phenologic phases, each plant and dry leaves, buds, flowers and fruits fallen from it being analysed individually. 4. The results obtained show that in, the subperiod that runs between germination and the appearance of the first flower buds (68 days) the accumulation of dry matter and N, P, K and Ca was very small compared to that produced in the following subperiods; but there was a remarkable increase, in the contents of these elements if compared to the weight the dry seeds had. In the subperiod that runs between the appearance of the first flower buds ant the beginning of fructification (42 days) there was an increase, in percent, from the maximum found in all the vegetative period, of 31,60% for dry weight; 48,10% for N; 17,50% for P; 18,60% for K and 21% for Ca. In the third subperiod, which runs from the beginning of fructification until the end of the vegetative period (106 days), in plants with 12-13 ripe fruits, the increase was: 63% for dry matter; 47,10% for N; 77,80% for P; 77,40% for K and 68% for Ca. 5. It is advised a tentative plan of manuring the cotton plant.
41941204|Two new species of the subfamily Spiranthoideae, subtribu Spiranthinae, are recorded to Argentina, Brachystele hoehnei Pabst and Sarcoglottis hassleri (Cogn.) Schltr. Its description and illustration are given.
43574276|Chromosome numbers of three species of Zornia, three of Desmodium and one of Stylosanthes are reported for the first time. Confirmation of a previous count for Desmodium leiocarpum is included. La tribu Hedysareae (Leguminosae), est representada en el pas por los gneros Poiretia, Aeschynomene, Discolobium, Desmodium, Stylosanthes, Amicia, Nissolia, Zornia, Ornithopus, Chaetocalyx y Arachis. En esta oportunidad se dan a conocer por primera vez recuentos cromosmicos de tres especies de Zornia, tres de Desmodium y una de Styfosanthes. Adems se confirma el guarismo publicado para Desmodium leiocarpum. El material estudiado figura en el Cuadro I; los ejemplares testigos fueron identificados por el autor y se encuentran depositados en el herbario del IBONE (CTES). Para los recuentos se usaron clulas madres de polen y raicillas de semillas germinadas en laboratorio, fijndose ambas en 3:1 (alcohol absoluto-cido actico), mantenindose luego en alcohol 70, en refrigerador; las raicillas fueron pretratadas con 8-oxiquinolena. Para coloracin se us la tcnica de Feulgen, macerado posteriormente en una gota de orcena lactoactica modificada (Mroginski y Fernndez, 1979).
41941403|In this study 85 plant species involved in home medicine of a rural community are recorded. This community is stated in NW La Pampa (Argentina) in the transitional area between Pampa and Cuyo region. Etiological and therapeutical interpretations of the diseases are studied by means of open and semi-structured interviewees made with male and female adults. Social actors who perform the skill of healing as soon as the present state of the traditional botanical knowledge regarding to home medicine are described too. The greatest diversity of uses belongs to the most abundant species and they are related to respiratory, digestive, urinary and orthopedic diseases. Processes of erosion related to the Hippocratic model of the traditional medicine become evident in contrast to other rural communities of South America as well as in supernatural therapies where religious symbols and rituals take part. En este estudio se presentan 85 especies vegetales que intervienen en la medicina local de una comunidad rural del NW de La Pampa, Argentina, ubicada en el rea de transicin entre la regin pampeana y cuyana. A lo largo de entrevistas abiertas y semiestructuradas llevadas a cabo con adultos de ambos sexos, se analizan tambin las interpretaciones etiolgicas y teraputicas de las dolencias, y se describen a los actores sociales que desempean el arte de curar y el estado actual del conocimiento botnico tradicional en torno a la medicina local. La mayor diversidad de usos est en correspondencia con las especies ms abundantes y se relacionan con trastornos de origen respiratorio digestivo, urinario y traumatolgico. Se evidencian procesos de erosin en torno al modelo hipocrtico de la medicina tradicional en contraste con otras comunidades rurales de Sudamrica as como en las terapias de carcter sobrenatural donde intervienen smbolos y rituales religiosos.
41941131|On signale l'existence an Argentine de huit espces de Phanerogames, encore non catalogues. Il s'agit de Bromus inermis, Melinis minutiflora, Pennisetum purpureum, Melia azedarach, Anethum graveolens, Cos tus pilgeri, Desmodium arechavaletae e Ipomoea morongii. On mentione aussi la culture de Gymnopogon biflorus y Heteropterys angustifolia.
41941143|In this paper the author describes 4 genera of Parmeliaceae with 13 species, all from province of Corrientes. It includes keys for the identification of the taxa, differential characteres and distribution data. Most of the species are illustrated. En este trabajo el autor describe, para la provincia de Corrientes, 4 gneros de la familia Parmeliaceae, con un total de 13 especies. Incluye claves para la determinacin de los taxa, da caracteres diferenciales, datos de distribucin e ilustra la mayora de las especies tratadas.
41941233|Information about the use of the pseudosclerotia of Lentinus velutinus Fr. as wood for pipes among an aboriginal community of Misiones is presented. The pileus of this species is used as an indicator of the presence of the wood in the forest litter.
41941319|The remark perfectly wild made by Ekman for Gossypium Ekmanianum is confirmed and its country of origin is corrected. Se confirma la observacin de Ekman sobre la condicin de silvestre de Gossypium Ekmanianum y se corrige su pas de origen.
41941439|Four new species are described: P. cabraliana, P. cristaliana, P. graomogoliana and P. Occhionii and the new name, P. velvetiana, is proposed for P. viscosa var. velutina from Minas Gerais, Brazil. A key for the species of the section Malvaviscoides from Minas Gerais is also included. Se describen cuatro especies nuevas. Pavonia cabraliana, P. cristaliana, P. graomogoliana y P. Occhionii y se propone el nuevo nombre P. velvetiana para P. viscosa var. velutina, que habitan en las serranas de Minas Gerais, Brasil. Se incluye una clave para distinguir las especies de la seccin Malvaviscoides que viven en el estado de Minas gerais.
41941438|By mean specimens found in Misiones, Province, Phytolacca thyrsiflora Fenzl ex J. A. Schmidt (Phytolaccaceae) is mentioned for the first time for the Argentinean flora. This species has been mentioned as useful for a lot of purposes. The text is illustrated by photographies. Sobre la base de ejemplares hallados en la provincia de Misiones, se cita por primera vez para la flora argentina Phytolacca thyrsiflora Fenzl ex J. A. Schmidt (Phytolaccaceae), una especie para la que se han mencionado mltiples usos. Se ilustra el trabajo mediante fotografas.
41941098|Se enumeran 275 especies de vegetales con el nombre que les aplican los indios vuelas del este del Chaco y se describe el uso que ellos hacen de 129. La informacin includa ha sido recogida directamente entre dichos indios. L'auteur fai: l'unmeration de 275 espces de vgtaux avec le nom appliqu par les indiens vilelas qui habitaint dans l'est de la province du Chaco et dcrit l'utilization de 129. Toutte cette information a t recueillie directement parmi les indiens mentins.
41941192|The chromosomes of eleven Vernonia species from Argentina are studied. The results include counts in seven species that have never been investigated cytologically. The karyotype of six taxa are analized, five of them are described for the first time: V. chamaedrys n=17, 2n=34=22m + 12 sm; V. loretensis n=17, 2n=34=20m + 14 sm; V. rubricaulis n=16, 2n=32=20m + 12sm; V. remotiflora n=14, 2n=28=16m + 12sm and V. lepidifera n=10, 2n=20=8m + 12sm. The record of 2n=4x=28 for V. remotiflora supports the existence of the basic chromosome number x=7. Previously reported chromosome counts show that Vernonia is multibasic with x=7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 19. The significance of the results is discussed in relation to chromosomal data available for the genus.
41941110|Se determin el acumulo de materia seca, N, P, y Ca en diversas partes de plantas de mandioca, que crecieron en un suelo abonado mensualmente y en un suelo sin abonar, a lo largo de su perodo vegetativo. Los anlisis re realizaron sobre cinco plantas de cada variante, muestran qus el ritmo de acumulacin de materia seca y de los elementos analizados, es lenta durante los dos primaros meses, intenso en los dos meses siguientes para luego bajar en los dos ltimos. Las curvas determinadas son muy similares para cada variante, es decir que ritmo de acumulacin es independiente de la riqueza mineral del medio edfico, si bien la cantidad absoluta acumulada fue mayor en las plantas que crecieron en suelos abonados. N, P, K, Ca and dry weight monthly accumulation was studied along vegetative period of Manihot esculenta en plants growing in field conditions. Analysis were made in no fertilized plants and in plants who received monthly 50 kg|ha Ammo-Phos-Ko (131313). The results indicate that the greater soil fertility, through producing an increase in the absolute accumulation, did not vary substancially, the accumulation curve tendency.
41941202|Cryptocarya R.Br. (Lauraceae) is reported for the first time for Argentina. Its differences with the other Argentinian genera are given. A description and an illustration of C. aschersoniana Mez are included.
41941384|This paper includes nine adventitious species of Prunus (Rosaceae, Prunoideae) present in Argentina. A key is presented to differentiate them. For all the species, it is indicated scientific name, common names, description, geographical distribution, uses, material studied and observations about their status of naturalization. Se indica la presencia de nueve especies adventicias del gnero Prunus (Rosaceae, Prunoideae) para la Argentina. Se presenta una clave para diferenciarlas. Para todas las especies se indican: nombre cientfico, nombres vulgares, descripcin, distribucin geogrfica, usos, material estudiado y observaciones sobre su estatus de naturalizacin.
41941299|The 21 South American species of the section Malacroideae of the genus Sida (Malvaceae) are described, including 9 new species: Sida Bordasiana, S. castanocarpa, S. caulorrhiza, S. Cristobaliana, S. Dureana, S. Ferrucciana, S. Harleyi, S. Pedersenii and S. Simpsonii, and a new combination S. albiflora (Chodat & Hassl.) Krapov. Se describen las 21 especies sudamericanas de la seccin Malacroideae del gnero Sida (Malvaceae), incluyendo 9 especies nuevas: Sida Bordasiana, S. castanocarpa, S. caulorrhiza, S. Cristobaliana, S. Dureana, S. Ferrucciana, S. Harleyi, S. Pedersenii y S. Simpsonii y una nueva combinacin, S. albiflora (Chodat & Hassl.) Krapov.
41941249|Chromosome numbers are reported for 50 collections of Malvaceae from Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Chile, Mxico and Paraguay representing 17 genera and 40 species. First chromosome counts are reported for the following 28 species: Cienfuegosia concilista 2n=20, Hibiscus striatus 2n=52, H. adscensionis 2n=72, Phragmocarpidium Heringeri 2n=50, Malachra radiata 2n=56, Pavonia Friesii 2n=56, P. fruticosa 2n=56, P. subrotunda 2n=56, Monteiroa Reitzii 2n=20, Tarasa nototrichoides 2n=10, Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus 2n=24, Cristaria disssecta 2n=12, Gaya Bordasii 2n=12, Pseudabutilon cinereum 2n=16, Abutilon fluviatile 2n=16, A. laxum 2n=16, Wissadula Fadyenii 2n=14, Sida vespertina 2n=14, S. Glaziovii 2n=28, S. glomerata 2n=14, S. hirsutissima 2n=28, S. planicaulis 2n=28, S. Rodrigoi 2n=28, S. ulmifolia 2n=28, S. Hatschbachii 2n=42, S. Reitzii 2n=42, S. aggregate 2n=16, S. rufescens 2n=32. En este trabajo se presentan los nmeros cromosmicos de 50 accesiones de Malvaceae de Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Chile, Mxico y Paraguay, las mismas representan 17 gneros y 40 especies. Para las siguientes 28 especies se presenta el nmero cromosmico por primera vez: Cienfuegosia conciliata 2n=20, Hibiscus striatus 2n=52, H. adscensionis 2n=72, Phragmocarpidium Heringeri 2n=50, Malachra radiata 2n=56, Pavonia Friesii 2n=56, P. fruticosa 2n=56, P. subrotunda 2n=56, Monteiroa Reitzii 2n=20, Tarasa nototrichoides 2n=10, Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus 2n=24, Cristaria disssecta 2n=12, Gaya Bordasii 2n=12, Pseudabutilon cinereum 2n=16, Abutilon fluviatile 2n=16, A. laxum 2n=16, Wissadula Fadyenii 2n=14, Sida vespertina 2n=14, S. Glaziovii 2n= 28, S. glomerata 2n=14, S. hirsutissima 2n=28, S. planicaulis 2n=28, S. Rodrigoi, 2n=28, S. ulmifolia 2n=28, S. Hatschbachii 2n=42, S. Reitzii 2n=42, S. aggregate 2n=16, S. rufescens 2n=32.
41941195|This paper describes the anatomy of extrafloral nectaries of seventeen species of Turnera, belonging to Canaligerae and Leiocarpae series. Foliar nectaries are born on the petiole apex or at the base of leaf blades; they are discoid, cupular with a rim surrounding a cup. Although size and morphology are variable among species, the structure of the nectaries is basically the same. They are composed of a secretory epidermis, which consists of 1-4 layers of columnar cells. Underlying this tissue, there are usually 2-8 layers of glandular parenchyma. The body of the nectary is formed by ground parenchyma; druses of calcium oxalate and tannin idioblasts are abundant in this area. The vascular supply derives from the median petiole bundle. It is provided by 1 or 2 lateral bundles which branch repeatedly in the ground parenchyma of the nectary. In all the studied nectaries the vascular tissue ends as isolated strands of phloem among the secretory parenchyma cells. For the first time, tracheoids are described in nectaries; this elements were only known in the veinlets of Angiosperm's leaves. Most of the species of series Canaligerae, have a pore in the secretory epidermis, which is in fact a protuberance determined by the glandular parenchyma; the surface is flat or crateriform. A thick cuticle covers the epidermis, only in the center of the pore it is thin enough to allow the nectar extrusion. In no species was observed cuticle rupturing. In the Leiocarpae nectaries the pore is less developed or absent.
41945700|The occurrence of Doryopteris lomariacea Kunze ex Klotzsch (Pteridaceae) is confirmed for the first time from the province of Misiones, Argentina. The species is described and illustrated, the spores are analyzed and its ecological observations are also provided. La presencia de Doryopteris lomariacea Kunze ex Klotzsch (Pteridaceae) se confirma por primera vez para Argentina, restringida a la provincia de Misiones. La especie se describe e ilustra la misma, se analizan las esporas y se aportan observaciones ecolgicas.
41941392|Taking as a starting point the conception that universitary extension, in conjunction with research and teaching, is one of the basis of modern university, we develop practices that relate our researches on applied ethnobotany with teaching-learning process in Economic Botany, and the application of this knowledge to the resolution of everyday problems. We present the results of an experience, devoted to children and teenagers that are hospitalized, that links, through different games, plants of customary use with current wisdoms in different contexts. A partir de la concepcin de que la extensin universitaria constituye un pilar conceptual e ideolgico de la Universidad Reformista junto a la enseanza y la investigacin, se desarrollan prcticas que vinculan las investigaciones sobre etnobotnica aplicada con la tarea docente en Botnica Aplicada y su transferencia a la resolucin de problemas cotidianos. Se presentan los resultados de una experiencia destinada a nios y jvenes que estn sometidos a internacin hospitalaria que, a travs del juego, vincula vegetales de uso habitual con los saberes vigentes en distintos mbitos.
41941203|Byttneria fontis (sect. Crassipetala) from uflo de Chavez province, Santa Cruz, Bolivia and Ayenia latifolia (sect. Ayenia) from Gois and Bahia, Brasil, are described and illustrated. A comparison with the related species are given.
41941266|Eleven new species of Arachis L. (Leguminosae) are described, representing seven of the nine taxonomic sections of the genus. Eight of the new species were referred to, and classified, in the monograph of Krapovickas and Gregory, but are now treated with their own specific epithet; one species had been collected before 1994, but the material was in sufficient doubt to not be mentioned in the Monograph, and two species were collected after that monograph was submitted for publication. The description of these eleven species will help clarify the systematics of the genus Arachis, as well as aid in our understanding of the evolutionary path of certain important materials. Some of these may have played a role in developments which lead to the origin of the cultivated peanut. Se describen once especies nuevas de Arachis L. (Leguminosae), que representan siete de las nueve secciones taxonmicas del gnero. Ocho de las nuevas especies fueron citadas y clasificadas en la monografa de Krapovickas & Gregory, pero son ahora tratadas con su propio epteto especfico; una especie fue recolectada antes de 1994, pero el material dejaba suficientes dudas como para no incluirla en la monografa, y dos especies fueron recolectadas despus que la misma fuera sometida a publicacin. La descripcin de esas once especies ayudar a clarificar la sistemtica del gnero Arachis, as como a la comprensin de las lneas evolutivas de ciertos materiales importantes, algunos de los cuales podran haber tenido un rol en los eventos que llevaron al origen del man cultivado.
41941078|Se trataron semillas de algodonero de la variedad Stoneville 2B, con soluciones de distinta concentracin de (NH) Mo O, durante 24 horas, a dos temperaturas distintas. Tratadas las semillas se sembraron dos ensayos, cada uno con las 8 variantes y utilizando dos testigos (HO destilada para la variante 1; y HO corriente para la variante 2). Los dos ensayos ocuparon un terreno contiguo y similar, cuyo suelo es arcilloso, relativamente pobre en Ca, muy pobre en P, y de una reaccin acida (pH de 5,09 a 5,85). Para los dos ensayos se utiliz la misma disposicin experimental, con la diferencia de que el segundo ensayo se sembr con previo abonado de una mezcla comercial (Amino-Phos-Ko, 10-20-20); la siembra se efectu en el mismo da. Se alcanz a realizar tres cosechas. Los resultados obtenidos en el segundo ensayo (con abono) no fueron tan vlidos como en el primero (sin abono), porque no pudimos saber si el abono agregado contena como impurezas el Mo, presente en muchas fuentes del fsforo utilizados en la preparacin de abonos (ej.: fosforita). Del primer ensayo, en suelo no abonado, se extrajeron como conclusiones: 1) que en tipos de suelos como en el que se realizaron los ensayos, el suministro de dosis adecuadas de molibdeno incide satisfactoriamente sobre un aumento de los rindes del algodonero, tanto como de 300 Kg/ha; 2) que aunque no podemos decir exactamente cual es la dosis ptima para el tratamiento de la semilla antes de la siembra, parecera que se encuentra entre 0,05 % y 0,02 % de molibdato de amonio; 3) que la temperatura a la que se realice el tratamiento de la semila, parece tener importancia; y en los ensayos realizados fueron superiores los rindes con el tratamiento a 30C, que a 21C. The object of this work is to determinate the effect of microelement molybdenum in the yield of cotton plant treating the seeds under solutions of different concentration of (NH)MoO during 24 hours under different temperatures. Two tests were carried out upon a land closVand similar, which soil is clay, relatively poor in Ca, very poor in P and of an acid reaction (pH 5.09 to 5.85). From the tested experiences the following conclusions are obtained: 1. In types of soil, as the one used for the tests, the adequate doses given are exerted satisfactorily in the yield of cotton plant. 2. The experiences realized do not let us infer with accuracy the best dose for the treatment of the seeds before the sowing. 3. It seems to be important the temperature under which the treatment of seeds is realized.
41941226|The species Polymeridium bambusicola Aptroot & Ferraro (Trypetheliaceae) is decribed as new to science. It was collected on a woody grass (Poaceae, Bambusoideae) from the Macrosistema Ibera in Corrientes (Argentina). Although most species of the family Trypetheliaceae are lichens, this is a non-lichenized Ascomycete, as are several other species of Polymeridium. Se describe Polymeridium bambusicola Aptroot & Ferraro (Trypetheliaceae), Ascomycete no liquenizado. Fue coleccionado en el Macrosistema Iber en la provincia de Corrientes (Argentina), donde crece sobre caas de Bambusa (Poaceae, Bambusoideae). Si bien los representantes de Trypetheliaceae son en su mayora lquenes, en este caso se trata de una especie de hongo no liquenizado de Polymeridium, gnero que comprende tambin especies de Ascomycetes liquenizados.
41946098|Bolivia is regarded as the probable place of origin of the domesticated peanut, and an important world center of unique peanut diversity. As the first published study of its kind on peanut, this paper documents the infraspecific diversity of the crop in its country of origin and center of diversity. 62 distinct landraces of Bolivian peanut were identified and systematically described. 42 landraces belong to Arachis hypogaea L. ssp. hypogaea var. hypogaea; 17 to A. hypogaea ssp. fastigiata var. fastigiata; one to A. hypogaea ssp. fastigiata var. vulgaris; and two to A. hypogaea ssp. fastigiata var. peruviana. With very few exceptions, the landraces encountered in Bolivia are almost entirely endemic to that country. The most typical peanuts from Bolivia pertain to the landraces "Crema", "Colorado San Simn", "Bayo americano", "Overo", and "Overo carenado", which are widely cultivated throughout the country. A few regions of unusually high peanut diversity can be identified. In the Yungas region of La Paz, 11 landraces were collected, of which three are endemic. In the mountainous regions of Santa Cruz and Cochabamba, 18 landraces were collected, of which six are endemic. The Department of Tarija yielded 14 landraces, of which two are endemic. All of the aforementioned landraces pertain to the botanical variety hypogaea. In contrast, the subspecies fastigiata has a remarkable center or diversity in the watershed of the Rio Beni, where 10 landraces were collected in a fairly small area, nine of which are endemic to that region. This monograph is intended to enhance the knowledge and appreciation of peanut diversity, and facilitate the conservation and use of peanut landraces by scientistis, plant breeders, and farmers. Bolivia se destaca como probable lugar de origen del man cultivado y un centro de variacin nico en el mundo, lo que seala a Bolivia como un importante fuente de materiales para el mejoramiento de este cultivo de importancia mundial En este estudio para man se diferencian para Bolivia 62 razas de man cultivado de las cuales, 42 pertenecen a Arachis hypogaea L.subsp.hypogaea var. hypogaea, 17 a A. hypogaea susbp. fastigiata Waldron var. fastigiata, 1 a A. hypogaea susbp. fastigiata var. vulgaris y 2 a A. hypogaea subsp. fastigiata var. peruviana Krapov. & W. C. Gregory. Bolivia constituye un centro de variacin independiente pues sus razas son exclusivas de su territorio, salvo muy pocas excepciones. Bolivia como unidad, se caracteriza por las razas "Crema", "Colorado San Simn", "Bayo americano", "Overo" y "Overo carenado", que se cultivan en todo el pas. Se pueden delimitar algunas regiones de mayor diversidad: la regin de los Yungas de La Paz, donde se coleccionaron 11 razas de las cuales 3 son exclusivas y la regin montaosa de Santa Cruz y Cochabamba, con 18 razas de las cuales 6 son exclusivas. Estas dos regiones pertenecen a la cuenca del Amazonas. Una tercera regin se encuentra en el Departamento de Tanja, perteneciente a la cuenca del Plata, donde se coleccionaron 14 razas, de las cuales 2 son exclusivas. Todas estas razas pertenecen a la var. hypogaea. La subsp. fastigiata, presenta un centro de variacin muy notable en la cuenca del ro Beni, donde en un rea muy pequea se coleccionaron 10 razas, de las cuales 9 son exclusivas. Se destaca Bolivia como un centro de variacin nico en el mundo y la gran variabilidad del man seala a Bolivia como una importante fuente de posibilidades para el mejoramiento de este cultivo.
41941383|Six new species of Malvastrum are described: M. boyuibeanum, M. Cristobalianum, M. ionthacarpum, M. pucariensis, M. trifidum and M. uniapiculatum and a new combination is proposed: M. Fryxellii. Se describen las nuevas especies M. boyuibeanum, M. Cristobalianum, M. ionthacarpum, M. pucariensis, M. trifidum y M. uniapiculatum, y se propone la nueva combinacin M. Fryxellii.
41941336|In this work the presence of Stemodia pratensis (Aubl.) C.P.Cowan (Scrophulariaceae) in Bolivia, is confirmed. Description, illustrations and a key to separate it of the remaining species from Bolivia, are included. En este trabajo se confirma la presencia de Stemodia pratensis (Aubl.) C.P.Cowan (Scrophulariaceae) en Bolivia. Se incluyen la descripcin, ilustraciones y una clave para separarla de las restantes especies de Bolivia.
41941157|Chromosome numbers of thirteen species of Hedysareae (LeguminosaePapilionoideae) are reported for the first time, concerning the following genera: Aeschynomene, Chaetocalyx, Discolobium, Poiretia, Zornia, Desmodium and Omithopus. Confirmations of previous counts are included for one species of Aeschynomene, Stylosanthes and Desmodium.
41941287|Taxonomy and palynology of the genus Borreria G. Mey. section Pseudodiodia Hassl. are updated. Four species are added to the section, three of them are described and illustrated, raising to ten the number of taxa included in it. Two of them live in Galapagos (B. suberecta Hook. f. and B. dispersa Hook, f.) and the other (B. decipiens K. Schum. and B. tocantinsiana E. L. Cabrai & Bacigalupo) grow in Brazil. Pollen grains of these species were examined with light and scanning electron microscopy. The continental species present the typical pollen characteristics of Pseudodiodia (long colpi and tectatespinulate exine), whereas pollen produced by species living in Galapagos have variations in the exine. Se actualiza la taxonoma de la seccin Pseudodiodia Hassl. del gnero Borreria G. Mey., en la cual se incluan hasta ahora seis especies. En este trabajo se agregan cuatro especies a la seccin, elevando el nmero a un total de diez taxones: dos de las Islas Galpagos (B. suberecta Hook. f. y B. dispersa Hook, f.) y dos continentales, de Brasil (B. decipiens K. Schum. y B. tocantinsiana E. L. Cabrai & Bacigalupo). Se examinaron los granos de polen de esas especies mediante microscopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido. Las especies continentales presentan el polen caracterstico de Pseudodiodia (colpos largos y exina tectado-espinulosa), mientras que el polen producido por las especies insulares presenta variaciones en la exina.
43574279|A new species, Helicteres Vegae (Sterculiaceae), from Sinaloa, Mexico is described and illustrated. The chromosome number 2n= 18 was found. H. Vegae is compared to the rest of the Mexican species and a key is provided. Its affinity to the Asian and the other American species is discussed. H. Vegae together with H. Rekoi and H. carthagenensis are considered to be the most highly differentiated of the American species. A possible American area of origen for Helicteres is proposed; included in this area are found the remaining two New World genera of the tribe Helictereae.
41941178|Forty-one species belonging to eight of the nine sections, of the genus Arachis were analyzed cytologically. In twenty-four aut of the forty-one species the karyotypes were analyzed in detail. All the species have one pair of satellited chromosomes, except one accession of A. valida, which had two pairs. Satellited chromosomes were classified in ten types. Sections Procumbentes, Erectoides, Extranervosae, Caulorrhizae, Rhizomatosae, Heteranthae and Trierectoides have only one or two types of satellited chromosomes, while sect. Arachis has six types. One pair of small chromosomes was found in sect. Arachis except in A. Batizocoi, A. ipansis, A. glandulifera, A. magna and A. benensis. A. glandulifera (sect. Arachis) has the most asymmetrical karyotype, with six pairs of subtelocentric chromosomes, and A. guaranitica (sect. Trierectoides) has the most symmetrical karyotype. This support the hypotesis that sect. Trierectoides is the most ancient in the genus and that sect. Arachis is of a more recent origin. Taking into account their karyotypes, external morphology and geographical distribution, A. duranensis and A. ipansis are probably the genome donors of A. hypogaea.
41941095|Se enumeran 396 especies de vegetales con el nombre que les aplican los indios tobas del este del Chaco y se describe el uso que ellos hacen de 243. Toda la informacin anotada ha sido recogida directamente entre dichos indios. L'auteur fait l'numeration de 396 espces de vgtaux avec le nom apiiqu par les indiens tobas qui habitaint dans l'est de la province du Chaco et dcrit l'utilization de 243. Toutte cette information a t recueillie directement parmi les indiens toba.
41941377|Se estudi Elaphoglossum balansae sobre la base de rasgos morfolgicos del esporfito. Los caracteres seleccionados fueron: arquitectura foliar y venacin, indumento de lminas y ejes, modelo epidrmico de las lminas. Esta especie se caracteriza por presentar pequeos rizomas rastreros, estpites con filopodios inconspicuos, frondes con lminas dimorfas de textura herbcea, venas visibles terminadas en inconspicuos hidatodos, soros acrosticoides y esporas monoletes. Las frondes frtiles son de menor longitud que las estriles, con estpites ms largos y lminas ms angostas. El indumento es escaso sobre ejes y lminas, las escamas del rizoma y del estipite son basifijas, mientras que las escamas de la lmina son peltadas, persistentes en el epifilo y caducas en el hipofilo. The study of Elaphoglossum balansae was based on the morphological characters of the sporophyte. The characters selected for this study were: architecture of fronds and venation, indument of the laminae and axis, epidermal patterns of lamina. This specie has a short-creeping rhizome, stipites with phyllopodia poorly developed, dimorphic leaves with herbaceous laminae, venation ending in inconspicuous hydathodes, fertile lamina completely covered abaxially with sporangia (acrostichoid sori), and monolete spores. Fertile fronds are shorter than sterile fronds, but have narrower blades and proportionally longer stipes. The laminae and axis indument is scant; the rhizome and stipites scales are basifixed, while the lamina scales are peltate, persistent on the ephyphyll and caducous on the hypophyll.
41941156|Turnera subulata Sm. lives in America, fr. om Panam to Bolivia. It was introduced to Asia, where it is nowadays a common weed in India, Malasia and Indonesia. Plant and pollen morphology, and citology were studied in one diploid (2n=2x=20) accessions of Turnera subulata from Brasil. One triploid hybrid (2n=15) was obtained by espontaneous crossing of one tetraploid and the diploid strain. In the literature there are counts of four accessions from Brasil, one from India and one from Malasia, all tetraploids (2n=20). T. subulata is considered a different species of T. ulmifolia be: cause it presents a certain combination of morphological characters, constant in all three ploidy levels. Pollen sculpture is dimorphic, unlike other distylous taxa: short styled flowers have reticulate grains, with broad meshes and many free bacules within; long styled flowers have small reticulate grains, with little meshes without free bacules. Pollen fertility is 9699% in the diploid, 8689% in the tetraploids and 48% in the triploid. Meiotic chromosome behavior was regular in the diploid accession with 5 bivalents in every pollen mother cell (PMC). Meiosis was also studied in two tetraploid accessions, which showed a high level of quadrivalent chromosome associations. The maximum of five quadrivalents was observed in 15 and 35 percent of the PMC respectively. Three different chromosome configurations were observed in the triploid hybrid at metaphase I: 5 III in 29,5% of the PMC's, 4 III + 1 II + 11 in 45,9%, and 3 III+ 2 II + 2 I in 24,5%. These findings suggest that the 2n=20 cytotypes are autotetraploids. Turnera subulata 2n=10 and its autotetraploid drivtes 2n=20 constitute only one species because there is genetic continuity among them.
41941316|A regression analysis that allows to establish relationships between the size of the sporocarp and the size of the pseudoesclerotia of the mushroom Lentinus velutinus is presented. This relationship was suggested for informants of guarani communities of Misiones Province, Argentina, they use the pseudoesclerotia to make bowls of traditional pipes. Se presenta un anlisis de regresin que permite establecer relaciones entre el tamao del cuerpo fructfero y el tamao del pseudoesclerocio del hongo Lentinus velutinus. Dicha relacin fue sugerida por integrantes de aldeas guaranes de Misiones, Argentina, quienes emplean los pseudoesclerocios como materia prima para confeccionar cuencos de pipas tradicionales.
41941188|Calyptranthes tricona D. Legrand (Myrtaceae) is reported for the first time for Argentina. A description and an illustration are included. A key for the identification of Argentinian species of Calyptranthes is given. Some nomenclatural observations upon C. concinna DC. are discussed.
41941104|Yemas caulinares se pusieron a crecer in-vitro en medio de Torrey. Unas tenan como fuente hidrocarbonada sacarosa al 3%, otras glucosa al 3% y las restantes lactosa al 3%. Cuando estas yemas caulinares formaron raices, se procedi a repicar los pices radiculares in-vitro en medio de Torrey con sacarosa al 3% y se colocaron los matraces en las siguientes intensidades lumnicas: a) 50.000 luxes (luz natural) durante 12 horas diarias; b) 3.000 luxes (luz artificial) durante 12 horas diarias; c) 600 luxes (luz artificial) durante 12 horas diarias; d) Oscuridad durante las 24 horas del da y e) 600 luxes (luz artificial) durante las 24 horas del da. En cada variante se puso igual cantidad de pices radiculares que se haban formado en las distintas fuentes hidrocarbonadas. La temperatura de todas las variantes fue durante el da 31 C y de noche 21 C, con pequeas variaciones. Adems se analiz el contenido de HCN de los pices que se "sembraron". Se mantuvieron en ese medio durante 2 meses (con repiques cada 15 das). Los resultados demostraron que los pices que mas crecieron y que tuvieron mayor peso fresco, fueron los que recibieron la mayor intensidad lumnica. Los que menos crecieron y tuvieron menor peso fresco, fueron los que estuvieron en oscuridad. Adems, los resultados demostraron que la fuente hidrocarbonada en la que crecieron las yemas caulinares que dieron origen a las ratces, tjene influencia sobre el crecimiento posterior del pice radicular. Des pues de dos meses de crecimiento in-vitro, las races no haban aumentado su contenido en HCN y en la mayora de los casos ste disminuy. In vitro growing roots of Manihot esculenta was studies under different conditions of ilumination. Roots obtained from a cultivation of aper in vitro in a solid medium with three different carbohydrated sources (sucrose 3% glucose 3% and lactose 3%) were later cultivated in solid Torrey's medium with sucrose 3% under five different conditions of ilumination: a) 50.000 laxes (sunlight) 12 hours; b) 3.000 luxes (artificial light) 12 hours; c) 600 luxes (artificial light) 12 hours; d) darkness during 24 hours and e) 600 luxes (artificial light) during 24 hours. The temperature of all the five conditions was 31C during the day and 21C at night. After two months we found that the roots grew more under conditions a) and b) and the HCN concentration decresed in all of them. The different carbohydrated sources where apexes were growing had influence over the later growth of roots.
41941185|A new species of Bulbostylis, B. rugosa Lpez, from Corrientes, Argentina, and Paraguay, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to B. aphylla Barros and B. scabra (J. & C. Presl) C. B. Clarke are analyzed.
41941124|The autor describes the group Alma from the genus Paspalum ou the basis of a manuscript by Parodi and Nicora (1966). He carries out a morphologic and cytologic study of the two species that coustitute this group: P. almum Chase and P. hexastachyum. Parodi. P. almum presents twenty four somatic chromosomes and at Metafase I, it behaves as an autotetraploid species (formed up to 6 IV's). Here it is reported, for the first time, a chromosomic recount of P. hexastachyum (2n = 12). This is the lowest number, known for the genus Paspalum, confirming the presence of the basic number  = 6, different from the most frequent in the genus, which is  = 10.
41941298|The new species Sida Charpinii, S. Leitaofilhoi, S. pseudorubifolia, S. teresinensis and S. Tressensiae are described, the new name S. Honoriana is proposed and S. lonchitis is mentioned for the first time for Argentina and S. setosa for Paraguay. Se describen las especies nuevas Sida Charpinii, S. Leitaofilhoi, S. pseudorubifolia, S. teresinensis y S. Tressensiae, se propone el nuevo nombre S. Honoriana y se cita por primera vez a S. lonchitis para Argentina y S. setosa para Paraguay.
41941238|Helicteres is a genus of Sterculiaceae in which 60 species are accepted. It is divided into seven sections: four are monospecific and include Helicteres of the old world and Alicteres, Stegogamos and Polyandria of the new world (the last two described here for the first time); the other three sections are redefined, Orthothecium with 17 species, Sacarolha with 18 species, and Orthocarpaea with 21 extra-american species. A comparison of the infrageneric systems of six authors is given in Table I. In the present revision the 38 American species are taxonomically revised. The area of the genus, which includes the tropics except Africa, the areas of the sections, and the distributions of the American species are represented in 11 maps. The American monospecific sections Stegogamos and Polyandria live in the W of Mexico, and Alicteres is found on the atlantic coasts of Colombia and Venezuela. Within the total areas of the sections Orthothecium and Sacarolha, regions are delimited with high species concentration, which overlap in a great measure in central eastern Brazil. Within the section Orthothecium, which extends from the S of Mexico to the NW of Argentina and Paraguay, where only H. Lhotzkyana is found, a secondary insular area is circumscribed with four Caribbean species. A key is provided for the sections as well as keys and descriptions for the 38 accepted American species. Among them, nine are new to science: H. laciniosa, H. rufipila, H. Andersonii and H. biflexa belonging to section Orthothecium, and H. Pintonis, H. Krapovickasii, H. Cidii, H. Vallsii and H. denticulenta of section Sacarolha. With the aim of understanding the structure of Helicteres, a bibliographic revision of the species of the old world was carried out. In the Appendix of this work descriptions of both Asiatic sections are presented, and their type species are described. A provisional synopsis of the 21 species of section Orthocarpaea is presented, with the most common synonyms cited in the literature. It must be noted that the species of this section, especially those of Australia, are in great need of revision, and that the literature analysis and listing provided do not pretend to constitute such a revision. In the chapter on morphology, the types of inflorescences are interpreted and illustrated. In relation to the flower, the variability of each whorl is analyzed; in particular the symmetry and morphology of the corolla are taken into account to circumscribe sections and species. On the basis of the relative position of the different parts, two types of flowers are distinguished. In the first type, exclusive of the section Sacarolha, the pedicel, the androgynophore and the axis of the ovary are aligned, so that the flowers are straight and pseudactinomorphic. In the second type, the flowers show an angle between the pedicel and the androgynophore, or between the androgynophore and the axis of the ovary, or in both places, so that the flowers are geniculated and pseudozygomorphic. Changes in the morphology of the claw are emphasized in the two superior petals or the three inferior ones, and in clockwise or anti-clockwise contorted flowers. In the illustration of each species the petal claws are represented, keeping the sequence they have within the flower. This shows the degree of differentiation between the superior and inferior petals. The significance of length relationships between claw and petal blade, and between corolla and calyx, is highlighted. Attention is called also to the spirally twisted fruits, for which the genus is named, the equally frequent straight fruits, and the intermediate forms. According to the published chromosome counts, which are summarized, the genus seems to be uniformly 2n=18. The data about two Asian species with a different number should be checked. Nine pollen types are defined for the genus and the possible evolutionary lines are interpreted, as well as their relations with the sections (Pire & Cristbal, 2001). Infra-and inter-generic relationships are discussed, but questions about the origin and evolutionary history of the genus are unresolved. Concerning the differences between Helicteres and related genera, it is pointed out that the exclusive characters of Helicteres, such as the presence of nectaries on the peduncles, geniculate androgynophore, short petal claw (4-8 times shorter than the calyx), and spirally twisted fruits, are not common to all species of the genus. On the contrary, characters that are present in all the species, such as perfect flowers, connate sepals, anthers with divergent thecae, lignous syncarpous fruits made of five carpels, and apterous seeds, can be found in neighboring genera. For these reasons it is understood that a species belongs to Helicteres when one or more of the exclusive characters listed above are present with one or more of the general characters, even though they are present in other genera. All the American species are illustrated with the sole exception of H. cuneata, known only from a phototype, as well as the type species of the extra-american sections, making a total of 41 figures.
41941245|The Sida acuta complex is revised. S. Hatschbachii and S. Reitzii from SE Brasil are proposed as new species. S. Lechleri from Per is a new name for S. acuta var. hispida and the new combination S. cuspidata based on S. acuta var. cuspidata from Mexico and Central America. Se revisa el complejo Sida acuta. Se propone la nueva seccin Distichifolia (Monteiro) Krapov. del gnero Sida. Se reconocen 15 especies de las cuales S. Hatschbachii y S. Reitzii del SE de Brasil se describen como nuevas. S. Lechleri es un nuevo nombre para S. acuta var. hispida de Per y S. cuspidata es una nueva combinacin basada en S. acuta var. cuspidata de Mxico y Centro Amrica.
41941148|In this paper is described and illustrated Borreria Netidae Cabral, a new species from NE Corrientes and S Misiones. Borreria equisetoides Cham, et Schl, is mentioned for the first time for the argentine flora.
41941442|Oncidium hians Lindi, is described for the first time for the Argentinean flora. Some synonyms, ecological observations and the key to differentiate from related specie are included. Se describe a Oncidium hians Lindi, por primera vez para la flora argentina. Se incluyen algunas observaciones ecolgicas y una clave para diferenciarla de entidades afines.
41941166|Two new species of Asclepiadaceae from Argentina are described and illustrated: Oxypetalum fontellae Cceres and Marsdenia tressensii Cceres & Morillo.
41941255|Vernonia rubricaulis Humb. & Bonpl. and their related species have been considered alternatively like a single variable species and as different entities by different authors. In this study the four recognised species of the V. rubricaulis complex are described, including a new taxon from northeastern Argentina and Paraguay. Vernonia pusilla, the new species, is distinguished from the remaining entities of the complex by its low height, leaf shape and head size. El grupo de entidades afines a Vernonia rubricaulis Humb. & Bonpl. ha sido tratado alternativamente como una sola especie muy variable o como diferentes entidades por distintos autores. En el presente trabajo se describen las cuatro especies reconocidas para este complejo, incluyendo una nueva entidad del nordeste de Argentina y Paraguay. La nueva especie, V. pusilla, se diferencia de las restantes especies por su pequeo porte, el nivel de ploida, la forma de las hojas y el tamao de los captulos.
41941089|L'auteur fait l'analyse biomtrique de quelques caractres des feuilles du Schinus molle et du Schinus areira (Anacardiaceao). Il s'agit du nombre des folioles, de sa longueur et largeur, la longueur du ptiole et du raquis et sa relation, en dmontrant qu'ils appartient  des courbes de variation independantes, ce qui prouve qu'elles sont deux espces parfaitement differentes. A partir de De Candolle (1825) elles avait t consideres comme deux varits d'une mme espce, et parfois, confondues.
41941343|Wild edible mushrooms are a promising economic resource, since they are easily commercialized as a dehydrated product. In the present work, two species of mycorrhizal fungus associated to Pinus elliottii, cultivated in the NE of Argentina, are described and illustrated. Lactarius deliciosus is a new record from Misiones province whereas Suillus granulatus is a new record from provinces of Corrientes and Misiones. Los hongos silvestres comestibles son un recurso econmico importante que permite obtener un producto deshidratado que puede comercializarse fcilmente. En el presente trabajo, y con el objeto de dar a conocer este recurso, se ilustran y describen dos especies de hongos micorrcicos asociadas a cultivos de Pinus elliottii en el nordeste argentino que no han sido mencionadas anteriormente para la regin: Lactarius deliciosus para la provincia de Misiones y Suillus granulatus para las provincias de Corrientes y Misiones.
41941217|Exomorphological and anatomical studies of leaflets and leaf domatia in three species of Rutaceae were made. Domatia of revolute margin type (Metcalfe & Chalk, 1979) were observed in Fagara pterota and F. hyemalis. They are revolute expansions at the base of the leaflet blade. The mites found belong to the genus Tetranychus (Tetranychidae). Domatia named crypts (Metcalfe & Chalk, 1979) are present in Balfourodendron riedelianum. They are found at the junctions of primary and secondary veins, on the underside of leaflets, although there are some in the tertiary vein axils. Morphological and anatomical characters of leaflets and domatia are described and illustrated.
41941370|Fueron estudiadas 31 especies de Bromeliaceae: 14 de la subfamilia Bromelioideae, 15 de Tillandsioideae y dos de Pitcaimioideae, con el fin de determinar las caractersticas anatmicas de sus hojas y la estructura y desarrollo de las escamas peltadas que las cubren. Las escamas peltadas estn formadas por escudo y alas en las Tillandsioideae, y slo por clulas lenticulares, sin escudo, en las restantes subfamilias. En transcorte las lminas presentan epidermis unistrata con cristales de slice, hipodermis parenquimtica o mecnica y parnquima acufero. El clornquima se ubica en la zona media, alternando con cmaras o columnas, ocupadas por clulas aerenquimticas irregulares a estrelladas. Los haces vasculares presentan casquetes o vainas fibrosas, en algunos casos con largas prolongaciones. De acuerdo a la disposicin de estos tejidos se describen tres tipos de mesfilo: dorsiventral, homogneo e isolateral. Este estudio demostr que la anatoma foliar es una herramienta de importancia en la identificacin de las especies que crecen en la regin. Las hojas de Bromeliaceae presentan caracteres diferenciales que solos o en combinacin permiten la identificacin de especies o grupos de especies. Leaf anatomy, structure and ontogeny of peltate scales from 31 species of Bromeliaceae have been investigated: 14 species belonging to the subfamily Bromelioideae, 15 to Tillandsioideae and two to Pitcaimioideae. Peltate scales have a shield and wings in Tillandsioideae, in the remaining subfamilies they lack this organization, the scales are formed only by lenticular cells. Transversal view reveals one layer of epidermis with silica bodies inside their cells, parenchymatic and mechanical hypodermis, aquiferous parenchyma, chlorenchyma limited to the median region and alternating with air canals. These canals can be spherical or column shaped, they are filled with irregular or stellate cells. The leaves have collateral vascular bundles with sclerified bundle sheath, with caps or extensions in some species. According to the structure and distribution of all these tissues, three types of mesophyll could be recognized: dorsiventral, homogeneous and isolateral. This study proves that the leaf anatomy is an important tool to identify the species that grow in the region. The species can therefore be limited on the basis of the restricted or combined occurrence of some features.
41941337|Spirabutilon citrinum Krapov. new genus and species is described from Espirito Santo, Brazil. It is related to Abutiln from which it differs by the spiralized anthers, character unique in the family. Se describe Spirabutilon citrinum Krapov., nuevo gnero y especie del estado de Espirito Santo, Brasil. Este es afn al gnero Abutilon, del que se diferencia por sus anteras espiraladas, carcter nico en la familia.
41941168|Pavonia schininii Krapov. & Cristb. from Alto Paran, Paraguay, Pavonia pabstii Krapov. & Cristb. from Santa Catarina, Brasil and Pavonia yatarendana Krapov. & Cristb. from Santa Cruz, Bolivia are described as new. Two new combinations Peltaea surumuensis (Ulbr.) Krapov. & Cristb. and Pavonia rupestris (Hassler) Krapov. & Cristb. are established. A new synonym of Pavonia engleriana Guerke is proposed.
41941366|A new record for argentinian flora, Aristolochia stomachoides Hoehne (Arstolochiaceae) from Misiones province is described and illustrated. Ecological information is given. Its distribution along Paran River suggests the action of the water as agent of dispersion. Se describe e ilustra un nuevo registro para la flora argentina, Aristolochia stomachoides Hoehne (Arstolochiaceae). Se brindan observaciones ecolgicas sobre la especie. La distribucin de la misma a lo largo del ro Paran, sugiere la accin del agua como agente responsable de su dispersin.
41941158|A highly sexual white stigma Bahiagrass: Paspalum notatum clone SWSB (2n=4x=40) was crossed with P. modestum (2n=2x=20) in order to investigate the cytogenetic relations between these species. Five seedlings were recovered from 196 P. notatum SWSB spikelets that were emasculated and pollinated with P. modestum pollen. hrom osome counts in root tips revealed that all were hybrids with 2n=3x=30 chromosomes associated during diakinesis and metaphase I, mainly as 10 univalents and 10 bivalents, with a mean of 10 univalents, 9,73 bivalents, 0,09 trivalents, and 0,07 quadrivalents per cell. Because the highly sexual SWSB Bahiagrass clone as well as the apomictic Common Bahiagrass types are autotetraploids (2n=4x=40, NNNN) it is suggested that P. notatum brought into the hybrids two pairs of homologous genomes NN, whereas P. modestum contributed with a different genome, which is tentatively named P, since this species has been included in the Plicatula group of Paspalum, according to its morphological characteristics. Thus, the meiotic chromosome associations in the hybrids would indicated that P. notatum and P. modestum have different genomes, remainig unknown the genomic relations of P. modestum. Only four hybrids produced inflorescences. Anthesis occurred only in few spikelets, but anthers did not dehisce. None of the hybrids produced seeds.
41941373|The archaic man had a deep knowlegement of the food resources provided by the nature due to his itinerant character. With your collector bar used also for sowing or planting began to create a new agro-ecosystem that independent it from the environment. The extension of its crops was very small, often of 2  2 to 4  4 square metres, appropriate to the size of the human bands, inducing genetic drift action. The movement of these bands, along with their crops, allows an indefinite game between isolation and migration, which make possible the action of inbreeding and recombination of genes by exogamy, providing new variability on which can operate the selection. El hombre del Arcaico tena, a raz de su carcter itinerante, un conociento profundo de los recursos alimenticios que le provea la naturaleza. Con su palo recolector transformado en palo de sembrar o de plantar comienza a crear un nuevo agroecosistema que lo independiza del ambiente. La extensin de sus cultivos era muy pequea, con frecuencia de unos 2  2 a 4  4 m, adecuada al tamao de las bandas, induciendo la accin de la deriva gentica. El movimiento de estas bandas, junto con sus cultivos, permite un juego indefinido entre aislamiento y migracin, que posibilita la accin de la endogamia y la recombinacin de genes por exogamia, proveyendo nueva variabilidad sobre la cual se puede aplicar la seleccin.
41941127|Se estudi morfolgicamente el polen de las 11 especies de palmeras argentinas, con los microscopios ptico y electrnico de barrido. Todos los granos son tectados punctitegillados, la escultura vara segn el nmero de fsulas y el grado de anastomosis entre las mismas. Hay polimorfismo palinolgico. Se estudi tambin el polen de un posible hbrido entre Syagrus Yatay y S. Romanzo) fian a. Pollen morphology of the 11 species of argentine palms was studied with light and scanning microscopes. All grains are tectate punctitegillate, the sculpture varies according to the number of fossules and the degree of anastomosis among them. Palynological polymorphism was observed. Pollen of a possible hybrid between Syngrus Yatay and S. Romanzoffiana was also studied.
41941116|Se presentan por primera vez los nmeros cromosmicos de las siguientes especies: Palaua rhombifolia Graham (2n = 10), Sida angustissima St. Hil. (2n = 14), S. hassleri Hochr. (2n= 14), S. lindheimeri A. Gr. (2n = 28), S. glutinosa Cav. (2n = 16), S. dictyocarpa Gris. (2n = 16), S. jussieana DC (2n = 16), S. micrantha St. Hil. (2n = 32), Bastardia bivalvis H. B. K. (2n = 28) y Malvastrum bicuspidatum (Wats.) Rose (2n = 24). Adems se dan nuevos recuentos para Sida rhombifolia L. (2n = 14), S. urens L. (2n = 32) y Malvastrum scoparium (L'Her.) A. Gray (2n = 24). Se describe el nuevo gnero Phragmocarpidium, con una especie, P. heringeri Krap., de Brasilia, perteneciente a la tribu Ureneae. Se aclaran las especies de Sidalcea descriptas por Turczaninoff para Chile y Per, eliminndose este gnero de la flora sudamericana. Por ltimo se establecen las siguientes novedades taxonmicas: Sida cerradoensis Krap., nov. nom., Modiolastrum pinnatipartitum (St. Hil. et Naud.) Krap., Corynabutilon salicifolium (Reiche) Krap. y Wissadula sessei (Lag.) Krap. Report on the chromosome numbers of the following species of Malvaceae, tribe Malveae: Palaua rhombifolia Graham (2n = 10), Sida rhombifolia L. (2n = 14), S. angustissima St. Hil. (2n = 14), S. hassleri Hochr. (2n = 14), S. lindheimeri A. Gray (2n = 28), S. glutinosa Cav. (2n = 16), S. dictyocarpa Gris. (2n= 16), S. jussieana DC (2n = 16), S, urens L. (2n = 32), S. micrantha St. Hil. (2n = 32), Bastardia bivalvis H. B. K. (2n = 28), Malvastrum bicuspidatum (Wats.) Rose (2n = 24) and M. scoparium (L'Her.) A. Gray (2n = 24). The new genus Phragmocarpidium is described, with one species, P. heringeri Krap., from Brasilia. A study of the South American species of Sidalcea described by Turczaninoff is included. A new name, Sida cerradoensis Krap. and the new combinations Modiolastrum pinnatipartitum (St. Hil. et Naud.) Krap., Corynabutilon salicifolium (Reiche) Krap. and Wissadula sessei (Lag.) Krap. are established.
41941444|The new species Acaulimalva pazensis, Pavonia pilifera, Sida and S. yungasensis are described. The new name Pavonia Arechavaletana is proposed for P. urticifolia Arechav. and Sida planicaulis is mentioned for the first time for Argentina. Se describen las especies nuevas Acaulimalva pazensis, Pavonia pilifera, Sida Beckii y S. yungasensis, se propone el nuevo nombre Pavonia Arechavaletana para P. urticifolia Arechav. y se cita por primera vez a Sida planicaulis para Argentina.
41941339|The macro and micromorphological characterization of Hybanthus leucopogon Sparre were realized, in order to improve the taxonomic knowledge related to the Flora of Argentina, which has been in Hybanthus still poorly studied. The micromorphological patterns of the seed coat and the foliar margin of this species were analyzed, and these observations have revealed the presence of a pattern of specific micro-ornamentation on the seed coat and the foliar surface, which would be used in the infragenerical identification of Hybanthus. Se realiz la caracterizacin macro y micromorfolgica de Hybanthus leucopogon Sparre, aspecto an muy poco estudiado en Hybanthus. Se analizaron los patrones micromorfolgicos de la superficie seminal y del margen foliar de esta especie; estas observaciones han revelado la presencia de un patrn especfico de micro-ornamentacin en la cubierta seminal y la superficie foliar que podran ser utilizados en la identificacin infragenrica de Hybanthus.
41941159|In this paper two new species of Serjania Mill. are described and illustrated, S. hatschbachii nov. sp. (Brasil) and S. tripleuria nov. sp. (Bolivia and NW Argentino). In addition three species, S. areolata Radlk., S. confertiflora Raldk., and S. sufferruginea Radlk., are reported for the first time for the Argentine flora.
41941322|Butia eriospatha (Drude) Becc. is cited for the first time for the flora of Argentina. This species can be distinguished from other species of the genus by its glaucous leaves and the densely tomentose spathe. Butia eriospatha (Drude) Becc. es citada por primera vez para la flora de Argentina. Esta especie se diferencia de otras especies del gnero por las hojas glaucas y la espata densamente tomentosa.
41941117|Se analiza la situacin de 8 especies de posicion dudosa y que fileran ubicadas anteriormente en diversos gneros: Sida, Abutilon, Bastardia, Abutilothamnus y Tetrasida. Por sus carpelos uniovulados habria que ubicarlas en Sida, pero por la estructura de sus carpelos son en realidad ms afines a Abutilon. Estas especies se agrupan en la nueva seccin Tetrasida (Ulbr.) Krap. y se establecen las siguientes novedades: Abutilon chachapoyense (Bak. f.) Krap. nov. comb., A. claussenii Krap. nov. nom., A. grewiifolium (Ulbr.) Krap., nov. comb., A. myrianthum (Pl. et Lind.) Krap., nov. comb., A. tulla (Ulbr.) Krap., nov. comb, y A. virginianum Krap., nov. nom.
41941269|In Argentina are recognized two species of Staelia: S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl. (Corrientes and Entre Ros) and S. virgata (Roem. & Schult.) Schum. (Jujuy). One new species Staelia juarezii E. L. Cabral & Salas (W Formosa) and one new variety Staelia virgata var. correntina E. L. Cabral & Salas (W and central Corrientes) are described and illustrated. The distributions of the former two species is widened. En Argentina se conocen dos especies de Staelia: S. thymoides Cham. & Schltdl. (Corrientes y Entre Ros) y S. virgata (Roem. & Schult.) Schum. (Jujuy) a las que se agrega una nueva especie S. juarezii E. L. Cabral & Salas (oeste de Formosa) y una nueva variedad S. virgata var. correntina E. L. Cabral & Salas (oeste y centro de Corrientes). Se ampla la distribucin de las dos primeras especies.
43574289|Scyphonychium multiflorum (Mart.) Radlk. a monoecious tree of a restricted area in northeast Brazil (Bahia and Par), was known only with staminate flowers. A detailed morphological analysis of its pistillate flowers and schizocarpic fruits (21 coccus, indehiscent and woody) provides evidence in favour of its removal from Cupanieae Reichenb. The pollen morphology is here studied, the pollen grains are 3zonocolporate, oblate, small, exine tectateperforate. According to recent arrangement of the family it belongs to subfam. Sapindoideae, tribu Sapindeae DC, being Deinbollia Schumacher the most related genus.
41941126|En este trabajo se estudia la morfologa del polen de 93 especies, pertenecientes a 19 gneros, en su mayora americanos, de la tribu Hedysareae (Leguminosae) y de 3 especies de Adesmia (Adesmieae). En base a este estudio se establecen relaciones palinolgicas entre los distintos gneros. En este sentido los caracteres de mayor valor taxonmico son: tipo de abertura y de ornamentacin. De acuerdo a ellos se agrupan los gneros en 3 grupos bien definidos:  granos colpados y semitectados: Stylosanthes, Arachis, Zornia, Pachecoa y Chapmannia;  granos colporados y semitectados: Aeschynomene, Chaetocalyx, Lespedeza y Poiretia;  granos colporados y tectados: Nissolia, Bergeronia, Desmodium, Coronilla y Ornithopus. En este ltimo grupo, la ornamentacin del tectum es caracterstica de cada gnero, lo que permite identificarlos. Adems, en base a los datos aportados por el polen, se evala la posicin taxonmica de los gneros Zornia, Lespedeza y Discolobium. This paper deals with the of study the pollen morphology of 93 species belonging to 19 genera, almost all of them american, from the Hedysareae tribe (Leguminosae), and of 3 species from the Adesmia (Adesmieae). On the basis of this study, palynologycal relations among the different genera are established. In this respect the characters of the greatest taxonomic value are: aperture types and ornamentation types. According to these, the genera are classified into 3 well definid groups:  pollen grains colpate and semitectate: Stylosanthes, Arachis, Zornia, Pachecoa and Chapmannia;  pollen grains colporate and semitectate: Aeschynomene, Chaetocalyx, Lespedeza and Poiretia;  pollen grains colporate and tectate: Nissolia, Bergeronia, Desmodium, Coronilla and Ornithopus. In this last group the tectum ornamentation is characteristic of each genus and that helps to identify them. Furthermore, on the basis of the data provided by the pollen, the taxonomic position of the genera Zornia, Lespedeza and Discolobium is evaluated.
41941405|"Coro" is a wild tobacco of the Southern end of South America whose roots are used as a fumatory and masticatory from ancient times by indigenous groups. Notwithstanding there are some news about their employment since Colonial period, currently there is no consensus about its botanical identity. Its procedure of gathering, processing and consumption have also been sparsely described. Ethnobotanical fieldwork were carried out to the Southwest of the Chaco province, where plant specimens were collected with indigenous people. Available historical sources about "coro" was also analyzed. It was found in situ that Mocovi people currently smoke its roots mixed with tobacco in ceremonial contexts and extra-ceremonial. As a result of these analysis it was inferred that it was also used in the same way by Vilela, Qom (Tobas), Wichi, and Abipon indigenous people. The correspondence of the "coro" with Trichocline species is discarded because the absence of ethnobotanical records. It is confirmed that this fumatory corresponds to Nicotiana paa Mart. Crov., and new data about its gathering, processing and consumption is reported and discussed. El "coro" es un tabaco silvestre de Argentina y Chile cuyas races son empleadas como fumatorio y mascatorio desde tiempos inmemoriales por grupos indgenas. Si bien existen noticias sobre su empleo desde la poca colonial, en la actualidad no hay consenso sobre su identidad botnica a la par que sus modalidades de obtencin, procesado y consumo han sido escasamente descriptas. Se efectuaron campaas etnobotnicas al sudoeste de la provincia del Chaco donde se colectaron ejemplares que responden a dicho nombre vernculo en compaa de indgenas y se analizaron fuentes bibliogrficas histricas disponibles. Se comprob in situ que los mocoves actualmente fuman sus races mezcladas con tabaco tanto en contextos ceremoniales como extra-ceremoniales. Como resultado del anlisis bibliogrfico se infiere que tambin lo emplearon en el pasado de manera homologa indgenas vuelas, qom (tobas); wichi y abipones. Se descarta la correspondencia del "coro" con especies de Trichocline por la inexistencia de registros etnobotnicos al respecto. Se confirma que este fumatorio corresponde a Nicotiana paa Mart. Crov. y se presentan y discuten nuevos datos sobre su obtencin, procesamiento y consumo.
43574288|A new species Tricharia cuneata Ferraro & Vezda, is described and illustrated, this foliicolous lichen was found in Formosa province (NE of Argentine) on Ocotea sp., Lauraceae, leaf.
41941241|In this taxonomic treatment of the genus 15 species are recognized in the area, which includes Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay and the states of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso de Sul, So Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. Two subgenera are present, Cienfuegosia with 14 species and Novoarticulata with only one species. C. conciliata from West Paraguay. All the sections of the sugenus Cienfuegosia, except the section Spathulata from Ecuador, are present in Paraguay: section Cienfuegosia with C. subternata, section Robusta, with C. affinis and C. lanceolata, section Paraguayana, with C. Drummondii, C. sulfurea, C. integrifolia and C. subprostrata, and the section Friesia, with C. argentina, C. hispida, C. Hasslerana and C. ulmifolia, plus C. Saraviae and C. Schulzii from northern Argentina, and C. angustifolia from Bolivia. The subgenus Novoarticulata, the species C. conciliata, C. angustifolia, C. Saraviae and C. Schulzii, are described as new, and the new combination C. lanceolata is proposed. En el rea en estudio, que abarca Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay y los estados de Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, So Paulo y Rio Grande do Sul de Brasil, viven 15 especies de Cienfuegosia. Dos subgneros estn presentes, Cienfuegosia con 14 especies y Novoarticulata con slo una especie, C. conciliata, del oeste de Paraguay. Todas las secciones del subgnero Cienfuegosia, excepto Spathulata de Ecuador, estn representadas en Paraguay: la seccin Cienfuegosia con C. subternata, la seccin Robusta con C. affinis y C.lanceolata, la seccin Paraguayana con C. Drummondii, C. sulfurea, C integrifolia y C. subprostrata, y la seccin Friesia con C. argentina, C. hispida, C. Hasslerana y C. ulmifolia, a las que hay que agregar las nuevas especies C. Saraviae y C. Schulzii del norte de Argentina y C. angustifolia de Bolivia. El subgnero Novoarticulata y las especies C. conciliata, C. angustifolia, C. Saraviae y C. Schulzii se describen como nuevos y se establece una nueva combinacin, C. lanceolata.
41941382|This paper includes the first record of Carya illinoinensis (Wangenh.) K. Koch for Argentina, and considerations about its status in the context of the naturalization process. Also includes observations about exotic species of Juglans in this country. Este trabajo incluye el primer registro de Carya illinoinensis (Wangenh.) K. Koch como especie adventicia para la Argentina, y comentarios sobre su estado actual dentro del proceso de naturalizacin. Tambin contiene observaciones sobre especies exticas del gnero Juglans en nuestro pas.
41941194|The karyotypes of 6 species of Turners are described. The karyotype of T. melochioides (Leiocarpae), 2n=2x=14, is composed by 10m + 4sm. In T. grandiflora, T. candida, T. scabra, T. hermannioides and T. Joelii (Canaligerae), all with 2n=2x=10, the karyotype formula is 8m+2sm. These species may be distinguished by the mean chromosome length, the size and position of satellites and the asymmetry indices. T. scabra with autopolyploid cytotype shows shorter chromosomes and more symmetric karyotypes. Previous reports for 6 taxa are confirmed.
41941397|Be mean an ethnobotanical study carried out in the last decade in guarani communities of the Misiones Province, Argentina; information about plants related to the context of game activities carried out in the communities visited, is give here. This information is complementary to a study published by Martinez Crovetto forty years ago. Sobre la base de un estudio etnobotnico Ilevado a cabo en la ltima dcada en comunidades guaranes de la provincia de Misiones, Argentina, se presenta informacin sobre plantas vinculadas al contexto de las actividades ldicas que se Ilevan a cabo en las comunidades visitadas. Esta informacin es complementaria a un estudio publicado hace ms de cuarenta aos por Martnez Crovetto.
41941209|The presence of Lobelia aquatica Cham, is registered for the first time in Argentina. L. hassleri Zahlbr. and L. nummularioides Cham. var. prostrata (Zahlbr.) E. Wimm., two species previously found only in the Misiones province, are registered for Corrientes. The presence of L. nana H.B.K. var. nana in Argentina is also confirmed. Descriptions and illustrations for L. aquatica and L. nummularioides var. prostrata are provided. A key for the identification of the six species present in the country is also included.
41941133|The author gives the description of the new species Nicotiana paa, coming from the Austro Chaco region, wich roots are used as tobacco by Mocovi Indians.
41941213|Mitotic chromosomes of fifteen species of Serjania Mill., with 2n = 24, from South America are studied. The results include the first counts for S. paludosa Cambess. and S. setigera Radlk. The karyotypes of all the species are analized, thirteen of them are described for the first time. Although there has been no change in chromosome number during the evolution of Serjania and the karyotypes show a moderated degree of asymmetry, there is considerable variability in chromosome size among the species. The comparative analysis of species of the same section shows differences in chromosome length and karyotype constitution. This was also evident in two accessions of S. laruotteana Cambess. and S. meridionalis Cambess. The karyotype variability observed in Serjania would be the result of structural chromosomic rearrangements and/or the addition of genetic material.
41941152|Three new taxa: Chaetocalyx chacoensis nov. sp., Zornia Burkartii nov. sp. and Z. cryptantha Arech. var. latibracteata nov. var., are described. In addition Zornia reticulata Sm. is reported for the first time in the Argentine flora.
41941099|El autor estudia el efecto del pastoreo en la estructura del tapiz herbceo del Andropogoneto-Axonopetum y del Aristideto-Paspaletum, las dos asociaciones campestres de mayor importancia en los alrededores de Posadas (Misiones), mediante el empleo de reas de 0,25 m para establecer los valores de frecuencia y mediante la curva rea : especies. Concluye que el pastoreo, a medida que su presin aumenta, eleva la heterogeneidad de la vegetacin para homogeneizarla nuevamente, luego de haber provocado un cambio notable en su constitucin florstica. The author studies the effect of grazing on the structure of the Andropogoneto-Axonopetum and the Aristideto-Paspaletum, the two more important herbaceos plant associations around Posadas (Misiones). He concludes that grazing, as its pressure iucreases, raises the heterogeneity of the vegetation and then it is newly homogeneized after causing a notable change in the floristic composition.
41945697|Chromosome numbers were determined in 22 accessions of 16 Lupinus L. species from the Andean region. All had 2n=48 chromosomes, except L. bandelierae C. P. Smith (2n=36). These are the first chromosome countings for L. arvensis Benth., L. chilensis C. P. Smith, L. chlorolepsis C. P. Smith, L. chrysanthus Ulbr., L. lindleyanus Agardh, L. mantaroensis C. P. Smith, L. piurensis C. P. Smith, L. proculaustrinus C. P. Smith, L. prostratus Agardh, L. pulvinaris Ulbr., L. pycnostachys C. P. Smith, L. smithianus Kunth and L. tominensis Wedd. The present study also confirmed literature data on chromosome numbers of L. mutabilis Sweet, L. semperflorens Benth. (2n=48) and L. bandelierae (2n=36). The results clearly confirm that, cytologically, the vast majority of Andean species are closer to the North American than to the eastern South American taxa. Se determin el nmero cromosmico en 22 poblaciones de 16 especies del gnero Lupinus L. de la regin Andina. Todos presentaron 2n=48 cromosomas con excepcin de L. bandelierae C. P. Smith (2n=36). Estos son los primeros recuentos cromosmicos para L. arvensis Benth., L. chilensis C. P. Smith, L. chlorolepsis C. P. Smith, L. chrysanthus Ulbr., L. lindleyanus Agardh, L. mantaroensis C. P. Smith, L. piurensis C. P. Smith, L. proculaustrinus C. P. Smith, L. prostratus Agardh, L. pulvinaris Ulbr., L. pycnostachys C. P. Smith, L. smithianus Kunth y L. tominensis Wedd. Este trabajo tambin confirm recuentos cromosmicos para L. mutabilis Sweet, L. semperflorens Benth. (2n=48) y L. bandelierae (2n=36). Los resultados claramente confirman que, citolgicamente, la mayora de los Lupinus andinos son ms prximos de las especies norteamericanas qu a las del este de Amrica del Sur.
41941115|En esta publicacin se sealan 10 especies de Cucurbitaceae que anteriormente no haban sido citadas para la Flora argentina; de ellas, ocho estn dentro de su rea de dispersin natural y dos son adventicias, escapadas de cultivos.
41941229|In the present study the chromosome numbers of Mimosa xanthocentra subsp. subsericea var. subsericea, M. balansae, M. chaconsis, M. rojasiiaW with 2n=26 and M. lupinoides with 2n=52 are reported for the first time. The 2n=52 of M. somnians subsp. viscida var. viscida and of M. somnians subsp. somnians var. somnians are new and differ from the 2n=26 published before for M. somnians var. somnians of Argentina. M. debilis with 2n=26 also differs from the numbers reported previously for M. debilis var. debilis from Argentina with 2n=52. The 2n=26 of M. bimucronata var. adenocarpa coincides with the reported number for M. bimucronata var. bimucronata, and the number of M. polycarpa var. spegazzinii with 2n=26 is confirmed.
41941169|The opportunity to examine certain types of names published by C. B. Presl in the genus Malva, has led to a clearer understanding of four species and to the necessity to make one new combination: Urocarpidium echinatum (C. Presl) Krapov. & Fryxell.
41941147|Sixteen new species for the Corrientes Flora are described; one of them, Fagam hassleriana Chod., is recorded for the first time for the Argentine Flora. Ten of the fourteen genera mentioned are first reported for the province of Corrientes. Three plates of the species scarcely or not illustrated in accesible works are included.
41941367|The new species Pavonia palmeirensis from Bahia, P. striata from Minas Gerais and P. capivarensis from Piaui are described and illustrated. A key is presented for the species from north of Brazil. Se describen e ilustran las nuevas especies Pavonia palmeirensis de Bahia, P. striata de Minas Gerais y P. capivarensis de Piaui, en Brasil. Se agrega una clave para distinguir las especies de la seccin Malvaviscoides de Bahia, Piaui y Par.
41941292|The biodiversity and geographical distribution for Waltheria species in Paraguay are presented to accompany the floristic treatment for the rest of the family given separately in Part I (Cristbal, 2007). In this work eight species are accepted, described, illustrated, mapped, and a key is given to facilitate their identification. Waltheria operculata belongs to sect. Stegowaltheria, and the others are from sect. Waltheria: W. albicans, W. carmensarae, W. communis, W. indica s.l., W. macrophylla, W. procumbens, and W. viscosissima. Two species are endemic to Paraguay: W. procumbens, restricted in distribution, and W. macrophylla, collected only once and possibly extinct; both species are in need of local conservation assessment fieldwork. Se presentan la bodiversidad y distribucin geogrfica de Waltheria en Paraguay, que complementa el tratamiento floristico de la familia Parte I (Cristbal, 2007). En este trabajo se aceptan 8 especies que son descriptas e ilustradas y se acompaan mapas de distribucin y una clave para su identificacin. Waltheria operculata pertenece a la secc. Stegowaltheria, y las otras a la secc. Waltheria: W. albicans, W. carmensarae, W. communis, W. indica s.l., W. macrophylla, W. pmcumbens, and W. viscosissima. Puede sealarse que existen dos especies endmicas en Paraguay: W. procumbens de distribucin restringida y W. macrophylla, coleccionada slo una vez y posiblemente extinguida. Para ambas especies se sugieren tareas locales tendientes a su localization y conservacin.
41941125|Se describe la nueva especie Arachis Batizogaea Krap. et Fern., originada de un cruzamiento entre A. Batizocoi Krap. et Greg (2n = 20) y A. hipogaea L. (2n = 40). La nueva especie sinttica presenta combinados los caracteres de ambos progenitores, mantenindose relativamente constante durante varias generaciones, reproducindose por s sola. Es tetraploide (2n = 40), con un alto grado de fertilidad y presenta en la meiosis 20 bivalentes, la mayora cerrados. El perfil cromatogrfico de A. Batizogaea est constituido por la adicin de los flavonoides de las dos especies progenituras.
41941259|The Hibiscus section Furcaria from South America is revised. Ten new species from Brasil are described: H. Andersonii, H. capitalensis, H. chapadensis, H. Gregoryi, H. Hochreutineri, H. itirapinensis, H. matogrossensis, H. Nanuzae, H. Saddii, H. Windischii, and a new one from Per: H. Chancoae. Two new names are proposed: H. Hilarianus from Brasil and H. amambayensis from Paraguay. A key is provided to distinguish the 40 species of section Furcaria known from South America. Se revisa la seccin Furcaria del gnero Hibiscus para Sudamrica. Se describen 10 especies nuevas de Brasil: H. Andersonii, H. capitalensis, H. chapadensis, H. Gregoryi, H. Hochreutineri, H. itirapinensis, H. matogrossensis, H. Nanuzae, H. Saddii, H. Windischii y una nueva especie de Per: H. Chancoae. Se proponen dos nuevos nombres: H. Hilarianus de Brasil e H. amambayensis de Paraguay. Se agrega una clave para diferenciar las 40 especies conocidas de la seccin Furcaria en Sudamrica.
41941216|The anatomy and ontogeny of the seeds of H. Lhotzkyana was studied, in order to know the structure and origin of its wing. Ripe seeds of H. baruensis, representative of the genus, were also analized so as to compare both kind of seeds. The exotesta is made of longitudinally elongated sclereids, endotesta is parenchymatic with small patches of tannin cells. The principal mechanical layer of the seed coat is the exotegmen, formed by radially elongated macrosclereids; meso- and endotegmen are tanniniferous. The present study shows that the wing of the seeds of H. Lhotzkyana develops from the raphe, and consists of parenchymatic cells sourronding the rapheal vascular bundle and both sclerenchymatic epidermis.
41941198|The new combination Ayenia Mansfeldiana (Herter) Herter ex Cristbal is proposed based in Tragia Mansfeldiana Herter.
41941212|The somatic chromosomes of Vernonia platensis and three others closely related species were analyzed. All these species belong to the subsection or series Flexuosae, which is the only American group with the primitive basic chromosome number x=10. In this paper two new cytotypes for V. platensis are reported and the karyotypes of V. verbascifolia and of four cytotypes of V. platensis are presented for the first time. The results of the chromosome analysis were the following: V. flexuosa, 2n=40 (28m + 12sm); V. lepidifera, 2n=20 (8m + 2m-sm + 10sm), V. platensis, 2n=20 (10m + 2m-sm + 8sm), 2n=40, 2n=60, 2n=80 and V. verbascifolia, 2n=20 (8m + 4m-sm + 8sm). The 4x, 6x and 8x cytotypes of V. platensis present the same karyotype that the diploid suggesting an autoploid origin. The karyotypes of the species here reported differ principally in total length, asymmetry and number of metacentrics and submetacentrics. They show also variation in number, form and location of the satellites. The results are discussed in relation to the taxonomic position of the species and to previous chromosome studies in the group.
41941327|In this paper the revision of the series Leiocarpae Urb. is presented, and Turnera callosa Urb. is chosen as lectotype. This series has a distribution similar to that of the genus Turnera in America, most species living in the Chaquean biogeographical region. It has 55 species, the following taxa being new: T. angelicae, T. dasytricha var. crinita, T. diamantinae, T. emendata, T. fissifolia, T. glabrata, T. gouveiana, T. humilis, T. iterata, T. jobertii, T. luetzelburgii var. dubia, T. melochioides var. rugosa, T. paradoxa, T. patens, T. rosulata, T. vallsii, T. venezuelana and T. vicaria. Two new series are also proposed, Conciliatae Arbo for T. rubrobracteata Arbo, a species with an unusual combination of characters, which does not fit in any other series, and Sessilifoliae Arbo, including T. dichotoma and T. revoluta which were excluded from Series Capitataee; the comparative analysis with the members of Leiocarpae has demonstrated that they neither belong to the last series. Keys to identify the different series of the genus and keys for the species of each series treated are provided, as well as morphological descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps. En este trabajo se presenta la revisin de la serie Leiocarpae Urb., seleccionndose a Turnera callosa Urb. como lectotypus. Esta serie tiene una distribucin similar a la del gnero Turnera en Amrica; presenta 55 especies, la mayora de las cuales vive en la regin biogeogrfica Chaquea. Son nuevos los siguientes taxones: T. angelicae, T. dasytricha var. crinita, T. diamantinae, T. emendata, T. fissifolia, T. glabrata, T. gouveiana, T. humilis, T. iterata, T. jobertii, T. luetzelburgii var. dubia, T. melochioides var. rugosa, T. paradoxa, T. patens, T. rosulata, T. vallsii, T. venezuelana vicaria. Se proponen tambin dos series nuevas, Conciliatae Arbo para T. rubrobracteata Arbo, una especie con una combinacin inusual de caracteres, que no se ajusta a ninguna otra serie, y Sessilifoliae Arbo, incluyendo T. dichotoma y T. revoluta, que fueran excluidas de la serie Capitatae; el anlisis comparativo con los miembros de Leiocarpae indica que tampoco pertenecen a la ltima serie. Se presentan claves para identificar las series del gnero y las especies de cada serie tratada, as como descripciones morfolgicas, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin.
41941215|Hybridizations were made between T. aurelii, 2n=8x=40, and two diploid species (2n=2x=10), T. caerulea and T. joelii. The hybrids were studied cytologically to determine their genomic relationship. Two pentaploid hybrids were obtained with 2n=5x=25. Meiosis in the T. aurelii  T. caerulea hybrid was irregular with numerous laggards and some bridges; mean pairing relationships were 16.37 I, 4.01 II and 0.19 III. T. aureliix T. joelii hybrid showed very irregular cells with numerous laggards and bridges as well as unreduced gametes. Mean pairing relationship were17.49 I, 3.32 II, 0.26 III and 0.01 IV. In previous papers the genomic formulas AAAABBBB and CC were proposed for T. aurelii and T. caerulea respectively. Based on the chromosomes associations found in both hybrids, DD is proposed for T. joelii because it has a different genome. Probably, the presence of bivalents in both hybrids may be due to the pairing among homoeologous chromosomes of the mother plant T. aurelii, which is a segmental allooctoploid.
41941172|Turnera subulata and T. scabra, 2n = 2x = 10, were crossed with T. grandidentata, 2n = 4x = 20, and the hybrids obtained were studied cytologically to determine the relationship between these species. All the hybrids had 2n = 3x = 15 and irregular meiosis. T. subulata x T. grandidentata had a mean chromosome association of 4.28 univalents, 4.16 bivalents and 0,73 trivalents. T. scabra x T. grandidentata had a mean chromosome association of 4.53 univalents, 4,42 bivalents, 0.53 trivalents and 0.03 cuadrivalents. The cytogenetic study of these hybrids indicates that these three species have the same basic genome. The genomic formulas Asu Asu for T. subulata, Asc Asc for T. scabra and Ag Ag Ar Ar for T. grandidentata were proposed in previous papers. The associations and configurations found in the hybrids analyzed in this paper support the genomic formulas proposed.
41941391|The work discloses of comparative way, the phytotherapy resource used by the inhabitants of two sectors of the Rio de la Plata bank, one continental, ubicated in the area of Palo Blanco and Los Talas localities namely "Monte", and other insular, represented by Paulino Island, both situated northeastern Berisso party, Buenos Aires province, Argentina. The objective is to analyze the behavior of the people in the use of medicinal plants in relation to the environment in which domestic units are located. Results showed that there are differences due to traditional, structural and environmental factors, that lead to greater awareness and use of plants to treat skin diseases, rheumatism, arthritis and asthma in the island, while on the continental zone, is given due prominence to the use of plants to treat parasitic infections and respiratory problems. Of a total of 61 species, is emphasizes the use of Aloe vera (L.) Burm f. (Asphodelaceae), Cortaderia selloana (Schult. & Schult, f.) Asch. & Graebn. (Poaceae) and Equisetum giganteum L. (Equisetaceae), like the use of one lichen Ramalina celastri (Spreng.) Krog & Swinscow in the Paulino Island. El trabajo da a conocer de manera comparativa, el recurso fitoteraputico utilizado por los habitantes de dos sectores de la ribera rioplatense, uno continental, ubicado en las localidades de Palo Blanco y Los Talas denominado "Monte" y, otro insular, representado por la isla Paulino, ambos situados al noreste del partido de Berisso, provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. El objetivo es analizar comparativamente el comportamiento de los habitantes en el uso de las plantas medicinales en relacin con el ambiente en que se encuentran situadas las unidades domsticas. Los resultados demostraron que existen diferencias atribuibles a factores tradicionales, estructurales y ambientales que conducen a un mayor conocimiento y uso de plantas para tratar afecciones de la piel, reumatismo, artritis y asma en la zona insular, mientras que en la zona continental, se destaca el uso de plantas para tratar parasitosis y problemas de las vas respiratorias. De un total de 61 especies, se destaca el uso de Aloe vera (L.) Burm f. (Asphodelaceae), Cortaderia selloana (Schult. & Schult, f.) Asch. & Graebn. (Poaceae) y Equisetum giganteum L. (Equisetaceae), as como el uso del liquen Ramalina celastri (Spreng.) Krog & Swinscow en la Isla Paulino.
41941318|Fishing practices carried out for Guarani people from Misiones, Argentina using stems of Thinouia mucronata are described. Some conjectures about the origin of using of this ichthyotoxic plant are developed Se describe la actividad de pesca que llevan a cabo los guaranes de Misiones, Argentina, empleando tallos de Thinouia mucronata. Se elaboran conjeturas que permiten explicar el posible origen del uso de este material embarbascante.
41941138|In this paper are described the following floral abnormalities: adhesion of floral stalk, spirody, dialysepaly, dialypetaly, staminodiody, petalody off stamen and suppression of style in Nicotiana rustica; and dialysepaly, dialypetaly, dialycarpely, suppression of style and staminody of sepal in Nicotiana tabacum. Some of this terms are proposed for the first time for teratological phenomena.
41941223|Solanum compressum Smith & Downs (Solanaceae) is reported for the first time for the Argentinian flora. A description and illustrations are included together with characters of taxonomic worth.
41941174|The floral vascular anatomy of three species belonging to two genera of Turneraceae is analyzed. The indumentum and the anatomical structure of peduncle, prophylls, perianth, nectaries, crown, androecium and gynoecium are described as well. The ovary is surrounded by a tube, the appendicular nature of which is confirmed: its basal portion is composed of calyx, corolla and staminal filaments, and its distal portion is formed only by the perianth. The expression "floral tube" is used to name this structure, following Takhtajan (1991). The nectaries are placed between the perianth and the stamens; in Piriqueta they are adnated to the floral tube while in Turnera they are located on the stamens. T. joelii seems to be more advanced because of the development of a nectar pocket. The crown is present only in Piriqueta, it has papillose epidermal cells and no vascular supply. Each episepalous stamen is supplied by one amphicribal bundle, which ends in the connective tissue. The wall of the mature anther is composed of epidermis and endothecium. Pollen grains are tricolporate and reticulate. The gynoecium has transmission tissue on the apical inner surface of the ovary (compitum), covering the placentae, ascending within the styles and appearing on the stigmas. The ovules are anatropous, bitegmic, crassinucelate, with zigzag micropyle. The vascular pattern is similar in the three species analyzed: ten compound traces diverge from the stele in the bottom of the receptacle; five of them are petal traces, which in the apex of the floral tube will originate the lateral sepal bundles and the petal bundles. The remaining five traces split to provide the central sepal trace and the staminal trace. Then two rows of three traces are borne, the dorsal and marginal carpel traces; in T. joelii some of these depart from the compound sepalstamen traces. In T. hassleriana the traces of placentas are basally fused with the marginal carpel traces while in P. racemosa and T. joelii they are free. The ovules bundles are home on the placental bundles. The dorsal carpel bundles ascend along the styles, and then divide to enter in the bottom of the stigma branches. The marginal carpel bundles end in the apex of the ovary. P. racemosa and T. hassleriana have superior ovary, while T. joelii has superior and half inferior ovaries. In the last case the receptacle is slightly cup-shaped. The lengthy adnation of calyx and corolla, the presence of nectar pockets, the nascent half inferior ovaries, and the fusion of some carpel bundles with the common bundles for sepal and stamen confirm the advanced evolutionary position of the series Canaligerae. T. hassleriana has some characters as the peduncle vascular supply in the shape of an ectophloic siphonostele and very brief sepal-stamen common bundles that seem to be less advanced.
41941268|Mattfeldanthus H. Rob. & R. M. King constitutes one of the few South American genera of Vernonieae with zygomorphic corollas. It has two species endemic to northeastern Brazil that occur in "caatinga" and "campo rupestre" vegetation. The species can be distinguished from each other by several morphological features including the shape of their involucres, capitulum number, floret size and phyllary shape. In this paper the two species of Mattfeldanthus are described and illustrated. In addition, the phylogenetic relationships of the genus to other in Vernonieae are discussed and the geographic distribution of the species is revised to include a larger area of northeastern Brazil. Mattfeldanthus H. Rob. & R. M. King constituye uno de los pocos gneros de la tribu Vernonieae con corolas cigomorfas. Este grupo tiene dos especies endmicas del nordeste de Brasil que habitan en la "caatinga" y en campos rupestres. Las especies se pueden diferenciar entre ellas por varios caracteres morfolgicos tales como la forma de sus involucros, el nmero de captulos, el tamao de las flores y la forma de los filarios. En el presente trabajo se describen e ilustran las dos especies de Mattfeldanthus. Tambin se discuten las relaciones filogenticas del gnero con otras Vernonieae y se ampla la distribucin geogrfica de las especies a un rea mayor del nordeste de Brasil. Mattfeldanthus H. Rob. & R. M. King constituye uno de los pocos gneros de la tribu Vernonieae con corolas cigomorfas. Este grupo tiene dos especies endmicas del nordeste de Brasil que habitan en la "caatinga" y en campos rupestres. Las especies se pueden diferenciar entre ellas por varios caracteres morfolgicos tales como la forma de sus involucros, el nmero de captulos, el tamao de las flores y la forma de los filarios. En el presente trabajo se describen e ilustran las dos especies de Mattfeldanthus. Tambin se discuten las relaciones filogenticas del gnero con otras Vernonieae y se ampla la distribucin geogrfica de las especies a un rea mayor del nordeste de Brasil.
41941160|The new combination Wissadula wissadifolia (= Abutilon wissadifolium Gris) is established in the genus Wissadula, and three new species are described: W. setifera Krap. from NE Argentina, Paraguay and eastern Bolivia, W. Peredoi Krap. and W. Cardenasii Krap. both from Bolivia. A new species, Pavonia Harleyi Krap. from Baha, Brasil, is described in the genus Pavonia, and a new combination is established: P. hexaphylla (= P. Mutisii H. B.K. var. hexaphylla Sp. Moore). The lectotype of P. macrostyla Gurke (var. ovata Grke) is chosen and the synonymy P. Luetzelburgii Ulbr. (= P. macrostyla Grke var.cordata Grke) is established.
41941300|Chromosome numbers are reported for 26 accessions of Sida (Malvaceae) from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Mxico and Paraguay representing 15 species. First chromosome counts are cited for the following 8 species: S. Charpinii Krapov. 2n=14, S. ciliaris L. 2n=16, S. Monteiroi Krapov. 2n=16, S. anomala A. St.-Hil. 2n=16, S. Cristobaliana Krapov. 2n=32, S. dubia A. St.-Hil. & Naudin 2n=14, S. Poeppigiana (K. Schum.) Fryxell 2n=14 and S. Leitaofilhoi Krapov. 2n=14. En este trabajo se presentan los nmeros cromosmicos de 26 accesiones del gnero Sida (Malvaceae) de Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Mxico y Paraguay, pertenecientes a 15 especies. Para las siguientes 8 especies se cita el nmero cromosmico por primera vez: S. Charpinii Krapov. 2n=14, S. ciliaris L. 2n=16, S. Monteiroi Krapov. 2n=16, S. anomala A. St.-Hil. 2n=16, S. Cristobaliana Krapov. 2n=32, S. dubia A. St.-Hil. & Naudin 2n=14, S. Poeppigiana (K. Schum.) Fryxell 2n=14 y S. Leitaofilhoi Krapov. 2n=14.
41941483|En este trabajo se estudia la evolucin de la vegetacin durante cinco aos sobre un suelo previamente arado. Para ello se determinaron anualmente la frecuencia de distribucin de las especies y la cobertura de las mismas mediante 10 reas de 1 m2. Los resultados se indican en una tabla, y la misma es analizada posteriormente desde varios puntos de vista. Adems, se aplica per primera vez el denominado IHF (indice de homogeneidad florstica). This paper treats the evolution of the vegetation during a period of five yeras on a soil wich had been previously plowed. The frequence and coverage of each especies was determinated annually and it is aplied the new Floristical Homogeneity Index.
41941260|In the context of the evolutionary studies that are being carried out in Turners sidoides autopolyploid complex (x= 7), a systematic survey was made in the northwestern area (Bolivia) of its distribution. Six populations with salmon flowers and thirty five with yellow ones of the subsp. pinnatifida were found. The distribution of these populations is associated with climatic and spatial variables. The populations with salmon flowers live in the dry forests (Chaco Boreal Biogeographical Province), while yellow flowered populations occur in the inter-andean valleys (BolivianoTucumana Biogeographical Province). All the population studied are diploid. The results obtained support the allopatric diversification model of populations with yellow and salmon flowers at the diploid level, probably favoured by the orographie barriers and climatic changes that have arisen during the Andes development and Quaternary glaciations. Moreover, our analysis evidences that the north western area of T. sidoides constitutes an important centre of variation of the subsp. pinnatifida and the major centre of diploids hitherto detected. En el marco de los estudios evolutivos que se desarrollan en el complejo autopoliploide Jumera sidoides (x= 7) se realiz un muestreo sistemtico en el noroeste de su rea de distribucin. Se hallaron 6 poblaciones con flores de color salmn y 35 con flores amarillas de la subsp. pinnatifida. La distribucin de estas poblaciones est asociada con variables climticas y espaciales. Las poblaciones que presentan flores de color salmn viven en los bosques semiridos (Provincia Biogeogrfica del Chaco Boreal) y las de flores amarillas en los valles interandinos (Provincia Biogeogrfica BolivianoTucumana). Todas las poblaciones analizadas son diploides. Los resultados obtenidos sustentan el modelo de diversificacin aloptrica de las poblaciones con diferente color de flores a nivel diploide, probablemente favorecido por el sistema de barreras orogrficas y los cambios climticos surgidos a partir del levantamiento de los Andes y de las glaciaciones del Cuaternario. Adems, el anlisis evidencia que el noroeste del rea de J. sidoides constituye un importante centro de variacin de la subsp. pinnatifida y es el mayor centro de diploides hasta ahora detectado.
41941086|En el presente trabajo los autores registran los resultados obtenidos en tres aos consecutivos de ensayos comparativos de variedades de sorgos granferos, incluyendo sorgos de doble propsito, con el objeto de determinar su adaptacin a las condiciones ecolgicas de la zona y sus rendimientos en granos y forraje verde. Los ensayos fueron sembrados en el campo experimental del Instituto de Botnica Aplicada, ubicado en la Escuela Regional de Agricultura, Ganadera e Industrias Afines, anexa a esta Facultad, cuyo suelo es arenoso, con un subsuelo arcilloso con pH 5,7 a 6,5, pobres en materias orgnicats, nitrgeno total, calcio y fsforo. Los resultados han sido interpretados mediante el anlisis de la variancia, considerando los tres aos en serie, mostrndose una neta superioridad de los sorgos de doble propsito sobre los sorgos granferos, tanto en lo referente a rendimientos en granos como en forraje verde, y observndose tambin que los sorgos granferos hbridos no han superado estadsticamente a las variedades de sorgos granferos no hbridos, pudiendo considerarse de un valor similar para las condiciones ecolgicas de la zona. In this paper, the authors give the results of three consecutive years of comparative research on grain sorghum varieties, including double purpose varieties, to determine their adaptation to the ecological conditions of the zone and their yield in grain and fresh forage. The results show the clear superiority of double purpose varieties pver grain varieties in grain as well as in fresh forage yield. It should be remarked that hybrid grain sorghum varieties have not surpassed the non-hybrid ones.
41941372|Archeological peanuts (Arachis hypogaea) from NW Argentina (Valliserrana region) and Cuyo are studied. The chronology and the identification of the material at varietal level is presented. The material is compared with the actual peanuts and the possible geographical conection are established. Se estudian restos arqueolgicos de man (Arachis hypogaea) de la regin valliserrana del NW de Argentina y de Cuyo. Se analiza su cronologa, se identifican a nivel varietal, se comparan con manes actuales y se establecen las posibles conecciones geogrficas.
41941134|This study is about the process of vegetal repopulate on uncovered areas, coming from the destruction of the termite Conitermes similis nests. This isopthera mainly nests in the Andropogoneto-Axonopetum and Aristideto-Paspale turn soils.
41941440|Three new species of Grindelia Willd. are described and illustrated: G. argentina, G. gaucha and G. atlantica. The first two are related to G. buphthalmoides DC, and the last is allied with G. orientalis Bartoli, Tortosa & G. Rua. A key to separate the species of Grindelia buphthalmoides group is given and comments about this species, including a new synonym are also furnished. Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Grindelia Willd.: G. argentina, G. gaucha and G. atlantica. Las primeras estn relacionadas a G. buphthalmoides DC, mientras la ltima es afn a G. orientalis Bartoli, Tortosa & G. Rua. Una clave para separar las especies del grupo Grindelia buphthalmoides es proporcionada, as como tambin comentarios sobre estas especies, incluyendo una nueva sinonimia.
41941341|The archeological peanut found at 6715 m on the Cerro Liullaillaco (2445'S-6830'W) is identified as Arachis hypogaea L. var. hypogaea, race 'Guaycur' from de lowlands of South America. El man arqueolgico hallado a 6715 m de altura en el cerro Liullaillaco (2445'S-6830'W) se identifica como Arachis hypogaea L. var. hypogaea, raza 'Guaycur', cultivo de las tierras bajas de Sudamrica.
41941305|Galianthe guaranitica E. L. Cabrai and G. prvula E. L. Cabral are reported for the first time in Brazil, Rosenbergiodendron longiflorum (Ruiz & Pav.) Fagerl. and Guettarda pohliana Mll. Arg. are mentioned for the first time for Paran State. Schwendenera tetrapyxis K. Schum., Galianthe dichasia (Sucre & C. G. Costa) E. L. Cabral and Galianthe longisepala E. L. Cabral are new records for Parana, Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso States respectively. Galianthe guaranitica E. L. Cabral y G. prvula E. L. Cabral son primeros registros para Brasil, Rosenbergiodendron longiflorum (Ruiz & Pav.) Fagerl. y Guettarda pohliana Mll. Arg. son mencionadas por primera vez para el estado de Paran. Schwendenera tetrapyxis K. Schum., Galianthe dichasia (Sucre & C. G. Costa) E. L. Cabral y Galianthe longisepala E. L. Cabral son nuevas citas para los estados de Paran, Mato Grosso do Sul y Mato Grosso respectivamente.
41945703|Pollen grains of twenty one species of two genera of Malvaceae were studied and described under optical and scanning microscopy; Tarasa Phil.: T. alberti Phil., T. antofagastana (Phil.) Krapov., T. capitata (Cav.) D. M. Bates, T. heterophylla (Griseb.) Krapov., T. humilis (Gill, ex Hook & Arn.) Krapov., T. meyeri Krapov., T. odonellii Krapov., T. tarapacana (Phil.) Krapov., T. tenella (Cav.) Krapov., T. trisecta (Griseb.) Krapov., T. urbaniana (Ulbr.) Krapov., and Wissadula Medik: W. decora S. Moore, W densiflora R.E.Fr., W. glechomaefolia (A. St.-Hil.) R.E.Fr, W. gymnanthemum (Griseb.) K. Schum., W. paraguariensis Chodat, W. parviflora (A.St.-Hil.) R.E.Fr., W. setifera Krapov., W. subpeltata (Kuntze) R.E.Fr., W. tucumanensis R.E.Fr. and W. wissadifolia (Griseb.) Krapov. They showed differences at generic level, excepting Tarasa alberti which has affinities with the Wissadula group. Pollen grains are spheroidal, oblate-spheroidal and suboblate, medium to large sized. The apertures show variations in number (three to eight), but all they are colporate and have different distribution patterns: zonocolporate and spiralloid. The sculpture does not show marked differences on the surface; the most of them are echinate, echinulate with nanospinulae and perforations (foveas) between the spines or spinulae. Two keys to determine the species of each genus and distinguish the three recognized pollen types are given: 1) tri-tetracolporate, 2) penta-zonocolporate and 3) oligocolporate (6-8 apertures) spiraloid arrangement. Fueron estudiados y descriptos con microscopio ptico y electrnico de barrido, los granos de polen de veintin especies pertenecientes a dos gneros de Malvaceae; Tarasa Phil.: T. alberti Phil., T. antofagastana (Phil.) Krapov., T. capitata (Cav.) D. M. Bates, T. heterophylla (Griseb.) Krapov., T. humilis (Gillies ex Hook & Arn.) Krapov., T. meyeri Krapov., T. odonellii Krapov., T. tarapacana (Phil.) Krapov., T. tenella (Cav.) Krapov., T. trisecta (Griseb.) Krapov. y T. urbaniana (Ulbr.) Krapov., y Wissadula Medik: W. decora S. Moore, W. densiflora R. E. Fr., W. glechomaefolia (A. St.-Hil.) R. E. Fr., W. gymnanthemum (Griseb.) K. Schum., W. paraguariensis Chodat, W. parviflora (A. St.-Hil.) R.E.Fr., W. setifera Krapov., W. subpeltata (Kuntze) R.E.Fr., W. tucumanensis R.E.Fr. y W. wissadifolia (Griseb.) Krapov. Existe diferencia entre ambos gneros, con excepcin de Tarasa albert que tiene ms afinidad con el grupo Wissadula. Los granos de polen son esferoidales, oblato-esferoidales y suboblatos, de medianos a grandes; la escultura no muestra gran variabilidad, las especies de ambos gneros son equinadas o equinuladas con nanoespnulas y perforaciones (fveas) entre tas espinas o espnulas. En el gnero Tarasa las aperturas muestran variacin en el nmero (tres a ocho) y en la distribucin: zonocolporadas, y en posicin espiraloide. Las especies de Wissadula son todas trizonocolporadas. Se presentan dos claves para reconocer las especies de cada gnero y se establecen tres tipos de polen en base al nmero y distribucin de las aperturas: 1) tri-tetrazonocolporado, 2) pentazonocolporado y 3) oligocolporado (6 a 8 aperturas) en posicin espiraloide.
41941303|A new epitype collected in the original location is proposed for Trithrinax campestris. Por falta de ejemplar tipo de Trithrinax campestris se propone un epitipo coleccionado en la localidad original.
41941121|En este trabajo se estudian los granos de polen de las 28 especies que constituyen el gnero Tarasa. Se relacionan caracteres de los granos de polen, como nmero, posicin y tipo de aberturas, forma y tamao de los granos, longitud de las espinas y forma de sus bases, con el grado de poliploida, distribucin geogrfica y otros caracteres morfolgicos. Se considera adems el aporte del estudio palinolgico en el anlisis de la posible evolucin del gnero.
41941258|The new species Pseudabutilon Harleyi is described. The new combination P. aristulosum and the new mention for Brazil of P. benense are presented. Se describe Pseudabutilon Harleyi, se realiza la nueva combinacin P. aristulosum y se cita por primera vez a P. benense para Brasil.
41945701|During the study of the genus Bulbostylis (Cyperaceae, Abildgaardieae) for Austral America, five new records were found, one from Bolivia: B. svensoniana Steyerm. and four from Paraguay: B. consanguinea (Kunth) C.B. Clarke, B. loefgrenii (Boeck.) Prata & Lpez, B. sellowiana (Kunth) Palla and B. papillosa Kk. All the taxa are described and illustrated and considerations about them are given. Durante la revisin del gnero Bulbostylis (Cyperaceae, Abildgaardieae) para la flora de Amrica austral, se encontraron cinco nuevas citas, una de Bolivia: B. svensoniana Steyerm. y cuatro de Paraguay: B. consanguinea (Kunth) C.B. Clarke, B. loefgrenii (Boeck.) Prata & Lpez, B. sellowiana (Kunth) Palla y B. papillosa Kk. Se hacen aclaraciones sobre estos taxones, los cuales se describen e ilustran.
41941331|On the basis of a study of all the species, the author divides the genus Byttneria (Sterculiaceae - Byttnerieae) into six sections: Byttneria (South America), Vahihara (pantropical), the new sections Incasica (South America), Urticifolia (South America), Crassipetala (America, Guinea coast) and the monotypic Gerontogaea, endemic to India. In defining the sections, the following characters have been taken into consideration: habit, shape and texture of the leaves, the foliar nectaries, the petals and the staminal tube, the structure of the pollen, and the morphology of the fruit. A total of 131 species are recognized, 27 of which are described as new. Material of all the species has been examined, in most cases including the type specimens, many of which have been illustrated. The species have been studied with special reference to the 79 American ones, which have all been critically revised, described and illustrated. The remaining 52, non-American species have been treated as follows: B. herbacea (India), which constitutes a section by itself, has been studied and illustrated in detail. On examination of most of the type specimens and further material cited by J. Arenes, the 27 species endemic to Madagascar studied by this author have all been recognized; the floral characters of 19 of these have been illustrated in order better to compare them with the remainder of the section Vahihara, to which they belong. Of the 19 Asiatic species also included in the section Vahihara, a provisional synopsis with some critical notes is given. Material of all of them, including most of the types, has been seen, and the floral parts of 16 species have been illustrated, in many cases from authentic material. In her treatment of this group, the author proposes a new name: B. Mastersii, for B. elliptica Masters 1874 (not B. elliptica Pohl 1830), and for reasons of priority the name B. grandifolia DC. is used instead of B. aspera Colebr. ex Wall. The areas of the six sections, and the distribution of the American species are shown on maps. The author considers that Byttneria originated in America, where all the sections, with the exception of Gerontogaea, and the majority of the species are found. The existence of three centres of species concentration is demonstrated: one in the Amazonian Hylaea, one in Madagascar, and the third in South-East Asia. The 19 species of which the chromosome numbers have been established are listed. The counts show that there are two series of polyploids: x = 13, 2n= 26, 52, 78 and x = 14 2n= 28, 56. The relationships of the twelve genera, of the Byttnerieae, as suggested by a compilation of the information available, is shown by means of a diagram. Apparently, the genera Rulingia, Commersonia, Glossostemon, and Leptonychia are the most primitive. Megatritheca, Ayenia and Byttneria, which present the mostcomplicated floral structures, would appear to have evolved in opposing directions. Guazuma seems intermediate between these and Scaphopetalum, Abroma, Theobroma, and Herrania, the genera where most of the characteristics of specialization are found. The relationships of the sections have been similarly considered, arid the conclusions shown on two tables. The section Crassipetala should be the most primitive, and the sections Byttneria and Vahihara have followed opposing trends of evolution.
41941085|Se estudi la acumulacin, mensual de N, P, K y Ca a lo largo del perodo vegetativo en la variedad de caa de azcar P. O. J. 2878. El estudio se hizo en condiciones de campo, analizndose slo la parte area. El suelo en que se realiz la plantacin era muy pobre en los elementos estudiados, excepto en K. En la plantacin se utilizaron dos variantes: una sin abonar y otra que era abonada mensualmente con Ammo-Phos-Ko de Mathieson, 13-13-13, a razn de 160 kg/ha. Los resultados obtenidos parecen indicar que la tendencia de la curva de absorcin de los elementos estudiados, es similar en las dos variantes. Los autores creen que los resultados obtenidos dan la base para programar un abonado racional de la caa de azcar. A study was made of tte monthly accumulation of N, P, K y Ca in the variety of sugar cane known as P. O. J. 2878 during its vegetative period. The study was made under field conditions, analysing that part of the plant exposed to the open air. The soil in which the plant was cultivated was of vtery poor quality, except in its K content. When planted, two varieties were used: one was cultivated without fertilizers and the other received a monthly fertilization with Ammo-Phos-Ko de Mathieson, 13-13-13-to the proportion of 160 kg/ha. The results obtained seem to indicate that the tendency of the curve of absorption of the elements analysed is similar in the two varieties. The authors believe that the results obtained form a base for a rational program of fertiliztion in suger cane.
41941206|Two species are recorded for the first time for Argentina, Misiones: Solanum alternato-pinnatum Steud. (Solanaceae) known from Brasil and Paraguay and Aristolochia melastoma Silva Manso ex Duch. (Aristolochiaceae) before reported from Brasil.
41941119|Se transfiere Sida leprosa (Ort.) K. Schum. al gnero Malvella y se efecta la nueva combinacin Malvella leprosa (Ort.) Krap. La informacin palinolgica apoya este criterio.
41941378|Seed morphology of fifteen taxa of Caryophyllaceae (13 species and 2 varieties) represented in the National Park Mburucuy were studied by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. A total of three types of seeds were recognized on the basis of the seminal surface ornamentation and three types according to the pattern: wingless, winged and winged/wingless. The differences observed in exomorphological characteristics show the diagnostic value of the seeds at infrageneric and infraspecific level for the identification of the taxa. The results obtained here are compared with previous studies in related species. Se estudian al microscopio ptico y al microscopio electrnico de barrido la morfologa seminal de los 15 taxones de Caryophyllaceae (13 spp. y 2 variedades) representados en el Parque Nacional Mburucuy. Se reconocen tres tipos de semillas de acuerdo a la ornamentacin de la cubierta seminal y tres tipos de acuerdo al patrn: pteras, aladas o alada/pteras. Los caracteres exomorfolgicos resultaron de valor diagnstico a nivel infragenrico e infraespecfico para la identificacin de los taxones. Los resultados obtenidos se comparan con estudios previos en especies relacionadas.
41941441|Se describe una nueva especie de Monvillea (Cactaceae, Cactoideae) para el lmite norte de la Argentina, en el Chaco Hmedo u Occidental. Es muy posible que la misma especie crezca tambin en el Paraguay. Se provee una clave para diferenciar las especies de la Argentina. Se agrega una detallada aclaracin acerca de la validez del gnero Monvillea. A new species of Monvillea (Cactaceae, Cactoideae) is described for the North border of Argentina, at the Humid East Chaco. It is highly possible this species exist also in Paraguay. A key to differentiate the Argentinean species is provided. It is added a detailed note about the validity of the genus Monvillea.
41941335|Casearia obliqua Spreng. (Flacourtiaceae) is recorded for the first time to Argentina, based on specimens collected beside Iguaz river, in Misiones province. The taxon is here described and illustrated. The presence of Casearia gossypiosperma Briq. in Misiones, a tree mentioned in 1936 for that province, is here documented by mean herbarium material. A key for identifying the argentinean species is included. Se cita por primera vez para la flora de Argentina, Casearia obliqua Spreng. (Flacourtiaceae), sobre la base de ejemplares recolectados junto al ro Iguaz, en la provincia de Misiones. Este taxn es descripto e ilustrado. Se certifica mediante material de herbario la presencia en Misiones de Casearia gossypiosperma Briq., especie arbrea que fue mencionada para dicha provincia en 1936. Se incluye una clave para determinar las especies de Casearia de Argentina.
43574295|A new species of Serjania from Brazil, Bahia, S. coradinii is described and illustrated. The fruit presents a feature not recognized before in the genus; the proximal swollen portion of the loculus is occupied by a reniformed parenchy matous body which surrounds a septal wall prolongation. The seed is contained in the distal complanate portion of the loculus. From the twelve sections proposed for the genus, S. coradinii could be temporarily placed under the section Ceratococcus Radlk., until a revision of Serjania permits an evaluation of the special structure of the loculus.
41941211|The specimen 870.1 (LINN) is proposed as lectotype of Malva spicata L. The figure Sloan. jam. t.138, f. 1, mentioned in the protologue by Linnaeus, is incompatible with the position of Malva spicata in Monadelphia polyandria and in the genus Malva L. of the linnean system, so its exclusion from the protologue is confirmed in accordance with K. Schumann (1886) and Fawcett & Rendle (1926).
41941183|Two new species of Sapindaceae-Paullinieae are described, discussed and illustrated, Urvillea paucidentata Ferrucci and Serjania adenophylla Ferrucci, both from Mato Grosso, Brazil.
41941225|In the present paper the author updates the taxonomic and floristic knowledge of foliicolous lichenized fungi, Calenia and Tricharia (Gomphillaceae), in Argentina and Paraguay. The following taxa are reported for the first time: Calenia depressa, C. phyllogena, and Tricharia purulhensis. The new taxon Tricharia urceoiata var. paraguayensis is described.
43575520|Cardiospermum heringeri Ferrucci, a new species from Brazil is described and illustrated. It shares the sect. Ceratadenia Radlk. with G grandiflorum Sw. and C. integerrimum Radlk., a key for recognizing them is given. G integerrimum is closely related with the new taxa, observations on the morphology of seed tegument and pollen of both species, complement this study. Based on Paullinia urvilleoides Radlk., the new combination Cardiospermum urvilleoides (Radlk.) Ferrucci is established; it belongs to the sect. Cardiospermum. Fruit characters and a detailed palynological description provides evidence in favour of its removal from Paullinia L. Cardiospermum L. comparte la subtribu Paulliniinae Radlk. con los gneros Serjania Miller, Houssayanthus Hunz., Paullinia L., Urvillea Kunth y Lophostigma Radlk. Los caracteres comunes a todos los gneros son las flores zigomorfas, con las escamas de los ptalos en forma de capucha, y los frutos, que pueden ser esquizocrpicos o bien cpsulas. Dentro de la subtribu, Cardiospermum es el gnero ms heterogneo e interesante por la variabilidad morfolgica y cromosmica. El estudio de una coleccin de Sapindceas procedentes de Brasil (Bahia, Minas Gerais y Espirito Santo), permite presentar una especie nueva para la ciencia: C heringeri Ferrucci que en este trabajo se compara con la especie afn G integerrimum Radlk. Tambin se establece una nueva combinacin en la seccin Cardiospermum.
41941075|Se efecta una revisin sobre los principios de influencia en los tratamientos fertilizantes por las partes areas de las plantas. Por medio de aplicaciones de Zn en plantas jvenes de caf y siguiendo tcnicas de radiautografa y contaje de elementos radiactivos se efectan observaciones sobre la absorcin del Zn y factores que puedan influenciar la misma y su posterior transporte a otros rganos de la planta. Dentro del carcter preliminar de la investigacin se destacan algunas conclusiones como ser: importancia del esparcido uniforme, influencia del adhesivo, efecto de otros agregados en la absorcin y presumible influencia en el traslado. Se destaca la importancia de los tratamientos areos con fertilizantes y la necesidad de estudios destinados a investigar su relacin e influencia sobre la absorcin de elementos por raz. The objective of this work is to study the absorption and traslocation of Zn from SOZn under diverse conditions. It has been started with the application of one dosis of SOZn tagged with Zn, to coffee seedlings under crontrolled conditions of acidity and interaction with other elements (Ca, N, K and Cu). The work is of preliminary nature with the objective of seeking clarification of those factors that have more influence on the absortion and traslocation of Zn in coffee plants.
43575519|A detailed study on the morphology of pollen on thirty one species of the tribe Paullinieae, comprising seven genera, has been carried out by LM and SEM. The pollen grains of the following taxa were examined: subtribe Paulliniinae (Cardiospermum L., 4 spp., Houssayanthus Hunz., 2 spp., Lophostigma Radlk., 1 sp., Paullinia L., 3 spp., Serjania Miller, 16 spp., and Urvillea Kunth, 4 spp.); subtribe Thinouiinae (Thinouia Triana & Planchon, 1 sp.). All of them grow in Argentina, except L. plumosum Radlk. and H. monogynus (Schdl.) Ferrucci, collected in Bolivia and Paraguay respectively. Four pollen types have been recognized: type A -isopolar, tricolporate, subspheroidal to oblate-spheroidal grains in Thinouia; type B - isopolar or subisopolar, trisyncolporate, heterocolpate, dicolpodiorate, monocolpate, prolate or prolate-spheroidal grains in Lophostigma; type C - heteropolar, hemitrisyncolporate, peroblate or oblate grains are shared by Serjania, Houssayanthus, Cardiospermum and Urvillea, (in these genera three groups are recognized based on details of structure and sculpture) and type D - isopolar or subisopolar triporate, oblate or peroblate grains in Paullinia. The probable evolutionary trends of pollen morphology characters are discussed. Based on shape and aperture types of the grains, a tentative phylogenetic line of the tribe is presented.
41941369|In this paper Stemodia hassieriana Chodat (Plantaginaceae) is reported for the first time for Brazil. Description, illustration, ecological observations of the species and a key to species of Stemodia presently known from Brazil are included. En este trabajo se cita por primera vez a Stemodia hassieriana Chodat (Plantaginaceae) para Brasil. Se describe e ilustra la especie, se incluyen observaciones ecolgicas y una clave de las especies brasileas reportadas hasta el presente.
41941402|The article characterizes, by mean of an ethnoecological and participatory research, the vernacular representations and practices related to the prevention and treatment of waterborne diseases (such as cholera, diarrhea, gastroenteritis, dysentery, hepatitis), among the toba (qom) of the Impenetrable Chaco. In this context, we documents the use of 64 medicinal plants associated with the relief of the gastrointestinal symptoms characteristic of these diseases. The results are discussed in order to plan and develop local strategies for protection of the environmental health in indigenous communities from the Gran Chaco. Se caracteriza a travs de una investigacin etnoecolgica y participative, las representaciones y prcticas vernculas relacionadas con la prevencin y tratamiento natural de problemticas sanitarias que se transmiten a travs del agua (como clera, diarrea, gastroenteritis, disentera, hepatitis), entre los tobas (qom) del Chaco Impenetrable. Se documentaron en este contexto el uso de 64 especies medicinales vinculadas con el alivio de los sntomas gastrointestinales caractersticos de estas dolencias. Los resultados se discuten en orden a la planificacin y desarrollo de estrategias locales de proteccin de la salud ambiental en comunidades indgenas del Gran Chaco.
41941077|El presente trabajo se relaciona con la reforestacin artificial del quebracho colorado chaqueo, en la zona hmeda del parque chaqueo y las posibilidades de regeneracin natural de sus masas, establecindose la etapa de la hidrosere ms conveniente para su instalacin. Se determinan, en base a experiencias recientes, realizadas en establecimientos dependientes de la Administracin Nacional de Bosques, los mtodos silvcolas ms convenientes para su conduccin, cortas a clareos sucesivos y tala rasa en fajas alternas, siendo necesaria en la mayora de los casos, la repoblacin por siembra directa o plantacin, por falta de portagranos. Los factores limitantes del desarrollo de los quebrachales ms importantes son: las quemas de los campos, el ramoneo y pisoteo de los animales y las heladas y los golpes de sol. The present work is in connection with the artificial reforestation of chaco red quebracho, in the damp zone of Chaco forest, and the possibilities of natural regeneration of its masses, establishing the station of hidrosere more convenient for its setting. According the recent experiences, realized at the Depending Establishments of the Forest National Administration, forest methods have been determinated for its conduction, cutting in succesive clearings and fell down in alternative stripes, being necessary in most cases, the replanting by direct sowing or plantation for lack of "port grains". The most important limiting factors in the growth of quebracho forest are: the burning of the fields, the browsing and trampling of animals and the frost and sunbeat.
41941103|El autor estudia y pasa una breve revista a los principales materiales que utilizan los indios tobas del este del Chaco para teir la lana, algodn o fibras de caraguat usadas en sus tejidos. The author gives a list of the principal dyes used by the Toba indians of eastern Chaco (Argentine Republic).
41941106|Se estudi la influencia de distintas fuentes hidrocarbonadas en la rizognesis y biosntesis de HCN en pices caulinares de Manihot esculenta (Crantz) cultivados in vitro. We studied the influence of different carbohydrates sources over ryzogenesis and HCN sintesis in apex of Manihot esculenta (Crantz) cultivated in vitro.
41941177|Almost 100 years elapsed between Linnaeus' naming the then lone species of Arachis (A. hypogaea L.), known to Europeans, and the first taxonomic treatment of the genus by Bentham in 1841. During the next 100 years five to ten additional species descriptions appeared, assigning different species to the same names, different names to the same species. By mid-20th century, it was impossible to examine any herbarium collection of Arachis and assign any epithet with any assurance to any specimen (which was not a type collection) except to A. hypogaea, A. guaranitica, A. tuberosa and A. villosulicarpa. In our treatment the literature of this botanical chaos in Arachis is reviewed in detail and an assessment is made of the foundations for its occurrence. It is shown that the bases for the confusion lay in the combination of the esoteric nature of the differentiating morphological features of Arachis, the fragmentary early collections and the representation of species by seedling specimens. Also, it is related how, in 1959, we decided to re-explore the type locality of each species then known, collect therein complete plant specimens and thereby resolve the problem. Thirty five years, two generations of plant collectors and around 2000 collections later we present here 69 species descriptions of Arachis, species distributed in South America east of the Andes, south of the Amazon, north of La Plata and from NW Argentina to NE Brazil. We soon discovered that the most significant characters of Arachis lay in their underground structures, including their fruits, rhizomatous stems, root systems and hypocotyls. We showed that these defining characters tended to cluster the collections into groups which were associated with generally different geographic areas and ecological features. We drew a sample of 100 collections representing these clusters, areas and features and arranged them in a hybridization diallel and showed, in crosses between collections representing different clusters of characters, areas and features, a remarkable number of complete failures to cross-fertilize and in those hybrids which were recovered a high degree of F hybrid infertility. When these cross-incompatibilities and pollen infertilities were combined with the data on character-clustering, the nine distinct sections of the genus presented here then crystallized. Figures imposed upon maps of South America illustrate the geographic distributions of these sections. The collections were then assigned to the different sections on the bases of cross-incompatibility and exo-morphologic character clustering. When these groups were made the esoteric characteristics, referred to above, so confounding when applied across sectional lines, became highly pertinent when applied to the problem of species differentiation between collections within sections. These, applied in conjunction with chromosome cytology, Chromatographic and antigenic reactions, variations in intra-sectional hybrid fertility and adaptations of plant form and annual and perennial habit, allowed us to assemble the following taxa of the genus Arachis: Section I. TRIERECTOIDES nov.: 1. A. guaranitica, 2. A. tuberosa. Section II. ERECTOIDES nov.: 3. A. Martii, 4. A. brevipetiolata nov., 5. A. Oteroi nov., 6. A. Hatschbachii nov., 7. A. cryptopotamica nov., 8. A. major nov., 9. A. Benthamii, 10. A. douradiana nov., 11. A. gracilis nov., 12. A. Hermannii nov., 13. A. Archeri nov., 14. A. stenophylla nov., 15a. A. paraguariensis subsp. paraguariensis, 15b. A. paraguariensis subsp. capibarensis nov. Section III. EXTRANERVOSAE nov.: 16. A. setinervosa nov., 17. A. Macedoi nov., 18. A. marginata, 19. A. prostrata, 20. A. lutescens, 21. A. retusa nov., 22. A. Burchellii nov., 23. A. Pietrarellii nov., 24. A. villosulicarpa. Section IV. TRISEMINATAE nov.: 25. A. triseminata nov., Section V. HETERANTHAE nov.: 26. A. Giacomettii nov., 27. A. sylvestris, 28. A. pusilla, 29. A. Dardani nov. Section VI CAULORRHIZAE nov.: 30. A. repens, 31. A. Pintoi nov., Section VII. PROCUMBENTES nov.: 32. A. lignosa nov. comb., 33. A. Kretschmeri nov., 34. A. Rigonii, 35. A. chiquitana nov., 36. A. matiensis nov., 37. A. appressipila nov., 38. A. Vallsii nov., 39. A. subcoriacea nov. Section VIII. RHIZOMATOSAE nov., Series. PRORHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 40. A. Burkartii. Series. RHIZOMATOSAE nov.: 41. A pseudovillosa nov. comb., 42a. A glabrata var. glabrata, 42b. A glabrata var. Hagenbeckii. Section IX. ARACHIS: 43. A. glandulifera, 44. A. cruziana nov., 45. A monticola, 46. A magna nov., 47. A. ipansis nov., 48. A. valida nov., 49. A. Williamsi nov., 50. A. Batizocoi, 51. A. duranensis nov., 52. A. Hoehnei nov., 53. A. stenosperma nov., 54. A. praecox nov., 55. A. palustris nov., 56. A. benensis nov., 57. A. trinitensis nov., 58. A. decora nov., 59. A. Herzogii nov., 60. A. microsperma nov., 61. A. villosa, 62. A. helodes, 63. A. correntina nov. comb., 64. A. Simpsonii nov., 65. A. Cardenasii nov., 66. A Kempff-Mercadoi nov., 67. A. Diogoi, 68. A Kuhlmannii nov., 69a. A. hypogaea subsp. hypogaea var. 1. hypogaea, var.2. hirsuta, 69b. A hypogaea subsp. fastigiata var.1. fastigiata, var.2. peruviana nov., var.3. aequatoriana nov., var.4. vulgaris. The autogamous reproductive systems, agametic reproduction, underground fruiting habit and the limited means of seed dispersal are shown to be logically tied to the drift in chromosomal organization which gives rise to noticeable increases in infertility in crosses between different collections of the same species, to a variably higher infertility in crosses between species within sections, to a near total infertility in crosses between species from different sections. The evolutionary and phylogenetic relationships between the different sections are discussed and are further shown in a sequence of diagrams illustrating ideas presented. It is evident that the genetic distances separating the sections are far from being of the same magnitude. The presumably older (Triseminatae, Trierectoides, Erectoides, Extranervosae, and Heteranthae) sections, except for section Erectoides, are much more isolated from the remaining sections and each other than those taken to be of more recent origin (Procumbentes, Caulorrhizae, Rhizomatosae, and Arachis). Arachis section is by far the largest section, containing about 40% of the species described. Species of the section appear to be spreading to new territory and to be invading areas occupied by species of other sections. They grow intermixed with populations of Extranervosae in the upper Paraguay basin and occupy common ground with section Procumbentes in the Gran Pantanal. They have reached the shores of La Plata and the southeastern coast of Brazil and grow from Yala in NW Argentina to the Tocantins in NE Brazil. They contain the world-wide cultivar A. hypogaea. Essentially every published work on the botanical history and taxonomy of Arachis is presented in individual specimen references and in the general bibliography. The history of A. hypogaea from the early 16th century to more recent times along with the common names in several native American languages provide a perspective on the antiquity of this cultivar and the level of civilization required for its creation. Six appendices provide supporting data and matters of record. Diagnostic keys to the sections and to the species within each section select the more sharply distinguishing guides to the sections and species. Nineteen line drawings capture the sectional and species structures of whole plants, root systems, fruit orientations, agametic reproductions from fruiting structures, carpel shapes and surface features of leaves and stems.
41941142|Cytological studies of 15 species, 2 varieties and 1 forra of Sapindoceae from Sudamerica are presented. All of them but Paullinia pinnata are new counts. Three genera: Cupania (X=16), Houssayanthus (X=12) y Urvillea (X=11) are reported for the first time.
41941144|Cordia Bordasti Schin. and Prosopis nuda Sehin. are two new species from Chaco Boreal (Paraguay), which are described and illustrated in this paper. Prosopis sericantha Gill, ex Hook, et Arn. is recorded, for the first time in Paraguay.
41941129|This paper is the study of the minor foliar venation of 119 species of Byttneria genus. There are many published papers about minor venation, but very few consider a big number of species of the same genus. Apparently there is no data about Byttneria. However, the paper provides a historic account on dicots foliar minor venation. The analisis was done fundamentally on cleared adult foliage leaves, although leaf transections were utilized too. The following elements were taken into account: areoles shape and size; veinlets frequence, number and branching; bundle sheath structure; foliar sclerenchyma composition and topography; bundle sheath extensions; occurrence and type of cristals. There are two types of minor venation in Byttneria, named anisodictious and isodictious respectively. They are distinguished by the shape and size of areoles, and the frequence, number and branching of veinlets. Each type of minor venation is divided into four groups, according to the structure of the bundle sheath (parenchymatous, differenciated, intermediate) and the topography of the foliar sclerenchyma (mononeural, oligoneural, polineural, holoneural). The minor venation is analized in relation with the taxonomy of the genus. The species of Byttneria section show the same pattern: they have anisodictious venation with parenchymatous bundle sheath and holoneural sclerenchyma. Furthermore this section has certain exclusive characters as the possession of uniapertured nectaries, which contribute to separate it from the other sections. Vahihara is the section which has the greatest variability. Isodictious minor venation is present solely in a group of species of this section, as well as the differenciated bundle sheath. Urticifolia section has anisodictious minor venation, but offers extreme characters among its species with regard to the bundle sheath and foliar sclerenchyma. The study of the features which compose the minor venation in Byttneria led to the following observations: 1) anisodictious minor venation appears in all the sections of the genus while isodictious minor venation appears only in 35 of the 60 species of Vahihara. 2) Parenchymatous bundle sheath is common to all sections whereas the differenciated bundle sheath is present merely in a certain group of Vahihara. 3) The amount of sclerenchyma is quite variable, although a great number of species have holoneural sclerenchyma and very few species have mononeural sclerenchyma. According to these observations, the anisodictious venation pattern, with parenchymatous bundle sheath and oligoneural sclerenchyma is considered the most primitive of the genus (group 2). Starting from this pattern, 4 trends of specialization can be traced. The first leads to the pattern of group 1, through simplification of foliar sclerenchyma; the second leads to the pattern of subgroup 4, by the increase of sclerenchyma; the third, to the pattern of subgroup 4a, with the addition of a specialized bundle sheath. The last trend leads to the isodictious pattern of minor venation through a diminution of the areoles size and veinlets number and branching. This trend shows different levels of organization according to the bundle sheath type and sclerenchyma.
41941191|T. candida Arbo, T. grandiflora (Urban) Arbo, T. caerulea DC. and T. caerulea var. surinamensis (Urb.) Arbo & A. Fernndez nov. comb., all 2n=2x=10, were crossed to investigate their cytogenetic relationships. All the hybrids had 2n=2x=10 with a high mean of bivalents (4.92-5) and a low mean of ring bivalents (1.66-3.60). The cytogenetic analysis of all the hybrids among these species indicates that they have the same basic genome. In a previous paper the genomic formulas of T. caerulea and T. grandiflora were designated as CC and CgCg respectively. We propose CcCc for T. candida because it has a homeologous genome with the other species and CC for T. caerulea var. surinamensis.
41941122|Se describe el erecimiento del hipantio de las flores de Arachis lignosa y se determina la porcin y el momento ptimos para estudios mitticos en varias especies del mismo gnero.
41941197|The new combination Peltaea obsita (Mart. ex Colla) Krapov. & Cristbal is proposed after the finding of the holotype of Sida obsita Martius ex Colla (TO).
43574278|Cladonia subradiata (Vain.) Sandst. is reported as new to Argentina and Paraguay, C. turgidior (Ny1.) Ahti to Argentina, and C. peziziformis (With.) Laundon to Paraguay. Cladonia ramulosa (With.) Laundon and C. humilis (With.) Laundon are reported for the first time from northen Argentina. Five species of Chdonia are now recognized in Corrientes province; a key and illustrations are provided.
43574298|Pollen morphology, leaf, stem and wood anatomy, development of secondary protective tissue and some morphological characters of fruits of Sapium haematospermun Mll. Arg. and Sapium longifolium (Mll. Arg.) Huber were studied in order to evaluate their taxonomic importance. The results support the validity of both species.
41941365|Mentzelia spera L. is cited for the first time for the Paraguayan flora; this is the first record for the genus Mentzelia and the second for the family Loasaceae from Paraguay. To facilitate identification, a description of the species and some images of diagnostic features are included. Se cita Mentzelia aspera L. por primera vez para la flora del Paraguay; este registro constituye el primer representante del gnero Mentzelia y el segundo de la familia Loasaceae para el pas. Se incluyen descripciones e imgenes de caracteres diagnsticos con el fn de facilitar su identificacin.
41941321|Eupatorium rufescens Lund ex DC. and Vernonia oligactoides Less. (Asteraceae) are recorded for the first time for Argentina. Both species are described and a key to separate them from related taxa, along with some ecological information on the entities is also presented. Se mencionan por primera vez para la flora argentina a Eupatorium rufescens Lund ex DC. y Vernonia oligactoides Less. (Asteraceae). Ambas entidades son descriptas y se presenta una clave para diferenciarlas de taxones afines, junto con algunas informaciones ecolgicas sobre las entidades.
41941189|Based on the analysis of almost all the nomenclatural types, a key is presented for the 33 species of the genus Gaya H.B.K. The new species Gaya albiflora, G. atiquipana, G. Bordasii, G. cruziana, G. dentata, G. matutina, G. meridensis, G. mollendoensis, G. Mutisiana and G. scopulorum are described and illustrated. The new combination G. parviflora (Phil.) Krapov. is proposed. A new chromosome number, 2n=12, is presented for G. domingensis Urb.
41941224|Three new species, Galianthe andersonii E.L. Cabral, Galianthe macedoi E.L. Cabral, Galianthe reitzii E.L. Cabral are described and illustrated and two new combinations, Galianthe peruviana (Pers.) E.L. Cabral and Borreria crispata (K. Schum.) E.L. Cabral & Bacigalupo, are presented. A new status and a new name are proposed for Borreria burchellii; taxonomic observations are given about Borreria tenera DC.
41941139|Rayleya nov. gen. (Sterculiaceae  Byttnerieae) is proposed with one species R. bahiensis from Baha, Brazil. The new genus is characterized by its 2celled anthers as in Byttneria, by the presence of androgynophore, the claw shape of the petals, and the staminodes as in some species of Ayenia, and by a peculiar gland at the bottom of the petals. Two figures and a key are given.
41941151|Based on Urvillea sparrei Barkl., the new combination Houssayanthus sparrei (Barkl.) Ferrucci is established; its taxonomy is discussed in relation to the other speeies of the genus: H. macrolophus (Radlk.) Hunzik. and H. fiebrigii (Barkl.) Hunzik. Chromosome number of H. sparrei is reported (12 II). A new name, Setfania herteri Ferrucci is proposed for S. australis (St. Hil.) Herter non Spreng.
41941193|Chromosome numbers are reported for 38 accesions representing 17 species of five sections of genus Arachis. First chromosome counts are reported for the following 8 species: Sect. Extranervosae: A. retusa, Sect. Heteranthae: A. Giacomettii, Sect. Procumbentes: A. Vallsii, Sect. Arachis: A. decora, A. microsperma, A. palustris, A. trinitensis and A. Williamsii. Previous reports of nine species are confirmed. All the studied species have 2n=2x=20, except one accession of A. palustris, that has 2n=2x=18, which represents probably a new basic number x=9 for the genus. Satellited chromosomes are analized for most species. "A" chromosomes are found only in A. microsperma and A. trinitensis (Sect. Arachis).
41941214|The somatic chromosomes of two tree species have been studied, both of them have 2n=26. The karyotypes of Anadenanthera colubrina (Veil.) Brenan var. cebil (Griseb.) Altschul (18m + 8sm) and Parapiptadenia rgida (Benth.) Brenan (12m + 14sm) are described for the first time. These species may be distinguished by karyotype formula, and total chromosome length.
41941101|Se trataron semillas de algodonero mantenindolas sumergidas en: a) agua destilada ; b) sol. de molibdato de sodio 0,05 %, y c) sol. de molibdato de amonio 0,05 % durante 24 hs. a una temperatura de 30C, con el objeto de determinar el efecto del elemento Mo sobre la germinacin y respiracin. Para el ensayo de germinacin se realizaron 36 repeticiones de cada variante. Cada repeticin consisti en 25 semillas dispuestas en una caja de Petri entre papel de filtro humedecido. Los resultados indican que el Mo tiene un efecto deprimente sobre la germinacin, significativo al 1%. La respiracin se midi 24 hs. despus de terminado el tratamiento sobre radculas y cotiledones separadamente. El Mo aumenta la respiracin de las radculas en forma altamente significativa. Sobre los cotiledones el Mo, acompaado por el catin sodio, deprime la respiracin, y acompaado por el catin amonio la aumenta. Cotton seeds were treated by inmersion in: a) distilled water; b) 0,05% NaMoO sol. and c) 0,05% (NH) MoO sol., during 24 hs at 30C, to determine the effect of the Mo element on germination and respiration. For germination test, 36 repetitions of each variant were made. Each repetition consisted in 25 seeds disposed in Petri dishes between wet filter papers. The results indicated that the Mo has a depressive effect on germination, significative to 1 %. The respiration was measured 24 hs after the treatment on radicules and cotyledons, separately, was concluded. Mo increases the radicule respiration in a highly significative form. On cotyledons, Mo accompanied by Na cation depresses respiration, and accompanied by NH cation., increases it.
41941390|Results of a research on certain guarani plant names are presented. These names, very abundant in the ethnographical, ethnobotanical and ethnopharmacological literature, refer to "the plant that belong to the animals" and constitute a dilemma not resolved in preceding contributions. The methodological perspective used corresponds to the ethnographical focusing, with certain variants related of the reflexive trajectory of the author. The current cosmological premises of the guaranis, that determine the kind of the plant names mentioned, are capable of stumped the frontier between "which it is " and " which is not " a plant, returning inapplicable for this investigation the ontological fears of the ethnotaxonomy. Se presentan los resultados de una investigacin sobre ciertos fitnimos guaranes muy abundantes en la literatura etnogrfica, etnobotnica y etnofarmacolgica. Estos hacen referencia a las "plantas que pertenecen a los animales", y constituyen un dilema que se presenta como irresuelto en contribuciones precedentes. La perspectiva metodolgica empleada se inscribe en el enfoque etnogrfico, con ciertas variantes propias de la trayectoria reflexiva del autor. Los fundamentos guaranes vigentes, de ndole cosmolgica, que determinan la naturaleza de los fitnimos mencionados, son capaces de difuminar la frontera entre "lo que es" y "lo que no es" una planta, tornando inaplicables para esta investigacin las aprensiones ontolgicas de la Etnotaxonoma.
41941406|Ethnomedicine is a prolific field of study in Argentina. Different moments in the historic construction of the disciplines are clearly observed: the Hispanic-colonial period, with records mainly made by Jesuitical priests; a period between XIX and XX centuries, in which surveys with an ethnographic approach were made, registering in different languages the names of the plants and their associated uses by communities, which they were quickly disappearing; and finally, a change in investigation programs is registered. Modern surveys get deeper in an anthropological approach, including ecology, new disciplines like urban Ethnomedicine appear, as well as useful contributions to decision make about natural resources management for conservation. Finally, it is suggested that future studies include ecological issues, phytochemical, pharmacological and toxicological assessment of the species, and the strategies of use developed by communities, focusing in protection and conservation of species as well as human communities studied. La Etnomedicina es un campo de investigacin muy prolfico en Argentina. En el proceso histrico de construccin de la disciplina se observa claramente diferentes momentos: el perodo hispnico colonial con recopilaciones fundamentalmente a cargo de religiosos jesuitas; un perodo comprendido entre los siglos XIX y XX en el que se llevan adelante estudios de corte etnogrfico registrando en las diferentes lenguas los nombres de las plantas y usos asociadas a ellas por parte de pueblos que rpidamente estaban desapareciendo, y finalmente se registra un cambio en los programas de investigacin. Las investigaciones modernas profundizan aspectos ms interpretativos de corte antropolgico, incorporan miradas nuevas a partir de la ecologa, aparecen nuevos estudios como la etnomedicina urbana y aportes necesarios para tomar decisiones en el manejo de recursos naturales para la conservacin. Finalmente se sugiere que los estudios futuros incluyan los aspectos ecolgicos, la evaluacin fitoqumica, farmacolgica y toxicolgica de las especies, y por ltimo, hacer nfasis en la proteccin y conservacin, tanto de las plantas como de las comunidades humanas estudiadas.
41941301|A new genus and species of the tribe Vernonieae (Asteraceae) from the cerrado and campo rupestre vegetation of Minas Grais (Brazil) is described and illustrated. The new taxon, Vinicia tomentosa Dematt, is closely related to Chronopappus DC. and Lychnophora Mart., but differs in having pedunculate glomerules and the narrowly cylindrical involucre. The other two genera always have sessile glomerules and the involucre is turbinate to cylindrical in Lychnophora and ovoid in Chronopappus. Se describe e ilustra un nuevo gnero y especie de la tribu Vernonieae (Asteraceae) de los cerrados y campos rupestres de Minas Grais (Brasil). El nuevo taxon, Vinicia tomentosa Dematt., est estrechamente relacionado a Chronopappus DC. y Lychnophora Mart., pero difiere por presentar glomrulos pedunculados y el involucro estrechamente cilindrico. Los dos gneros anteriores siempre tienen glomrulos ssiles y el involucro es turbinado o cilindrico en Lychnophora y ovoideo en Chronopappus.
41941256|Galianthe longisepala E. L. Cabral and Galianthe matogrossiana E. L. Cabral, new species from Brazil, are described and illustrated. Galianthe longisepala E. L. Cabral y Galianthe matogrossiana E. L. Cabral, nuevas especies de Brasil, son descriptas e ilustradas.
41941231|The chromosomes of 4 species of Galactia (Fabaceae) have been studied and all of them have 2n=20. The chromosome numbers for Galactia marginalis Benth. (2n=2x= 20), G. boavista (Veil.) Burkart (n=x=10) and G. benthamiana Micheli (2n=2x=20) are presented for the first time. The karyotypes of G. striata (Jacq.) Urb. var. striata (20m) and G. benthamiana (14m + 6sm) are described. Both species can be distinguished by their karyotypic formula.
41941227|In this paper embryos and seedlings of six native woody species of Northeast of Argentina are studied: Chrysophyllum marginatum (Hook, et Arn.) Radlk. subsp. marginatum (Sapotaceae), Eugenia uniflora L., Hexachlamys edulis (O. Berg) Kausei et D. Legrand (Myrtaceae), Polygala albicans (A.W. Benn.) Grondona (Polygalaceae), Sapium haematospermun Mll. Arg. and Sebastiania brasiliensis Spreng. (Euphorbiaceae). Descriptions and illustrations of seeds, embryos, germination and seedlings are given.
41941286|Sterculia striata presents two types of flowers on the same foot, perfect flowers that are functionally pistilate, and staminate flowers. For this reason this species was described as andromonoecious. The ovary is apocarpous, constituted by 4-5 carpels, while the style and the stigma are coherent. Considering their ontogeny and organization, the ovules are constituted by two units: the nucellar one, formed by nucella and inner integument; and the funicular one, that includes chalaza and external integument. The position of exostome near the hilum is in accordance with an anatropous ovule. However, due to the combination of all these characteristics the ovule of S. striata is described as hemianatropous. The ovule displays a very prominent exostome that persists in the seed as a caruncle. It also presents an obturator of placentahan origin. The fertilization is acrogamous. Three phases of the ovule and seed ontogeny were detected: initial, where nucella is curved until 90; prefertilization, where the external integument continues its growth until the exostome is closed at 180; and posfecundation, where the nucelar unit retakes the erect position and the embryo is inverted with respect to the hilum. The seed coat is multiplicative, being the layer of macrosclereids of the exotegmen the mechanical layer. The fruit is a follicle, in which each carpel presents abundant lysigenous cavities filled with mucilaginous substances. Sterculia striata presenta flores estaminadas y perfectas que son funcionalmente pistiladas en un mismo pie, por lo que esta especie se describi como andromonoica. El ovario es apocrpico, constituido por 4-5 carpelos, los estilos y estigmas son coherentes. Considerando su ontogenia y organizacin, los vulos estn constituidos por dos unidades: una unidad nucelar, formada por ncela y tegumento interno, y una unidad funicular que incluye calaza y tegumento externo. La posicin del exstoma cercana al hilo concuerda con la de vulos antropos. Por esta combinacin de caractersticas, este vulo se describe como hemiantropo. El vulo presenta un exstoma muy prominente, que persiste formado una carncula en la semilla. Presenta obturador de origen placentario, la fertilizacin es porgama. En la ontogenia del vulo y la semilla se diferencian tres fases: inicial, donde la ncela se curva hasta 90, fase prefecundacin, donde slo el tegumento externo contina su crecimiento hasta cerrar el exstoma a 180, y una fase final posfecundacin, donde la unidad ncelategumento interno retoma la posicin erecta quedando el embrin en posicin invertida con respecto al hilo de la semilla. La cubierta seminal es multiplicativa, siendo la capa de macroesclereidas del exotegmen el estrato mecnico. El fruto es un plurifoliculo, cada carpelo presenta abundantes cavidades de origen lisgeno ocupadas con sustancias mucilaginosas.
41941167|Ayenia luyensis Cristb., a new species from Luya, Amazonas, Peru, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the sect. Ayenia subsect. Ayenia. A key is given for the four species of Ayenia found so far in Peru.
41941342|Three new species of Convolvulaceae from Argentina are described: Ipomoea Vivianae, Jacquemontia cataractae and J. estrellensis. Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Convolvulceas de Argentina: Ipomoea Vivianae, Jacquemontia cataractae y J. estrellensis.
41941218|The first count for Urvillea laevis Radlk. with 2n=24 and 2n=12 II is reported. With this result the basic numbers for the genus are =11 and =12.
41941074|En este trabajo, los autores estudian el efecto que sobre el rendimiento de la alfalfa (Medicago sativa) produce la incorporacin de diferentes dosis de cal y harina de huesos, en un suelo pobre de P y Ca; de una textura pesada con alto contenido de arcilla en todos los horizontes, de un pH cido (5.1 a 6.2) y que es caracterstico de la zona donde fu hecha la experiencia. Se han obtenido resultados referentes a la influencia de la inoculacin de la semilla con Rhizobium y el agregado de cal y harina de huesos sobre los rendimientos. In this work, the authors study the effect that upon yield of lucerne (Medicago sativa) produces the incorporation of different doses of lime and powder of bones, in a soil poor of Ca and P elements; the heavy texture with high containment of clay in all horizontal planes, of a pH acid (5.1 to 6.2), and that is characteristic of the zone where the experience took place. They have obtained results referring to the influence of inoculation of the seed, the addition of lime and powder of bones upon the amount of yields.
41941201|Turnera L. is arranged in nine series. At present the genus includes around 100 species in America and two in Africa. This paper submits the revision of the series SalicifoliaeUrb. with 12 species and Stenodictyae Urb. with nine species. Two new taxa are described: T. ignota and T. hindsiana subsp. brachyantha, both of Salicifoliae. These series include most of the sylvatic species and also the largest-sized members of the genus: many of them are big shrubs and two species are arborescent. They live mainly in the Amazon basin. The series Salicifoliae has wide glabrous or glabrescent leaves, yellow flowers with glabrous or scarcely pilose ovary and obviously pilose seeds. It groups most of the species with free floral peduncle and developed pedicell. However, some species have sessile flowers, among which count the only species of this series with distinct nectaries on the petiole. The series Stenodictyae has orange-red flowers with pilose ovary and glabrous or minutely pubescent seeds. The floral peduncle is well developed while the pedicell is absent; most species show conspicuous nectaries on the petiole or the blade base. The prophylls are filiform or scale like in the Salicifoliae, while they are wide, involucral, with lateral appendages in the Stenodictyae. The fruit is externally tuberculated in most Salicifoliae, and it is verrucose or granulated in the Stenodictyae. Keys for the identification of species, distribution maps and illustrations are provided.
41941140|This study was undertaken with the purpose of obtaining new data to clarify the taxonomic position of Rayleya, a new and apparently monotypic genus. The paper describes stem anatomy, wood structure, leaf major and minor venation, epidermis, trichomes, petiole, mesophyll, nectaries and sclereids. The salient features of stem anatomy are: cork of subepidermic origin, phloem arranged in triangular strands and stratified with fiber groups, mucilage cavities, vessels with simple perforations frequently arranged in radial groups, axial parenchyma scanty, rays heterogeneous 1-3 seriate. Petiole supplied in the basal portion by a vascular bundle with the shape of an arc with strongly incurved ends; in the apical portion the bundle becomes a closed ring of xylem and phloem with fiber strands around the phloem. Mesophyll dorsiventral, with one layer of palisade tissue and several of spongy tissue. Venation raised above the general level of the blade. Midrib with a concentric bundle surrounded by strong fiber strands. Larger veins have bundle sheath extensions towards both epidermis, minor veins have extensions only towards adaxial epidermis, veinlets lack extensions. Minor venation is anisodictious with holoneural sclerenchyma and parenchymatous bundle sheath. Sclerenchyma follows all veins and veinlets, and also invades the areoles crossing them in all directions. Fibersclereids are very long and twisted, usually with very few arms. Nectaries are multiapertured, with glandular hairs sunken in a cushion of multilayered epidermis. The genera which show greater affinity with Rayleya are Byttneria and Ayenia. There are comparative data on foliar anatomy about these genera, but unfortunately there is no information about stem anatomy and wood structure. Rayleya nectaries, minor venation and sclereids are very similar to that of certain species of Ayenia and Byttneria, that is to say that the data provided by the anatomical study confirm the natural relations among these genera.
41941141|Chromosome numbers of ten species of Sterculiaceae and nineteen of Malvaceae are reported for the first time, concerning the following genera: Helicteres, Ayenia and Byttneria (Sterculiaceae) and Abutilon, Dirhamphis, Gaya, Herissantia, Malvastrum, Pavonia and Sida (Malvaceae). Confirmations of previous counts are included for one species of Abutilon, three species of Malvastrum and one species of Sida.
41941136|The author describes the female organs of Elateriopsis spectabilis Mart. Crov., wich geographical range is extended to Ecuador.
41941161|In this paper is described and illustrated Borreria marticrovettiana Cabral, a new species from Misiones (Argentina). Borreria valens Standley, Borreria scabiosoides Cham. et Schlecht., Mitracarpus brasiliensis Porto et Waechter and Relbunium equisetoides (Cham. et Schlecht.) Ehrendf. are mentioned for the first time for the argentine flora.
41941396|This paper presents the results of a study of the current situation of sixteen periurban homegardens at the coasts of Ensenada-Berisso and Martn Garca Island (Buenos Aires, Argentina) in relation to its historical context of ecological, cultural and economic transformations. In this approach, it becomes evident the adaptive character of the local horticultural practices, as well as its supporting traditional knowledge and its contribution to local agrobiodiversity. The homegardens floristic composition was studied, and ethnobotanical qualitative methods were carried out. Eighty cultivated taxa were recorded, as well as diverse products obtained from them. They are used for family consumption and small-scale marketing, as a supplement to the domestic economy. Este trabajo presenta los resultados de un estudio de la situacin actual de 16 huertos familiares periurbanos de las costas de Ensenada-Berisso y de la Isla Martn Garca (Buenos Aires, Argentina), en relacin a su contexto histrico de transformaciones ecolgicas, culturales y econmicas, donde se evidencia el carcter adaptativo de las prcticas hortcolas, los saberes tradicionales que las sustentan y su aporte a la agrobiodiversidad local. Se relev la composicin florstica de los huertos, y se aplicaron mtodos cualitativos para el relevamiento de datos etnobotnicos. Se registraron 80 taxones cultivados y productos obtenidos a partir de estos, para consumo familiar y comercializacin a pequea escala, como suplemento para la economa domstica.
43574296|Two species not previously mentioned from Argentina are treated and illustrated: Oxypetalum molle Hook. et Arn. and Oxypetalum incanum Fourn. Oxypetalum appendiculatum Mart. et Zucc., Oxypetalum confusum Malme, Oxypetalum jrgensenii Meyer, Oxypetalum microphyllum Hook. et Arn., Oxypetalum pannosum Decaisne, Oxypetalum stipatum Malme, Funastrum flavum (Decaisne) Malme and Blepharodon lineare (Decaisne) Decaisne are recorded for the first time for the Corrientes flora.
41941398|This paper presents the results of a study on three species, of which commercialize products considered adaptogens: Lepidium meyenii Walp. (Brassicaceae), "maca", Morinda citrifolia L. (Rubiaceae), "noni", and Petiveria alliacea L. (Phytolaccaceae), "pipi". The data come from an Urban Ethnobotany study conducted in Buenos Aires-La Plata conurbation. The traditional uses of the species, their access routes, marketing and diffusion as dietary supplements in urban pluricultural context are presented, as well as current modes of use and related knowledge which are part of local botanical knowledge. Thus, modifications in the uses originally assigned as result of the expansion of the products in the context of globalization are evaluated, well as the consequent changes in traditional patterns of knowledge, beliefs and practices related to these plant resources. En el presente trabajo se presentan los resultados de un estudio sobre tres especies de las cuales se comercializan productos considerados adaptgenos: Lepidium meyenii Walp. (Brassicaceae), "maca", Morinda citrifolia L. (Rubiaceae), "noni", y Petiveria alliacea L. (Phytolaccaceae), "pipi". Los datos provienen de estudios en Etnobotnica urbana realizados en la conurbacin Buenos Aires-La Plata, se presentan los usos tradicionales de las especies, sus vas de ingreso, comercializacin y difusin como suplementos dietticos en el contexto pluricultural urbano, los modos actuales de empleo y los saberes relacionados, que forman parte del conocimiento botnico local. De este modo, se evalan las modificaciones en los usos originalmente asignados, como consecuencia de la expansin de los productos en el marco de la globalizacin, y los cambios consecuentes en los patrones tradicionales de saberes, creencias y prcticas referidos a estos recursos vegetales.
41941093|In this paper the authors give the results of comparative research on grain sorghum varieties, including one douple purpose variety, to determine their adaptation to the ecological conditions of the zone and their yield in grain and fresh forage in two harvest for one year. The results show the clear superiority of double purpose variety over grain varieties in grain and fresh forage in year production (two harvest), but Double Enano (Double Dwarf Yelow Sooner Milo) variety has superiority over grain varieties in yield in grain (two harvest for one year). It should be remarked that hybrid grain sorghum varieties have not surpassed the non - hibrid ones.
41941338|Information about textile plants used or mentioned in Guarani communities of Misiones Province, Argentina is here given. Methods of harvest and uses of same plants are detailed. The species are classified in three categories; used frequently at present, used occasionally and used at the past. The manuscript is illustrated by mean photographs. Se presenta informacin sobre las especies de plantas textiles mencionadas o usadas en comunidades guaranes de la provincia de Misiones, Argentina. Se brindan algunos detalles sobre tcnicas de recoleccin y aprovechamiento de dichas especies. Se especifican las especies que se siguen usando con frecuencia, las que se usan raramente y las que han cado en desuso. Se lustra el trabajo mediante fotografas.
41941105|Se determin el crecimiento in-vitro de races de Manihot esculenta en condiciones de iluminacin y temperatura diferentes. Se utilizaron races obtenidas de pices cultivados in-vitro en medio de Torrey (slido), en cuartos, invernculos y estufas, haciendo tres variantes: 1) Luz contnua durante las 24 hs.; 2) Da natural (de 11 hs. de luz y 13 hs. de oscuridad); 3) Oscuridad durante las 24 hs. En cada variante se estudiaron dos subvariantes: a) con temperaturas elevadas da y noche y b) temperatura alta de da y baja de noche. La fuente de iluminacin en la variante de luz continua fue el sol durante el da y luz artificial de noche. Se encontr que la composicin del msdio nutritivo influye en el crecimiento de los pices y en la rizognesis, dando mejor resultado el medio de Torrey que el de White; que la temperatura Alta de da y Alta de noche con luz continua o a of a natural, coadyuvan al crecimiento de las races cultivadas invitro. Adems se encontr una coloracin verde en las races, posiblemente debido a la formacin de clorofila por efecto de la iluminacin. "In vitro" growing of roots of Manihot esculenta was studied in different conditions of ilumination and temperature. Root obtained from "in vitro" cultivated apex in solid Torrey medium, were hold in rooms, green house and stove, in three variants: 1) Continuous light during 24 hours. 2) Natural day (11 hours light and 13 hours darkness). 3) Darkness during 24 hours. Each of these variants had two subvariants: a) High temperature during the day and night. b) High temperature during the day and low temperature at nigh. In the variant (1) the light sources were sun during the day and artificial light at night. We found that the nutrient medium composition has influence over apex growing and ryzogenesis. Torrey medium is better than White's, and high temperature during the day and night with continuos light or natural day, improves the growing of the roots. Besides we found a green coloration in the roots, probably for the presence of chlorophyll formed by influence of the light.
41941113|In the present paper, new species of the genera Chamelum, Phaiophleps, Tigridia, Trimezia, Eustylis and Nemastylis, are reported. Concerning the latter, two subgenera and one subspecies also described as new. A new combination for Eustylis is made. Moreover, new subspecies, combinations, or synonimy regarding Sisyrinchium, are included. The presence of the genus Libertia in the flora of Argentina is quoted for the first time. Most of studies were made on living plants.
41941208|The new species Paullinia cearensis Somner & Ferrucci (Sapindaceae-Paullinieae) from northeastern Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest relatives.
43574294|The karyotype of three species of the genus Cardiospermum L. was analyzed: pterocarpum Radlk. (2n= 22; 16 m + 6 sm); integerrimum Radlk. (2n= 14; 8m + 2 sm + 2 st + 2 t) and C. records. The basic number = 7 found in integerrimum establishes the lowest haploid number known not only for Sapindaceae but Sapindales from the New World as well. The karyotypes of C. integerrimum and C. grandiflorum, the only species of section Ceraladenia Radlk., are compared. Evolutionary value of main morphological characters, that make it possible recognise these two species, and their relationship with the rest of the genas are discussed. The first count for the genus Diplokeleba N.E. Brown, D. floribunda N.E. Brown (2n= 30) is also reported.
41941170|The survey of herbarium material for the revision of the genus Turnera, and the collection trips made in Brazil in the last three years have allowed the discovery of some new species, described here: T. aromatica, T. candida, T. cipoensis, T. gardneriana, T. joelii, T. prancei, T. purpurascens, T. rubrobracteata y T. urbanii. One new combination: T. arenaria (Urban) Arbo, is proposed.
41941401|Ethnobotanical studies of communities that inhabit estuarine areas and use the mangrove forest are limited in Colombia. In order to support management and conservation projects in the future, we studied family homegardens in rural communities in the bay of Cispat, Colombian Caribbean. We analyzed structure, floristic composition and uses of tree species in homegardens. In a total area of 29950 m, where twelve homegardens are located, we recorded 1798 individuals (DAP  2.5 cm) belonging to 83 tree and palm species, corresponding to 32 plant families. The family Leguminosae s.l. was represented by the greatest number of species (12), followed by Annonaceae, Arecaceae and Moraceae (6). Food was the use-category with the highest number of species (46), followed by Medicine (34) and Construction (33). According to the Salience Index in the homegardens Cocos nucfera is the most important species. We found a positive relationship between number of individuals per species and its cultural importance. We recommended including native species truck in conservation strategies. Los estudios etnobotnicos relacionados con las comunidades que habitan los alrededores de las zonas estuarinas y aprovechan los bosques de mangle en Colombia son escasos. Por esto, con el fin de apoyar futuros proyectos de manejo y conservacin se realiz un primer acercamiento al conocimiento de los huertos familiares de las comunidades campesinas que habitan en la baha de Cispat en el Caribe colombiano. Se analiz la estructura, la composicin florstica y los usos de las especies leosas presentes en los huertos familiares. En un rea total de 29950 m, correspondiente a doce huertos familiares, se registraron 1798 individuos (DAP  2,5 cm), correspondientes a 83 especies de rboles y palmas, asociadas a 32 familias botnicas. La familia Leguminosae s. l. present el mayor nmero de especies (12), seguida de Annonaceae, Arecaceae y Moraceae (6). La categora que present mayor nmero de especies fue Comestible (46), seguida de Medicinal (34) y Construccin (33). Segn el ndice de Saliencia la palmera Cocos nucfera es la especie ms importante en los huertos. Se encontr una relacin positiva entre el nmero de individuos por especie y su importancia cultural. Por otra parte, se recomienda incluir en futuros planes de conservacin a las especies nativas que presentan un manejo dentro de los huertos.
41941222|The nomenclature, taxonomy, and synonymy of various South American Amaranthaoeae are discussed. Two new genera are described, Hebanthodes Pedersen with only one new species from Peru, H. peruviana Pedersen, and Lecosia Pedersen with two new species from NE Brazil, L. formicarum Pedersen and L. oppositifolia Pedersen. Seven new species, Alternanthera piptantha Pedersen, Gomphrena Hatschbachiana Pedersen, G. riparia Pedersen, Guilleminea chaconsis Pedersen, G. fragilis Pedersen, G. hirsuta Pedersen and Pfaffia argyrea Pedersen, one new subspecies, Alternanthera Kurtzii subsp. sclerosperma Pedersen, and three varieties, Alternanthera hirtula var. hirsuta Pedersen, Alternanthera hirtula var. nitens Pedersen and Pfaffia fruticulosa var. diffusa Pedersen are described. Three new combinations, Hebanthe eriantha (Poir.) Pedersen, Iresine diffusa forma Herbstii (Hook.) Pedersen, and Pedersenia Hassleriana (Chodat) Pedersen, are proposed. A key to the species of Guilleminea discussed in this paper and a key synthesizing the characters separating Hebanthodes from its immediate allies are provided. Se discute la nomenclatura, taxonoma y sinonimias de Amarantceas Sudamericanas. Se describen dos nuevos gneros, Hebanthodes Pedersen, con una sola especie de Per, H. peruviana Pedersen y Lecosia Pedersen, con dos especies del NE de Brasil, L. formicarum Pedersen y L. oppositifolia Pedersen. Adems se describen siete especies nuevas, Altemanthera piptantha Pedersen, Gomphrena Hatschbachiana Pedersen, G. riparia Pedersen, Guilleminea chaconsis Pedersen, G. fragilis Pedersen, G. hirsuta Pedersen y Pfaffia argyrea Pedersen, una nueva subespecie, Alternanthera Kurtzii subsp. sclerosperma Pedersen y tres variedades, Alternanthera hirtula var. hirsuta Pedersen, A. hirtula var. nitens Pedersen y Pfaffia fruticulosa var. diffusa Pedersen. Se establecen tres nuevas combinaciones, Hebanthe eriantha (Poir.) Pedersen, Iresine diffusa forma Herbstii (Hook.) Pedersen y Pedersenia Hassleriana (Chodat) Pedersen. Se presenta una clave para las especies de Guilleminea tratadas y una clave que permite separar Hebanthodes de los gneros vecinos.
41941244|Pollen grains of seven species of three genera of Malvaceae are studied and described under optical and scanning microscopy: Modiola: M. caroliniana (L.) G. Don, Modiolastrum: M. australe Krapov., M. gilliesii (Steud.) Krapov., M. lateritium (Hook.) Krapov., M. malviflorum (Griseb.) K. Schum., M. palustre (Ekman) Krapov. and Tropidococcus: T. pinnatipartitus (A. St.-Hil. & Naudin) Krapov. They show clear differences at generic level and it is also possible to distinguish species, which in some cases are based on less important phylogenetic pollen characters. Pollen grains are sub oblate, oblate spheroidal and spheroidal; medium to big sized. Surfaces do not show great variability; the seven species are echinate, with nanoverrucae or spinulae between spines. The apertures show variations in number (three to twelve) and distribution pattern: zonoaperturate, spiralloid arrangement and dizonoaperturate. The distinctive pollen of Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus (large sized, spheroidal, dizonoaperturate, number of apertures: twelve), supports its segregation from the genus Modiolastrum. A key to determine these seven species is given. The basic chromosomes number of the three genera were compared with the apertures number, showing that those with lower basic chromosomes number, have fewer apertures than those with high ones. Five pollen grains types are recognized based on the number and distribution pattern of apertures: 1) Type tricolporate: Modiolastrum malvifolium and M. palustre. 2) Type pentazonocolp(oid)orate: Modiolastrum australe y M. gilliesii. 3) Type pentacolp(oid)orate spiralloid arragement: M. lateritium. 4) Type hexacolp(oid)orado spiralloid arragement: Modiola caroliniana y 5) Typedizonocolp(oid)orate, arranged in series of six apertures at each side of the equator: Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus. Fueron estudiados y descriptos los granos de polen de las especies de tres gneros de Malvaceae, Modiola: M. caroliniana (L.) G. Don, Modiolastrum: M. australe Krapov., M. gilliesii (Steud.) Krapov., M. lateritium (Hook.) Krapov., M. malviflorum (Griseb.) K. Schum., M. palustre (Ekman) Krapov. y Tropidococcus: T. pinnatipartitus (A. St.-Hil. & Naudin) Krapov. A nivel genrico se identifican con facilidad e incluso es posible hacerlo a nivel especfico slo que en algunos casos, esto se consigue con caracteres de menor importancia filogentica. Los granos de polen son suboblatos, oblato esferoidales y esferoidales, de medianos a grandes. La ornamentacin no muestra gran variabilidad y las siete especies son equinadas con nanoverrugas o espnulas entre ellas. Las aperturas son variadas en nmero (de tres a doce) y posicin zonocolp(oid)oradas, espiraloide y dizonoaperturadas. Las caractersticas diferentes del polen de Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus (grandes, esferoidales, dizonoaperturados, nmero de aperturas doce), sustentan su separacin del gnero Modiolastrum. Se presenta una clave para identificar las especies. El nmero bsico de cromosomas de los tres gneros fue comparado con el nmero de aperturas de los granos de polen, resultando tener menos, los que tenan nmero bsico de cromosomas ms bajo, que los que lo tenan ms alto. Se reconocieron cinco tipos de granos de polen teniendo en cuenta el nmero y disposicin de las aperturas: 1) Tipo trizonocolporado: Modiolastrum malvifolium y M. palustre. 2) Tipo pentazonocolp(oid)orado: Modiolastrum australe y M. gilliesii. 3) Tipo pentacolp(oid)orado en disposicin espiraloide: M. lateritium. 4) Tipo hexacolp(oid)orado en disposicin espiraloide: Modiola caroliniana y 5) Tipo dizonocolp(oid)orado, ordenado en dos series de seis aperturas a cada lado del ecuador: Tropidococcus pinnatipartitus.
41941285|Hibiscus section Furcaria is a natural group of plants that presently includes 109 recognized taxa. Taxa are found in subsaharan Africa, India, southeastern Asia, Malesia, Australia, islands of the Pacific basin, the Caribbean, North, Central, and South America. The basic chromosome number is  = 18. In nature, ploidy levels range from diploid to decaploid. The taxa exhibit a remarkable amount of genome diversity. At least 13 genomes have been identified, some distributed widely and others with more restricted distributions. No modern taxonomic monograph of Hibiscus section Furcaria exists, but a number of regional studies have appeared that are essentially global in extent. Also, a number of studies of chromosome numbers and genome relationships have been published. The present paper includes a census of all the presently accepted taxa, the geographical distribution of each taxon, and chromosome numbers and genome designations of the 49 taxa for which the information is available. Important mechanisms of speciation include genome divergence at the diploid level, followed by hybridization and allopolyploidy, significant species radiation at the tetraploid and hexaploid levels, and the development of even higher levels of allopolyploids. Hibiscus seccin Furcaria es un grupo natural de plantas que actualmente incluye 109 taxones reconocidos. Los taxones habitan en frica al sur del Sahara, India, sudeste de Asia, Malasia, Australia, Islas del Pacfico, el Caribe, Amrica del Norte, Central y Sudamrica. El nmero bsico de cromosomas es  = 18. En la naturaleza, los niveles de ploida varan de diploide a decaploide. Los taxones exhiben una remarcable diversidad genmica. Han sido identificados al menos 13 genomas, algunos distribuidos ampliamente y otros con distribucin ms restringida. No existen monografas taxonmicas modernas de Hibiscus seccin Furcaria, pero se han efectuado cierto nmero de estudios regionales que son esencialmente de nivel global. Tambin se han publicado estudios de nmeros cromosmicos y relaciones genmicas. El presente artculo incluye un listado de todas los taxones aceptados actualmente, la distribucin geogrfica de cada taxn, nmeros cromosmicos y la designacin de los genomas de 49 taxones para los cuales existe informacin disponible. Los mecanismos ms importantes de especiacin incluyen la divergencia genmica a nivel diploide, seguida por hibridacin y alopoliploida, una significativa radiacin de las especies a niveles tetraploide y hexaploide, y an el desarrollo de niveles mayores de alopoliploides.
41941207|A new species from Northern Peruvian Andes, Urvillea peruviana Ferrucci (Sapindaceae-Paullinieae), is described and illustrated and its somatic chromosome number, 2n= 22, is reported. Its relationships with U. filipes Radlk. and U. paucidentata Ferrucci, species closely related to the new one are considered.
41941186|Four new species of Borreria G. Mey. from Brazil are described and illustrated: B. filiforme, B. flexuosa, B. irwiniana and B. semiamplexicaule.
41941437|A study about natural resources used by Guaranis of Misiones Province as colorants is presented here. These resources are considered according to different aims of applications and classified in handicraft colorants, corporal dyes and tints for cloths. Several kinds of plants applications registered here at present are unusual. Techniques of acquire colorants and species employed are detailed, moreover some common designers used for body paint and baskets are described. Se presenta un estudio de los recursos vegetales colorantes utilizados por los guaranes de Misiones, estos se abordan de acuerdo a los diferentes mbitos de aplicacin clasificndolos en colorantes para artesanas, pinturas corporales y tinturas para telas. Muchas de las aplicaciones que se registran aqu ya nos son usuales en la actualidad. Adems de detallar las tcnicas de obtencin y las especies empleadas, se describen algunos de los diseos bsicos empleados en pinturas corporales y cestera.
41941364|The autor reports Helia oblongifolia Mart, from Misiones, Argentina. The species is described and illustrated. Se confirma la existencia del gnero Helia para la Argentina, con la descripcin de H. blongifolia Mart., coleccionada en el departamento Candelaria de la Provincia de Misiones (Argentina).
41941118|A new subsection of the section Ayenia is described with one new species Ayenia conciliata from Tamaulipas, Mxico.
43574275|Canaligerae is one of the 9 series of the genus Turnera. The species in this series have the most advanced floral morphology, and they are the only species known so far with basic number x=5. A controlled crossing programme was undertaken among 13 species, 4 of them with diploid and tetraploid cytotypes, totalizing 17 accessions from tropical and subtropical regions of America. The production of hybrids was used to determine the degree of affinity between the entities. The production of non viable hybrids, good seeds which do not germinate, empty seeds and the not successful crosses were considered as failures. Only the production of viable hybrids were considered as successes. Of the 136 possible combinations (counting each cross and its reciprocal to be one cross) 53 hybrids and 83 failures were recovered. Crossability among diploid species indicates that the species with blue-white flowers (T. caerulea, T. surinamensis and T. grandiflora) are a closely associated group; the same occurs with the species with yellow flowers(T. scabra, T. subulata, T. Krapovickasii and T. concinna). The species with blue-white flowers are genetically isolated not only from the species with yellow flowers but also from the rest of the species studied here. T. aff. coriacea and T. hermannioides seem to be also genetically isolated from the rest of the species considered here. On the other hand, intraspecific hybrids between cytotypes point out the genetic continuity between 2x and 4x individuals belonging to the same species. Alopolyploids (T. grandidentata, T. orientalis, T. ulmifolia and T. Aurelii) have a wider range of crossability probably due to the presence of different genomes in their chromosomal complements. The percentage of success over the crosses attempted is 60% in the case of the alopolyploids and 29% in that of the autopolyploids.
41941404|The use of native forest resources in twentieth century provided the support to occupation and development of the Southern Brazil. Through the interaction with the environment, as a survival strategy, farmers have used these products in order to obtain sustainable production, equipments and income. The goal of this study was to describe the current traditional knowledge about the native species in Santa Catarina state, emphasizing the role of these relations to the conservation of the Atlantic Forest. The database for this study was interviews with 68 farmers, carried out in the three forest types of the State: Seasonal Deciduous Forest (SDF), Mixed Ombrophylous forest (MOF), Dense Ombrophylous forest (DOF). The results revealed 160 species with importance use to the farmers, in the past or current. Were pointed out a similar number of species in different regions (SDF 71, MOF 73 and 79 DOF), distributed mainly in timber (85), medicinal (69), food (28) and ornamental (18) use. The results revealed that these farmers have an extensive local knowledge about the native species, covering a significant part of local flora species. O uso dos recursos florestais nativos no sculo XX marcou a ocupao do territrio e alavancou o desenvolvimento inicial dos Estados da regio Sul do Brasil. No convivio com o ambiente e como estrategia de sobrevivencia, os agricultores familiares incorporaram elementos da paisagem florestal  rotina produtiva a fim de obter recursos para o autoconsumo da familia, para suprir necessidades de equipamentos e para obter renda. Este estudo teve por objetivo levantar o uso das especies nativas em Santa Catarina, destacando o seu papel para a conservao dos remanescentes florestais da Mata Atlntica no Estado. A base de dados para este estudo foram entrevistas com 68 agricultores familiares em seis municipios das tres tipologas florestais corn ocorrncia no Estado: Floresta Estacional Decidual (FED), Floresta Ombrfila Mista (FOM), Floresta Ombrfila Densa (FOD). Ao todo foram citadas 160 especies com importancia de uso, no passado ou atual, pelos agricultores. Foram citadas um nmero similar de especies nas diferentes regies (FED 71, FOM 73, e FOD 79), distribuidas principalmente as categoras de uso madeireiro (85), medicinal (69), alimenticio (28) e ornamental (18). Os resultados revelaram que esses agricultores possuem um ampio conhecimento a respeito do potencial de uso das especies nativas da regio, abrangendo parte significativa das especies da flora local.
43574291|Pollen grains of the Argentine Araliaceae, can be grouped by differences of exine structure and sculpture into three types: TYPE I, with tectateperforate, suprarugulate grains: Gilibertia affinis, Gilibertia cuneata, Oreopanax kuntzei and Pentapanax warmingianus; TYPE II, with tectateperforate, suprarugoreticulate grains: Pseudopanax laetevirens; TYPE III, with semitectate, reticulate grains: Didymopanax morototoni and Pentapanax angelicifolius. They have other distinctive palynological characters wich have been presented in a key, in order to recognise the different taxa of the Argentine Araliaceae.
41941182|Vascular plant species of the understory of Eucalyptus grandis plantations were studied in the northeastern departments of the Argentinian province of Corrientes. These plantations were located in red soil hills, in sandy river banks and in fossil sand dunes of the Paran River. The inventory includes 243 native taxa corresponding to 66 families; 86% belong to the Dicotyledons of which most of them (70%) are woody species. The families best represented are: Leguminosae, Myrtaceae, Solanaceae, Compositae and Euphorbiaceae. Size, number of species and individuals within species decrease from the North to the Southwest associated to soil limiting factors and lesser rainfall. Most of the Dicotyledons have mechanisms for dispersal related to the animals (49%), mostly birds, followed by wind (25%). An important number of species (64%) belong to the native subtropical humid hardwood forest. Many overstory species of this forest compete succesfully with the eucalipts, such as: Cabralea canjerana, Patagonula americana, Holocalyx balansae, Tabebuia heptaphylla, all important regional commercial timber. Also a great number of species living spontaneously in humid conditions, were found apparently well adapted to the new environment. Since most of the species of the understory of the Eucalyptus grandis plantations came from the native humid forest, it is possible to conclude that these plantations create environmental conditions which favor the migration of the humid forest over the sabanas and grasslands of the neighborhood.
43574287|The morphological and cytogenetical features of the artificial hybrids among four diploid species (2n=10): T. concinna, T. Krapovickasii, T. scabra and T. subulata have been studied. The hybrids were intermediate in several characters such as the colour of the flowers, and the length, width and shape of seeds; in a few traits they resembled one or the other parent. All the interspecific hybrids showed a high percentage of PMC with five bivalents. The meiosis of T. subulata x T. scabra was regular (5 II). In the other hybrids a low frequency of trivalents or quadrivalents was recorded; these trivalents and quadrivalents are evidence of reciprocal translocations. Bridges and fragments in anafase I and II reveal the presence of paracentric inversions. The morphological and cytogenetical analysis of the hybrids indicates close relationships between T. scabra and T. subulata and between T. concinna and T. Krapovickasii respectively. The latter species have a pair of chromosomes with big satellites. T. scabra and T. concinna are more distantly related. The cytogenetic study of all the hybrids among these species would confirm that they are independent taxa. They have the same basic genome, wich we designate Asu Asu for T. subulata, Asc Asc for T. scabra, Ak Ak for T. Krapovickasii and Ac Ac for T. concinna.
