42793879|We describe a new genus for the cactus family (Cactaceae) for a plant that is found in the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico. We include the description of the new genus and species (Digitostigma caput-medusae) and compare the new genus with the genera Obregonia, Leuchtenbergia and Ariocarpus as well as a morphological comparison with the subtribes Echinocactinae and Thelocactinae in the tribe Cacteae. A preliminary survey was made to quantify population size and qualitatively assess status in order to determine current threats to the populations of Digitostigma caputmedusae. A total of 127 individuals were identified in three isolated populations, bearing both fruits and flowers. The effect of livestock grazing in the area could be a threat to the populations. The distribution of one population was limited by land conversion. Due to the limited number of individuals and restricted distribution, this species should be considered as endangered in both national and international endangered species lists. Further studies are needed to assess accurately the current status of the population and find possible solutions for its conservation.
42794085|Studies on the relative performance of root-stocks, namely Cereus jamacaru, Cereus pernambucensis, Myrtillocactus geometrizans and Nyctocereus serpentinus, were carried out during the years 1981-83 using Echinopsis cafochlora and Echinopsis multiplex as the scions. The best performance, measured by scion/root-stock compatibility, percentage increase in scion diameter and number of offsets produced, was obtained using Cereus pernambucensis.
42793464|Little in-depth fieldd research exists, currently, on species in the genus Othonna. This paper concerns details of field reserch, cultivation and propagation details of field reserarch, cultivation and paopagation of Othonna euphorbioides, O. hedrrei and O. lepidocaulis. Othonna populations in Namaqualand and the Richtersveld, South Africa regenerate themselves via varied mechanisms, and all of them are subject to various graszing pressures from domestic stock. These factors are examined in the text. The seed-producing capacity of the three species is variable and alos spans a few too many months of the year in wild populations. The research findings on this subject are discussed in the text.
42793423|We visited again all the places mentioned in the first report (Ostolaza, 1995) - Cajamarquilla, Santa Clara, Atocongo, Pachacamac, Caracoles, the Rimac valley and the Chilln valley, plus some other places, Jicamarca, Manchay, Huaycan and Quebrada California, to have a view of the subpopulations without leaving gaps. We have also been in touch with three scientific institutions, Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina (UNALM); Museo de Historia Natural (MHN) and Parque de Las Leyendas (PL), who are prepared to support the project and take care of the plants that could be rescued in a second stage of this project, as we consider the ex-situ cultivation and propagation the best alternative. Besides the previously mentioned taxa: Haageocereus pseudomelanostele and var. setosus and forma longicomus; Haageocereus acranthus and var. olowinskianus and formas clavispinus and repandus; Mila caesptosa and Armatocereus procerus, we also found and include here with a brief comment, the following taxa: Haageocereus pseudomelanostele var. carminiflorus; Haageocereus acranthus var. olowinskianus forma rubriflorior comb. nov.; Cleistocactus xylorhizus comb. nov.; Cleistocactus acanthurus and var. faustianus comb. nov. and var. pullatus comb, nov.; Mila nealana and Neoraimondia arequipensis var. roseiflora. We are listing now all the taxa based on the IUCN Red List Categories (1994).
42793889|An interesting new taxon from San Luis Potosi is presented and validated at the rank of subspecies. Differences between subspecies agavoides and the new subspecies are detailed, with identification keys.
42793700|New information is presented about the geographical distribution of Lobivia walteri Kiesling and Trichocereus smrzianus (Backbg.) Backbg., both generally considered to have very restricted distributions. Additionally, details of morphologic characters are presented for each species. Se presentan novedades acerca de la distribucin geogrfica de Lobivia walteri Kiesling y Trichocereus smrzianus (Backbg.) Backbg. considerados generalmente de distribucin muy restringida. Adicionalmente, se adjuntan novedades morfolgicas para ambas especies.
42794272|The authors describe a new species of Cactaceae from central Brazil: Pilosocereus goianus P. J. Braun Sc Esteves. This species occurs exclusively on outcrops of calcareous rocks (Bambu) in the north-eastern part of the state of Gois. The relationships to other species from central Brazil are discussed and the authors suggest that Pilosocereus goianus seems to be part of a complex with Pilosocereus albisummus P. J. Braun & Esteves from Minas Gerais and Pilosocereusflexibilispinus P. J. Braun & Esteves from Tocantins. Die Autoren beschreiben eine neue Kakteenart aus Zentral-Brasilien: Pilosocereus goianus P. J. Braun & Esteves. Die Art wchst ausschlielich auf Bambu-Kalksteinfelsen im Nordosten des Bundesstaates Gois. Die verwandtschaftlichen Verhltnisse zu anderen in Zentral-Brasilien beheimateten Sippen werden diskutiert. Pilosocereus goianus scheint mit Pilosocereus albisum mus P. J. Braun & Esteves aus Minas Gerais und Pilosocereus flexibilispinus P. J. Braun & Esteves aus Tocantins einen separaten Verwandtschaftskomplex zu bilden. Os autores descrevem uma nova espcie de Cactaceae do Brasil central: Pilosocereus goianus P. J. Braun & Esteves. A espcie cresce exclusivamente em afloramentos de rochas calcrias (Bambu) na parte nordeste do estado de Gois, Brasil. As relaes com outras espcies do Brasil central so discutidas. De fato, o Pilosocereus goianus parece constituir um complexo separado do Pilosocereus albisummus P. J. Braun & Esteves de Minas Gerais e do Pilosocereus flexibilispinus P. J. Braun & Esteves do estado do Tocantins.
42793926|A plant collected in Kenya by Peter Bally in 1963 and widely cultivated as "Sansevieria Bally 12681" is described as a new species. The original locality was visited by the author, who found that the species is still well represented there, and two other populations have been found. The plant is close to S. gracilis, but has very short leaves with a distinctly rough surface and more distinct colour banding, and a shorter inflorescence.
42794302|Description of a new subspecies, Pilosocereus chrysostele (Vaupel) Byles & Rowley subsp. cearensis P. J. Braun & Esteves (Cactaceae), from the state of Cear in north-eastern Brazil. It differs from subsp. chrysostele, which is locally distributed in the states of Pernambuco, Paraiba and Rio Grande do Norte, by lacking any kind of pseudocephalium, and by flowering and fruiting from normal areoles. Beschreibung einer neuen Unterart, Pilosocereus chrysostele (Vaupel) Byles & Rowley subsp. cearensis P. J. Braun & Esteves (Cactaceae), aus dem nordost-brasilianischen Bundesstaat Cear. Die Sippe unterscheidet sich vorrangig vom Typus, der lokal verbreitet in den Bundesstaaten Pernambuco, Paraiba und Rio Grande do Norte, beheimatet ist, durch das Fehlen eines Pseudocephaliums. Descrio de uma nova subespcie, Pilosocereus chrysostele (Vaupel) Byles & Rowley subsp. cearensis P. J. Braun & Esteves (Cactaceae), do estado do Cear no nordeste do Brasil. Ela difere do tipo, o qual est distribudo nos estados de Pernambuco, Paraba e Rio Grande do Norte pela falta de qualquer tipo de pseudoceflio, flores e frutos a partir de arolas normais.
42793122|The phenomenon of Crassulacean acid metabolism is confined almost exclusively to succulent plants, and involves the dark fixation of carbon dioxide. Such a mode of photosynthesis enables the plant to conserve water and so inhabit arid environments. The general mechanism is discussed.
42794710|New plant species are being found in remote areas of Kenya, far from main roads. Descriptions are given for four new species of Aloe found in northern Kenya. Diagnostic characters are presented, but phylogenetic relationships of two species are uncertain.
42794215|Forty-three of the 138 cacti that were dosed for up to 37 months in a trial reported earlier on a formulation of butoxycarboxim for the prevention of red spider mite infestation continued to be treated over a further 12 months. These plants, together with 13 additional cacti that were treated for up to 16 months, have remained free from red spider mite since the first application of butoxycarboxim.
42793898|Melocactus braunii is a dwarf, globular species with short spines curved back towards the plant's body, and tiny flowers. It does not have obvious affinities with most other species from Brazil, but seems to belong to the bahiensis/conoideus complex. The species was discovered 10 years ago in northern Bahia and is known only from the type locality. Melocactus braunii ist eine sehr kleinbleibende Art mit kugelfrmiger Wuchsform. Die Dornen sind sehr kurz und zum Pflanzenkrper zurckgebogen, die Blten sind vergleichsweise klein. Sehr augenscheinliche Verwandtschaften zu anderen Arten aus Brasilien liegen zwar nicht vor, dennoch kann eine Zugehrigkeit zum bahiensis/conoideus-Komplex vermutet werden. Die Art wurde vor 10 Jahren im Norden Bahas entdeckt. Ein zweites Habitat konnte bislang nicht gefunden werden.
42792618|We visited Pisco, Ica and Nazca valleys to determine the conservation status of the cactus species described there some decades before. We are proposing categories for 28 taxa, based on the IUCN Red List (1994), with comments about some of the species like Matucana haynei (Otto) Br. & R., Weberbauerocereus rauhii Backbg., Browningia candelaris (Meyen) Br. & R., Corryocactus megarhizus Ritter, Corryocactus brevistylus var. puquiensis (Backbg) Ritter, Oreocereus hendriksenianus Backbg. and Corryocactus quadrangularis (Rauh & Backbg) Ritter. We are proposing new combinations for some of the taxa: Cleistocactus peculiaris (Rauh & Backbg) Ostolaza comb.nov; Haageocereus pseudomelanostele var. turbidus (Rauh & Backbg) Ostolaza comb, nov.; Cleistocactus clavispinus (Rauh & Backeberg) Ostolaza comb. nov. and Cleistocactus hystrix (Rauh & Backbg) Ostolaza comb. nov.
42793936|Bringing cactus nomenclature into line with current generic concepts involves recognizing 5 new nothogenera and 3 new combinations. One new cultivar is also named and illustrated.
42793888|We visited the Huaura river valley, north of Lima, to evaluate the conservation status of the cacti there. We searched for cacti around Sayan, Quebrada Yarucaya (on the road to Cochamarca); the road to Churin; the road to Oyon and beyond, and the road to Andajes. The cacti seen in these locations were: Armatocereus matucanensis, A. procerus, Austrocylindropuntia floccosa, Austrocylindropuntia subulata ssp. exaltata, Cleistocactus erectispinus, Cleistocactus fieldianus ssp. tessellatus, Corryocactus melaleucus, Echinopsis peruviana, Espostoa melanostele, Haageocereus acranthus ssp. deflexispinus, Haageocereus acranthus ssp. zonatus, Haageocereus pseudomelanostele ssp. acanthocladus, Matucana haynei, Melocactus peruvianus, Mila nealeana, Neoraimondia arequipensis ssp. roseiflora and Weberbauerocereus churinensis. We also saw other succulents including: Deuterocohnia longipetala, Echeveria chiclensis, Peperomia galioides, Pilea serpyllacea, Tillandsia sp. and Villadia sp. We did not see Echinopsis tegeleriana var. akersii or E. pampana var. borealis, both described from this valley. We are proposing new combinations and a new status for: Cleistocactus erectispinus, Haageocereus acranthus ssp. deflexispinus, Haageocereus acranthus ssp. zonatus and Haageocereus pseudomelanostele ssp. acanthocladus.
42793928|A new species of Cactaceae, Cereus estevesii P. J. Braun, is described from the northern part of the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. It occurs together with Cereus jamacaru DC but differs by its more shrubby than treelike habit, very slender stems, much shorter spination and very slender flowers, Cereus estevesii seems to belong to subgenus Ebneria (Backeberg) Hunt. The closest ally could be Cereus saddianus (Rizzini & Mattos) P. J. Braun, but the latter occurs far away in the state of Mato Grosso. Differences are outlined.
42794256|Aloe carolimele is a low sprawling species with spotted leaves and secund flowers, and it has no obvious affinity with other species in East Africa. Two populations are known along a river gorge in north-east Kenya.
42792149|The purplish-red colour of Lithops ptica f. rubra is shown to be governed by a dominant gene in a simple Mendelian fashion.
